from hitler ' s germany to the us. in march 1938, huxley ' s friend anita loos, a novelist and screenwriter, put him in touch with metro - goldwyn - mayer ( mgm ), which hired him for madame curie which was originally to star greta garbo and be directed by george cukor. ( eventually, the film was completed by mgm in 1943 with a different director and cast. ) huxley received screen credit for pride and prejudice ( 1940 ) and was paid for his work on a number of other films, including jane eyre ( 1944 ). he was commissioned by walt disney in 1945 to write a script based on alice ' s adventures in wonderland and the biography of the story ' s author, lewis carroll. the script was not used, however. huxley wrote an introduction to the posthumous publication of j. d. unwin ' s 1940 book hopousia or the sexual and economic foundations of a new society. on 21 october 1949, huxley wrote to george orwell, author of nineteen eighty - four, congratulating him on " how fine and how profoundly important the book is ". in his letter, he predicted : in 1953, huxley and maria applied for united states citizenship and presented themselves for examination. when huxley refused to bear arms for the u. s. and would not state that his objections were based on religious ideals, the only excuse allowed under the mccarran act, the judge had to adjourn the proceedings. he withdrew his application. nevertheless, he remained in the u. s. in 1959, huxley turned down an offer to be made a knight bachelor by the macmillan government without giving a reason ; his brother julian had been knighted in 1958, while his brother andrew would be knighted in 1974. in the fall semester of 1960 huxley was invited by professor huston smith to be the carnegie visiting professor of humanities at the massachusetts institute of technology ( mit ). as part of the mit centennial program of events organised by the department of humanities, huxley presented a series of lectures titled, " what a piece of work is a man " which concerned history, language, and art. robert s. de ropp ( scientist, humanitarian, and author ), who had spent time with huxley in england in the 1930s, connected with him again in the u. s. in the early 1960s and wrote that " the enormous intellect, the beautifully modulated voice, the gentle objectivity, all were unchanged. he was one of the most highly civilized human beings i