after which the production transferred to the fortune theatre on 5 july. the role then passed to muriel pavlow in june 1977 and to gabrielle hamilton late the following year ; the production finally closed in october 1979. on 21 september 1977, while murder at the vicarage was still running at the fortune, a stage adaptation by leslie darbon of a murder is announced opened at the vaudeville theatre, with dulcie gray as miss marple. the show ran to the end of september 1978 and then toured. films margaret rutherford margaret rutherford played miss marple in four films directed by george pollock between 1961 and 1964. these were successful light comedies, but christie herself was disappointed with them. nevertheless, agatha christie dedicated the novel the mirror crack ' d from side to side to rutherford. rutherford presented the character as a bold and eccentric old lady, different from the prim and birdlike character christie created in her novels. as penned by christie, miss marple has never worked for a living, but the character as portrayed by margaret rutherford briefly works as a cook - housekeeper, a stage actress, a sailor and criminal reformer, and is offered the chance to run a riding establishment - cum - hotel. her education and genteel background are hinted at when she mentions her awards at marksmanship, fencing, and equestrianism ( although these hints are played for comedic value ). murder, she said ( 1961 ) was the first of the four british mgm productions starring rutherford. this film was based on the 1957 novel 4 : 50 from paddington ( u. s. title, what mrs. mcgillicuddy saw! ), and the changes made in the plot were typical of the series. in the film, mrs. mcgillicuddy is cut from the plot. miss marple herself sees an apparent murder committed on a train running alongside hers. actress joan hickson, who played marple in the 1984 – 1992 television adaptations, has a role as a housekeeper in this movie. murder at the gallop ( 1963 ), based on the 1953 hercule poirot novel after the funeral ( in this film, she is identified as miss jtv marple, though there was no indication as to what the extra initials might stand for ). murder most foul ( 1964 ), based on the 1952 poirot novel mrs mcginty ' s dead. murder ahoy! ( 1964 ). the last film is not based on any christie work but displays a few plot elements from they do it with mirrors ( viz., the ship is used as a reform