##b and held a lasting grudge against meade, but he returned to division command and fought well for the remainder of the battle. he was wounded in the neck on the second day of gettysburg and received a brevet promotion to colonel in the regular army for his service. he formally requested reinstatement as i corps commander, but meade refused, and doubleday left gettysburg on july 7 for washington. doubleday ' s staff nicknamed him " forty - eight hours " as a compliment to recognize his tendency to avoid reckless or impulsive actions and his thoughtfulness and deliberateness in considering circumstances and possible responses. in recent years, biographers have turned the nickname into an insult, incorrectly claiming " forty - eight hours " was coined to highlight doubleday ' s supposed incompetence and slowness to act. washington doubleday assumed administrative duties in the defenses of washington, d. c., where he was in charge of courts martial, which gave him legal experience that he used after the war. his only return to combat was directing a portion of the defenses against the attack by confederate lieutenant general jubal a. early in the valley campaigns of 1864. also while in washington, doubleday testified against george meade at the united states congress joint committee on the conduct of the war, criticizing him harshly over his conduct of the battle of gettysburg. while in washington, doubleday remained a loyal republican and staunch supporter of president abraham lincoln. doubleday rode with lincoln on the train to gettysburg for the gettysburg address and col. and mrs. doubleday attended events with mr. and mrs. lincoln in washington. postbellum career after the civil war, doubleday mustered out of the volunteer service on august 24, 1865, reverted to the rank of lieutenant colonel, and became the colonel of the 35th u. s. infantry in september 1867. he was stationed in san francisco from 1869 through 1871 and he took out a patent for the cable car railway that still runs there, receiving a charter for its operation, but signing away his rights when he was reassigned. in 1871, he commanded the 24th u. s. infantry, an all african - american regiment with headquarters at fort mckavett, texas. he retired in 1873. in the 1870s, he was listed in the new york business directory as a lawyer. doubleday spent much of his time writing. he published two important works on the civil war : reminiscences of forts sumter and moultrie ( 1876 ), and chancellorsville and gettysburg ( 1882 ), the latter being a