wife. when the writer explicitly maintains that all possible decisions are made in all possible ways, one possible conclusion is that the characters were neither brave, nor clever, nor skilled, but simply lucky enough to happen on the universe in which they did not choose the cowardly route, take the stupid action, fumble the crucial activity, etc. ; few writers focus on this idea, although it has been explored in stories such as larry niven ' s story all the myriad ways, where the reality of all possible universes leads to an epidemic of suicide and crime because people conclude their choices have no moral import. in any case, even if it is true that every possible outcome occurs in some world, it can still be argued that traits such as bravery and intelligence might still affect the relative frequency of worlds in which better or worse outcomes occurred ( even if the total number of worlds with each type of outcome is infinite, it is still possible to assign a different measure to different infinite sets ). the physicist david deutsch, a strong advocate of the many - worlds interpretation of quantum mechanics, has argued along these lines, saying that " by making good choices, doing the right thing, we thicken the stack of universes in which versions of us live reasonable lives. when you succeed, all the copies of you who made the same decision succeed too. what you do for the better increases the portion of the multiverse where good things happen. " this view is perhaps somewhat too abstract to be explored directly in science fiction stories, but a few writers have tried, such as greg egan in his short story the infinite assassin, where an agent is trying to contain reality - scrambling " whirlpools " that form around users of a certain drug, and the agent is constantly trying to maximize the consistency of behavior among his alternate selves, attempting to compensate for events and thoughts he experiences, he guesses are of low measure relative to those experienced by most of his other selves. many writers — perhaps the majority — avoid the discussion entirely. in one novel of this type, h. beam piper ' s lord kalvan of otherwhen, a pennsylvania state police officer, who knows how to make gunpowder, is transported from our world to an alternate universe where the recipe for gunpowder is a tightly held secret and saves a country that is about to be conquered by its neighbors. the paratime patrol members are warned against going into the timelines immediately surrounding it, where the country will be overrun, but the book never depicts the slaughter of the innocent thus