vowels differs from speaker to speaker, in a way that tends to reflect the pronunciation of the corresponding colloquial variety. nonetheless, there are some common trends. most noticeable is the differing pronunciation of and, which tend towards fronted, or in most situations, but a back in the neighborhood of emphatic consonants. some accents and dialects, such as those of the hejaz region, have an open or a central in all situations. the vowel varies towards too. listen to the final vowel in the recording of at the beginning of this article, for example. the point is, arabic has only three short vowel phonemes, so those phonemes can have a very wide range of allophones. the vowels and are often affected somewhat in emphatic neighborhoods as well, with generally more back or centralized allophones, but the differences are less great than for the low vowels. the pronunciation of short and tends towards and, respectively, in many dialects. the definition of both " emphatic " and " neighborhood " vary in ways that reflect ( to some extent ) corresponding variations in the spoken dialects. generally, the consonants triggering " emphatic " allophones are the pharyngealized consonants ; ; and, if not followed immediately by. frequently, the fricatives trigger emphatic allophones, occasionally also the pharyngeal consonants, the former more than the latter. many dialects have multiple emphatic allophones of each vowel, depending on the particular nearby consonants. in most msa accents, emphatic coloring of vowels is limited to vowels immediately adjacent to a triggering consonant, although in some it spreads a bit farther : e. g., ' time ' ; ' homeland ' ; ' downtown ' ( also or similar ). in a non - emphatic environment, the vowel in the diphthong is pronounced or : hence ' sword ' but ' summer '. however, in accents with no emphatic allophones of ( e. g., in the hejaz ), the pronunciation or occurs in all situations. consonants the phoneme is represented by the arabic letter ( ) and has many standard pronunciations. is characteristic of north algeria, iraq, and most of the arabian peninsula but with an allophonic in some positions ; occurs in most of the levant and most of north africa ; and is standard in egypt, coastal yemen, as well as eastern and coastal western oman. generally this corresponds with the pronunciation in the colloquial dialects. in