in one study, over half of visual arts students agreed that reflection is an essential step of the art process. according to education journals, the reflection of art is considered an essential part of the experience. however an important aspect of art is that others may view and appreciate it as well. while many focus on whether those viewing / listening / etc. believe the art to be good / successful or not, art has profound value beyond its commercial success as a provider of information and health in society. art enjoyment can bring about a wide spectrum of emotion due to beauty. some art is meant to be practical, with its analysis studious, meant to stimulate discourse. public access since ancient times, much of the finest art has represented a deliberate display of wealth or power, often achieved by using massive scale and expensive materials. much art has been commissioned by political rulers or religious establishments, with more modest versions only available to the most wealthy in society. nevertheless, there have been many periods where art of very high quality was available, in terms of ownership, across large parts of society, above all in cheap media such as pottery, which persists in the ground, and perishable media such as textiles and wood. in many different cultures, the ceramics of indigenous peoples of the americas are found in such a wide range of graves that they were clearly not restricted to a social elite, though other forms of art may have been. reproductive methods such as moulds made mass - production easier, and were used to bring high - quality ancient roman pottery and greek tanagra figurines to a very wide market. cylinder seals were both artistic and practical, and very widely used by what can be loosely called the middle class in the ancient near east. once coins were widely used, these also became an art form that reached the widest range of society. another important innovation came in the 15th century in europe, when printmaking began with small woodcuts, mostly religious, that were often very small and hand - colored, and affordable even by peasants who glued them to the walls of their homes. printed books were initially very expensive, but fell steadily in price until by the 19th century even the poorest could afford some with printed illustrations. popular prints of many different sorts have decorated homes and other places for centuries. in 1661, the city of basel, in switzerland, opened the first public museum of art in the world, the kunstmuseum basel. today, its collection is distinguished by an impressively wide historic span, from the early 15th century up to the immediate