the right side of the rifle. and, the bolt handle was simply attached to the bolt carrier. this simplified the design and production of the rifle. the first army trial series began in early 1948. the new rifle proved to be reliable under a wide range of conditions and possessed convenient handling characteristics. in 1949, it was adopted by the soviet army as the " 7. 62 mm kalashnikov rifle ( ak ) ". further development there were many difficulties during the initial phase of production. the first production models had stamped sheet metal receivers with a milled trunnion and butt stock insert and a stamped body. difficulties were encountered in welding the guide and ejector rails, causing high rejection rates. instead of halting production, a heavy machined receiver was substituted for the sheet metal receiver. even though production of these milled rifles started in 1951, they were officially referred to as ak - 49, based on the date their development started, but they are widely known in the collectors ' and current commercial market as " type 2 ak - 47 ". this was a more costly process, but the use of machined receivers accelerated production as tooling and labor for the earlier mosin – nagant rifle ' s machined receiver were easily adapted. partly because of these problems, the soviets were not able to distribute large numbers of the new rifles to soldiers until 1956. during this time, production of the interim sks rifle continued. once the manufacturing difficulties of non - milled receivers had been overcome, a redesigned version designated the akm ( m for " modernized " or " upgraded " ; in russian : [ ] ) was introduced in 1959. this new model used a stamped sheet metal receiver and featured a slanted muzzle brake on the end of the barrel to compensate for muzzle rise under recoil. in addition, a hammer retarder was added to prevent the weapon from firing out of battery ( without the bolt being fully closed ), during rapid or fully automatic fire. this is also sometimes referred to as a " cyclic rate reducer ", or simply " rate reducer ", as it also has the effect of reducing the number of rounds fired per minute during fully automatic fire. the rifle was also roughly one - third lighter than the previous model. most licensed and unlicensed productions of the kalashnikov assault rifle abroad were of the akm variant, partially due to the much easier production of the stamped receiver. this model is the most commonly encountered, having been produced in much greater quantities. all rifles based on the kalashnikov