a wide array of writings and interviews. he said he had sympathy for the impersonal pantheistic god of baruch spinoza ' s philosophy. he did not believe in a personal god who concerns himself with fates and actions of human beings, a view which he described as naive. he clarified, however, that " i am not an atheist ", preferring to call himself an agnostic, or a " deeply religious nonbeliever ". when asked if he believed in an afterlife, einstein replied, " no. and one life is enough for me. " einstein was primarily affiliated with non - religious humanist and ethical culture groups in both the uk and us. he served on the advisory board of the first humanist society of new york, and was an honorary associate of the rationalist association, which publishes new humanist in britain. for the 75th anniversary of the new york society for ethical culture, he stated that the idea of ethical culture embodied his personal conception of what is most valuable and enduring in religious idealism. he observed, " without ' ethical culture ' there is no salvation for humanity. " in a german - language letter to philosopher eric gutkind, dated 3 january 1954, einstein wrote : the word god is for me nothing more than the expression and product of human weaknesses, the bible a collection of honorable, but still primitive legends which are nevertheless pretty childish. no interpretation no matter how subtle can ( for me ) change this.... for me the jewish religion like all other religions is an incarnation of the most childish superstitions. and the jewish people to whom i gladly belong and with whose mentality i have a deep affinity have no different quality for me than all other people.... i cannot see anything ' chosen ' about them. einstein had been sympathetic toward vegetarianism for a long time. in a letter in 1930 to hermann huth, vice - president of the german vegetarian federation ( deutsche vegetarier - bund ), he wrote : although i have been prevented by outward circumstances from observing a strictly vegetarian diet, i have long been an adherent to the cause in principle. besides agreeing with the aims of vegetarianism for aesthetic and moral reasons, it is my view that a vegetarian manner of living by its purely physical effect on the human temperament would most beneficially influence the lot of mankind. he became a vegetarian himself only during the last part of his life. in march 1954 he wrote in a letter : " so i am living without fats, without meat, without fish, but am feeling