okuninushi and susanoo. shinto tends to hold negative views on death and corpses as a source of pollution called kegare. however, death is also viewed as a path towards apotheosis in shintoism as can be evidenced by how legendary individuals become enshrined after death. perhaps the most famous would be emperor ojin who was enshrined as hachiman the god of war after his death. spiritualism according to edgar cayce, the afterlife consisted of nine realms equated with the nine planets of astrology. the first, symbolized by saturn, was a level for the purification of the souls. the second, mercury ' s realm, gives us the ability to consider problems as a whole. the third of the nine soul realms is ruled by earth and is associated with the earthly pleasures. the fourth realm is where we find out about love and is ruled by venus. the fifth realm is where we meet our limitations and is ruled by mars. the sixth realm is ruled by neptune, and is where we begin to use our creative powers and free ourselves from the material world. the seventh realm is symbolized by jupiter, which strengthens the soul ' s ability to depict situations, to analyze people and places, things, and conditions. the eighth afterlife realm is ruled by uranus and develops psychic ability. the ninth afterlife realm is symbolized by pluto, the astrological realm of the unconscious. this afterlife realm is a transient place where souls can choose to travel to other realms or other solar systems, it is the soul ’ s liberation into eternity, and is the realm that opens the doorway from our solar system into the cosmos point of view. mainstream spiritualists postulate a series of seven realms that are not unlike edgar cayce ' s nine realms ruled by the planets. as it evolves, the soul moves higher and higher until it reaches the ultimate realm of spiritual oneness. the first realm, equated with hell, is the place where troubled souls spend a long time before they are compelled to move up to the next level. the second realm, where most souls move directly, is thought of as an intermediate transition between the lower planes of life and hell and the higher perfect realms of the universe. the third level is for those who have worked with their karmic inheritance. the fourth level is that from which evolved souls teach and direct those on earth. the fifth level is where the soul leaves human consciousness behind. at the sixth plane, the soul is finally aligned with the