##acial leaves whereas bifacial leaves are the norm in other asparagales. members of the clade from iridaceae upwards have infra - locular septal nectaries, which rudall interpreted as a driver towards secondarily superior ovaries. asphodelaceae + ' core asparagales ' the next node in the tree ( xanthorrhoeaceae sensu lato + the ' core asparagales ' ) has strong support. ' anomalous ' secondary thickening occurs among this clade, e. g. in xanthorrhoea ( family asphodelaceae ) and dracaena ( family asparagaceae sensu lato ), with species reaching tree - like proportions. the ' core asparagales ', comprising amaryllidaceae sensu lato and asparagaceae sensu lato, are a strongly supported clade, as are clades for each of the families. relationships within these broadly defined families appear less clear, particularly within the asparagaceae sensu lato. stevens notes that most of its subfamilies are difficult to recognize, and that significantly different divisions have been used in the past, so that the use of a broadly defined family to refer to the entire clade is justified. thus the relationships among subfamilies shown above, based on apweb, is somewhat uncertain. evolution several studies have attempted to date the evolution of the asparagales, based on phylogenetic evidence. earlier studies generally give younger dates than more recent studies, which have been preferred in the table below. a 2009 study suggests that the asparagales have the highest diversification rate in the monocots, about the same as the order poales, although in both orders the rate is little over half that of the eudicot order lamiales, the clade with the highest rate. comparison of family structures the taxonomic diversity of the monocotyledons is described in detail by kubitzki. up - to - date information on the asparagales can be found on the angiosperm phylogeny website. the apg iii system ' s family circumscriptions are being used as the basis of the kew - hosted world checklist of selected plant families. with this circumscription, the order consists of 14 families ( dahlgren had 31 ) with approximately 1120 genera and 26000 species. order asparagales link family amaryllidaceae