##agedies, ancient and modern, the most famous being the oresteia of aeschylus. in the legends of the peloponnesus, agamemnon was regarded as the highest type of a powerful monarch, and in sparta he was worshipped under the title of zeus agamemnon. his tomb was pointed out among the ruins of mycenae and at amyclae. in works of art, there is considerable resemblance between the representations of zeus, king of the gods, and agamemnon, king of men. he is generally depicted with a sceptre and diadem, conventional attributes of kings. agamemnon ' s mare is named aetha. she is also one of two horses driven by menelaus at the funeral games of patroclus. in homer ' s odyssey agamemnon makes an appearance in the kingdom of hades after his death. there, the former king meets odysseus and explains just how he was murdered before he offers odysseus a warning about the dangers of trusting a woman. agamemnon is a character in william shakespeare ' s play troilus and cressida, set during the trojan war. in media and art visual arts general works the mask of agamemnon, discovered by heinrich schliemann in 1876, on display at national archeological museum of athens, athens the tomb of agamemnon, by louis desprez, 1787, on display at the metropolitan museum of art, new york clytemnestra and agamemnon, by pierre - narcisse guerin, 1817, on display at the musee des beaux - arts d ' orleans, orleans electra at the tomb of agamemnon, by frederic leighton, 1868, on display at ferens art gallery, kingston upon hull agamemnon killing odios, anonymous, 1545, on display at the metropolitan museum of art, new york with iphigenia sacrifice of iphigenia, by arnold houbraken, 1690 – 1700, on display at the rijksmuseum, amsterdam the sacrifice of iphigenia, by charles de la fosse, 1680, on display at the palace of versailles, versailles the sacrifice of iphigenia, by gaetano gandolfi, 1789, on display at the metropolitan museum of art, new york sacrificio di ifigenia, by pietro testa, 1640 the sacrifice of iphigenia, by giovanni battista