died in 1901, succeeded by his son, habibullah khan. during the first world war, when afghanistan was neutral, habibullah khan was met by officials of the central powers in the niedermayer – hentig expedition. they called on afghanistan to declare full independence from the united kingdom, join them and attack british india, as part of the hindu – german conspiracy. the effort to bring afghanistan into the central powers failed, but it sparked discontent among the population about maintaining neutrality with the british. habibullah was assassinated in february 1919, and amanullah khan eventually assumed power. a staunch supporter of the 1915 – 1916 expeditions, amanullah khan provoked the third anglo - afghan war, entering british india via the khyber pass. after the end of the third anglo - afghan war and the signing of the treaty of rawalpindi on 19 august 1919, emir amanullah khan declared the emirate of afghanistan a sovereign and fully independent state. he moved to end his country ' s traditional isolation by establishing diplomatic relations with the international community, particularly with the soviet union and the weimar republic. he proclaimed himself king of afghanistan on 9 june 1926, forming the kingdom of afghanistan. he introduced several reforms intended to modernize his nation. a key force behind these reforms was mahmud tarzi, an ardent supporter of the education of women. he fought for article 68 of afghanistan ' s 1923 constitution, which made elementary education compulsory. slavery was abolished in 1923. king amanullah ' s wife, queen soraya, was an important figure during this period in the fight for woman ' s education and against their oppression. some of the reforms that were put in place, such as the abolition of the traditional burqa for women and the opening of co - educational schools, alienated many tribal and religious leaders, leading to the afghan civil war ( 1928 – 1929 ). king amanullah abdicated in january 1929, and soon after kabul fell to saqqawist forces led by habibullah kalakani. mohammed nadir shah, amanullah ' s cousin, defeated and killed kalakani in october 1929, and was declared king nadir shah. he abandoned the reforms of king amanullah in favor of a more gradual approach to modernization, but was assassinated in 1933 by abdul khaliq. mohammed zahir shah succeeded to the throne and reigned as king from 1933 to 1973. during the tribal revolts of 1944 – 1947, king zahir ' s reign was challenged by zadran