, and shared all their pleasures and pursuits. this rank and power was, however, often used most beneficially. for instance, we read of richard whiting, the last abbot of glastonbury, judicially murdered by henry viii, that his house was a kind of well - ordered court, where as many as 300 sons of noblemen and gentlemen, who had been sent to him for virtuous education, had been brought up, besides others of a lesser rank, whom he fitted for the universities. his table, attendance and officers were an honour to the nation. he would entertain as many as 500 persons of rank at one time, besides relieving the poor of the vicinity twice a week. he had his country houses and fisheries, and when he travelled to attend parliament his retinue amounted to upwards of 100 persons. the abbots of cluny and vendome were, by virtue of their office, cardinals of the roman church. in the process of time, the title abbot was extended to clerics who had no connection with the monastic system, as to the principal of a body of parochial clergy ; and under the carolingians to the chief chaplain of the king,, or military chaplain of the emperor, it even came to be adopted by purely secular officials. thus the chief magistrate of the republic at genoa was called. lay abbots ( m. lat.,,,, or,, or sometimes simply ) were the outcome of the growth of the feudal system from the 8th century onwards. the practice of commendation, by which — to meet a contemporary emergency — the revenues of the community were handed over to a lay lord, in return for his protection, early suggested to the emperors and kings the expedient of rewarding their warriors with rich abbeys held in commendam. during the carolingian epoch, the custom grew up of granting these as regular heritable fiefs or benefices, and by the 10th century, before the great cluniac reform, the system was firmly established. even the abbey of st denis was held in commendam by hugh capet. the example of the kings was followed by the feudal nobles, sometimes by making a temporary concession permanent, sometimes without any form of commendation whatever. in england the abuse was rife in the 8th century, as may be gathered from the acts of the council of cloveshoe. these lay abbacies were not merely a question of overlordship, but implied the concentration in lay hands