vowels unexpressed. abugidas are also consonant - based but indicate vowels with diacritics, a systematic graphic modification of the consonants. the earliest known alphabet using this sense is the wadi el - hol script, believed to be an abjad. its successor, phoenician, is the ancestor of modern alphabets, including arabic, greek, latin ( via the old italic alphabet ), cyrillic ( via the greek alphabet ), and hebrew ( via aramaic ). examples of present - day abjads are the arabic and hebrew scripts ; true alphabets include latin, cyrillic, and korean hangul ; and abugidas, used to write tigrinya, amharic, hindi, and thai. the canadian aboriginal syllabics are also an abugida, rather than a syllabary, as their name would imply, because each glyph stands for a consonant and is modified by rotation to represent the following vowel. in a true syllabary, each consonant - vowel combination gets represented by a separate glyph. all three types may be augmented with syllabic glyphs. ugaritic, for example, is essentially an abjad but has syllabic letters for these are the only times that vowels are indicated. coptic has a letter for. devanagari is typically an abugida augmented with dedicated letters for initial vowels, though some traditions use अ as a zero consonant as the graphic base for such vowels. the boundaries between the three types of segmental scripts are not always clear - cut. for example, sorani kurdish is written in the arabic script, which, when used for other languages, is an abjad. in kurdish, writing the vowels is mandatory, and whole letters are used, so the script is a true alphabet. other languages may use a semitic abjad with forced vowel diacritics, effectively making them abugidas. on the other hand, the phagspa script of the mongol empire was based closely on the tibetan abugida, but vowel marks are written after the preceding consonant rather than as diacritic marks. although short a is not written, as in the indic abugidas, the source of the term " abugida ", namely the ge ' ez abugida now used for amharic and tigrinya, has assimilated into their consonant modifications. it is no longer systematic and must be learned as a syllabary rather than as a segmental script. even more