. the closest living relatives of the aardvark are the elephant shrews, tenrecidae, and golden moles. along with sirenians, hyraxes, elephants, and their extinct relatives, these animals form the superorder afrotheria. studies of the brain have shown the similarities with condylarthra. evolutionary history based on fossils, bryan patterson has concluded that early relatives of the aardvark appeared in africa around the end of the paleocene. the ptolemaiidans, a mysterious clade of mammals with uncertain affinities, may actually be stem - aardvarks, either as a sister clade to tubulidentata or as a grade leading to true tubulidentates. the first unambiguous tubulidentate was probably myorycteropus africanus from kenyan miocene deposits. the earliest example from the genus orycteropus was orycteropus mauritanicus, found in algeria in deposits from the middle miocene, with an equally old version found in kenya. fossils from the aardvark have been dated to 5 million years, and have been located throughout europe and the near east. the mysterious pleistocene plesiorycteropus from madagascar was originally thought to be a tubulidentate that was descended from ancestors that entered the island during the eocene. however, a number of subtle anatomical differences coupled with recent molecular evidence now lead researchers to believe that plesiorycteropus is a relative of golden moles and tenrecs that achieved an aardvark - like appearance and ecological niche through convergent evolution. subspecies the aardvark has seventeen poorly defined subspecies listed : orycteropus afer afer ( southern aardvark ) o. a. adametzi grote, 1921 ( western aardvark ) o. a. aethiopicus sundevall, 1843 o. a. angolensis zukowsky & haltenorth, 1957 o. a. erikssoni lonnberg, 1906 o. a. faradjius hatt, 1932 o. a. haussanus matschie, 1900 o. a. kordofanicus rothschild, 1927 o. a. lademanni grote, 1911 o. a. leptodon hirst, 1906 o. a. matschiei grote, 1921 o. a. observandus grote, 1921 o. a. ruvanensis grote, 1921 o. a. senegalensis