more than 400 people were subjected to torture in the course of the case. the azerbaijani authorities claimed one person was killed as a result, while human rights defenders say the number is about 13, and many were wrongfully convicted and given hefty prison sentences. second karabakh war the second karabakh war ( also known in azerbaijan as " the patriotic war " or " operation iron fist " ) began on the morning of 27 september 2020 when azerbaijan launched an offensive along the line of contact. on the seventh day of the war, a major offensive was launched by the ground forces, advancing in the north, making some territorial gains while the fighting gradually shifted to the south. following the capture of shusha, the second - largest settlement in nagorno - karabakh, by azerbaijani forces, a ceasefire agreement was signed between azerbaijan, and armenia, ending all hostilities in the area. under the agreement, armenia returned the surrounding territories it occupied in 1994 to azerbaijan while azerbaijan gained land access to its nakhchivan exclave. total casualties were in the low thousands. during the war, the azerbaijani army was widely accused of committing war crimes against armenian soldiers and civilians. human rights watch and amnesty international both condemned azerbaijan ' s “ indiscriminate ” shelling of armenian civilians, including the use of cluster munitions. in addition, videos of azerbaijani soldiers mistreating or executing captive armenians were circulated online and received widespread condemnation. on 10 december, a victory parade was held in honor of the azerbaijani army on azadliq square, with 3, 000 soldiers marching alongside military equipment, unmanned aerial vehicles and aircraft. in august 2022, the un committee on the elimination of racial discrimination expressed deep concern regarding " severe and grave human rights violations committed during 2020 hostilities and beyond by the azerbaijani military forces against prisoners of war and other protected persons of armenian ethnic or national origin, including extrajudicial killings, torture and other ill - treatment and arbitrary detention as well as the destruction of houses, schools, and other civilian facilities. " structure command since the fall of the soviet union, there have been attempts in the defence ministry to reform the military to be more in line with the turkish / nato model, resulting in soviet - legacy officers such as rovshan akbarov and najmeddin sadikov being removed from power. azerbaijan periodically holds drills to improve interaction and combat coordination between the servicemen during operations, its military personnel ’ s combat readiness, as well as to develop commanders ' military decision - making and unit management skills. land forces