minora : death in the eastern roman empire, emperor marcian succeeded theodosius ii, and stopped paying tribute to the huns. attila withdrew from italy to his palace across the danube, while making plans to strike at constantinople once more to reclaim tribute. however, he died in the early months of 453. the conventional account from priscus says that attila was at a feast celebrating his latest marriage, this time to the beautiful young ildico ( the name suggests gothic or ostrogoth origins ). in the midst of the revels, however, he suffered severe bleeding and died. he may have had a nosebleed and choked to death in a stupor. or he may have succumbed to internal bleeding, possibly due to ruptured esophageal varices. esophageal varices are dilated veins that form in the lower part of the esophagus, often caused by years of excessive alcohol consumption ; they are fragile and can easily rupture, leading to death by hemorrhage. another account of his death was first recorded 80 years after the events by roman chronicler marcellinus comes. it reports that " attila, king of the huns and ravager of the provinces of europe, was pierced by the hand and blade of his wife ". one modern analyst suggests that he was assassinated, but most reject these accounts as no more than hearsay, preferring instead the account given by attila ' s contemporary priscus, recounted in the 6th century by jordanes : descendants attila ' s sons ellac, dengizich and ernak, " in their rash eagerness to rule they all alike destroyed his empire ". they " were clamoring that the nations should be divided among them equally and that warlike kings with their peoples should be apportioned to them by lot like a family estate ". against the treatment as " slaves of the basest condition " a germanic alliance led by the gepid ruler ardaric ( who was noted for great loyalty to attila ) revolted and fought with the huns in pannonia in the battle of nedao 454 ad. attila ' s eldest son ellac was killed in that battle. attila ' s sons " regarding the goths as deserters from their rule, came against them as though they were seeking fugitive slaves ", attacked ostrogothic co - ruler valamir ( who also fought alongside ardaric and attila at the