for the catalan or foreign public even within andorra. andorran group ( agrupament andorra ), an anti - fascist organization linked to the occitanie ' s french resistance, accused the french representative ( veguer ) of collaboration with nazism. the andorran opening to the capitalist economy resulted in two axes : mass tourism and the country ' s tax exemption. the first steps toward the capitalist boom date from the 1930s, with the construction of fhasa and the creation of professional banking with banc agricol ( 1930 ) and credit andorra ( 1949 ), later with banca mora ( 1952 ), banca cassany ( 1958 ) and sobanca ( 1960 ). shortly after activities such as skiing and shopping become a tourist attraction, with the inauguration of ski resorts and cultural entities in the late 1930s. all in all, a renovated hotel industry has developed. in april 1968 a social health insurance system was created ( cass ). the andorran government necessarily involved planning, projection and forecasts for the future : with the official visit of the french co - prince charles de gaulle in 1967 and 1969, it was given approval for the economic boom and national demands within the framework of human rights and international openness. andorra lived an era commonly known as " andorran dream " ( in relation to the american dream ) along with the trente glorieuses : the mass culture rooted the country experiencing radical changes in the economy and culture. proof of this was radio andorra, the top musical radio station in europe in this period, with guests and speakers of great importance promoting musical hits of chanson francaise, swing, rhythm & blues, jazz, rock and roll and american country music. during this period andorra achieved a gdp per capita and a life expectancy higher than the most standard countries of the current economy. given its relative isolation, andorra has existed outside the mainstream of european history, with few ties to countries other than france, spain and portugal. but in recent times its thriving tourist industry along with developments in transport and communications have removed the country from its isolation. since 1976 the country has seen the need to reform andorran institutions due to anachronisms in sovereignty, human rights and the balance of powers as well as the need to adapt legislation to modern demands. in 1982 a first separation of powers took place when instituting the govern d ' andorra, under the name of executive board ( consell executiu ), chaired by the first prime minister oscar