military initiative when it presented itself. in 490, alaric assisted his fellow gothic king, theodoric the great, in his conquest of italy by dispatching an army to raise odoacer ' s siege of pavia, where theodoric had been trapped. then when the franks attacked the burgundians in the decade after 500, alaric assisted the ruling house, and according to wolfram the victorious burgundian king gundobad ceded avignon to alaric. by 502 clovis and alaric met on an island in the loire near amboise for face - to - face talks, which led to a peace treaty. in 506, the visigoths captured the city of dertosa in the ebro valley. there they captured the roman usurper peter and had him executed. battle of vouille and aftermath after a few years, however, clovis violated the peace treaty negotiated in 502. despite the diplomatic intervention of theodoric, king of the ostrogoths and father - in - law of alaric, clovis led his followers into visigothic territory. alaric was forced by his magnates to meet clovis in the battle of vouille ( summer 507 ) near poitiers ; there the goths were defeated and alaric slain, according to gregory of tours, by clovis himself. the most serious consequence of this battle was not the loss of their possessions in gaul to the franks ; with ostrogothic help, much of the gallic territory was recovered, herwig wolfram notes, perhaps as far as toulouse. nor was it the loss of the royal treasury at toulouse, which gregory of tours writes clovis took into his possession. as peter heather notes, the visigothic kingdom was thrown into disarray " by the death of its king in battle. " alaric ' s heirs were his eldest son, the illegitimate gesalec, and his younger son, the legitimate amalaric who was still a child. gesalec proved incompetent, and in 511 king theodoric assumed the throne of the kingdom ostensibly on behalf of amalaric — heather uses the word " hijacked " to describe his action. although amalaric eventually became king in his own right, the political continuity of the visigothic kingdom was broken ; " amalaric ' s succession was the result of new power structures, not old ones, " as heather describes it. with amalar