term airship was used for large, powered aircraft designs — usually fixed - wing. in 1919, frederick handley page was reported as referring to " ships of the air, " with smaller passenger types as " air yachts. " in the 1930s, large intercontinental flying boats were also sometimes referred to as " ships of the air " or " flying - ships ". — though none had yet been built. the advent of powered balloons, called dirigible balloons, and later of rigid hulls allowing a great increase in size, began to change the way these words were used. huge powered aerostats, characterized by a rigid outer framework and separate aerodynamic skin surrounding the gas bags, were produced, the zeppelins being the largest and most famous. there were still no fixed - wing aircraft or non - rigid balloons large enough to be called airships, so " airship " came to be synonymous with these aircraft. then several accidents, such as the hindenburg disaster in 1937, led to the demise of these airships. nowadays a " balloon " is an unpowered aerostat and an " airship " is a powered one. a powered, steerable aerostat is called a dirigible. sometimes this term is applied only to non - rigid balloons, and sometimes dirigible balloon is regarded as the definition of an airship ( which may then be rigid or non - rigid ). non - rigid dirigibles are characterized by a moderately aerodynamic gasbag with stabilizing fins at the back. these soon became known as blimps. during world war ii, this shape was widely adopted for tethered balloons ; in windy weather, this both reduces the strain on the tether and stabilizes the balloon. the nickname blimp was adopted along with the shape. in modern times, any small dirigible or airship is called a blimp, though a blimp may be unpowered as well as powered. heavier - than - air – aerodynes heavier - than - air aircraft, such as airplanes, must find some way to push air or gas downwards so that a reaction occurs ( by newton ' s laws of motion ) to push the aircraft upwards. this dynamic movement through the air is the origin of the term. there are two ways to produce dynamic upthrust — aerodynamic lift, and powered lift in the form of engine thrust. aerodynamic lift involving wings is the most common, with fixed - wing aircraft being kept in the air by the forward movement of wings, and rotorcraft by spinning wing