being a landlocked country, andorra has no navy. before world war i, andorra maintained an armed militia force of about 600 part - time militiamen under the supervision of a captain ( capita or cap de sometent ) and a lieutenant ( desener or lloctinent del capita ). this body was not liable for service outside the principality and was commanded by two officials ( veguers ) appointed by france and the bishop of urgell. in the modern era, the army has consisted of a very small body of volunteers willing to undertake ceremonial duties. uniforms and weaponry were handed down from generation to generation within families and communities. the army ' s role in internal security was largely taken over by the formation of the police corps of andorra in 1931. brief civil disorder associated with the elections of 1933 led to assistance being sought from the french national gendarmerie, with a detachment resident in andorra for two months under the command of rene - jules baulard. the andorran police was reformed in the following year, with eleven soldiers appointed to supervisory roles. the force consisted of six corporals, one for each parish ( although there are currently seven parishes, there were only six until 1978 ), plus four junior staff officers to co - ordinate action, and a commander with the rank of major. it was the responsibility of the six corporals, each in his own parish, to be able to raise a fighting force from among the able - bodied men of the parish. the only permanent section of the present - day sometent is a twelve - man ceremonial unit. however, all able - bodied men are technically available for military service, with a requirement for each family to have access to a firearm. an area weapon such as a shotgun per household is unregulated, however ranged weapons such as pistols and rifles require a license. the army has not fought for more than 700 years, and its main responsibility is to present the flag of andorra at official ceremonial functions. according to marc forne molne, andorra ' s military budget is strictly from voluntary donations, and the availability of full - time volunteers. in more recent times there has only been a general emergency call to the popular army of sometent during the floods of 1982 in the catalan pyrenees, where 12 citizens perished in andorra, to help the population and establish a public order along with the local police units. police corps andorra maintains a small but modern and well - equipped internal police force, with around 240 police officers