or because greek women sometimes used pomegranates as a method of birth control. in greek art, aphrodite is often also accompanied by dolphins and nereids. in classical art a scene of aphrodite rising from the sea appears on the back of the ludovisi throne ( 460 bc ), which was probably originally part of a massive altar that was constructed as part of the ionic temple to aphrodite in the greek polis of locri epizephyrii in magna graecia in southern italy. the throne shows aphrodite rising from the sea, clad in a diaphanous garment, which is drenched with seawater and clinging to her body, revealing her upturned breasts and the outline of her navel. her hair hangs dripping as she reaches to two attendants standing barefoot on the rocky shore on either side of her, lifting her out of the water. scenes with aphrodite appear in works of classical greek pottery, including a famous white - ground kylix by the pistoxenos painter dating the between 470 and 460 bc, showing her riding on a swan or goose. aphrodite was often described as golden - haired and portrayed with this color hair in art. in bc, the athenian sculptor praxiteles carved the marble statue aphrodite of knidos, which pliny the elder later praised as the greatest sculpture ever made. the statue showed a nude aphrodite modestly covering her pubic region while resting against a water pot with her robe draped over it for support. the aphrodite of knidos was the first full - sized statue to depict aphrodite completely naked and one of the first sculptures that was intended to be viewed from all sides. the statue was purchased by the people of knidos in around 350 bc and proved to be tremendously influential on later depictions of aphrodite. the original sculpture has been lost, but written descriptions of it as well several depictions of it on coins are still extant and over sixty copies, small - scale models, and fragments of it have been identified. the greek painter apelles of kos, a contemporary of praxiteles, produced the panel painting aphrodite anadyomene ( aphrodite rising from the sea ). according to athenaeus, apelles was inspired to paint the painting after watching the courtesan phryne take off her clothes, untie her hair, and bathe naked