agamemnon, menelaus, and anaxibia. the continued miasma surrounding the house of atreus expresses itself in several events throughout their lives. agamemnon is forced to sacrifice his own daughter, iphigenia, to appease the gods and allow the greek forces to sail for troy. when agamemnon refuses to return chryseis to her father chryses, he brings plague upon the greek camp. he is also later killed by his wife, clytemnestra, who conspires with her new lover aegisthus in revenge for the death of iphigenia. menelaus ' s wife, helen of troy, runs away with paris, ultimately leading to the trojan war. according to book 4 of the odyssey, after the war his fleet is scattered by the gods to egypt and crete. when menelaus finally returns home, his marriage with helen is now strained and they produce no sons. both agamemnon and menelaus are cursed by ajax for not granting him achilles ' s armor as he commits suicide. agamemnon and clytemnestra have three remaining children, electra, orestes, and chrysothemis. after growing to adulthood and being pressured by electra, orestes vows to avenge his father agamemnon by killing his mother clytemnestra and aegisthus. after successfully doing so, he wanders the greek countryside for many years constantly plagued by the erinyes ( furies ) for his sins. finally, with the help of athena and apollo he is absolved of his crimes, dispersing the miasma, and the curse on house atreus comes to an end. other stories athenaeus tells a tale of how agamemnon mourns the loss of his friend or lover argynnus, when he drowns in the cephisus river. he buries him, honored with a tomb and a shrine to aphrodite argynnis. this episode is also found in clement of alexandria, in stephen of byzantium ( kopai and argunnos ), and in propertius, iii with minor variations. the fortunes of agamemnon have formed the subject of numerous tragedies, ancient and modern, the most famous being the oresteia of aeschylus. in the legends of the peloponnesus, agamemnon was regarded as the highest type of a powerful monarch, and in sparta he