las vegas valley. graf ' s mother and brother, michael, with his four children, also live there. long - time trainer gil reyes has been called one of agassi ' s closest friends ; some have described him as being a " father figure " to agassi. in 2012, agassi and reyes introduced their own line of fitness equipment, bilt by agassi and reyes. in december 2008, agassi ' s childhood friend and former business manager, perry rogers, sued graf for $ 50, 000 in management fees he claimed that she owed him. autobiography agassi ' s autobiography, open : an autobiography, ( written with assistance from j. r. moehringer ), was published in november 2009. in it, agassi talks about his childhood and his unconventional armenian father, who came to the united states from iran, where he was a professional boxer. overly demanding and emotionally abusive to the whole family, his father groomed young agassi for tennis greatness by building a tennis court in their backyard and sending agassi to tennis boarding school under the supervision of nick bollettieri, who later coached and managed part of agassi ' s professional career. there is also mention in the book of using and testing positive for methamphetamine in 1997. in response to this revelation, roger federer declared himself shocked and disappointed, while marat safin argued that agassi should return his prize money and be stripped of his titles. in an interview with cbs, agassi justified himself and asked for understanding, saying that " it was a period in my life where i needed help. " agassi said that he had always hated tennis during his career because of the constant pressure it exerted on him. he also said he wore a hairpiece earlier in his career and thought pete sampras was " robotic ". the book reached no. 1 on the new york times best seller list and received favorable reviews. it won the autobiography category of the 2010 british sports book awards. in 2018, the book was listed on esquire as one of " the 30 best sports books ever written ", and was also recommended by self - help author tim ferriss who described it as " very candid, very amusing, and very instructional ". in media in 2017, agassi appeared in the documentary film love means zero, which highlighted the troubled relationship between his coach nick bollettieri and him. politics agassi has donated more than $ 100,