he called " sculpting in time ". by this he meant that the unique characteristic of cinema as a medium was to take our experience of time and alter it. unedited movie footage transcribes time in real time. by using long takes and few cuts in his films, he aimed to give the viewers a sense of time passing, time lost, and the relationship of one moment in time to another. up to, and including, his film mirror, tarkovsky focused his cinematic works on exploring this theory. after mirror, he announced that he would focus his work on exploring the dramatic unities proposed by aristotle : a concentrated action, happening in one place, within the span of a single day. several of tarkovsky ' s films have color or black - and - white sequences. this first occurs in the otherwise monochrome andrei rublev, which features a color epilogue of rublev ' s authentic religious icon paintings. all of his films afterwards contain monochrome, and in stalker ' s case sepia sequences, while otherwise being in color. in 1966, in an interview conducted shortly after finishing andrei rublev, tarkovsky dismissed color film as a " commercial gimmick " and cast doubt on the idea that contemporary films meaningfully use color. he claimed that in everyday life one does not consciously notice colors most of the time, and that color should therefore be used in film mainly to emphasize certain moments, but not all the time, as this distracts the viewer. to him, films in color were like moving paintings or photographs, which are too beautiful to be a realistic depiction of life. director ingmar bergman commented on tarkovsky : contrarily, however, bergman conceded the truth in the claim made by a critic who wrote that " with autumn sonata bergman does bergman ", adding : " tarkovsky began to make tarkovsky films, and that fellini began to make fellini films [... ] bunuel nearly always made bunuel films. " this pastiche of one ' s own work has been derogatorily termed as " self - karaoke ". vadim yusov tarkovsky worked in close collaboration with cinematographer vadim yusov from 1958 to 1972, and much of the visual style of tarkovsky ' s films can be attributed to this collaboration. tarkovsky would spend two days preparing for yusov to film a single long take, and due to the preparation, usually only a single take was needed. sven nykvist in his last film, the sacrifice, tarkovsky worked with cinematographer