among the first to successfully climb all the major 4, 000 m peaks. he completed his series of ascents in 1911. many of the big alpine three - thousanders were climbed in the early 19th century, notably the grossglockner ( 1800 ) and the ortler ( 1804 ), although some of them were climbed only much later, such at mont pelvoux ( 1848 ), monte viso ( 1861 ) and la meije ( 1877 ). the first british mont blanc ascent by a man was in 1788 ; the first ascent by a woman was in 1808. by the mid - 1850s swiss mountaineers had ascended most of the peaks and were eagerly sought as mountain guides. edward whymper reached the top of the matterhorn in 1865 ( after seven attempts ), and in 1938 the last of the six great north faces of the alps was climbed with the first ascent of the eiger nordwand ( north face of the eiger ). geology and orogeny important geological concepts were established as naturalists began studying the rock formations of the alps in the 18th century. in the mid - 19th century, the now - defunct idea of geosynclines was used to explain the presence of " folded " mountain chains. this theory was replaced in the mid - 20th century by the theory of plate tectonics. the formation of the alps ( the alpine orogeny ) was an episodic process that began about 300 million years ago. in the paleozoic era the pangaean supercontinent consisted of a single tectonic plate ; it broke into separate plates during the mesozoic era and the tethys sea developed between laurasia and gondwana during the jurassic period. the tethys was later squeezed between colliding plates causing the formation of mountain ranges called the alpide belt, from gibraltar through the himalayas to indonesia — a process that began at the end of the mesozoic and continues into the present. the formation of the alps was a segment of this orogenic process, caused by the collision between the african and the eurasian plates that began in the late cretaceous period. under extreme compressive stresses and pressure, marine sedimentary rocks were uplifted, forming characteristic recumbent folds, and thrust faults. as the rising peaks underwent erosion, a layer of marine flysch sediments was deposited in the foreland basin, and the sediments became involved in younger folds as the orogeny progressed. coarse sediments from the continual uplift and erosion were later deposited in foreland areas north