cities or examining the social issues within the cities. these two methods are overlapping and dependent of each other. by defining different types of cities, one would use social factors as well as economic and political factors to categorize the cities. by directly looking at the different social issues, one would also be studying how they affect the dynamic of the city. key topics by field : archaeological and biological anthrozoology anthrozoology ( also known as " human – animal studies " ) is the study of interaction between living things. it is an interdisciplinary field that overlaps with a number of other disciplines, including anthropology, ethology, medicine, psychology, veterinary medicine and zoology. a major focus of anthrozoologic research is the quantifying of the positive effects of human - animal relationships on either party and the study of their interactions. it includes scholars from a diverse range of fields, including anthropology, sociology, biology, and philosophy. biocultural biocultural anthropology is the scientific exploration of the relationships between human biology and culture. physical anthropologists throughout the first half of the 20th century viewed this relationship from a racial perspective ; that is, from the assumption that typological human biological differences lead to cultural differences. after world war ii the emphasis began to shift toward an effort to explore the role culture plays in shaping human biology. evolutionary evolutionary anthropology is the interdisciplinary study of the evolution of human physiology and human behaviour and the relation between hominins and non - hominin primates. evolutionary anthropology is based in natural science and social science, combining the human development with socioeconomic factors. evolutionary anthropology is concerned with both biological and cultural evolution of humans, past and present. it is based on a scientific approach, and brings together fields such as archaeology, behavioral ecology, psychology, primatology, and genetics. it is a dynamic and interdisciplinary field, drawing on many lines of evidence to understand the human experience, past and present. forensic forensic anthropology is the application of the science of physical anthropology and human osteology in a legal setting, most often in criminal cases where the victim ' s remains are in the advanced stages of decomposition. a forensic anthropologist can assist in the identification of deceased individuals whose remains are decomposed, burned, mutilated or otherwise unrecognizable. the adjective " forensic " refers to the application of this subfield of science to a court of law. palaeoanthropology paleoanthropology combines the disciplines of paleontology and physical anthropology. it is