is only 269 years. as a result, the underground ar, shielded by rock and water, has much less contamination. dark - matter detectors currently operating with liquid argon include darkside, warp, ardm, microclean and deap. neutrino experiments include icarus and microboone, both of which use high - purity liquid argon in a time projection chamber for fine grained three - dimensional imaging of neutrino interactions. at linkoping university, sweden, the inert gas is being utilized in a vacuum chamber in which plasma is introduced to ionize metallic films. this process results in a film usable for manufacturing computer processors. the new process would eliminate the need for chemical baths and use of expensive, dangerous and rare materials. preservative argon is used to displace oxygen - and moisture - containing air in packaging material to extend the shelf - lives of the contents ( argon has the european food additive code e938 ). aerial oxidation, hydrolysis, and other chemical reactions that degrade the products are retarded or prevented entirely. high - purity chemicals and pharmaceuticals are sometimes packed and sealed in argon. in winemaking, argon is used in a variety of activities to provide a barrier against oxygen at the liquid surface, which can spoil wine by fueling both microbial metabolism ( as with acetic acid bacteria ) and standard redox chemistry. argon is sometimes used as the propellant in aerosol cans. argon is also used as a preservative for such products as varnish, polyurethane, and paint, by displacing air to prepare a container for storage. since 2002, the american national archives stores important national documents such as the declaration of independence and the constitution within argon - filled cases to inhibit their degradation. argon is preferable to the helium that had been used in the preceding five decades, because helium gas escapes through the intermolecular pores in most containers and must be regularly replaced. laboratory equipment argon may be used as the inert gas within schlenk lines and gloveboxes. argon is preferred to less expensive nitrogen in cases where nitrogen may react with the reagents or apparatus. argon may be used as the carrier gas in gas chromatography and in electrospray ionization mass spectrometry ; it is the gas of choice for the plasma used in icp spectroscopy. argon is preferred for the sputter coating of specimens for scanning electron microscopy. ar