of the anatolian plateau. pine forests and mixed pine and oak woodlands and shrublands are predominant. aegean and western turkey sclerophyllous and mixed forests : these mediterranean - climate forests occupy the coastal lowlands and valleys of western anatolia bordering the aegean sea. the ecoregion has forests of turkish pine ( pinus brutia ), oak forests and woodlands, and maquis shrubland of turkish pine and evergreen sclerophyllous trees and shrubs, including olive ( olea europaea ), strawberry tree ( arbutus unedo ), arbutus andrachne, kermes oak ( quercus coccifera ), and bay laurel ( laurus nobilis ). southern anatolian montane conifer and deciduous forests : these mountain forests occupy the mediterranean - climate taurus mountains of southern anatolia. conifer forests are predominant, chiefly anatolian black pine ( pinus nigra ), cedar of lebanon ( cedrus libani ), taurus fir ( abies cilicica ), and juniper ( juniperus foetidissima and j. excelsa ). broadleaf trees include oaks, hornbeam, and maples. eastern mediterranean conifer - sclerophyllous - broadleaf forests : this ecoregion occupies the coastal strip of southern anatolia between the taurus mountains and the mediterranean sea. plant communities include broadleaf sclerophyllous maquis shrublands, forests of aleppo pine ( pinus halepensis ) and turkish pine ( pinus brutia ), and dry oak ( quercus spp. ) woodlands and steppes. demographics the largest cities in anatolia ( aside from the asian side of istanbul ) are ankara, izmir, bursa, antalya, konya, adana, izmit, mersin, manisa, kayseri, samsun, balıkesir, kahramanmaras, aydın, adapazarı, denizli, mugla, eskisehir, trabzon, ordu, afyonkarahisar, sivas, tokat, zonguldak, kutahya, canakkale, osmaniye, sırnak and corum. all have populations of more than 500, 000. see also aeolis anatolian hypothesis anatolianism anatolian leopard anatolian plate anatolian shepherd ancient kingdoms of anatolia antigonid dynasty doris ( asia minor ) empire of nicaea empire of trebizond gordium lycao