this incident. illness and death in 1894, alexander iii became ill with terminal kidney disease ( nephritis ). his first cousin, queen olga of greece, offered him to stay at her villa mon repos, on the island of corfu, in the hope that it might improve the tsar ' s condition. by the time that they reached crimea, they stayed at the maly palace in livadia, as alexander was too weak to travel any farther. recognizing that the tsar ' s days were numbered, various imperial relatives began to descend on livadia. clergyman john of kronstadt paid a visit and administered communion to the tsar. on 21 october, alexander received nicholas ' s fiancee, princess alix of hesse - darmstadt, who had come from her native darmstadt to receive the tsar ' s blessing. despite being exceedingly weak, alexander insisted on receiving alix in full dress uniform, an event that left him exhausted. soon after, his health began to deteriorate more rapidly. he died in the arms of his wife, and in the presence of his physician, ernst viktor von leyden, at maly palace in livadia on the afternoon of at the age of forty - nine, and was succeeded by his eldest son tsesarevich nicholas, who took the throne as nicholas ii. after leaving livadia on 6 november and traveling to st. petersburg by way of moscow, his remains were interred on 18 november at the peter and paul fortress, with his funeral being attended by numerous foreign relatives, including king christian ix of denmark, the prince and princess of wales, and duke of york, and duke and duchess of saxe - coburg - gotha, and his daughter - in - law to be, alix of hesse, and her brother, grand duke ernst ludwig of hesse. monuments in 1909, a bronze equestrian statue of alexander iii sculpted by paolo troubetzkoy was placed in znamenskaya square in front of the moscow rail terminal in st. petersburg. both the horse and rider were sculpted in massive form, leading to the nickname of " hippopotamus ". troubetzkoy envisioned the statue as a caricature, jesting that he wished " to portray an animal atop another animal ", and it was quite controversial at the time, with many, including the members of the imperial family, opposed to the design, but it was approved because the empress dowager unexpectedly liked the monument. following the revolution of 1917, the statue remained in place as a symbol of tsarist auto