; the academy scientific and technical awards : academy award of merit ( non - competitive ) ( in the form of an oscar statuette ) ; scientific and engineering award ( in the form of a bronze tablet ) ; technical achievement award ( annual ) ( in the form of a certificate ) ; the john a. bonner medal of commendation ( since 1978 ) ( in the form of a medal ) ; the gordon e. sawyer award ( since 1982 ) ; and the academy student academy awards ( annual ). the academy also awards nicholl fellowships in screenwriting. nomination from 2004 to 2020, the academy award nomination results were announced to the public in mid - january. prior to that, the results were announced in early february. in 2021, the nominees were announced in march. in 2022, the nominees were announced in early february for the first time since 2003. voters the academy of motion picture arts and sciences ( ampas ), a professional honorary organization, maintains a voting membership of over 7, 000. academy membership is divided into different branches, with each representing a different discipline in film production. actors constitute the largest voting bloc, numbering 1, 311 members ( 22 percent ) of the academy ' s composition. votes have been certified by the auditing firm pricewaterhousecoopers ( and its predecessor price waterhouse ) since the 7th academy awards in 1935. the firm mails the ballots of eligible nominees to members of the academy in december to reflect the previous eligible year with a due date sometime in january of the next year, then tabulates the votes in a process that takes thousands of hours. all ampas members must be invited to join by the board of governors, on behalf of academy branch executive committees. membership eligibility may be achieved by a competitive nomination or a member may submit a name based on other significant contributions to the field of motion pictures. new membership proposals are considered annually. the academy does not publicly disclose its membership, although as recently as 2007 press releases have announced the names of those who have been invited to join. the 2007 release also stated that it has just under 6, 000 voting members. while the membership had been growing, stricter policies have kept its size steady since then. in 2012, the results of a study conducted by the los angeles times were published describing the demographic breakdown of approximately 88 % of ampas ' voting membership. of the 5, 100 + active voters confirmed, 94 % were caucasian, 77 % were male, and 54 % were found to be over the age of 60. 33 % of voting members are