politics the city of amsterdam is a municipality under the dutch municipalities act. it is governed by a directly elected municipal council, a municipal executive board and a mayor. since 1981, the municipality of amsterdam has gradually been divided into semi - autonomous boroughs, called stadsdelen or ' districts '. over time, a total of 15 boroughs were created. in may 2010, under a major reform, the number of amsterdam boroughs was reduced to eight : amsterdam - centrum covering the city centre including the canal belt, amsterdam - noord consisting of the neighbourhoods north of the ij lake, amsterdam - oost in the east, amsterdam - zuid in the south, amsterdam - west in the west, amsterdam nieuw - west in the far west, amsterdam zuidoost in the southeast, and westpoort covering the port of amsterdam area. city government as with all dutch municipalities, amsterdam is governed by a directly elected municipal council, a municipal executive board and a government appointed mayor ( burgemeester ). the mayor is a member of the municipal executive board, but also has individual responsibilities in maintaining public order. on 27 june 2018, femke halsema ( former member of house of representatives for groenlinks from 1998 to 2011 ) was appointed as the first woman to be mayor of amsterdam by the king ' s commissioner of north holland for a six - year term after being nominated by the amsterdam municipal council and began serving a six - year term on 12 july 2018. she replaces eberhard van der laan ( labour party ) who was the mayor of amsterdam from 2010 until his death in october 2017. after the 2014 municipal council elections, a governing majority of d66, vvd and sp was formed – the first coalition without the labour party since world war ii. next to the mayor, the municipal executive board consists of eight wethouders ( ' alderpersons ' ) appointed by the municipal council : four d66 alderpersons, two vvd alderpersons and two sp alderpersons. on 18 september 2017, it was announced by eberhard van der laan in an open letter to amsterdam citizens that kajsa ollongren would take up his office as acting mayor of amsterdam with immediate effect due to ill health. ollongren was succeeded as acting mayor by eric van der burg on 26 october 2017 and by jozias van aartsen on 4 december 2017. unlike most other dutch municipalities, amsterdam is subdivided into eight boroughs, called stadsdel