trivial animation works ( i. e., longer than a few seconds ) has developed as a form of filmmaking, with certain unique aspects. traits common to both live - action and animated feature - length films are labor intensity and high production costs. the most important difference is that once a film is in the production phase, the marginal cost of one more shot is higher for animated films than live - action films. it is relatively easy for a director to ask for one more take during principal photography of a live - action film, but every take on an animated film must be manually rendered by animators ( although the task of rendering slightly different takes has been made less tedious by modern computer animation ). it is pointless for a studio to pay the salaries of dozens of animators to spend weeks creating a visually dazzling five - minute scene if that scene fails to effectively advance the plot of the film. thus, animation studios starting with disney began the practice in the 1930s of maintaining story departments where storyboard artists develop every single scene through storyboards, then handing the film over to the animators only after the production team is satisfied that all the scenes make sense as a whole. while live - action films are now also storyboarded, they enjoy more latitude to depart from storyboards ( i. e., real - time improvisation ). another problem unique to animation is the requirement to maintain a film ' s consistency from start to finish, even as films have grown longer and teams have grown larger. animators, like all artists, necessarily have individual styles, but must subordinate their individuality in a consistent way to whatever style is employed on a particular film. since the early 1980s, teams of about 500 to 600 people, of whom 50 to 70 are animators, typically have created feature - length animated films. it is relatively easy for two or three artists to match their styles ; synchronizing those of dozens of artists is more difficult. this problem is usually solved by having a separate group of visual development artists develop an overall look and palette for each film before the animation begins. character designers on the visual development team draw model sheets to show how each character should look like with different facial expressions, posed in different positions, and viewed from different angles. on traditionally animated projects, maquettes were often sculpted to further help the animators see how characters would look from different angles. unlike live - action films, animated films were traditionally developed beyond the synopsis stage through the storyboard format ; the storyboard artists would then receive credit for writing the film.