pontine perivascular enhancement responsive to steroids syndrome " [ clippers ] ) will cause the type of ataxia corresponding to the site of the lesion : cerebellar if in the cerebellum ; sensory if in the dorsal spinal cord... to include cord compression by thickened ligamentum flavum or stenosis of the boney spinal canal... ( and rarely in the thalamus or parietal lobe ) ; or vestibular if in the vestibular system ( including the vestibular areas of the cerebral cortex ). exogenous substances ( metabolic ataxia ) exogenous substances that cause ataxia mainly do so because they have a depressant effect on central nervous system function. the most common example is ethanol ( alcohol ), which is capable of causing reversible cerebellar and vestibular ataxia. chronic intake of ethanol causes atrophy of the cerebellum by oxidative and endoplasmic reticulum stresses induced by thiamine deficiency. other examples include various prescription drugs ( e. g. most antiepileptic drugs have cerebellar ataxia as a possible adverse effect ), lithium level over 1. 5meq / l, synthetic cannabinoid hu - 211 ingestion and various other medical and recreational drugs ( e. g. ketamine, pcp or dextromethorphan, all of which are nmda receptor antagonists that produce a dissociative state at high doses ). a further class of pharmaceuticals which can cause short term ataxia, especially in high doses, are benzodiazepines. exposure to high levels of methylmercury, through consumption of fish with high mercury concentrations, is also a known cause of ataxia and other neurological disorders. radiation poisoning ataxia can be induced as a result of severe acute radiation poisoning with an absorbed dose of more than 30 grays. vitamin b12 deficiency vitamin b12 deficiency may cause, among several neurological abnormalities, overlapping cerebellar and sensory ataxia. neuropsychological symptoms may include sense loss, difficulty in proprioception, poor balance, loss of sensation in the feet, changes in reflexes, dementia, and psychosis, can be reversible with treatment. complications may include a neurological complex known as subacute combined degeneration of spinal cord, and other neurological disorders. hypothyroidism symptoms of neurological dysfunction may be the presenting feature