##cd of a and b ', which is c. one of the advantages of the logic programming representation of the algorithm is that its purely logical reading makes it easier to verify that the algorithm is correct relative to the standard non - recursive definition of gcd. here is the standard definition written in prolog : gcd ( a, b, c ) : - divides ( c, a ), divides ( c, b ), forall ( ( divides ( d, a ), divides ( d, b ) ), d = < c ). divides ( c, number ) : - between ( 1, number, c ), 0 is number mod c. this definition, which is the specification of the euclidean algorithm, is also executable in prolog : backward reasoning treats the specification as the brute - force algorithm that iterates through all of the integers c between 1 and a, checking whether c divides both a and b, and then for each such c iterates again through all of the integers d between 1 and a, until it finds a c such that c is greater than or equal to all of the d that also divide both a and b. although this algorithm is hopelessly inefficient, it shows that formal specifications can often be written in logic programming form, and they can be executed by prolog, to check that they correctly represent informal requirements. legal issues algorithms, by themselves, are not usually patentable. in the united states, a claim consisting solely of simple manipulations of abstract concepts, numbers, or signals does not constitute " processes " ( uspto 2006 ), so algorithms are not patentable ( as in gottschalk v. benson ). however practical applications of algorithms are sometimes patentable. for example, in diamond v. diehr, the application of a simple feedback algorithm to aid in the curing of synthetic rubber was deemed patentable. the patenting of software is controversial, and there are criticized patents involving algorithms, especially data compression algorithms, such as unisys ' s lzw patent. additionally, some cryptographic algorithms have export restrictions ( see export of cryptography ). history : development of the notion of " algorithm " ancient near east the earliest evidence of algorithms is found in the babylonian mathematics of ancient mesopotamia ( modern iraq ). a sumerian clay tablet found in shuruppak near baghdad and dated to described the earliest division algorithm. during the hammurabi dynasty, babylonian clay tablets described algorithms for computing formulas. algorithms were also