in the palace of nebuchadnezzar ii, in babylon, at age 32. there are two different versions of alexander ' s death, differing slightly in details. plutarch ' s account is that roughly 14 days before his death, alexander entertained admiral nearchus and spent the night and next day drinking with medius of larissa. alexander developed a fever, which worsened until he was unable to speak. the common soldiers, anxious about his health, were granted the right to file past him as he silently waved at them. in the second account, diodorus recounts that alexander was struck with pain after downing a large bowl of unmixed wine in honour of heracles followed by 11 days of weakness ; he did not develop a fever, instead dying after some agony. arrian also mentioned this as an alternative, but plutarch specifically denied this claim. given the propensity of the macedonian aristocracy to assassination, foul play featured in multiple accounts of his death. diodorus, plutarch, arrian and justin all mentioned the theory that alexander was poisoned. justin stated that alexander was the victim of a poisoning conspiracy, plutarch dismissed it as a fabrication, while both diodorus and arrian noted that they mentioned it only for the sake of completeness. the accounts were nevertheless fairly consistent in designating antipater, recently removed as macedonian viceroy, replaced by craterus, as the head of the alleged plot. perhaps taking his summons to babylon as a death sentence and having seen the fate of parmenion and philotas, antipater purportedly arranged for alexander to be poisoned by his son iollas, who was alexander ' s wine - pourer. there was even a suggestion that aristotle may have participated. the strongest argument against the poison theory is the fact that twelve days passed between the start of his illness and his death ; such long - acting poisons were probably not available. however, in a 2003 bbc documentary investigating the death of alexander, leo schep from the new zealand national poisons centre proposed that the plant white hellebore ( veratrum album ), which was known in antiquity, may have been used to poison alexander. in a 2014 manuscript in the journal clinical toxicology, schep suggested alexander ' s wine was spiked with veratrum album, and that this would produce poisoning symptoms that match the course of events described in the alexander romance. veratrum album poisoning can have a prolonged course and it was suggested that if alexander was poisoned, veratrum album offers