emphatic consonants, which are pharyngealized in modern pronunciations but may have been velarized in the eighth century and glottalized in proto - semitic. reduction of and between vowels occurs in a number of circumstances and is responsible for much of the complexity of third - weak ( " defective " ) verbs. early akkadian transcriptions of arabic names shows that this reduction had not yet occurred as of the early part of the 1st millennium bc. the classical arabic language as recorded was a poetic koine that reflected a conscious ly archaizing dialect, chosen based on the tribes of the western part of the arabian peninsula, who spoke the most conservative variants of arabic. even at the time of muhammed and before, other dialects existed with many more changes, including the loss of most glottal stops, the loss of case endings, the reduction of the diphthongs and into monophthongs, etc. most of these changes are present in most or all modern varieties of arabic. an interesting feature of the writing system of the quran ( and hence of classical arabic ) is that it contains certain features of muhammad ' s native dialect of mecca, corrected through diacritics into the forms of standard classical arabic. among these features visible under the corrections are the loss of the glottal stop and a differing development of the reduction of certain final sequences containing : evidently, final became as in the classical language, but final became a different sound, possibly ( rather than again in the classical language ). this is the apparent source of the alif maqsurah ' restricted alif ' where a final is reconstructed : a letter that would normally indicate or some similar high - vowel sound, but is taken in this context to be a logical variant of alif and represent the sound. literary arabic the " colloquial " spoken dialects of arabic are learned at home and constitute the native languages of arabic speakers. " formal " modern standard arabic is learned at school ; although many speakers have a native - like command of the language, it is technically not the native language of any speakers. both varieties can be both written and spoken, although the colloquial varieties are rarely written down and the formal variety is spoken mostly in formal circumstances, e. g., in radio and tv broadcasts, formal lectures, parliamentary discussions and to some extent between speakers of different colloquial dialects. even when the literary language is spoken, it is normally only spoken in its pure form when reading a prepared text