flute. in 1803, he accompanied his parents on a european tour of holland, britain, france, switzerland, austria and prussia. viewed as primarily a pleasure tour, heinrich used the opportunity to visit some of his business associates abroad. heinrich offered arthur a choice : he could stay at home and start preparations for university, or he could travel with them and continue his merchant education. arthur chose to travel with them. he deeply regretted his choice later because the merchant training was very tedious. he spent twelve weeks of the tour attending school in wimbledon, where he was disillusioned by strict and intellectually shallow anglican religiosity. he continued to sharply criticize anglican religiosity later in life despite his general anglophilia. he was also under pressure from his father, who became very critical of his educational results. in 1805, heinrich drowned in a canal near their home in hamburg. although it was possible that his death was accidental, his wife and son believed that it was suicide. he was prone to anxiety and depression, each becoming more pronounced later in his life. heinrich had become so fussy, even his wife started to doubt his mental health. " there was, in the father ' s life, some dark and vague source of fear which later made him hurl himself to his death from the attic of his house in hamburg. " arthur showed similar moodiness during his youth and often acknowledged that he inherited it from his father. there were other instances of serious mental health problems on his father ' s side of the family. despite his hardship, schopenhauer liked his father and later referred to him in a positive light. heinrich schopenhauer left the family with a significant inheritance that was split in three among johanna and the children. arthur schopenhauer was entitled to control of his part when he reached the age of majority. he invested it conservatively in government bonds and earned annual interest that was more than double the salary of a university professor. after quitting his merchant apprenticeship, with some encouragement from his mother, he dedicated himself to studies at the ernestine gymnasium, gotha, in saxe - gotha - altenburg. while there, he also enjoyed social life among the local nobility, spending large amounts of money, which deeply concerned his frugal mother. he left the gymnasium after writing a satirical poem about one of the schoolmasters. although arthur claimed that he left voluntarily, his mother ' s letter indicates that he may have been expelled. arthur spent two years as a merchant in honor of his