a point of departure. sir philip sidney survives the battle of zutphen in 1586, and shortly thereafter saving the life of christopher marlowe. when the magical version of our world ' s history is set in contemporary times, the distinction becomes clear between alternate history on the one hand and contemporary fantasy, using in effect a form of secret history ( as when josepha sherman ' s son of darkness has an elf living in new york city, in disguise ) on the other. in works such as robert a. heinlein ' s magic, incorporated where a construction company can use magic to rig up stands at a sporting event and poul anderson ' s operation chaos and its sequel operation luna, where djinns are serious weapons of war — with atomic bombs — the use of magic throughout the united states and other modern countries makes it clear that this is not secret history — although references in operation chaos to degaussing the effects of cold iron make it possible that it is the result of a pod. the sequel clarifies this as the result of a collaboration of einstein and planck in 1901, resulting in the theory of " rhea tics ". henry moseley applies this theory to " degauss the effects of cold iron and release the goetic forces. " this results in the suppression of ferromagnetism and the re - emergence of magic and magical creatures. alternate history shades off into other fantasy subgenres when the use of actual, though altered, history and geography decreases, although a culture may still be clearly the original source ; barry hughart ' s bridge of birds and its sequels take place in a fantasy world, albeit one clearly based on china, and with allusions to actual chinese history, such as the empress wu. richard garfinkle ' s celestial matters incorporates ancient chinese physics and greek aristotelian physics, using them as if factual. alternate history has long been a staple of japanese speculative fiction with such authors as futaro yamada and ryo hanmura writing novels set in recognizable historical settings with added supernatural or science fiction elements. ryo hanmura ' s 1973 musubi no yama hiroku which recreated 400 years of japan ' s history from the perspective of a secret magical family with psychic abilities. the novel has since come to be recognized as a masterpiece of japanese speculative fiction. twelve years later, author hiroshi aramata wrote the groundbreaking teito monogatari which reimagined the history of tokyo across the 20th century in a world heavily influenced by the supernatural. television