energetically costly trophic jumps which would increase biomass in the ecosystem. seaweed farming is a carbon negative crop, with a high potential for climate change mitigation. the ipcc special report on the ocean and cryosphere in a changing climate recommends " further research attention " as a mitigation tactic. regenerative ocean farming is a polyculture farming system that grows a mix of seaweeds and shellfish while sequestering carbon, decreasing nitrogen in the water and increasing oxygen, helping to regenerate and restore local habitat like reef ecosystems. prospects global wild fisheries are in decline, with valuable habitat such as estuaries in critical condition. the aquaculture or farming of piscivorous fish, like salmon, does not help the problem because they need to eat products from other fish, such as fish meal and fish oil. studies have shown that salmon farming has major negative impacts on wild salmon, as well as the forage fish that need to be caught to feed them. fish that are higher on the food chain are less efficient sources of food energy. apart from fish and shrimp, some aquaculture undertakings, such as seaweed and filter - feeding bivalve mollusks like oysters, clams, mussels and scallops, are relatively benign and even environmentally restorative. filter - feeders filter pollutants as well as nutrients from the water, improving water quality. seaweeds extract nutrients such as inorganic nitrogen and phosphorus directly from the water, and filter - feeding mollusks can extract nutrients as they feed on particulates, such as phytoplankton and detritus. some profitable aquaculture cooperatives promote sustainable practices. new methods lessen the risk of biological and chemical pollution through minimizing fish stress, fallowing netpens, and applying integrated pest management. vaccines are being used more and more to reduce antibiotic use for disease control. onshore recirculating aquaculture systems, facilities using polyculture techniques, and properly sited facilities ( for example, offshore areas with strong currents ) are examples of ways to manage negative environmental effects. recirculating aquaculture systems ( ras ) recycle water by circulating it through filters to remove fish waste and food and then recirculating it back into the tanks. this saves water and the waste gathered can be used in compost or, in some cases, could even be treated and used on land. while ras was developed with freshwater fish in mind, scientists associated with the agricultural research service have found