dealing with issues such as consensual sadomasochistic sexual activity, the most notable case being the operation spanner case. legally recognized good reasons for consent include surgery, activities within the rules of a game ( mixed martial arts, wrestling, boxing, or contact sports ), bodily adornment ( r v wilson [ 1996 ] crim lr 573 ), or horseplay ( r v jones [ 1987 ] crim lr 123 ). however, any activity outside the rules of the game is not legally recognized as a defense of consent. in scottish law, consent is not a defense for assault. arrest and other official acts police officers and court officials have a general power to use force for the purpose of performing an arrest or generally carrying out their official duties. thus, a court officer taking possession of goods under a court order may use force if reasonably necessary. punishment in some jurisdictions such as singapore, judicial corporal punishment is part of the legal system. the officers who administer the punishment have immunity from prosecution for assault. in the united states, england, northern ireland, australia and canada, corporal punishment administered to children by their parent or legal guardian is not legally considered to be assault unless it is deemed to be excessive or unreasonable. what constitutes " reasonable " varies in both statutory law and case law. unreasonable physical punishment may be charged as assault or under a separate statute for child abuse. in english law, s. 58 children act 2004 limits the availability of the lawful correction defense to common assault. this defence was abolished in wales in 2022. many countries, including some us states, also permit the use of corporal punishment for children in school. prevention of crime this may or may not involve self - defense in that, using a reasonable degree of force to prevent another from committing a crime could involve preventing an assault, but it could be preventing a crime not involving the use of personal violence. defense of property some jurisdictions allow force to be used in defense of property, to prevent damage either in its own right, or under one or both of the preceding classes of defense in that a threat or attempt to damage property might be considered a crime ( in english law, under s5 criminal damage act 1971 it may be argued that the defendant has a lawful excuse to damage property during the defense and a defense under s3 criminal law act 1967 ) subject to the need to deter vigilantes and excessive self - help. furthermore, some jurisdictions, such as ohio, allow residents in their homes to use force when ejecting an intruder. the