in the exclamation " amazing grace! ", to be followed by a qualifying reply in " how sweet the sound ". in an annotated anthology of hymns, newton ' s use of an exclamation at the beginning of his verse is called " crude but effective " in an overall composition that " suggest ( s ) a forceful, if simple, statement of faith ". grace is recalled three times in the following verse, culminating in newton ' s most personal story of his conversion, underscoring the use of his personal testimony with his parishioners. the sermon preached by newton was his last of those that william cowper heard in olney, since cowper ' s mental instability returned shortly thereafter. one author suggests newton may have had his friend in mind, employing the themes of assurance and deliverance from despair for cowper ' s benefit. dissemination more than 60 of newton and cowper ' s hymns were republished in other british hymnals and magazines, but " amazing grace " was not, appearing only once in a 1780 hymnal sponsored by the countess of huntingdon. scholar john julian commented in his 1892 a dictionary of hymnology that outside of the united states, the song was unknown and it was " far from being a good example of newton ' s finest work ". between 1789 and 1799, four variations of newton ' s hymn were published in the us in baptist, dutch reformed, and congregationalist hymnodies ; by 1830 presbyterians and methodists also included newton ' s verses in their hymnals. although it had its roots in england, " amazing grace " became an integral part of the christian tapestry in the united states. the greatest influences in the 19th century that propelled " amazing grace " to spread across the us and become a staple of religious services in many denominations and regions were the second great awakening and the development of shape note singing communities. a tremendous religious movement swept the us in the early 19th century, marked by the growth and popularity of churches and religious revivals that got their start on the frontier in kentucky and tennessee. unprecedented gatherings of thousands of people attended camp meetings where they came to experience salvation ; preaching was fiery and focused on saving the sinner from temptation and backsliding. religion was stripped of ornament and ceremony, and made as plain and simple as possible ; sermons and songs often used repetition to get across to a rural population of poor and mostly uneducated people the necessity of turning away from sin. witnessing and testifying became an integral component to these meetings, where a congregation