the reflectivity of a water surface is calculated using the fresnel equations. at the scale of the wavelength of light even wavy water is always smooth so the light is reflected in a locally specular manner ( not diffusely ). the glint of light off water is a commonplace effect of this. at small angles of incident light, waviness results in reduced reflectivity because of the steepness of the reflectivity - vs. - incident - angle curve and a locally increased average incident angle. although the reflectivity of water is very low at low and medium angles of incident light, it becomes very high at high angles of incident light such as those that occur on the illuminated side of earth near the terminator ( early morning, late afternoon, and near the poles ). however, as mentioned above, waviness causes an appreciable reduction. because light specularly reflected from water does not usually reach the viewer, water is usually considered to have a very low albedo in spite of its high reflectivity at high angles of incident light. note that white caps on waves look white ( and have high albedo ) because the water is foamed up, so there are many superimposed bubble surfaces which reflect, adding up their reflectivities. fresh ' black ' ice exhibits fresnel reflection. snow on top of this sea ice increases the albedo to 0. 9. clouds cloud albedo has substantial influence over atmospheric temperatures. different types of clouds exhibit different reflectivity, theoretically ranging in albedo from a minimum of near 0 to a maximum approaching 0. 8. " on any given day, about half of earth is covered by clouds, which reflect more sunlight than land and water. clouds keep earth cool by reflecting sunlight, but they can also serve as blankets to trap warmth. " albedo and climate in some areas are affected by artificial clouds, such as those created by the contrails of heavy commercial airliner traffic. a study following the burning of the kuwaiti oil fields during iraqi occupation showed that temperatures under the burning oil fires were as much as colder than temperatures several miles away under clear skies. aerosol effects aerosols ( very fine particles / droplets in the atmosphere ) have both direct and indirect effects on earth ' s radiative balance. the direct ( albedo ) effect is generally to cool the planet ; the indirect effect ( the particles act as cloud condensation nuclei and thereby change cloud properties ) is less certain. as per spracklen et al. the effects are : aerosol