these many records were sold, there is a quarterly statement. when you look at it, you can see how much money was paid and then share it. this was not the case. we were also never paid for touring. " eazy - e, ice cube and mc ren remained as the main performers, dj yella was the turntablist and dr. dre was the main producer. after leaving n. w. a, arabian prince began a solo career. his first album, brother arab, was released in 1989 with the single " she ' s got a big posse " ; where ' s my bytches followed in 1993. in the mid - 2000s, he started releasing music again, with his professor x project on the dutch label clone records. " i could not release the record under arabian prince ", he said, " because i already had a single out, so i called myself professor x on that record. " in 2007, he performed as a dj on the 2k sports holiday bounce tour with artists from the stones throw label. in 2008, stones throw released a compilation of his electro - rap material from the 1980s. one of his songs was included on the 2007 video game, college hoops 2k8. in 2015, a biopic about n. w. a. titled straight outta compton was released ; however, arabian prince was not portrayed in the film. the following year, n. w. a. was inducted into the rock and roll hall of fame, but again, arabian prince was not included nor mentioned. in 2018, arabian prince appeared on the amerikkkant album of industrial - metal band ministry. he made a second appearance on ministry ' s 2021 album moral hygiene. other ventures aside from his music career, he worked in special effects, 3d animation and video games. comments on straight outta compton film after the release of the n. w. a film, straight outta compton, in 2015, arabian prince said to vladtv : " a lot of the scenes in real life, i was there — i ' m just not there in the film, which i ' m like, if you ' re gonna write me out of a movie, shoot some other scenes. don ' t write scenes where i was there. " some of the pivotal scenes would be choosing the name for the band, the tour and the infamous detroit concert. he also remembers himself as the main opposer to jerry heller about the royalties and the money, a role that in the film was instead given to ice cube.