characteristic spectrum that can depend on the nuclear charge, subshells filled by electrons, the electromagnetic interactions between the electrons and other factors. when a continuous spectrum of energy is passed through a gas or plasma, some of the photons are absorbed by atoms, causing electrons to change their energy level. those excited electrons that remain bound to their atom spontaneously emit this energy as a photon, traveling in a random direction, and so drop back to lower energy levels. thus the atoms behave like a filter that forms a series of dark absorption bands in the energy output. ( an observer viewing the atoms from a view that does not include the continuous spectrum in the background, instead sees a series of emission lines from the photons emitted by the atoms. ) spectroscopic measurements of the strength and width of atomic spectral lines allow the composition and physical properties of a substance to be determined. close examination of the spectral lines reveals that some display a fine structure splitting. this occurs because of spin – orbit coupling, which is an interaction between the spin and motion of the outermost electron. when an atom is in an external magnetic field, spectral lines become split into three or more components ; a phenomenon called the zeeman effect. this is caused by the interaction of the magnetic field with the magnetic moment of the atom and its electrons. some atoms can have multiple electron configurations with the same energy level, which thus appear as a single spectral line. the interaction of the magnetic field with the atom shifts these electron configurations to slightly different energy levels, resulting in multiple spectral lines. the presence of an external electric field can cause a comparable splitting and shifting of spectral lines by modifying the electron energy levels, a phenomenon called the stark effect. if a bound electron is in an excited state, an interacting photon with the proper energy can cause stimulated emission of a photon with a matching energy level. for this to occur, the electron must drop to a lower energy state that has an energy difference matching the energy of the interacting photon. the emitted photon and the interacting photon then move off in parallel and with matching phases. that is, the wave patterns of the two photons are synchronized. this physical property is used to make lasers, which can emit a coherent beam of light energy in a narrow frequency band. valence and bonding behavior valency is the combining power of an element. it is determined by the number of bonds it can form to other atoms or groups. the outermost electron shell of an atom in its uncombined state is known as the valence shell, and the electrons