not know if arcadius ever became aware of this advice, but it had no recorded effect. stilicho obtained a few more troops from the german frontier and continued to campaign indecisively against the eastern empire ; again he was opposed by alaric and his men. during the next year, 397, eutropius personally led his troops to victory over some huns who were marauding in asia minor. with his position thus strengthened he declared stilicho a public enemy, and he established alaric as magister militum per illyricum alaric thus acquired entitlement to gold and grain for his followers and negotiations were underway for a more permanent settlement. stilicho ' s supporters in milan were outraged at this seeming betrayal ; meanwhile, eutropius was celebrated in 398 by a parade through constantinople for having achieved victory over the " wolves of the north ". alaric ' s people were relatively quiet for the next couple of years. in 399, eutropius fell from power. the new eastern regime now felt that they could dispense with alaric ' s services and they nominally transferred alaric ' s province to the west. this administrative change removed alaric ' s roman rank and his entitlement to legal provisioning for his men, leaving his army — the only significant force in the ravaged balkans — as a problem for stilicho. in search of western roman recognition ; invading italy first invasion of italy ( 401 – 403 ) according to historian michael kulikowski, sometime in the spring of 402 alaric decided to invade italy, but no sources from antiquity indicate to what purpose. burns suggests that alaric was probably desperate for provisions. using claudian as his source, historian guy halsall reports that alaric ' s attack actually began in late 401, but since stilicho was in raetia " dealing with frontier issues " the two did not first confront one another in italy until 402. alaric ' s entry into italy followed the route identified in the poetry of claudian, as he crossed the peninsula ' s alpine frontier near the city of aquileia. for a period of six to nine months, there were reports of gothic attacks along the northern italian roads, where alaric was spotted by roman townspeople. along the route on via postumia, alaric first encountered stilicho. two battles were fought. the first was at pollentia on easter sunday, where stilicho ( according to claudian ) achieved an impressive victory, taking