ammonius saccas ( ; ; 175 ad242 ad ) was a hellenistic platonist self - taught philosopher from alexandria, generally regarded as the precursor of neoplatonism and / or one of its founders. he is mainly known as the teacher of plotinus, whom he taught from 232 to 242. he was undoubtedly the most significant influence on plotinus in his development of neoplatonism, although little is known about his own philosophical views. later christian writers stated that ammonius was a christian, but it is now generally assumed that there was a different ammonius of alexandria who wrote biblical texts. life the origins and meaning of ammonius ' cognomen, " sakkas, " are disputed. many scholars have interpreted it as indicating he was a porter in his youth, a view supported in antiquity by byzantine bishop theodoret. others have asserted that this is a misreading of " sakkas " for " sakkophoros " ( porter ). some others have connected the cognomen with the " sakyas, " an ancient ruling clan of india, claiming that ammonius saccas was of indian origin. this view has both been subsequently contested and supported by more recent scholarship. some scholars supporting ammonius ' indian origin have also contended that this ancestry is consistent with the passion of his foremost student plotinus for india, and helps to explain the philosophical similarities between vedanta and neoplatonism, which many scholars attribute to indian influence. on the other hand, scholars contesting his indian origins, point out that ammonius was from the brucheion quarter of alexandria, which was the royal quarter of the city inhabited mostly by greeks, and that the name " ammonius " was common to many greeks, with a number of scholars and historians supporting a greek origin for ammonius. though his name is theophoric to the deity amun, indicating possible egyptian origin. most details of ammonius ' life come from the fragments left from porphyry ' s writings. the most famous pupil of ammonius saccas was plotinus who studied under ammonius for eleven years. according to porphyry, in 232, at the age of 28, plotinus went to alexandria to study philosophy : in his twenty - eighth year he [ plotinus ] felt the impulse to study philosophy and was recommended to the teachers in alexandria who then had the highest reputation ; but he came away from their lectures so depressed and full of sadness that he told