##1 and 1320 both involved attacks, as did the rintfleisch massacres in 1298. expulsions followed, such as the 1290 banishment of jews from england, the expulsion of 100, 000 jews from france in 1394, and the 1421 expulsion of thousands of jews from austria. many of the expelled jews fled to poland. in medieval and renaissance europe, a major contributor to the deepening of antisemitic sentiment and legal action among the christian populations was the popular preaching of the zealous reform religious orders, the franciscans ( especially bernardino of feltre ) and dominicans ( especially vincent ferrer ), who combed europe and promoted antisemitism through their often fiery, emotional appeals. as the black death epidemics devastated europe in the mid - 14th century, causing the death of a large part of the population, jews were used as scapegoats. rumors spread that they caused the disease by deliberately poisoning wells. hundreds of jewish communities were destroyed in numerous persecutions. although pope clement vi tried to protect them by issuing two papal bulls in 1348, the first on 6 july and an additional one several months later, 900 jews were burned alive in strasbourg, where the plague had not yet affected the city. reformation martin luther, an ecclesiastical reformer whose teachings inspired the reformation, wrote antagonistically about jews in his pamphlet on the jews and their lies, written in 1543. he portrays the jews in extremely harsh terms, excoriates them and provides detailed recommendations for a pogrom against them, calling for their permanent oppression and expulsion. at one point he writes : "... we are at fault in not slaying them... ", a passage that, according to historian paul johnson, " may be termed the first work of modern antisemitism, and a giant step forward on the road to the holocaust. " 17th century during the mid - to - late 17th century the polish – lithuanian commonwealth was devastated by several conflicts, in which the commonwealth lost over a third of its population ( over 3 million people ), and jewish losses were counted in the hundreds of thousands. the first of these conflicts was the khmelnytsky uprising, when bohdan khmelnytsky ' s supporters massacred tens of thousands of jews in the eastern and southern areas he controlled ( today ' s ukraine ). the precise number of dead may never be known, but the decrease of the jewish population during that period is estimated at 100, 000 to 200, 000,