are dedicated to all souls. during the english reformation, the observance of all souls ' day lapsed, although a new anglican theological understanding of the day has " led to a widespread acceptance of this commemoration among anglicans ". patricia bays, with regard to the anglican view of all souls ' day, wrote that : as such, anglican parishes " now commemorate all the faithful departed in the context of the all saints ' day celebration ", in keeping with this fresh perspective. contributing to the revival was the need " to help anglicans mourn the deaths of millions of soldiers in world war i ". members of the guild of all souls, an anglican devotional society founded in 1873, " are encouraged to pray for the dying and the dead, to participate in a requiem of all souls ' day and say a litany of the faithful departed at least once a month ". at the reformation the celebration of all souls ' day was fused with all saints ' day in the church of england or, in the judgement of some, it was " deservedly abrogated ". it was reinstated in certain parishes in connection with the oxford movement of the 19th century and is acknowledged in united states anglicanism in the holy women, holy men calendar and in the church of england with the 1980 alternative service book. it features in common worship as a lesser festival called " commemoration of the faithful departed ( all souls ' day ) ". methodist churches in the methodist church, saints refer to all christians and therefore, on all saint ' s day, the church universal, as well as the deceased members of a local congregation are honoured and remembered. in methodist congregations that celebrate the liturgy on all souls day, the observance, as with anglicanism and lutheranism, is viewed as an extension of all saints ' day and as such, methodists " remember our loved ones who had died " in their observance of this feast. popular customs many all souls ' day traditions are associated with popular notions about purgatory. bell tolling is meant to comfort those being cleansed. lighting candles serves to kindle a light for the poor souls languishing in the darkness. soul cakes are given to children coming to sing or pray for the dead ( cf. trick - or - treating ), giving rise to the traditions of " going souling " and the baking of special types of bread or cakes ( cf. pao - por - deus ). europe all souls ' day is celebrated in many european countries with vigils, candles, the decoration of