same 1801 bakerian lecture : first, that the secondary waves near the edge of an obstacle could diverge into the shadow, but only weakly, due to limited reinforcement from other secondary waves ; and second, that diffraction by an edge was caused by interference between two rays : one reflected off the edge, and the other inflected while passing near the edge. the latter ray would be undeviated if sufficiently far from the edge, but young did not elaborate on that case. these were the earliest suggestions that the degree of diffraction depends on wavelength. later, in the 1803 bakerian lecture, young ceased to regard inflection as a separate phenomenon, and produced evidence that diffraction fringes inside the shadow of a narrow obstacle were due to interference : when the light from one side was blocked, the internal fringes disappeared. but young was alone in such efforts until fresnel entered the field. huygens, in his investigation of double refraction, noticed something that he could not explain : when light passes through two similarly oriented calcite crystals at normal incidence, the ordinary ray emerging from the first crystal suffers only the ordinary refraction in the second, while the extraordinary ray emerging from the first suffers only the extraordinary refraction in the second ; but when the second crystal is rotated 90° about the incident rays, the roles are interchanged, so that the ordinary ray emerging from the first crystal suffers only the extraordinary refraction in the second, and vice versa. this discovery gave newton another reason to reject the wave theory : rays of light evidently had " sides ". corpuscles could have sides ( or poles, as they would later be called ) ; but waves of light could not, because ( so it seemed ) any such waves would need to be longitudinal ( with vibrations in the direction of propagation ). newton offered an alternative " rule " for the extraordinary refraction, which rode on his authority through the 18th century, although he made " no known attempt to deduce it from any principles of optics, corpuscular or otherwise. " in 1808, the extraordinary refraction of calcite was investigated experimentally, with unprecedented accuracy, by etienne - louis malus, and found to be consistent with huygens ' s spheroid construction, not newton ' s " rule ". malus, encouraged by pierre - simon laplace, then sought to explain this law in corpuscular terms : from the known relation between the incident and refracted ray directions, malus derived the corpuscular velocity ( as a