bell " proceeded to the executive mansion the next morning... to ascertain from the surgeons whether they were perfectly sure that all metal had been removed from the neighborhood of the bed. it was then recollected that underneath the horse - hair mattress on which the president lay was another mattress composed of steel wires. upon obtaining a duplicate, the mattress was found to consist of a sort of net of woven steel wires, with large meshes. the extent of the [ area that produced a response from the detector ] having been so small, as compared with the area of the bed, it seemed reasonable to conclude that the steel mattress had produced no detrimental effect. " in a footnote, bell adds, " the death of president garfield and the subsequent post - mortem examination, however, proved that the bullet was at too great a distance from the surface to have affected our apparatus. " hydrofoils the march 1906 scientific american article by american pioneer william e. meacham explained the basic principle of hydrofoils and hydroplanes. bell considered the invention of the hydroplane as a very significant achievement. based on information gained from that article, he began to sketch concepts of what is now called a hydrofoil boat. bell and assistant frederick w. " casey " baldwin began hydrofoil experimentation in the summer of 1908 as a possible aid to airplane takeoff from water. baldwin studied the work of the italian inventor enrico forlanini and began testing models. this led him and bell to the development of practical hydrofoil watercraft. during his world tour of 1910 – 11, bell and baldwin met with forlanini in france. they had rides in the forlanini hydrofoil boat over lake maggiore. baldwin described it as being as smooth as flying. on returning to baddeck, a number of initial concepts were built as experimental models, including the dhonnas beag ( scottish gaelic for ' little devil ' ), the first self - propelled bell - baldwin hydrofoil. the experimental boats were essentially proof - of - concept prototypes that culminated in the more substantial hd - 4, powered by renault engines. a top speed of was achieved, with the hydrofoil exhibiting rapid acceleration, good stability, and steering, along with the ability to take waves without difficulty. in 1913, dr. bell hired walter pinaud, a sydney yacht designer and builder as well as the proprietor of pinaud ' s yacht yard in westmount, nova scotia, to work on the pontoons of the hd - 4. pinaud soon took over the boat