congress, not the president. both houses passed the freedmen ' s bureau act a second time, and again the president vetoed it ; this time, the veto was overridden. by the summer of 1866, when congress finally adjourned, johnson ' s method of restoring states to the union by executive fiat, without safeguards for the freedmen, was in deep trouble. his home state of tennessee ratified the fourteenth amendment despite the president ' s opposition. when tennessee did so, congress immediately seated its proposed delegation, embarrassing johnson. efforts to compromise failed, and a political war ensued between the united republicans on one side, and on the other, johnson and his northern and southern allies in the democratic party. he called a convention of the national union party. republicans had returned to using their previous identifier ; johnson intended to use the discarded name to unite his supporters and gain election to a full term, in 1868. the battleground was the election of 1866 ; southern states were not allowed to vote. johnson campaigned vigorously, undertaking a public speaking tour, known as the " swing around the circle ". the trip, including speeches in chicago, st. louis, indianapolis, and columbus, proved politically disastrous, with the president making controversial comparisons between himself and jesus, and engaging in arguments with hecklers. these exchanges were attacked as beneath the dignity of the presidency. the republicans won by a landslide, increasing their two - thirds majority in congress, and made plans to control reconstruction. johnson blamed the democrats for giving only lukewarm support to the national union movement. radical reconstruction even with the republican victory in november 1866, johnson considered himself in a strong position. the fourteenth amendment had been ratified by none of the southern or border states except tennessee, and had been rejected in kentucky, delaware, and maryland. as the amendment required ratification by three - quarters of the states to become part of the constitution, he believed the deadlock would be broken in his favor, leading to his election in 1868. once it reconvened in december 1866, an energized congress began passing legislation, often over a presidential veto ; this included the district of columbia voting bill. congress admitted nebraska to the union over a veto, and the republicans gained two senators and a state that promptly ratified the amendment. johnson ' s veto of a bill for statehood for colorado territory was sustained ; enough senators agreed that a district with a population of 30, 000 was not yet worthy of statehood to win the day. in january 1867, congressman stevens introduced legislation to dissolve the