also possible to show the non - computability of k by reduction from the non - computability of the halting problem h, since k and h are turing - equivalent. there is a corollary, humorously called the " full employment theorem " in the programming language community, stating that there is no perfect size - optimizing compiler. chain rule for kolmogorov complexity the chain rule for kolmogorov complexity states that k ( x, y ) = k ( x ) + k ( y | x ) + o ( log ( k ( x, y ) ) ). it states that the shortest program that reproduces x and y is no more than a logarithmic term larger than a program to reproduce x and a program to reproduce y given x. using this statement, one can define an analogue of mutual information for kolmogorov complexity. compression it is straightforward to compute upper bounds for k ( s ) – simply compress the string s with some method, implement the corresponding decompressor in the chosen language, concatenate the decompressor to the compressed string, and measure the length of the resulting string – concretely, the size of a self - extracting archive in the given language. a string s is compressible by a number c if it has a description whose length does not exceed | s | − c bits. this is equivalent to saying that k ( s ) ≤ | s | − c. otherwise, s is incompressible by c. a string incompressible by 1 is said to be simply incompressible – by the pigeonhole principle, which applies because every compressed string maps to only one uncompressed string, incompressible strings must exist, since there are 2n bit strings of length n, but only 2n − 1 shorter strings, that is, strings of length less than n, ( i. e. with length 0, 1,..., n − 1 ). for the same reason, most strings are complex in the sense that they cannot be significantly compressed – their k ( s ) is not much smaller than | s |, the length of s in bits. to make this precise, fix a value of n. there are 2n bitstrings of length n. the uniform probability distribution on the space of these bitstrings assigns exactly equal weight 2−n to each string of length n. theorem : with the uniform probability distribution on the space of bitstring