aware of the seriousness of the situation. he works hard to make an antiplague serum, but as the epidemic continues, he shows increasing signs of wear and tear. m. othon : m. othon is a magistrate in oran. he is tall and thin and, as tarrou observes in his journal, " his small, beady eyes, narrow nose, and hard, straight mouth make him look like a well - brought - up owl. " othon treats his wife and children unkindly, but after his son dies of the plague, his character softens. after he finishes his time at the isolation camp, where he is sent because his son is infected, he wants to return there because it would make him feel closer to his lost son. however, before othon can do this, he contracts the plague and dies. jacques othon : philippe othon is m. othon ' s young son. when he contracts the plague, he is the first to receive dr. castel ' s antiplague serum. but the serum is ineffective, and the boy dies after a long and painful struggle. mme. rieux : mme. rieux is dr. rieux ' s mother, who comes to stay with him when his sick wife goes to the sanatorium. she is a serene woman who, after taking care of the housework, sits quietly in a chair. she says that at her age, there is nothing much left to fear. dr. richard : dr. richard is chairman of the oran medical association. he is slow to recommend any action to combat the plague for fear of public alarm. he does not want even to admit that the disease is the plague, referring instead to a " special type of fever. " m. michel : m. michel is the concierge of the building in which rieux lives. an old man, he is the first victim of the plague. raoul : raoul is the man who agrees, for a fee of ten thousand francs, to arrange for rambert to escape. he introduces rambert to gonzales. gonzales : gonzales is the smuggler who makes the arrangements for rambert ' s escape and bonds with him over football. asthma patient : the asthma patient receives regular visits from dr. rieux. he is a seventy - five - year - old spaniard with a rugged face, who comments on events in oran that he hears about on the radio and in the newspapers. he sits in his bed all day and measures