protein, whereas hydrophilic side chains are exposed to the aqueous solvent. ( in biochemistry, a residue refers to a specific monomer within the polymeric chain of a polysaccharide, protein or nucleic acid. ) the integral membrane proteins tend to have outer rings of exposed hydrophobic amino acids that anchor them in the lipid bilayer. some peripheral membrane proteins have a patch of hydrophobic amino acids on their surface that sticks to the membrane. in a similar fashion, proteins that have to bind to positively charged molecules have surfaces rich in negatively charged amino acids such as glutamate and aspartate, while proteins binding to negatively charged molecules have surfaces rich in positively charged amino acids like lysine and arginine. for example, lysine and arginine are present in large amounts in the low - complexity regions of nucleic - acid binding proteins. there are various hydrophobicity scales of amino acid residues. some amino acids have special properties. cysteine can form covalent disulfide bonds to other cysteine residues. proline forms a cycle to the polypeptide backbone, and glycine is more flexible than other amino acids. glycine and proline are strongly present within low complexity regions of both eukaryotic and prokaryotic proteins, whereas the opposite is the case with cysteine, phenylalanine, tryptophan, methionine, valine, leucine, isoleucine, which are highly reactive, or complex, or hydrophobic. many proteins undergo a range of posttranslational modifications, whereby additional chemical groups are attached to the amino acid residue side chains sometimes producing lipoproteins ( that are hydrophobic ), or glycoproteins ( that are hydrophilic ) allowing the protein to attach temporarily to a membrane. for example, a signaling protein can attach and then detach from a cell membrane, because it contains cysteine residues that can have the fatty acid palmitic acid added to them and subsequently removed. table of standard amino acid abbreviations and properties although one - letter symbols are included in the table, iupac – iubmb recommend that " use of the one - letter symbols should be restricted to the comparison of long sequences ". two additional amino acids are in some species coded for by codons that are usually interpreted as stop codons : in addition to the specific amino acid codes, placeholders are used in cases where chemical or