the lds church denies any form of creation ex nihilo. whereas arianism teaches that god is incorporeal, the lds church teaches that god has a body of flesh of bones : " the father has a body of flesh and bones as tangible as man ' s ; the son also ; but the holy ghost has not a body of flesh and bones, but is a personage of spirit. were it not so, the holy ghost could not dwell in us. " whereas arianism traditionally taught that god is incomprehensible even to the son, the lds church rejects the doctrine that god is incomprehensible. whereas arianism teaches that christ is ontologically inferior and subordinate to the father, the lds church teaches that christ is equal in power and glory with the father. the two should therefore be carefully distinguished ; they are more similar in what they deny than in what they affirm. the lds church teaches that the father, son, and holy spirit are three separate beings united in purpose : " the father, the son and the holy spirit ( or holy ghost )... are three physically separate beings, but fully one in love, purpose and will ", as illustrated in jesus ' farewell prayer, his baptism at the hands of john, his transfiguration, and the martyrdom of stephen. thus, the church ' s first article of faith states : " we believe in god, the eternal father, and in his son, jesus christ, and in the holy ghost. " latter - day saints believe that the three are collectively " one eternal god " but reject the nicene definition of the trinity ( that the three are consubstantial ). in some respects, latter - day saint theology is more similar to social trinitarianism than to arianism. see also references notes citations sources further reading external links documents of the early arian controversy chronological survey of the sources english translations of all extant letters relating to early arianism a map of early sympathizers with arius jewish encyclopedia : arianism concordia cyclopedia : arianism ( page 1 ) ( page 2 ) ( page 3 ) the arians of the fourth century by john henry " cardinal " newman in " btm " format concise summary of the arian controversy arianism today christian terminology nontrinitarian denominations christian theological movements christian denominations established in the 3rd century nature of jesus christ