ruins now form part of the modern city ' s marine quarter, with the rue de la marine following a former roman road. roman cemeteries existed near bab - el - oued and bab azoun. the city was given latin rights by the emperor vespasian. the bishops of icosium are mentioned as late as the 5th century, but the ancient town fell into obscurity during the muslim conquest of the maghreb. the present city was founded in 944 by buluggin ibn ziri, the founder of the berber zirid dynasty. he had built his own house and a sanhaja center at ashir in 935 just south of algiers. although the zirid dynasty was overthrown by roger ii of sicily in 1148, the zirids had already lost control of algiers to their cousins the hammadids in 1014. the city was wrested from the hammadids by the almohad caliphate in 1159, and in the 13th century came under the dominion of the ziyanid sultans of the kingdom of tlemcen. nominally part of the sultanate of tlemcen, algiers had a large measure of independence under thaaliba amirs of its own due to oran being the chief seaport of the ziyanids. the penon of algiers, an islet in front of algiers harbour, had been occupied by the spaniards as early as 1302. thereafter, a considerable amount of trade began to flow between algiers and spain. however, algiers continued to be of comparatively little importance until after the expulsion of the moors from spain, many of whom sought asylum in the city. in 1510, following their occupation of oran and other towns on the coast of africa, the spaniards fortified the islet of penon and imposed a levy intended to suppress the barbary pirates. ottoman rule in 1516, the amir of algiers, selim b. teumi, invited the corsair brothers oruc reis and hayreddin barbarossa to expel the spaniards. oruc reis came to algiers, ordered the assassination of selim, and seized the town and ousted the spanish in the capture of algiers ( 1516 ). hayreddin, succeeding aruj after the latter was killed in battle against the spaniards in the 1518 fall of tlemcen, was the founder of the pashaluk, which subsequently became the beylik, of algeria. barbarossa lost algiers in 1524 but regained it with the 1529