- suleimah in the hamrin basin. various royal inscriptions by the akkadian rulers have also been found. most of the original examples are short, or very fragmentary like the victory stele of naram - sin and the sargonic victory stele from telloh. a few longer ones are known because of later copies made, often from the much later old babylonian period. while these are assumed to be mostly accurate, it is difficult to know if they had been edited to reflect current political conditions. one of the longer surviving examples is the bassetki statue, the copper base of a narim - sin statue : a number of fragments of royal statues of manishtushu all bearing portions of a " standard inscription ". aside from a few minor short inscriptions this is the only known contemporary source for this ruler. an excerpt : before the akkadian empire, calendar years were marked by regnal numbers. during sargonic times, a system of year - names was used. this practice continued until the end of the old babylonian period, for example, " year in which the divine hammu [ rabi ] the king esznunna destroyed by a flood. ” afterwards, regnal numbers were used by all succeeding kingdoms. during the akkadian empire 3 of the presumed 40 sargon year - names are known, 1 ( presumed 9 ) of rimush, 20 ( presumed 56 ) of naram - sin, and 18 ( presumed 18 ) of shar - kali - shari. recently, a single year - name had been found " in the year that dur - manistusu was established. ” there are also, perhaps, a dozen more known, which cannot be firmly linked to a ruler. especially with the paucity of other inscriptions, year - names are extremely important in determining the history of the akkadian empire. as an example, from one year - name, we know that the empire was in conflict with the gutians long before its end. it attests the name of a gutian ruler and marks the construction of two temples in babylon as recognition of akkadian victory. the final contemporary source are seals and their sealing dates. these are especially important here, as markers, with the shortage of other akkadian empire epigraphics and very useful to historians. as an example, two seals and one sealing were found in the royal cemetery at ur which contained the name of sargons ' s daughter en - hedu - ana. this provided confirmation of