a plebiscite on maintaining the monarchy or declaring a republic – the result of which led to the proclamation of the second spanish republic on 14 april 1931. his efforts with the european war office during world war i earned him a nomination on the nobel peace prize in 1917, which was ultimately won by the red cross. to date, he remains the only monarch known to have been nominated for a nobel prize. reign early life and education alfonso xiii was born at royal palace of madrid on 17 may 1886. he was the posthumous son of alfonso xii of spain, who had died in november 1885, and became king upon his birth. just after he was born, he was carried naked to the prime minister praxedes mateo sagasta on a silver tray. five days later, he was carried in a solemn court procession with a golden fleece around his neck and was baptised with water specially brought from the river jordan in palestine. the french newspaper described the young king in 1889 as " the happiest and best - loved of all the rulers of the earth ". his mother, maria christina of austria, served as his regent until his sixteenth birthday. during the regency, in 1898, spain lost its colonial rule over cuba, puerto rico, guam and the philippines to the united states as a result of the spanish – american war. alfonso became seriously ill during the 1889 – 1890 pandemic. his health deteriorated around 10 january 1890, and doctors reported his condition as the flu attacked his nervous system leaving the young king in a state of indolence. he eventually recovered. when alfonso came of age in may 1902, the week of his majority was marked by festivities, bullfights, balls and receptions throughout spain. he took his oath to the constitution before members of the cortes on 17 may. alfonso received, to a large extent, a military education that imbued him with " a spanish nationalism strengthened by his military vocation ". besides the clique of military tutors, alfonso also received political teachings from a liberal,, and moral precepts from an integrist, jose fernandez de la montana. engagement and marriage by 1905, alfonso was looking for a suitable consort. on a state visit to the united kingdom, he stayed in london at buckingham palace with king edward vii. there he met princess victoria eugenie of battenberg, the daughter of edward ' s youngest sister princess beatrice, and a granddaughter of queen victoria. he found her attractive, and she returned his interest. there were obstacles to the marriage. victoria was a protestant, and