knight said : about empire of the atom knight wrote : knight also expressed misgivings about van vogt ' s politics. he noted that van vogt ' s stories almost invariably present absolute monarchy in a favorable light. in 1974, knight retracted some of his criticism after finding out about vogt ' s writing down his dreams as a part of his working methods : knight ' s criticism greatly damaged van vogt ' s reputation. on the other hand, when science fiction author philip k. dick was asked which science fiction writers had influenced his work the most, he replied : dick also defended van vogt against damon knight ' s criticisms : in a review of transfinite : the essential a. e. van vogt, science fiction writer paul di filippo said : in the john w. campbell letters, campbell says, " the son - of - a - gun gets hold of you in the first paragraph, ties a knot around you, and keeps it tied in every paragraph thereafter — including the ultimate last one ". harlan ellison ( who had begun reading van vogt as a teenager ) wrote, " van was the first writer to shine light on the restricted ways in which i had been taught to view the universe and the human condition ". writing in 1984, david hartwell said : the literary critic leslie a. fiedler said something similar : american literary critic fredric jameson says of van vogt : van vogt still has his critics. for example, darrell schweitzer, writing to the new york review of science fiction in 1999, quoted a passage from the original van vogt novelette " the mixed men ", which he was then reading, and remarked : recognition in 1946, van vogt and his first wife, edna mayne hull, were guests of honor at the fourth world science fiction convention. in 1980, van vogt received a " casper award " ( precursor to the canadian prix aurora awards ) for lifetime achievement. the science fiction writers of america ( sfwa ) named him its 14th grand master in 1995 ( presented 1996 ). great controversy within sfwa accompanied its long wait in bestowing its highest honor ( limited to living writers, no more than one annually ). writing an obituary of van vogt, robert j. sawyer, a fellow canadian writer of science fiction, remarked : it is generally held that a key factor in the delay was " damnable sfwa politics " reflecting the concerns of damon knight, the founder of the sfwa, who abhorred van vogt ' s style and politics