##anthropology, and virtual anthropology. ecological ecological anthropology is defined as the " study of cultural adaptations to environments ". the sub - field is also defined as, " the study of relationships between a population of humans and their biophysical environment ". the focus of its research concerns " how cultural beliefs and practices helped human populations adapt to their environments, and how their environments change across space and time. the contemporary perspective of environmental anthropology, and arguably at least the backdrop, if not the focus of most of the ethnographies and cultural fieldworks of today, is political ecology. many characterize this new perspective as more informed with culture, politics and power, globalization, localized issues, century anthropology and more. the focus and data interpretation is often used for arguments for / against or creation of policy, and to prevent corporate exploitation and damage of land. often, the observer has become an active part of the struggle either directly ( organizing, participation ) or indirectly ( articles, documentaries, books, ethnographies ). such is the case with environmental justice advocate melissa checker and her relationship with the people of hyde park. environment social sciences, like anthropology, can provide interdisciplinary approaches to the environment. professor kay milton, director of the anthropology research network in the school of history and anthropology, describes anthropology as distinctive, with its most distinguishing feature being its interest in non - industrial indigenous and traditional societies. anthropological theory is distinct because of the consistent presence of the concept of culture ; not an exclusive topic but a central position in the study and a deep concern with the human condition. milton describes three trends that are causing a fundamental shift in what characterizes anthropology : dissatisfaction with the cultural relativist perspective, reaction against cartesian dualisms which obstructs progress in theory ( nature culture divide ), and finally an increased attention to globalization ( transcending the barriers or time / space ). environmental discourse appears to be characterized by a high degree of globalization. ( the troubling problem is borrowing non - indigenous practices and creating standards, concepts, philosophies and practices in western countries. ) anthropology and environmental discourse now have become a distinct position in anthropology as a discipline. knowledge about diversities in human culture can be important in addressing environmental problems - anthropology is now a study of human ecology. human activity is the most important agent in creating environmental change, a study commonly found in human ecology which can claim a central place in how environmental problems are examined and addressed. other ways anthropology contributes to environmental discourse is by being theorists and analysts