only of ideas, not individual things : this is a kind of cognition that is unconcerned with relations between objects according to the principle of sufficient reason ( time, space, cause and effect ) and instead involves complete absorption in the object. art is the practical consequence of this brief aesthetic contemplation, since it attempts to depict the essence / pure ideas of the world. music, for schopenhauer, is the purest form of art because it is the one that depicts the will itself without it appearing as subject to the principle of sufficient reason, therefore as an individual object. according to daniel albright, " schopenhauer thought that music was the only art that did not merely copy ideas, but actually embodied the will itself ". he deemed music a timeless, universal language comprehended everywhere, that can imbue global enthusiasm, if in possession of a significant melody. mathematics schopenhauer ' s realist views on mathematics are evident in his criticism of contemporaneous attempts to prove the parallel postulate in euclidean geometry. writing shortly before the discovery of hyperbolic geometry demonstrated the logical independence of the axiom — and long before the general theory of relativity revealed that it does not necessarily express a property of physical space — schopenhauer criticized mathematicians for trying to use indirect concepts to prove what he held was directly evident from intuitive perception. throughout his writings, schopenhauer criticized the logical derivation of philosophies and mathematics from mere concepts, instead of from intuitive perceptions. although schopenhauer could see no justification for trying to prove euclid ' s parallel postulate, he did see a reason for examining another of euclid ' s axioms. this follows kant ' s reasoning. ethics schopenhauer asserts that the task of ethics is not to prescribe moral actions that ought to be done, but to investigate moral actions. as such, he states that philosophy is always theoretical : its task to explain what is given. according to kant ' s transcendental idealism, space and time are forms of our sensibility in which phenomena appear in multiplicity. reality in itself is free from multiplicity, not in the sense that an object is one, but that it is outside the possibility of multiplicity. two individuals, though they appear distinct, are in - themselves not distinct. appearances are entirely subordinated to the principle of sufficient reason. the egoistic individual who focuses his aims on his own interests has to deal with empirical laws as well as he can. what is