##pid protein, and in the pns it is myelin basic protein. nodes of ranvier nodes of ranvier ( also known as myelin sheath gaps ) are short unmyelinated segments of a myelinated axon, which are found periodically interspersed between segments of the myelin sheath. therefore, at the point of the node of ranvier, the axon is reduced in diameter. these nodes are areas where action potentials can be generated. in saltatory conduction, electrical currents produced at each node of ranvier are conducted with little attenuation to the next node in line, where they remain strong enough to generate another action potential. thus in a myelinated axon, action potentials effectively " jump " from node to node, bypassing the myelinated stretches in between, resulting in a propagation speed much faster than even the fastest unmyelinated axon can sustain. axon terminals an axon can divide into many branches called telodendria ( greek for ' end of tree ' ). at the end of each telodendron is an axon terminal ( also called a synaptic bouton, or terminal bouton ). axon terminals contain synaptic vesicles that store the neurotransmitter for release at the synapse. this makes multiple synaptic connections with other neurons possible. sometimes the axon of a neuron may synapse onto dendrites of the same neuron, when it is known as an autapse. axonal varicosities in the normally developed brain, along the shaft of some axons are located pre - synaptic boutons also known as axonal varicosities and these have been found in regions of the hippocampus that function in the release of neurotransmitters. however, axonal varicosities are also present in neurodegenerative diseases where they interfere with the conduction of an action potential. axonal varicosities are also the hallmark of traumatic brain injuries. axonal damage is usually to the axon cytoskeleton disrupting transport. as a consequence protein accumulations such as amyloid - beta precursor protein can build up in a swelling resulting in a number of varicosities along the axon. action potentials most axons carry signals in the form of action potentials, which are discrete electrochemical impulses that travel rapidly along an axon, starting at the cell body and terminating at points where the axon makes synap