us open was their first meeting in a grand slam tournament final. agassi was favored as he was ranked no. 4 at the time, compared to the no. 12 ranking of sampras and because agassi had defeated sampras in their only previously completed match. agassi, however, lost the final to sampras in straight sets. their next meeting in a grand slam was at the 1992 french open, where they met in the quarterfinals. although sampras was ranked higher, agassi came out winning in straight sets. they met again on a grand slam level at the quarterfinals of wimbledon in 1993, where agassi was the defending champion and sampras was the newly minted world no. 1. agassi dug himself out from a two - sets - to - love hole, levelling the match at two sets apiece ; however, sampras prevailed in five sets, and went on to win his first wimbledon championship. with both sampras and agassi participating, the us won the davis cup in 1995. the year should be considered the peak of the rivalry as together they won three out of four major titles, meeting each other twice in the finals, and were occupying the top two spots in the rankings for the whole year. they met five times during the year, all in the title matches, including the australian open, the newsweek champions cup ( now indian wells ), the lipton international players championships ( now miami open ), the canadian open, and the us open. agassi won three of the finals, including the australian open ; however, sampras took the us open title, ending agassi ' s 26 - match winning streak. after agassi had taken most of the fall season off, sampras took over the no. 1 ranking for the end of the season. agassi admitted this loss, which gave sampras a 9 – 8 lead in their head - to - head meetings, took two years for him to get over it mentally. in the following three years, while sampras continued winning grand slam titles every season, agassi slumped in the rankings and struggled in major competitions. the next time sampras and agassi met in a grand slam final was at wimbledon in 1999, where sampras won in straight sets. for both, it was considered a career rejuvenation, as sampras had suffered a string of disappointments in the previous year while agassi was regaining