india he stayed two months in athens ( august 29, 1961 - october 31, 1961 ) where he visited various cites such as delphi, mycines, crete, and then he continued his journey to israel, kenya and finally india. also during this time, he formed friendships with some of the prominent young bengali poets of the time including shakti chattopadhyay and sunil gangopadhyay. ginsberg had several political connections in india ; most notably pupul jayakar who helped him extend his stay in india when the authorities were eager to expel him. england and the international poetry incarnation in may 1965, ginsberg arrived in london, and offered to read anywhere for free. shortly after his arrival, he gave a reading at better books, which was described by jeff nuttall as " the first healing wind on a very parched collective mind. " tom mcgrath wrote : " this could well turn out to have been a very significant moment in the history of england — or at least in the history of english poetry. " soon after the bookshop reading, plans were hatched for the international poetry incarnation, which was held at the royal albert hall in london on june 11, 1965. the event attracted an audience of 7, 000, who heard readings and live and tape performances by a wide variety of figures, including ginsberg, adrian mitchell, alexander trocchi, harry fainlight, anselm hollo, christopher logue, george macbeth, gregory corso, lawrence ferlinghetti, michael horovitz, simon vinkenoog, spike hawkins and tom mcgrath. the event was organized by ginsberg ' s friend, the filmmaker barbara rubin. peter whitehead documented the event on film and released it as wholly communion. a book featuring images from the film and some of the poems that were performed was also published under the same title by lorrimer in the uk and grove press in us. continuing literary activity though the term " beat " is most accurately applied to ginsberg and his closest friends ( corso, orlovsky, kerouac, burroughs, etc. ), the term " beat generation " has become associated with many of the other poets ginsberg met and became friends with in the late 1950s and early 1960s. a key feature of this term seems to be a friendship with ginsberg. friendship with kerouac or burroughs might also apply, but both writers later strove to disassociate themselves from the name " beat generation. " part of their dissatisfaction with the