ur iii period, a century or at most two after the events, it is essentially agitprop. after a long period of akkadian dominance the sumerians from the south ar back in ascendancy. the ur rule is sometimes called the neo - sumerian empire. this composition lays all the troubles before the rise of ur at the feet of the akkadian empire ( because naram - sin leveled the ekur temple of enlil while rebuilding it causing the eight chief deities of mesopotamia to withdraw their support and protection from akkad ). while basically fiction, it is still useful to historians. there were a number of these, passed down as part of scribel tradition including the birth legend of sargon ( neo - assyrian ), weidner chronicle, and the geographical treatise on sargon of akkad ' s empire. archaeology identifying architectural remains is hindered by the fact that there are sometimes no clear distinctions between features thought to stem from the preceding early dynastic period, and those thought to be akkadian. likewise, material that is thought to be akkadian continues to be in use into the ur iii period. there is a similar issue with cuneiform tablets. in the early akkadian empire tablets and the signs on them are much like those from earlier periods, before developing into the much different classical sargonic style. with the capital, akkad, still unlocated, archaeological remains of the empire are still to be found, mainly at the cities they established regional governors. an example would be adab where naram - sin established direct imperial control after adab joined the " great revolt ". after destroying the city of mari the akkadian empire rebuilt it as an administrative center with an imperial governor. the city of nuzi was established by the akkadians and a number of economic and administrative texts were found there. similarly, there are marad, nippur, tutub and ebla. excavation at the modern site of tell brak has suggested that the akkadians rebuilt a city ( " brak " or " nagar " ) on this site, for use as an administrative center. the city included two large buildings including a complex with temple, offices, courtyard, and large ovens. dating and periodization the akkadian period is generally dated to 2334 – 2154 bc ( according to the middle chronology ). the short - chronology dates of 2270 – 2083 bc are now considered less likely. it was preceded by