peace treaty was signed in seville, portuguese troops played an important role in defeating the moors at the battle of rio salado in october 1340. later life political intrigue marked the last part of afonso iv ' s reign, although castille was torn by civil war after alfonso xi died. henry of trastamara challenged the new king peter of castile, who sent many castilian nobles into exile in portugal. afonso ' s son peter fell in love with his new wife ' s lady - in - waiting, ines de castro. ines was the daughter of an important noble family from galicia, with links ( albeit illegitimate ) to both the royal houses of castile and portugal. her brothers were aligned with the trastamara faction, and became favorites of peter, much to the dismay of others at the portuguese court, who considered them castilian upstarts. when constanza died weeks after giving birth to their third child, peter began living openly with ines, recognized all her children as his and refused to marry anyone other than ines herself. his father refused to go to war again against castile, hoping the heir apparent ' s infatuation would end, and tried to arrange another dynastic marriage for him. the situation became worse as the years passed and the aging afonso lost control over his court. his grandson and peter ' s only legitimate son, ferdinand i of portugal, was a sickly child, while ines ' illegitimate children thrived. worried about his legitimate grandson ' s life, and the growing power of castile within portugal ' s borders, afonso ordered ines de castro first imprisoned in his mother ' s old convent in coimbra, and then murdered in 1355. he expected his son to give in and marry a princess, but peter became enraged upon learning of his wife ' s decapitation in front of their young children. peter put himself at the head of an army and devastated the country between the douro and the minho rivers before he was reconciled to his father in early 1357. afonso died almost immediately after, in lisbon in may. afonso iv ' s nickname the brave alludes to his martial exploits. however, his most important accomplishments were the relative peace enjoyed by the country during his long reign and the support he gave to the portuguese navy. afonso granted public funding to raise a proper commercial fleet and ordered the first portuguese maritime explorations. the conflict with pedro, and the explorations he initiated,