in computing, an applet is any small application that performs one specific task that runs within the scope of a dedicated widget engine or a larger program, often as a plug - in. the term is frequently used to refer to a java applet, a program written in the java programming language that is designed to be placed on a web page. applets are typical examples of transient and auxiliary applications that do not monopolize the user ' s attention. applets are not full - featured application programs, and are intended to be easily accessible. history the word applet was first used in 1990 in pc magazine. however, the concept of an applet, or more broadly a small interpreted program downloaded and executed by the user, dates at least to rfc 5 ( 1969 ) by jeff rulifson, which described the decode - encode language, which was designed to allow remote use of the on - line system over arpanet, by downloading small programs to enhance the interaction. this has been specifically credited as a forerunner of java ' s downloadable programs in rfc 2555. applet as an extension of other software in some cases, an applet does not run independently. these applets must run either in a container provided by a host program, through a plugin, or a variety of other applications including mobile devices that support the applet programming model. web - based applets applets were used to provide interactive features to web applications that historically could not be provided by html alone. they could capture mouse input and also had controls like buttons or check boxes. in response to the user action, an applet could change the provided graphic content. this made applets well suited for demonstration, visualization, and teaching. there were online applet collections for studying various subjects, from physics to heart physiology. applets were also used to create online game collections that allowed players to compete against live opponents in real - time. an applet could also be a text area only, providing, for instance, a cross - platform command - line interface to some remote system. if needed, an applet could leave the dedicated area and run as a separate window. however, applets had very little control over web page content outside the applet dedicated area, so they were less useful for improving the site appearance in general ( while applets like news tickers or wysiwyg editors are also known ). applets could also play media in formats that are not natively supported by the browser. html pages could embed parameters