for any plebeian desiring the praetorship. augustus was granted sole imperium within the city of rome in addition to being granted proconsular imperium maius and tribunician authority for life. traditionally, proconsuls ( roman province governors ) lost their proconsular " imperium " when they crossed the pomerium — the sacred boundary of rome — and entered the city. in these situations, augustus would have power as part of his tribunician authority, but his constitutional imperium within the pomerium would be less than that of a serving consul, which meant that when he was in the city he might not be the constitutional magistrate with the most authority. thanks to his prestige or auctoritas, his wishes would usually be obeyed, but there might be some difficulty. to fill this power vacuum, the senate voted that augustus ' s imperium proconsulare maius ( superior proconsular power ) should not lapse when he was inside the city walls. all armed forces in the city had formerly been under the control of the urban praetors and consuls, but this situation now placed them under the sole authority of augustus. in addition, the credit was given to augustus for each subsequent roman military victory after this time, because the majority of rome ' s armies were stationed in imperial provinces commanded by augustus through the legatus who were deputies of the princeps in the provinces. moreover, if a battle was fought in a senatorial province, augustus ' s proconsular imperium maius allowed him to take command of ( or credit for ) any major military victory. this meant that augustus was the only individual able to receive a triumph, a tradition that began with romulus, rome ' s first king and first triumphant general. tiberius, augustus ' s eldest stepson by livia, was the only other general to receive a triumph — for victories in germania in 7 bc. normally during republican times, the powers augustus held even after the second settlement would have been split between several people, who would each exercise them with the assistance of a colleague and for a specific period of time. augustus held them all at once by himself and with no time limits ; even those that nominally had time limits were automatically renewed whenever they lapsed. conspiracy many of the political subtleties of the second settlement seem to have evaded the comprehension of the plebeian class, who were augustus ' s greatest supporters and clientele. this