the chest pains are a deadly heart attack or that the shooting pains in your head are the result of a tumor or an aneurysm. you feel an intense fear when you think of dying, or you may think of it more often than normal, or can ' t get it out of your mind. " the physiological symptoms of anxiety may include : neurological, as headache, paresthesias, fasciculations, vertigo, or presyncope. digestive, as abdominal pain, nausea, diarrhea, indigestion, dry mouth, or bolus. stress hormones released in an anxious state have an impact on bowel function and can manifest physical symptoms that may contribute to or exacerbate ibs. respiratory, as shortness of breath or sighing breathing. cardiac, as palpitations, tachycardia, or chest pain. muscular, as fatigue, tremors, or tetany. cutaneous, as perspiration, or itchy skin. uro - genital, as frequent urination, urinary urgency, dyspareunia, or impotence, chronic pelvic pain syndrome. types there are various types of anxiety. existential anxiety can occur when a person faces angst, an existential crisis, or nihilistic feelings. people can also face mathematical anxiety, somatic anxiety, stage fright, or test anxiety. social anxiety refers to a fear of rejection and negative evaluation ( being judged ) by other people. existential the philosopher søren kierkegaard, in the concept of anxiety ( 1844 ), described anxiety or dread associated with the " dizziness of freedom " and suggested the possibility for positive resolution of anxiety through the self - conscious exercise of responsibility and choosing. in art and artist ( 1932 ), the psychologist otto rank wrote that the psychological trauma of birth was the pre - eminent human symbol of existential anxiety and encompasses the creative person ' s simultaneous fear of – and desire for – separation, individuation, and differentiation. the theologian paul tillich characterized existential anxiety as " the state in which a being is aware of its possible nonbeing " and he listed three categories for the nonbeing and resulting anxiety : ontic ( fate and death ), moral ( guilt and condemnation ), and spiritual ( emptiness and meaninglessness ). according to tillich, the last of these three types of existential anxiety, i. e. spiritual anxiety, is predominant in modern times while the others were predominant