bijlmer. today, people of non - western origin make up approximately one - fifth of the population of amsterdam, and more than 30 % of the city ' s children. a slight majority of the residents of amsterdam have at least one parent who was born outside the country. however, a much larger majority has at least one parent who was born inside the country ( intercultural marriages are common in the city ). thus, while the demographics are changing, the city still has an ethnic dutch majority. only one in three inhabitants under 15 is an autochthon, or a person who has two parents of dutch origin. segregation along ethnic lines is clearly visible, with people of non - western origin, considered a separate group by statistics netherlands, concentrating in specific neighborhoods especially in nieuw - west, zeeburg, bijlmer and in certain areas of amsterdam - noord. in 2000, christians formed the largest religious group in the city ( 28 % of the population ). the next largest religion was islam ( 8 % ), most of whose followers were sunni. in 2015, christians formed the largest religious group in the city ( 28 % of the population ). the next largest religion was islam ( 7. 1 % ), most of whose followers were sunni. religion in 1578, the largely catholic city of amsterdam joined the revolt against spanish rule, late in comparison to other major northern dutch cities. catholic priests were driven out of the city. following the dutch takeover, all churches were converted to protestant worship. calvinism was declared the main religion. it was forbidden to openly profess roman catholicism and the catholic hierarchy was prohibited until mid - 19th century. this led to the establishment of clandestine churches, covert religious buildings hidden in pre - existing buildings. catholics, some jews and dissenting protestants worshipped in such buildings. a large influx of foreigners of many religions came to 17th - century amsterdam, in particular sefardic jews from spain and portugal, huguenots from france, lutherans, mennonites, as well as protestants from across the netherlands. this led to the establishment of many non - dutch - speaking churches. in 1603, the jewish received permission to practice their religion in the city. in 1639, the first synagogue was consecrated. the jews came to call the town ' jerusalem of the west '. as they became established in the city, other christian denominations used converted catholic chapels to conduct their own services. the oldest english - language church congregation in the world outside the united kingdom is found at the begijnhof. regular