triplets of belleville ( france, 2003 ), and the secret of kells ( irish - french - belgian, 2009 ). full full animation is the process of producing high - quality traditionally animated films that regularly use detailed drawings and plausible movement, having a smooth animation. fully animated films can be made in a variety of styles, from more realistically animated works like those produced by the walt disney studio ( the little mermaid, beauty and the beast, aladdin, the lion king ) to the more ' cartoon ' styles of the warner bros. animation studio. many of the disney animated features are examples of full animation, as are non - disney works, the secret of nimh ( us, 1982 ), the iron giant ( us, 1999 ), and nocturna ( spain, 2007 ). fully animated films are often animated on " twos ", sometimes on " ones ", which means that 12 to 24 drawings are required for a single second of film. limited limited animation involves the use of less detailed or more stylized drawings and methods of movement usually a choppy or " skippy " movement animation. limited animation uses fewer drawings per second, thereby limiting the fluidity of the animation. this is a more economic technique. pioneered by the artists at the american studio united productions of america, limited animation can be used as a method of stylized artistic expression, as in gerald mcboing - boing ( us, 1951 ), yellow submarine ( uk, 1968 ), and certain anime produced in japan. its primary use, however, has been in producing cost - effective animated content for media for television ( the work of hanna - barbera, filmation, and other tv animation studios ) and later the internet ( web cartoons ). rotoscoping rotoscoping is a technique patented by max fleischer in 1917 where animators trace live - action movement, frame by frame. the source film can be directly copied from actors ' outlines into animated drawings, as in the lord of the rings ( us, 1978 ), or used in a stylized and expressive manner, as in waking life ( us, 2001 ) and a scanner darkly ( us, 2006 ). some other examples are fire and ice ( us, 1983 ), heavy metal ( 1981 ), and aku no hana ( japan, 2013 ). live - action blending live - action / animation is a technique combining hand - drawn characters into live action shots or live - action actors into animated shots. one of the earlier uses was in koko the clown