head of ford production, who was doubtful at the time but encouraged him to proceed. others at ford have claimed to have put the idea forth to henry ford, but pa klann ' s slaughterhouse revelation is well documented in the archives at the henry ford museum and elsewhere, making him an important contributor to the modern automated assembly line concept. ford was appreciative, having visited the highly automated 40 - acre sears mail order handling facility around 1906. at ford, the process was an evolution by trial and error of a team consisting primarily of peter e. martin, the factory superintendent ; charles e. sorensen, martin ' s assistant ; clarence w. avery ; c. harold wills, draftsman and toolmaker ; charles ebender ; and jozsef galamb. some of the groundwork for such development had recently been laid by the intelligent layout of machine tool placement that walter flanders had been doing at ford up to 1908. the moving assembly line was developed for the ford model t and began operation on october 7, 1913, at the highland park ford plant, and continued to evolve after that, using time and motion study. the assembly line, driven by conveyor belts, reduced production time for a model t to just 93 minutes by dividing the process into 45 steps. producing cars quicker than paint of the day could dry, it had an immense influence on the world. in 1922, ford ( through his ghostwriter crowther ) said of his 1913 assembly line : charles e. sorensen, in his 1956 memoir my forty years with ford, presented a different version of development that was not so much about individual " inventors " as a gradual, logical development of industrial engineering : as a result of these developments in method, ford ' s cars came off the line in three - minute intervals or six feet per minute. this was much faster than previous methods, increasing production by eight to one ( requiring 12. 5 man - hours before, 1 hour 33 minutes after ), while using less manpower. it was so successful, paint became a bottleneck. only japan black would dry fast enough, forcing the company to drop the variety of colours available before 1914, until fast - drying duco lacquer was developed in 1926. the assembly line technique was an integral part of the diffusion of the automobile into american society. decreased costs of production allowed the cost of the model t to fall within the budget of the american middle class. in 1908, the price of a model t was around $ 825, and by 1912 it had decreased to