##ges ( 1924 ) looked at the long - standing folk belief that the king could cure scrofula by his thaumaturgic touch. the kings of france and england indeed regularly practiced the ritual. bloch was not concerned with the effectiveness of the royal touch — he acted instead like an anthropologist in asking why people believed it and how it shaped relations between king and commoner. the book was highly influential in introducing comparative studies ( in this case france and england ), as well as long durations ( " longue duree " ) studies spanning several centuries, even up to a thousand years, downplaying short - term events. bloch ' s revolutionary charting of mentalities, or mentalites, resonated with scholars who were reading freud and proust. in the 1960s, robert mandrou and georges duby harmonized the concept of mentalite history with fernand braudel ' s structures of historical time and linked mentalities with changing social conditions. a flood of mentalite studies based on these approaches appeared during the 1970s and 1980s. by the 1990s, however, mentalite history had become interdisciplinary to the point of fragmentation, but still lacked a solid theoretical basis. while not explicitly rejecting mentalite history, younger historians increasingly turned to other approaches. braudel fernand braudel became the leader of the second generation after 1945. he obtained funding from the rockefeller foundation in new york and founded the 6th section of the ecole pratique des hautes etudes, which was devoted to the study of history and the social sciences. it became an independent degree - granting institution in 1975 under the name ecole des hautes etudes en sciences sociales ( ehess ). braudel ' s followers admired his use of the longue duree approach to stress slow, and often imperceptible effects of space, climate and technology on the actions of human beings in the past. the annales historians, after living through two world wars and incredible political upheavals in france, were deeply uncomfortable with the notion that multiple ruptures and discontinuities created history. they preferred to stress inertia and the longue duree. special attention was paid to geography, climate, and demography as long - term factors. they believed the continuities of the deepest structures were central to history, beside which upheavals in institutions or the superstructure of social life were of little significance, for history lies beyond the reach of conscious actors, especially the will of revolutionaries. they rejected the marxist idea