technique. between 1980 and 2009, the chinese - language literature reported 479 adverse events. prospective surveys show that mild, transient acupuncture - associated adverse events ranged from 6. 71 % to 15 %. in a study with 190, 924 patients, the prevalence of serious adverse events was roughly 0. 024 %. another study showed a rate of adverse events requiring specific treatment of 2. 2 %, 4, 963 incidences among 229, 230 patients. infections, mainly hepatitis, after acupuncture are reported often in english - language research, though are rarely reported in chinese - language research, making it plausible that acupuncture - associated infections have been underreported in china. infections were mostly caused by poor sterilization of acupuncture needles. other adverse events included spinal epidural hematoma ( in the cervical, thoracic and lumbar spine ), chylothorax, injuries of abdominal organs and tissues, injuries in the neck region, injuries to the eyes, including orbital hemorrhage, traumatic cataract, injury of the oculomotor nerve and retinal puncture, hemorrhage to the cheeks and the hypoglottis, peripheral motor - nerve injuries and subsequent motor dysfunction, local allergic reactions to metal needles, stroke, and cerebral hemorrhage after acupuncture. a causal link between acupuncture and the adverse events cardiac arrest, pyknolepsy, shock, fever, cough, thirst, aphonia, leg numbness, and sexual dysfunction remains uncertain. the same review concluded that acupuncture can be considered inherently safe when practiced by properly trained practitioners, but the review also stated there is a need to find effective strategies to minimize the health risks. between 1999 and 2010, the korean - language literature contained reports of 1104 adverse events. between the 1980s and 2002, the japanese - language literature contained reports of 150 adverse events. children and pregnancy although acupuncture has been practiced for thousands of years in china, its use in pediatrics in the united states did not become common until the early 2000s. in 2007, the national health interview survey ( nhis ) conducted by the national center for health statistics ( nchs ) estimated that approximately 150, 000 children had received acupuncture treatment for a variety of conditions. in 2008 a study determined that the use of acupuncture - needle treatment on children was " questionable " due to the possibility of adverse