reference signal ( usually as shifted to the intermediate frequency ) from a greatly reduced " pilot " carrier ( in reduced - carrier transmission or dsb - rc ) to use in the demodulation process. even with the carrier totally eliminated in double - sideband suppressed - carrier transmission, carrier regeneration is possible using a costas phase - locked loop. this does not work for single - sideband suppressed - carrier transmission ( ssb - sc ), leading to the characteristic " donald duck " sound from such receivers when slightly detuned. single - sideband am is nevertheless used widely in amateur radio and other voice communications because it has power and bandwidth efficiency ( cutting the rf bandwidth in half compared to standard am ). on the other hand, in medium wave and short wave broadcasting, standard am with the full carrier allows for reception using inexpensive receivers. the broadcaster absorbs the extra power cost to greatly increase potential audience. shift keying a simple form of digital amplitude modulation which can be used for transmitting binary data is on – off keying, the simplest form of amplitude - shift keying, in which ones and zeros are represented by the presence or absence of a carrier. on – off keying is likewise used by radio amateurs to transmit morse code where it is known as continuous wave ( cw ) operation, even though the transmission is not strictly " continuous. " a more complex form of am, quadrature amplitude modulation is now more commonly used with digital data, while making more efficient use of the available bandwidth. analog telephony a simple form of amplitude modulation is the transmission of speech signals from a traditional analog telephone set using a common battery local loop. the direct current provided by the central office battery is a carrier with a frequency of 0 hz. it is modulated by a microphone ( transmitter ) in the telephone set according to the acoustic signal from the speaker. the result is a varying amplitude direct current, whose ac - component is the speech signal extracted at the central office for transmission to another subscriber. amplitude reference an additional function provided by the carrier in standard am, but which is lost in either single or double - sideband suppressed - carrier transmission, is that it provides an amplitude reference. in the receiver, the automatic gain control ( agc ) responds to the carrier so that the reproduced audio level stays in a fixed proportion to the original modulation. on the other hand, with suppressed - carrier transmissions there is no transmitted power during pauses in the modulation, so the agc must respond to peaks of the transmitted power during peaks in the