relationship due to their similar atomic radii, so that they show some similarities. for example, lithium forms a stable nitride, a property common among all the alkaline earth metals ( magnesium ' s group ) but unique among the alkali metals. in addition, among their respective groups, only lithium and magnesium form organometallic compounds with significant covalent character ( e. g. lime and mgme2 ). lithium fluoride is the only alkali metal halide that is poorly soluble in water, and lithium hydroxide is the only alkali metal hydroxide that is not deliquescent. conversely, lithium perchlorate and other lithium salts with large anions that cannot be polarised are much more stable than the analogous compounds of the other alkali metals, probably because li + has a high solvation energy. this effect also means that most simple lithium salts are commonly encountered in hydrated form, because the anhydrous forms are extremely hygroscopic : this allows salts like lithium chloride and lithium bromide to be used in dehumidifiers and air - conditioners. francium francium is also predicted to show some differences due to its high atomic weight, causing its electrons to travel at considerable fractions of the speed of light and thus making relativistic effects more prominent. in contrast to the trend of decreasing electronegativities and ionisation energies of the alkali metals, francium ' s electronegativity and ionisation energy are predicted to be higher than caesium ' s due to the relativistic stabilisation of the 7s electrons ; also, its atomic radius is expected to be abnormally low. thus, contrary to expectation, caesium is the most reactive of the alkali metals, not francium. all known physical properties of francium also deviate from the clear trends going from lithium to caesium, such as the first ionisation energy, electron affinity, and anion polarisability, though due to the paucity of known data about francium many sources give extrapolated values, ignoring that relativistic effects make the trend from lithium to caesium become inapplicable at francium. some of the few properties of francium that have been predicted taking relativity into account are the electron affinity ( 47. 2 kj / mol ) and the enthalpy of dissociation of the fr2 molecule ( 42. 1 kj / mo