own templates for the past and non - past stems, active and passive participles, and verbal noun. these are referred to by western scholars as " form i ", " form ii ", and so on through " form xv ", although forms xi to xv are rare. these stems encode grammatical functions such as the causative, intensive and reflexive. stems sharing the same root consonants represent separate verbs, albeit often semantically related, and each is the basis for its own conjugational paradigm. as a result, these derived stems are part of the system of derivational morphology, not part of the inflectional system. examples of the different verbs formed from the root ' write ' ( using ' red ' for form ix, which is limited to colors and physical defects ) : form ii is sometimes used to create transitive denominative verbs ( verbs built from nouns ) ; form v is the equivalent used for intransitive denominatives. the associated participles and verbal nouns of a verb are the primary means of forming new lexical nouns in arabic. this is similar to the process by which, for example, the english gerund " meeting " ( similar to a verbal noun ) has turned into a noun referring to a particular type of social, often work - related event where people gather together to have a " discussion " ( another lexicalized verbal noun ). another fairly common means of forming nouns is through one of a limited number of patterns that can be applied directly to roots, such as the " nouns of location " in ma - ( e. g. ' desk, office ' < ' write ', ' kitchen ' < ' cook ' ). the only three genuine suffixes are as follows : the feminine suffix - ah ; variously derives terms for women from related terms for men, or more generally terms along the same lines as the corresponding masculine, e. g. ' library ' ( also a writing - related place, but different from, as above ). the nisbah suffix - iyy -. this suffix is extremely productive, and forms adjectives meaning " related to x ". it corresponds to english adjectives in - ic, - al, - an, - y, - ist, etc. the feminine nisbah suffix - iyyah. this is formed by adding the feminine suffix - ah onto nisba adjectives to form abstract nouns. for example, from the basic root ' share ' can be derived the form viii verb '