however its legs tend to have longer hair. the hair on the majority of its body is grouped in clusters of 3 - 4 hairs. the hair surrounding its nostrils is dense to help filter particulate matter out as it digs. its tail is very thick at the base and gradually tapers. head the greatly elongated head is set on a short, thick neck, and the end of the snout bears a disc, which houses the nostrils. it contains a thin but complete zygomatic arch. the head of the aardvark contains many unique and different features. one of the most distinctive characteristics of the tubulidentata is their teeth. instead of having a pulp cavity, each tooth has a cluster of thin, hexagonal, upright, parallel tubes of vasodentin ( a modified form of dentine ), with individual pulp canals, held together by cementum. the number of columns is dependent on the size of the tooth, with the largest having about 1, 500. the teeth have no enamel coating and are worn away and regrow continuously. the aardvark is born with conventional incisors and canines at the front of the jaw, which fall out and are not replaced. adult aardvarks have only cheek teeth at the back of the jaw, and have a dental formula of : these remaining teeth are peg - like and rootless and are of unique composition. the teeth consist of 14 upper and 12 lower jaw molars. the nasal area of the aardvark is another unique area, as it contains ten nasal conchae, more than any other placental mammal. the sides of the nostrils are thick with hair. the tip of the snout is highly mobile and is moved by modified mimetic muscles. the fleshy dividing tissue between its nostrils probably has sensory functions, but it is uncertain whether they are olfactory or vibratory in nature. its nose is made up of more turbinate bones than any other mammal, with between 9 and 11, compared to dogs with 4 to 5. with a large quantity of turbinate bones, the aardvark has more space for the moist epithelium, which is the location of the olfactory bulb. the nose contains nine olfactory bulbs, more than any other mammal. its keen sense of smell is not just from the quantity of bulbs in the nose but also in the development of the brain, as its olfactory lobe is very developed. the snout resembles an elongated pig snout. the mouth is small