screens for easier viewing. similar to desktop video magnifiers, this technology assists people with low vision. after the user loads the software into their computer ' s memory, it serves as a kind of " computer magnifying glass ". wherever the computer cursor moves, it enlarges the area around it. this allows greater computer accessibility for a wide range of visual abilities. large - print and tactile keyboards a large - print keyboard has large letters printed on the keys. on the keyboard shown, the round buttons at the top control software which can magnify the screen ( zoom in ), change the background color of the screen, or make the mouse cursor on the screen larger. the " bump dots " on the keys, installed in this case by the organization using the keyboards, help the user find the right keys in a tactile way. navigation assistance assistive technology for navigation has exploded on the ieee xplore database since 2000, with over 7, 500 engineering articles written on assistive technologies and visual impairment in the past 25 years, and over 1, 300 articles on solving the problem of navigation for people who are blind or visually impaired. as well, over 600 articles on augmented reality and visual impairment have appeared in the engineering literature since 2000. most of these articles were published within the past 5 years, and the number of articles in this area is increasing every year. gps, accelerometers, gyroscopes, and cameras can pinpoint the exact location of the user and provide information on what is in the immediate vicinity, and assistance in getting to a destination. wearable technology wearable technology are smart electronic devices that can be worn on the body as an implant or an accessory. new technologies are exploring how the visually impaired can receive visual information through wearable devices. some wearable devices for visual impairment include : orcam device, esight and brainport. personal emergency response systems personal emergency response systems ( pers ), or telecare ( uk term ), are a particular sort of assistive technology that use electronic sensors connected to an alarm system to help caregivers manage risk and help vulnerable people stay independent at home longer. an example would be the systems being put in place for senior people such as fall detectors, thermometers ( for hypothermia risk ), flooding and unlit gas sensors ( for people with mild dementia ). notably, these alerts can be customized to the particular person ' s risks. when the alert is triggered