affairs ( bell took over his last student, curing a pronounced lisp ), and join his father and mother in setting out for the " new world ". reluctantly, bell also had to conclude a relationship with marie eccleston, who, as he had surmised, was not prepared to leave england with him. canada in 1870, 23 - year - old bell travelled with his parents and his brother ' s widow, caroline margaret ottaway, to paris, ontario, to stay with thomas henderson, a baptist minister and family friend. the bell family soon purchased a farm of at tutelo heights ( now called tutela heights ), near brantford, ontario. the property consisted of an orchard, large farmhouse, stable, pigsty, hen - house, and a carriage house, which bordered the grand river. at the homestead, bell set up his own workshop in the converted carriage house near to what he called his " dreaming place ", a large hollow nestled in trees at the back of the property above the river. despite his frail condition upon arriving in canada, bell found the climate and environs to his liking, and rapidly improved. he continued his interest in the study of the human voice and when he discovered the six nations reserve across the river at onondaga, he learned the mohawk language and translated its unwritten vocabulary into visible speech symbols. for his work, bell was awarded the title of honorary chief and participated in a ceremony where he donned a mohawk headdress and danced traditional dances. after setting up his workshop, bell continued experiments based on helmholtz ' s work with electricity and sound. he also modified a melodeon ( a type of pump organ ) so that it could transmit its music electrically over a distance. once the family was settled in, both bell and his father made plans to establish a teaching practice and in 1871, he accompanied his father to montreal, where melville was offered a position to teach his system of visible speech. work with the deaf bell ' s father was invited by sarah fuller, principal of the boston school for deaf mutes ( later to become the public horace mann school for the deaf ) to introduce the visible speech system by providing training for fuller ' s instructors, but he declined the post in favour of his son. travelling to boston in april 1871, bell proved successful in training the school ' s instructors. he was subsequently asked to repeat the programme at the american asylum for deaf - mutes in hartford, connecticut, and the clarke school for the deaf in northampton