ruminant and monogastric ( one stomach ; mainly chickens and pigs ) livestock. manure is typically recycled in mixed systems as a fertilizer for crops. landless systems rely upon feed from outside the farm, representing the de - linking of crop and livestock production found more prevalently in organisation for economic co - operation and development member countries. synthetic fertilizers are more heavily relied upon for crop production and manure use becomes a challenge as well as a source for pollution. industrialized countries use these operations to produce much of the global supplies of poultry and pork. scientists estimate that 75 % of the growth in livestock production between 2003 and 2030 will be in confined animal feeding operations, sometimes called factory farming. much of this growth is happening in developing countries in asia, with much smaller amounts of growth in africa. some of the practices used in commercial livestock production, including the usage of growth hormones, are controversial. production practices tillage is the practice of breaking up the soil with tools such as the plow or harrow to prepare for planting, for nutrient incorporation, or for pest control. tillage varies in intensity from conventional to no - till. it can improve productivity by warming the soil, incorporating fertilizer and controlling weeds, but also renders soil more prone to erosion, triggers the decomposition of organic matter releasing co2, and reduces the abundance and diversity of soil organisms. pest control includes the management of weeds, insects, mites, and diseases. chemical ( pesticides ), biological ( biocontrol ), mechanical ( tillage ), and cultural practices are used. cultural practices include crop rotation, culling, cover crops, intercropping, composting, avoidance, and resistance. integrated pest management attempts to use all of these methods to keep pest populations below the number which would cause economic loss, and recommends pesticides as a last resort. nutrient management includes both the source of nutrient inputs for crop and livestock production, and the method of use of manure produced by livestock. nutrient inputs can be chemical inorganic fertilizers, manure, green manure, compost and minerals. crop nutrient use may also be managed using cultural techniques such as crop rotation or a fallow period. manure is used either by holding livestock where the feed crop is growing, such as in managed intensive rotational grazing, or by spreading either dry or liquid formulations of manure on cropland or pastures. water management is needed where rainfall is insufficient or variable, which occurs to some degree in most regions of