2002 and now occupies third place in sub - saharan africa. on 19 december 2014, the capital market in angola was launched. bodiva ( angola stock exchange and derivatives, in english ) was allocated the secondary public debt market, and was expected to launch the corporate debt market by 2015, though the stock market itself was only expected to commence trading in 2016. natural resources the economist reported in 2008 that diamonds and oil make up 60 % of angola ' s economy, almost all of the country ' s revenue and all of its dominant exports. growth is almost entirely driven by rising oil production which surpassed in late 2005 and was expected to grow to by 2007. control of the oil industry is consolidated in sonangol group, a conglomerate owned by the angolan government. in december 2006, angola was admitted as a member of opec. according to the heritage foundation, a conservative american think tank, oil production from angola has increased so significantly that angola now is china ' s biggest supplier of oil. " china has extended three multi - billion dollar lines of credit to the angolan government ; two loans of $ 2 billion from china exim bank, one in 2004, the second in 2007, as well as one loan in 2005 of $ 2. 9 billion from china international fund ltd. " growing oil revenues also created opportunities for corruption : according to a recent human rights watch report, 32 billion us dollars disappeared from government accounts in 2007 – 2010. furthermore, sonangol, the state - run oil company, controls 51 % of cabinda ' s oil. due to this market control, the company ends up determining the profit received by the government and the taxes it pays. the council of foreign affairs states that the world bank mentioned that sonangol is a taxpayer, it carries out quasi - fiscal activities, it invests public funds, and, as concessionaire, it is a sector regulator. this multifarious work program creates conflicts of interest and characterises a complex relationship between sonangol and the government that weakens the formal budgetary process and creates uncertainty as regards the actual fiscal stance of the state. " in 2002, angola demanded compensation for oil spills allegedly caused by chevron corporation, the first time it had fined a multinational corporation operating in its waters. operations in its diamond mines include partnerships between state - run endiama and mining companies such as alrosa which operate in angola. access to biocapacity in angola is higher than world average. in 2016, angola had 1. 9 global hectares of biocapacity