people, and 174 were of african descent. in 1820, there were also 15 free - born black individuals and 19 foreign - born free black individuals in aruba. by 1840, aruba had 497 slaves, with 269 being indigenous people and 228 of african descent. in the same year, there were 77 free - born black individuals and 225 foreign - born free black individuals in aruba. roughly half of the slaves in aruba were of indigenous origin, while the other half were of african descent. although dutch government law did not permit the enslavement of indigenous people, the practice varied. it wasn ' t until after the year 1775 that the names of african slaves began to appear in our records. some of the early names include : silvester and alvarez were two families from alto vista, near the coast. english interregnum and economic development the british empire took control of the island during the napoleonic wars holding it from 1806 to 1816, after which it was returned to dutch authority in accordance with the anglo - dutch treaty of 1814. aruba was then integrated into the colony of curacao and dependencies, along with bonaire. throughout the 19th century, the island ' s economy evolved, centered around gold, phosphate ( aruba phosphate company ), and the aloe vera industry ( royal aruba aloe ), however, despite these economic activities, aruba continued to be a relatively underdeveloped and economically disadvantaged region during this period. 20th and 21st centuries the first oil refinery, lago oil and transport company, in san nicolas was built in 1924 and a subsidiary of standard oil ( esso ). the refinery on aruba grew to become one of the largest in the world. in 1927, the arend petroleum company was established, to the west of the capital city of oranjestad, and was commonly called the eagle. the refineries processed crude oil from the vast venezuelan oil fields, bringing greater prosperity to the island. during world war ii, the netherlands was occupied by nazi germany. in 1940, the oil facilities in aruba came under the administration of the dutch government - in - exile in london, causing them to be attacked by the german navy in 1942. in august 1947, aruba formulated its first staatsreglement ( constitution ) for aruba ' s status aparte as an autonomous state within the kingdom of the netherlands, prompted by the efforts of henny eman, a noted aruban politician. by 1954, the charter of the kingdom of the