august william derleth ( february 24, 1909 – july 4, 1971 ) was an american writer and anthologist. he was the first book publisher of the writings of h. p. lovecraft. he made contributions to the cthulhu mythos and the cosmic horror genre and helped found the publisher arkham house ( which did much to bring supernatural fiction into print in hardcover in the us that had only been readily available in the uk ). derleth was also a leading american regional writer of his day, as well as prolific in several other genres, including historical fiction, poetry, detective fiction, science fiction, and biography. notably, he created the fictional detective solar pons, a pastiche of arthur conan doyle ' s sherlock holmes. a 1938 guggenheim fellow, derleth considered his most serious work to be the ambitious sac prairie saga, a series of fiction, historical fiction, poetry, and non - fiction naturalist works designed to memorialize life in the wisconsin he knew. derleth can also be considered a pioneering naturalist and conservationist in his writing. life the son of william julius derleth and rose louise volk, derleth grew up in sauk city, wisconsin. he was educated in local parochial and public high school. derleth wrote his first fiction at age 13. he was interested most in reading, and he made three trips to the library a week. he would save his money to buy books ( his personal library exceeded 12, 000 volumes later on in life ). some of his biggest influences were ralph waldo emerson ' s essays, walt whitman, h. l. mencken ' s the american mercury, samuel johnson ' s the history of rasselas, prince of abissinia, alexandre dumas, edgar allan poe, walter scott, and henry david thoreau ' s walden. forty rejected stories and three years later, according to anthologist jim stephens, he sold his first story, " bat ' s belfry ", to weird tales magazine in 1926. derleth wrote throughout his four years at the university of wisconsin, where he received a b. a. in 1930. during this time he also served briefly as associate editor of minneapolis - based fawcett publications mystic magazine. returning to sauk city in the summer of 1931, derleth worked in a local canning factory and collaborated with childhood friend mark schorer ( later chairman of the university of california, berkeley english department ). they rented a cabin, writing gothic and other horror stories and selling