##o, predating the more famous 1556 book by agricola, de re metallica. in this context agricola has been often incorrectly credited with the discovery of metallic antimony. the book currus triumphalis antimonii ( the triumphal chariot of antimony ), describing the preparation of metallic antimony, was published in germany in 1604. it was purported to be written by a benedictine monk, writing under the name basilius valentinus in the 15th century ; if it were authentic, which it is not, it would predate biringuccio. the metal antimony was known to german chemist andreas libavius in 1615 who obtained it by adding iron to a molten mixture of antimony sulfide, salt and potassium tartrate. this procedure produced antimony with a crystalline or starred surface. with the advent of challenges to phlogiston theory, it was recognized that antimony is an element forming sulfides, oxides, and other compounds, as do other metals. the first discovery of naturally occurring pure antimony in the earth ' s crust was described by the swedish scientist and local mine district engineer anton von swab in 1783 ; the type - sample was collected from the sala silver mine in the bergslagen mining district of sala, vastmanland, sweden. etymology the medieval latin form, from which the modern languages and late byzantine greek take their names for antimony, is antimonium. the origin of this is uncertain ; all suggestions have some difficulty either of form or interpretation. the popular etymology, from αντιμοναχος anti - monachos or french antimoine, still has adherents ; this would mean " monk - killer ", and is explained by many early alchemists being monks, and antimony being poisonous. however, the low toxicity of antimony ( see below ) makes this unlikely. another popular etymology is the hypothetical greek word αντιμονος antimonos, " against aloneness ", explained as " not found as metal ", or " not found unalloyed ". edmund oscar von lippmann conjectured a hypothetical greek word ανθημονιον anthemonion, which would mean " floret ", and cites several examples of related greek words ( but not that one ) which describe chemical or biological efflorescence. the early uses of antimonium include the translations, in 1050 – 1100, by constantine the african of arabic medical