. in 988, count borrell ii of urgell gave the andorran valleys to the diocese of urgell in exchange for land in cerdanya. since then, the bishop of urgell, based in seu d ' urgell, has been co - prince of andorra. the first document that mentions andorra as a territory is the acta de consagracio i dotacio de la catedral de la seu d ' urgell ( deed of consecration and endowment of the cathedral of la seu d ' urgell ). the document, dated 839, depicts the six old parishes of the andorran valleys that made up the country ' s administrative division. medieval age : the pareages and the founding of the co - principality before 1095, andorra had no military protection, and the bishop of urgell, who knew that the count of urgell wanted to reclaim the andorran valleys, asked the lord of caboet for help and protection. in 1095, the lord of caboet and the bishop of urgell signed under oath a declaration of their co - sovereignty over andorra. arnalda de caboet, daughter of arnau of caboet, married the viscount of castellbo. their daughter, ermessenda de castellbo, married the count of foix, roger - bernard ii. roger - bernard ii and ermessenda shared rule over andorra with the bishop of urgell. in the 13th century, a military dispute arose between the bishop of urgell and the count of foix as aftermath of the cathar crusade. the conflict was resolved in 1278 with the mediation of the king of aragon, peter iii, between the bishop and the count, by the signing of the first pareage, which provided that andorra ' s sovereignty be shared between the count of foix ( whose title would ultimately transfer to the french head of state ) and the bishop of urgell, in catalonia. this gave the principality its territory and political form. a second pareage was signed in 1288 after a dispute when the count of foix ordered the construction of a castle in roc d ' enclar. the document was ratified by the noble notary jaume orig of puigcerda, and construction of military structures in the country was prohibited. in 1364, the political organization of the country named the figure of the syndic ( now spokesman and president of the parliament )