explosives to sustain war efforts. before the availability of natural gas, hydrogen as a precursor to ammonia production was produced via the electrolysis of water or using the chloralkali process. with the advent of the steel industry in the 20th century, ammonia became a byproduct of the production of coking coal. applications solvent liquid ammonia is the best - known and most widely studied nonaqueous ionising solvent. its most conspicuous property is its ability to dissolve alkali metals to form highly coloured, electrically conductive solutions containing solvated electrons. apart from these remarkable solutions, much of the chemistry in liquid ammonia can be classified by analogy with related reactions in aqueous solutions. comparison of the physical properties of with those of water shows has the lower melting point, boiling point, density, viscosity, dielectric constant and electrical conductivity ; this is due at least in part to the weaker hydrogen bonding in and because such bonding cannot form cross - linked networks, since each molecule has only one lone pair of electrons compared with two for each molecule. the ionic self - dissociation constant of liquid at −50 °c is about 10−33. solubility of salts liquid ammonia is an ionising solvent, although less so than water, and dissolves a range of ionic compounds, including many nitrates, nitrites, cyanides, thiocyanates, metal cyclopentadienyl complexes and metal bis ( trimethylsilyl ) amides. most ammonium salts are soluble and act as acids in liquid ammonia solutions. the solubility of halide salts increases from fluoride to iodide. a saturated solution of ammonium nitrate ( divers ' solution, named after edward divers ) contains 0. 83 mol solute per mole of ammonia and has a vapour pressure of less than 1 bar even at. solutions of metals liquid ammonia will dissolve all of the alkali metals and other electropositive metals such as ca, sr, ba, eu and yb ( also mg using an electrolytic process ). at low concentrations ( < 0. 06 mol / l ), deep blue solutions are formed : these contain metal cations and solvated electrons, free electrons that are surrounded by a cage of ammonia molecules. these solutions are very useful as strong reducing agents. at higher concentrations, the solutions are metallic in appearance and in electrical conductivity. at low temperatures, the two types of solution can coexist as immiscible phases. red