cameta – on the tocantins ; santarem – on the tapajos ; borba – on the madeira, and manaus – on the rio negro. the brazilian decree took effect on 7 september 1867. thanks in part to the mercantile development associated with steamboat navigation coupled with the internationally driven demand for natural rubber, the peruvian city of iquitos became a thriving, cosmopolitan center of commerce. foreign companies settled in iquitos, from where they controlled the extraction of rubber. in 1851 iquitos had a population of 200, and by 1900 its population reached 20, 000. in the 1860s, approximately 3, 000 tons of rubber were being exported annually, and by 1911 annual exports had grown to 44, 000 tons, representing 9. 3 % of peru ' s exports. during the rubber boom it is estimated that diseases brought by immigrants, such as typhus and malaria, killed 40, 000 native amazonians. the first direct foreign trade with manaus commenced around 1874. local trade along the river was carried on by the english successors to the amazonas company — the amazon steam navigation company — as well as numerous small steamboats, belonging to companies and firms engaged in the rubber trade, navigating the negro, madeira, purus, and many other tributaries, such as the maranon, to ports as distant as nauta, peru. by the turn of the 20th century, the exports of the amazon basin were india - rubber, cacao beans, brazil nuts and a few other products of minor importance, such as pelts and exotic forest produce ( resins, barks, woven hammocks, prized bird feathers, live animals ) and extracted goods, such as lumber and gold. 20th - century development since colonial times, the portuguese portion of the amazon basin has remained a land largely undeveloped by agriculture and occupied by indigenous people who survived the arrival of european diseases. four centuries after the european discovery of the amazon river, the total cultivated area in its basin was probably less than, excluding the limited and crudely cultivated areas among the mountains at its extreme headwaters. this situation changed dramatically during the 20th century. wary of foreign exploitation of the nation ' s resources, brazilian governments in the 1940s set out to develop the interior, away from the seaboard where foreigners owned large tracts of land. the original architect of this expansion was president getulio vargas, with the demand for rubber from the allied forces in world war ii providing funding for the drive. in the 1960s, economic exploitation of the amazon basin was seen as a way