skin, amphibians have evolved mucous glands, principally on their heads, backs and tails. the secretions produced by these help keep the skin moist. in addition, most species of amphibian have granular glands that secrete distasteful or poisonous substances. some amphibian toxins can be lethal to humans while others have little effect. the main poison - producing glands, the parotoids, produce the neurotoxin bufotoxin and are located behind the ears of toads, along the backs of frogs, behind the eyes of salamanders and on the upper surface of caecilians. the skin colour of amphibians is produced by three layers of pigment cells called chromatophores. these three cell layers consist of the melanophores ( occupying the deepest layer ), the guanophores ( forming an intermediate layer and containing many granules, producing a blue - green colour ) and the lipophores ( yellow, the most superficial layer ). the colour change displayed by many species is initiated by hormones secreted by the pituitary gland. unlike bony fish, there is no direct control of the pigment cells by the nervous system, and this results in the colour change taking place more slowly than happens in fish. a vividly coloured skin usually indicates that the species is toxic and is a warning sign to predators. skeletal system and locomotion amphibians have a skeletal system that is structurally homologous to other tetrapods, though with a number of variations. they all have four limbs except for the legless caecilians and a few species of salamander with reduced or no limbs. the bones are hollow and lightweight. the musculoskeletal system is strong to enable it to support the head and body. the bones are fully ossified and the vertebrae interlock with each other by means of overlapping processes. the pectoral girdle is supported by muscle, and the well - developed pelvic girdle is attached to the backbone by a pair of sacral ribs. the ilium slopes forward and the body is held closer to the ground than is the case in mammals. in most amphibians, there are four digits on the fore foot and five on the hind foot, but no claws on either. some salamanders have fewer digits and the amphiumas are eel - like in appearance with tiny, stubby legs. the sirens are aquatic salamanders with stumpy forelimbs