and unknown student. it is possible that goethe kept a distance because johanna warned him about her son ' s depressive and combative nature, or because goethe was then on bad terms with arthur ' s language instructor and roommate, franz passow. schopenhauer was also captivated by the beautiful karoline jagemann, mistress of karl august, grand duke of saxe - weimar - eisenach, and he wrote to her his only known love poem. despite his later celebration of asceticism and negative views of sexuality, schopenhauer occasionally had sexual affairs — usually with women of lower social status, such as servants, actresses, and sometimes even paid prostitutes. in a letter to his friend anthime he claims that such affairs continued even in his mature age and admits that he had two out - of - wedlock daughters ( born in 1819 and 1836 ), both of whom died in infancy. in their youthful correspondence arthur and anthime were somewhat boastful and competitive about their sexual exploits — but schopenhauer seemed aware that women usually did not find him very charming or physically attractive, and his desires often remained unfulfilled. he left weimar to become a student at the university of gottingen in 1809. there are no written reasons about why schopenhauer chose that university instead of the then more famous university of jena, but gottingen was known as more modern and scientifically oriented, with less attention given to theology. law or medicine were usual choices for young men of schopenhauer ' s status who also needed career and income ; he chose medicine due to his scientific interests. among his notable professors were bernhard friedrich thibaut, arnold hermann ludwig heeren, johann friedrich blumenbach, friedrich stromeyer, heinrich adolf schrader, johann tobias mayer and konrad johann martin langenbeck. he studied metaphysics, psychology and logic under gottlob ernst schulze, the author of aenesidemus, who made a strong impression and advised him to concentrate on plato and immanuel kant. he decided to switch from medicine to philosophy around 1810 – 11 and he left gottingen, which did not have a strong philosophy program : besides schulze, the only other philosophy professor was friedrich bouterwek, whom schopenhauer disliked. he did not regret his medicinal and scientific studies ; he claimed that they were necessary for a philosopher, and even in berlin he attended more lectures in sciences than in philosophy. during his days at gottingen, he spent considerable time studying,