applied ethics is the practical aspect of moral considerations. it is ethics with respect to real - world actions and their moral considerations in private and public life, the professions, health, technology, law, and leadership. for example, bioethics is concerned with identifying the best approach to moral issues in the life sciences, such as euthanasia, the allocation of scarce health resources, or the use of human embryos in research. environmental ethics is concerned with ecological issues such as the responsibility of government and corporations to clean up pollution. business ethics includes the duties of whistleblowers to the public and to their employers. history applied ethics has expanded the study of ethics beyond the realms of academic philosophical discourse. the field of applied ethics, as it appears today, emerged from debate surrounding rapid medical and technological advances in the early 1970s and is now established as a subdiscipline of moral philosophy. however, applied ethics is, by its very nature, a multi - professional subject because it requires specialist understanding of the potential ethical issues in fields like medicine, business or information technology. nowadays, ethical codes of conduct exist in almost every profession. an applied ethics approach to the examination of moral dilemmas can take many different forms but one of the most influential and most widely utilised approaches in bioethics and health care ethics is the four - principle approach developed by tom beauchamp and james childress. the four - principle approach, commonly termed principlism, entails consideration and application of four prima facie ethical principles : autonomy, non - maleficence, beneficence, and justice. underpinning theory applied ethics is distinguished from normative ethics, which concerns standards for right and wrong behavior, and from meta - ethics, which concerns the nature of ethical properties, statements, attitudes, and judgments. whilst these three areas of ethics appear to be distinct, they are also interrelated. the use of an applied ethics approach often draws upon these normative ethical theories : consequentialist ethics, which hold that the rightness of acts depends only on their consequences. the paradigmatic consequentialist theory is utilitarianism, which classically holds that whether an act is morally right depends on whether it maximizes net aggregated psychological wellbeing. this theory ' s main developments came from jeremy bentham and john stuart mill who distinguished between act and rule utilitarianism. notable later developments were made by henry sidgwick who introduced the significance of motive or intent, and r. m. hare who