that support this high estimate. many ainu live outside hokkaido. a 1988 survey estimated that the population of ainu living in tokyo was 2, 700. according to a 1989 survey report on utari living in tokyo, it is estimated that the ainu population of the tokyo area alone exceeds 10 % of ainu living in hokkaido ; there are more than 10, 000 ainu living in the tokyo metropolitan area. in addition to japan and russia, it was reported in 1992 that there was a descendant of kuril ainu in poland, but there are also indications that they are a descendant of the aleut. on the other hand, the descendant of the children born in poland by the polish anthropologist bronisław piłsudski, who was a leading ainu researcher and left a vast amount of research material such as photographs and wax tubes, was born in japan. according to a 2017 survey, the ainu population in hokkaido is about 13, 000. this is a sharp drop from 24, 000 in 2006. however, this is partially due to a decrease in membership in the ainu association of hokkaido, which is cooperating with the survey. additionally, interest in protecting personal information has increased. it is thought that the number of individuals who cooperate is declining, and that it does not match the actual population of ainu people. subgroups these are unofficial sub groups of the ainu people with location and population estimates. in popular culture the characters nakoruru, rimururu, and rera from the snk game series samurai shodown are ainu. the manga and anime series golden kamuy has an ainu girl, asirpa, as one of the protagonists, and features many aspects of ainu culture. the character asirpa from golden kamuy is of ainu descent. the character fredzilla from big hero 6 is of ainu descent. the character okuru from the anime series samurai champloo is the sole survivor of an ainu village wiped out by disease. usui horokeu, also known as horohoro, from the manga series shaman king is a member of an ainu tribe. " ainu " is a playable nation in the game europa universalis iv. the history of the island of hokkaido, and of the ainu people, are part of the plot of a chapter in the manga silver spoon. a coming - of - age film, ainu mosir, was released in japan on 17 october, 2020. the film portrays kanto, a sensitive 14