" by walter c. alvarez, she tempered her statement : laura huxley proceeded to elaborate a few nuances of inconsistency peculiar to huxley ' s vision. her account, in this respect, agrees with the following sample of huxley ' s own words from the art of seeing : nevertheless, the topic of huxley ' s eyesight has continued to endure similar, significant controversy. american popular science author steven johnson, in his book mind wide open, quotes huxley about his difficulties with visual encoding : personal life huxley married on 10 july 1919 maria nys ( 10 september 1899 – 12 february 1955 ), a belgian epidemiologist from bellem, a village near aalter, he met at garsington, oxfordshire, in 1919. they had one child, matthew huxley ( 19 april 1920 – 10 february 2005 ), who had a career as an author, anthropologist, and prominent epidemiologist. in 1955, maria huxley died of cancer. in 1956, huxley married laura archera ( 1911 – 2007 ), also an author, as well as a violinist and psychotherapist. she wrote this timeless moment, a biography of huxley. she told the story of their marriage through mary ann braubach ' s 2010 documentary, huxley on huxley. huxley was diagnosed with laryngeal cancer in 1960 ; in the years that followed, with his health deteriorating, he wrote the utopian novel island, and gave lectures on " human potentialities " both at the ucsf medical center and at the esalen institute. these lectures were fundamental to the beginning of the human potential movement. huxley was a close friend of jiddu krishnamurti and rosalind rajagopal, and was involved in the creation of the happy valley school, now besant hill school, of happy valley, in ojai, california. the most substantial collection of huxley ' s few remaining papers, following the destruction of most in the 1961 bel air fire, is at the library of the university of california, los angeles. some are also at the stanford university libraries. on 9 april 1962 huxley was informed he was elected companion of literature by the royal society of literature, the senior literary organisation in britain, and he accepted the title via letter on 28 april 1962. the correspondence between huxley and the society is kept at the cambridge university library. the society invited huxley to appear at a banquet and give a lecture at somerset house, london, in june 1963. huxley wrote