as an asteroid ) in 1979 but then was found to have a tail by eric elst and guido pizarro in 1996 and given the cometary designation 133p / elst - pizarro. another notable object is 311p / panstarrs : observations made by the hubble space telescope revealed that it had six comet - like tails. the tails are suspected to be streams of material ejected by the asteroid as a result of a rubble pile asteroid spinning fast enough to remove material from it. by smashing into the asteroid dimorphos, nasa ' s double asteroid redirection test spacecraft made it an active asteroid. scientists had proposed that some active asteroids are the result of impact events, but no one had ever observed the activation of an asteroid. the dart mission activated dimorphos under precisely known and carefully observed impact conditions, enabling the detailed study of the formation of an active asteroid for the first time. observations show that dimorphos lost approximately 1 million kilograms after the collision. impact produced a dust plume that temporarily brightened the didymos system and developed a - long dust tail that persisted for several months. observation and exploration until the age of space travel, objects in the asteroid belt could only be observed with large telescopes, their shapes and terrain remaining a mystery. the best modern ground - based telescopes and the earth - orbiting hubble space telescope can only resolve a small amount of detail on the surfaces of the largest asteroids. limited information about the shapes and compositions of asteroids can be inferred from their light curves ( variation in brightness during rotation ) and their spectral properties. sizes can be estimated by timing the lengths of star occultations ( when an asteroid passes directly in front of a star ). radar imaging can yield good information about asteroid shapes and orbital and rotational parameters, especially for near - earth asteroids. spacecraft flybys can provide much more data than any ground or space - based observations ; sample - return missions gives insights about regolith composition. ground - based observations as asteroids are rather small and faint objects, the data that can be obtained from ground - based observations ( gbo ) are limited. by means of ground - based optical telescopes the visual magnitude can be obtained ; when converted into the absolute magnitude it gives a rough estimate of the asteroid ' s size. light - curve measurements can also be made by gbo ; when collected over a long period of time it allows an estimate of the rotational period, the pole orientation ( sometimes ), and a rough estimate of the asteroid ' s shape. spectral data ( both