or all of the lift in forward flight. they are nowadays classified as powered lift types and not as rotorcraft. tiltrotor aircraft ( such as the bell boeing v - 22 osprey ), tiltwing, tail - sitter, and coleopter aircraft have their rotors / propellers horizontal for vertical flight and vertical for forward flight. other methods of lift a lifting body is an aircraft body shaped to produce lift. if there are any wings, they are too small to provide significant lift and are used only for stability and control. lifting bodies are not efficient : they suffer from high drag, and must also travel at high speed to generate enough lift to fly. many of the research prototypes, such as the martin marietta x - 24, which led up to the space shuttle, were lifting bodies, though the space shuttle is not, and some supersonic missiles obtain lift from the airflow over a tubular body. powered lift types rely on engine - derived lift for vertical takeoff and landing ( vtol ). most types transition to fixed - wing lift for horizontal flight. classes of powered lift types include vtol jet aircraft ( such as the harrier jump jet ) and tiltrotors, such as the bell boeing v - 22 osprey, among others. a few experimental designs rely entirely on engine thrust to provide lift throughout the whole flight, including personal fan - lift hover platforms and jetpacks. vtol research designs include the rolls - royce thrust measuring rig. some rotor wings employ horizontal - axis wings, in which airflow across a spinning rotor generates lift. the flettner airplane uses a rotating cylinder, obtaining lift from the magnus effect. the fanwing uses a cross - flow fan, while the mechanically more complex cyclogyro comprises multiple wings which rotate together around a central axis. the ornithopter obtains thrust by flapping its wings. size and speed extremes size the smallest aircraft are toys / recreational items, and nano aircraft. the largest aircraft by dimensions and volume ( as of 2016 ) is the long british airlander 10, a hybrid blimp, with helicopter and fixed - wing features, and reportedly capable of speeds up to, and an airborne endurance of two weeks with a payload of up to. the largest aircraft by weight and largest regular fixed - wing aircraft ever built,, was the antonov an - 225 mriya. that soviet - built ( ukrainian ssr ) six - engine transport of the 1980s was long, with an wingspan. it holds the world payload record, after transporting