in another any act which is intended to place another in fear of immediate physical contact which will be painful, injurious, insulting, or offensive, coupled with the apparent ability to execute the act. in some states, consent is a complete defense to assault. in other jurisdictions, mutual consent is an incomplete defense to an assault charge such that an assault charge is prosecuted as a less significant offense such as a petty misdemeanor. states vary on whether it is possible to commit an " attempted assault " since it can be considered a double inchoate offense. kansas in kansas the law on assault states : new york in new york state, assault ( as defined in the new york state penal code article 120 ) requires an actual injury. other states define this as battery ; there is no crime of battery in new york. however, in new york if a person threatens another person with imminent injury without engaging in physical contact, that is called " menacing ". a person who engages in that behavior is guilty of aggravated harassment in the second degree ( a class a misdemeanor ; punishable with up to one year incarceration, probation for an extended time, and a permanent criminal record ) when they threaten to cause physical harm to another person, and guilty of aggravated harassment in the first degree ( a class e felony ) if they have a previous conviction for the same offense. new york also has specific laws against hazing, when such threats are made as requirement to join an organization. north dakota north dakota law states : pennsylvania in pennsylvania, an offender can be charged with simple assault if they : injure someone else recklessly, knowingly, or purposefully accidentally injure someone with a firearm or weapon cause a needle - stick to an officer or correctional employee during a search or arrest threaten or intimidate someone causing fear of imminent serious bodily injury a person convicted of simple assault can be ordered to up to two years in prison as a second - degree misdemeanor. an offender can be charged with aggravated assault if the offender : demonstrates extreme indifference to the victim ' s life injures or threatens to injure a law enforcement officer, correctional officer, firefighter, police officer, or teacher on duty, or for incapacitating any of these individuals a person convicted of aggravated assault can face up to 10 years in prison as a second - degree felony. however, if the crime is perpetrated against a firefighter or police officer, the offender may face first - degree felony charges carrying a penalty of up to 20 years in