was of sound morals and had the religious right to dethrone the rulers, whom he saw as heterodox in their faith. by 1094, yusuf had annexed most of the major taifas, with the exception of the one at zaragoza. the almoravids were victorious at the battle of consuegra, during which the son of el cid, diego rodriguez, perished. alfonso, with some leonese, retreated into the castle of consuegra, which was besieged for eight days until the almoravids withdrew to the south. after friendly correspondence with the caliph at baghdad, whom he acknowledged as amir al - mu ' minin ( " commander of the faithful " ), yusuf ibn tashfin in 1097 assumed the title of amir al muslimin ( " commander of the muslims " ). he died in 1106, when he was reputed to have reached the age of 100. the almoravid power was at its height at yusuf ' s death : the moorish empire then included all of northwest africa as far eastward as algiers, and all of iberia south of the tagus and as far eastward as the mouth of the ebro, and including the balearic islands. in 1108 tamim al yusuf defeated the kingdom of castile at the battle of ucles. yusuf did not reconquer much territory from the christian kingdoms, except that of valencia ; but he did hinder the progress of the christian reconquista by uniting al - andalus. in 1134, at the battle of fraga, the almoravids were victorious and even succeeded in slaying alfonso the battler in the battle. decline under yusuf ' s son and successor, ali ibn yusuf, sintra and santarem were added, and he invaded iberia again in 1119 and 1121, but the tide had turned, as the french had assisted the aragonese to recover zaragoza. in 1138, ali ibn yusuf was defeated by alfonso vii of leon and castile, and in the battle of ourique ( 1139 ), by afonso i of portugal, who thereby won his crown. lisbon was conquered by the portuguese in 1147. according to some scholars, ali ibn yusuf represented a new generation of leadership that had forgotten the desert life for the comforts of the city. he was defeated by the combined action of his christian foes in iberia and the agitation of the almohads ( muwahhids ) in morocco. after ali ibn yusuf '