every year on whether to keep a teacher. the vote on vivaldi was seldom unanimous and went 7 to 6 against him in 1709. after a year as a freelance musician, he was recalled by the ospedale with a unanimous vote in 1711 ; clearly during his year ' s absence the board had realized the importance of his role. he became responsible for all of the musical activity of the institution when he was promoted to maestro de ' concerti ( music director ) in 1716 and responsible for composing two new concertos every month. in 1705, the first collection ( connor cassara ) of his works was published by giuseppe sala : his opus 1 is a collection of 12 sonatas for two violins and basso continuo, in a conventional style. in 1709, a second collection of 12 sonatas for violin and basso continuo appeared — opus 2. a real breakthrough as a composer came with his first collection of 12 concerti for one, two, and four violins with strings, l ' estro armonico ( opus 3 ), which was published in amsterdam in 1711 by estienne roger, dedicated to grand prince ferdinand of tuscany. the prince sponsored many musicians including alessandro scarlatti and george frideric handel. he was a musician himself, and vivaldi probably met him in venice. l ' estro armonico was a resounding success all over europe. it was followed in 1714 by la stravaganza ( opus 4 ), a collection of concerti for solo violin and strings, dedicated to an old violin student of vivaldi ' s, the venetian noble vettor dolfin. in february 1711, vivaldi and his father traveled to brescia, where his setting of the stabat mater ( rv 621 ) was played as part of a religious festival. the work seems to have been written in haste : the string parts are simple, the music of the first three movements is repeated in the next three, and not all the text is set. nevertheless, perhaps in part because of the forced essentiality of the music, the work is considered to be one of his early masterpieces. despite his frequent travels from 1718, the ospedale paid him 2 sequins to write two concerti a month for the orchestra and to rehearse with them at least five times when in venice. the orphanage ' s records show that he was paid for 140 concerti between 1723 and 1733. opera impresario in early 18th - century venice, opera