, the actual increase in net cometary collisions is thought to have been quite small. names beta persei is the star ' s bayer designation. the name algol derives from arabic raʾs al - ghul : head ( raʾs ) of the ogre ( al - ghul ) ( see " ghoul " ). the english name demon star was taken from the arabic name. in 2016, the international astronomical union organized a working group on star names ( wgsn ) to catalog and standardize proper names for stars. the wgsn ' s first bulletin of july 2016 included a table of the first two batches of names approved by the wgsn ; which included algol for this star. it is so entered on the iau catalog of star names. in hebrew folklore, algol was called rosh ha satan or " satan ' s head ", as stated by edmund chilmead, who called it " divels head " or rosch hassatan. a latin name for algol from the 16th century was caput larvae or " the spectre ' s head ". hipparchus and pliny made this a separate, though connected, constellation. in chinese, ( ), meaning mausoleum, refers to an asterism consisting of β persei, 9 persei, τ persei, ι persei, κ persei, ρ persei, 16 persei and 12 persei. consequently, the chinese name for β persei itself is (, english : the fifth star of mausoleum. ). according to r. h. allen the star bore the grim name of tseih she ( ), meaning " piled up corpses " but this appears to be a misidentification, and die shi is correctly π persei, which is inside the mausoleum. cultural significance historically, the star has received a strong association with bloody violence across a wide variety of cultures. in the tetrabiblos, the 2nd - century astrological text of the alexandrian astronomer ptolemy, algol is referred to as " the gorgon of perseus " and associated with death by decapitation : a theme which mirrors the myth of the hero perseus ' s victory over the snake - haired gorgon medusa. in the astrology of fixed stars, algol is considered one of the unluckiest stars in the sky, and was listed as one of the 15 behenian stars. see also jaana toivari - viitala, egyptologist