the battle of guilford court house on march 15. although victorious, cornwallis suffered heavy casualties and retreated to wilmington, north carolina seeking supplies and reinforcements. the patriots now controlled most of the carolinas and georgia outside the coastal areas ; after a minor reversal at the battle of hobkirk ' s hill, they recaptured fort watson and fort motte on april 15. on june 6, brigadier general andrew pickens captured augusta, leaving the british in georgia confined to charleston and savannah. the assumption loyalists would do most of the fighting left the british short of troops and battlefield victories came at the cost of losses they could not replace. despite halting greene ' s advance at the battle of eutaw springs on september 8, cornwallis withdrew to charleston with little to show for his campaign. western campaign from the beginning of the war, bernardo de galvez, the governor of spanish louisiana, allowed the americans to import supplies and munitions into new orleans, then ship them to pittsburgh. this provided an alternative transportation route for the continental army, bypassing the british blockade of the atlantic coast. the trade was organized by oliver pollock, a successful merchant in havana and new orleans, who was appointed u. s. commercial agent. it also helped support the american campaign in the west ; in the 1778 illinois campaign, militia under general george rogers clark. in february 1778, an expedition of militia to destroy british military supplies in settlements along the cuyahoga river was halted by adverse weather. later in the year, a second campaign was undertaken to seize the illinois country from the british. virginia militia, canadien settlers, and indian allies commanded by colonel george rogers clark captured kaskaskia on july 4 and then secured vincennes, though vincennes was recaptured by quebec governor henry hamilton. in early 1779, the virginians counter - attacked in the siege of fort vincennes and took hamilton prisoner. clark secured western british quebec as the american northwest territory in the treaty of paris brought the revolutionary war to an end. when spain joined france ' s war against britain in the anglo - french war in 1779, their treaty specifically excluded spanish military action in north america. later that year, however, galvez initiated offensive operations against british outposts. first, he cleared british garrisons in baton rouge, louisiana, fort bute, and natchez, mississippi, and captured five forts. in doing so, galvez opened navigation on the mississippi river north to the american settlement in pittsburgh. on may 25, 1780, british colonel henry bird invaded kentucky as