aga khan i ( or ) or hasan ali shah ( ) ( 1804 – 1881 ) was the governor of kirman, the 46th imam of the nizari ismaili muslims, and a prominent muslim leader in iran and later in the indian subcontinent. he was the first nizari imam to hold the title aga khan. early life and family the imam hasan ali shah was born in 1804 in kahak, iran to shah khalil allah iii, the 45th ismaili imam, and bibi sarkara, the daughter of muhammad sadiq mahallati ( d. 1815 ), a poet and a ni ‘ mat allahi sufi. shah khalil allah moved to yazd in 1815, probably out of concern for his indian followers, who used to travel to persia to see their imam and for whom yazd was a much closer and safer destination than kahak. meanwhile, his wife and children ( including hasan ali ) continued to live in kahak off the revenues obtained from the family holdings in the mahallat ( ) region. two years later, in 1817, shah khalil allah was killed in yazd during a brawl between some of his followers and local shopkeepers. he was succeeded by his eldest son hasan ali shah, also known as muhammad hasan, who became the 46th imam. while khalil allah resided in yazd, his land holdings in kahak were being managed by his son - in - law, imani khan farahani, husband of his daughter shah bibi. after khalil allah ' s death, a conflict ensued between imani khan farahani and the local nizaris ( followers of imam khalil allah ), as a result of which khalil allah ' s widow and children found themselves left unprovided for. the young imam and his mother moved to qumm, but their financial situation worsened. the dowager decided to go to the qajar court in tehran to obtain justice for her husband ' s death and was eventually successful. those who had been involved in the shah khalil allah ' s murder were punished. not only that, but the persian king fath ali shah gave his own daughter, princess sarv - i - jahan khanum, in marriage to the young imam hasan ali shah and provided a princely dowry in land holdings in the mahallat region. king fath ali shah also appointed hasan ali shah as governor of qumm and bestowed upon him the honorific of " aga khan ". thus did the title of "