in chemistry, an alcohol is a type of organic compound that carries at least one hydroxyl ( ) functional group bound to a saturated carbon atom. alcohols range from the simple, like methanol and ethanol, to complex, like sucrose and cholesterol. the presence of an oh group strongly modifies the properties of hydrocarbons, conferring hydrophilic ( water - loving ) properties. the oh group provides a site at which many reactions can occur. history the flammable nature of the exhalations of wine was already known to ancient natural philosophers such as aristotle ( 384 – 322 bce ), theophrastus ( – 287 bce ), and pliny the elder ( 23 / 24 – 79 ce ). however, this did not immediately lead to the isolation of alcohol, even despite the development of more advanced distillation techniques in second - and third - century roman egypt. an important recognition, first found in one of the writings attributed to jabir ibn hayyan ( ninth century ce ), was that by adding salt to boiling wine, which increases the wine ' s relative volatility, the flammability of the resulting vapors may be enhanced. the distillation of wine is attested in arabic works attributed to al - kindi ( – 873 ce ) and to al - farabi ( – 950 ), and in the 28th book of al - zahrawi ' s ( latin : abulcasis, 936 – 1013 ) kitab al - tasrif ( later translated into latin as liber servatoris ). in the twelfth century, recipes for the production of aqua ardens ( " burning water ", i. e., alcohol ) by distilling wine with salt started to appear in a number of latin works, and by the end of the thirteenth century it had become a widely known substance among western european chemists. the works of taddeo alderotti ( 1223 – 1296 ) describe a method for concentrating alcohol involving repeated fractional distillation through a water - cooled still, by which an alcohol purity of 90 % could be obtained. the medicinal properties of ethanol were studied by arnald of villanova ( 1240 – 1311 ce ) and john of rupescissa ( – 1366 ), the latter of whom regarded it as a life - preserving substance able to prevent all diseases ( the aqua vitae or " water of life ", also called by john the quintessence of