the sound - image counterpoint, in which the music or sound effects appeared to comment ironically on the image rather than emphasizing it. teruyo nogami ' s memoir gives several such examples from drunken angel and stray dog. kurosawa was also involved with several of japan ' s outstanding contemporary composers, including fumio hayasaka and toru takemitsu. kurosawa employed a number of recurring themes in his films : the master - disciple relationship between a usually older mentor and one or more novices, which often involves spiritual as well as technical mastery and self - mastery ; the heroic champion, the exceptional individual who emerges from the mass of people to produce something or right some wrong ; the depiction of extremes of weather as both dramatic devices and symbols of human passion ; and the recurrence of cycles of savage violence within history. according to stephen prince, the last theme, which he calls, " the countertradition to the committed, heroic mode of kurosawa ' s cinema, " began with throne of blood ( 1957 ), and recurred in the films of the 1980s. legacy and cultural impact kurosawa is often cited as one of the greatest filmmakers of all time. in 1999, he was named " asian of the century " in the " arts, literature, and culture " category by asianweek magazine and cnn, cited as " one of the [ five ] people who contributed most to the betterment of asia in the past 100 years ". kurosawa was ranked third in the directors ' poll and fifth in the critics ' poll in sight & sound ' s 2002 list of the greatest directors of all time. in commemoration of the 100th anniversary of kurosawa ' s birth in 2010, a project called ak100 was launched in 2008. the ak100 project aims to " expose young people who are the representatives of the next generation, and all people everywhere, to the light and spirit of akira kurosawa and the wonderful world he created ". reputation among filmmakers many filmmakers have been influenced by kurosawa ' s work. ingmar bergman called his own film the virgin spring a " touristic... lousy imitation of kurosawa ", and added, " at that time my admiration for the japanese cinema was at its height. i was almost a samurai myself! " federico fellini considered kurosawa to be " the greatest living example of all that an author of the cinema should be ". steven spielberg cited kurosawa ' s cinematic vision as being important to shaping his own