to rebel, albeit unsuccessfully, against napoleon. they are brutally suppressed through starvation. the cows – unnamed. the cows are enticed into the revolution by promises that their milk will not be stolen but can be used to raise their calves. their milk is then stolen by the pigs, who learn to milk them. the milk is stirred into the pigs ' mash every day, while the other animals are denied such luxuries. the cat – unnamed and never seen to carry out any work. the cat is absent for long periods and is forgiven because her excuses are so convincing and she " purred so affectionately that it was impossible not to believe in her good intentions ". she has no interest in the politics of the farm, and the only time she is recorded as having participated in an election, she is found to have actually " voted on both sides ". the ducks – unnamed. the roosters – one arranges to wake boxer early, and a black one acts as a trumpeter for napoleon. the geese – unnamed. one gander commits suicide by eating nightshade berries. the rats — unnamed. classed among the wild animals, unsuccessful attempts were made to civilise them and teach them the principles of animalism. genre and style george orwell ' s animal farm is an example of a political satire and an allegory that was intended to have a " wider application ", according to orwell himself, in terms of its relevance. stylistically, the work shares many similarities with some of orwell ' s other works, most notably nineteen eighty - four, as both have been considered works of swiftian satire. furthermore, these two prominent works seem to suggest orwell ' s bleak view of the future for humanity ; he seems to stress the potential / current threat of dystopias similar to those in animal farm and nineteen eighty - four. in these kinds of works, orwell distinctly references the disarray and traumatic conditions of europe following the second world war. orwell ' s style and writing philosophy as a whole were very concerned with the pursuit of truth in writing. orwell was committed to communicating straightforwardly, given the way that he felt words were commonly used in politics to deceive and confuse. for this reason, he is careful, in animal farm, to make sure the narrator speaks in an unbiased and uncomplicated fashion. the difference is seen in the way that the animals speak and interact, as the general moral animals seem to speak their minds clearly, while the wicked animals on the