can change rapidly. arctic air masses in the winter produce extreme minimum temperatures varying from in northern alberta to in southern alberta, although temperatures at these extremes are rare. in the summer, continental air masses have produced record maximum temperatures from in the mountains to over in southeastern alberta. alberta is a sunny province. annual bright sunshine totals range between 1, 900 up to just under 2, 600 hours per year. northern alberta gets about 18 hours of daylight in the summer. the average daytime temperatures range from around in the rocky mountain valleys and far north, up to around in the dry prairie of the southeast. the northern and western parts of the province experience higher rainfall and lower evaporation rates caused by cooler summer temperatures. the south and east - central portions are prone to drought - like conditions sometimes persisting for several years, although even these areas can receive heavy precipitation, sometimes resulting in flooding. in the winter, the alberta clipper, a type of intense, fast - moving winter storm that generally forms over or near the province and, pushed with great speed by the continental polar jetstream, descends over the rest of southern canada and the northern tier of the united states. in southwestern alberta, the cold winters are frequently interrupted by warm, dry chinook winds blowing from the mountains, which can propel temperatures upward from frigid conditions to well above the freezing point in a very short period. during one chinook recorded at pincher creek, temperatures soared from in just one hour. the region around lethbridge has the most chinooks, averaging 30 to 35 chinook days per year. calgary has a 56 % chance of a white christmas, while edmonton has an 86 % chance. after saskatchewan, alberta experiences the most tornadoes in canada with an average of 15 verified per year. thunderstorms, some of them severe, are frequent in the summer, especially in central and southern alberta. the region surrounding the calgary – edmonton corridor is notable for having the highest frequency of hail in canada, which is caused by orographic lifting from the nearby rocky mountains, enhancing the updraft / downdraft cycle necessary for the formation of hail. ecology flora in central and northern alberta the arrival of spring is marked by the early flowering of the prairie crocus ( pulsatilla nuttalliana ) anemone ; this member of the buttercup family has been recorded flowering as early as march, though april is the usual month for the general population. other prairie flora known to flower early are the golden bean ( thermopsis rhombifolia