goals. reporting sample size analysis is generally required in psychology. " provide information on sample size and the process that led to sample size decisions. " the analysis, which is written in the experimental protocol before the experiment is conducted, is examined in grant applications and administrative review boards. besides the power analysis, there are less formal methods for selecting the number of experimental units. these include graphical methods based on limiting the probability of false negative errors, graphical methods based on an expected variation increase ( above the residuals ) and methods based on achieving a desired confidence interval. power analysis power analysis is often applied in the context of anova in order to assess the probability of successfully rejecting the null hypothesis if we assume a certain anova design, effect size in the population, sample size and significance level. power analysis can assist in study design by determining what sample size would be required in order to have a reasonable chance of rejecting the null hypothesis when the alternative hypothesis is true. effect size several standardized measures of effect have been proposed for anova to summarize the strength of the association between a predictor ( s ) and the dependent variable or the overall standardized difference of the complete model. standardized effect - size estimates facilitate comparison of findings across studies and disciplines. however, while standardized effect sizes are commonly used in much of the professional literature, a non - standardized measure of effect size that has immediately " meaningful " units may be preferable for reporting purposes. model confirmation sometimes tests are conducted to determine whether the assumptions of anova appear to be violated. residuals are examined or analyzed to confirm homoscedasticity and gross normality. residuals should have the appearance of ( zero mean normal distribution ) noise when plotted as a function of anything including time and modeled data values. trends hint at interactions among factors or among observations. follow - up tests a statistically significant effect in anova is often followed by additional tests. this can be done in order to assess which groups are different from which other groups or to test various other focused hypotheses. follow - up tests are often distinguished in terms of whether they are " planned " ( a priori ) or " post hoc. " planned tests are determined before looking at the data, and post hoc tests are conceived only after looking at the data ( though the term " post hoc " is inconsistently used ). the follow - up tests may be " simple " pairwise comparisons of individual group means or may be " compound " comparisons ( e. g., comparing the mean pooling across groups a, b and