frogs are unable to regrow limbs but tadpoles can do so. circulatory system amphibians have a juvenile stage and an adult stage, and the circulatory systems of the two are distinct. in the juvenile ( or tadpole ) stage, the circulation is similar to that of a fish ; the two - chambered heart pumps the blood through the gills where it is oxygenated, and is spread around the body and back to the heart in a single loop. in the adult stage, amphibians ( especially frogs ) lose their gills and develop lungs. they have a heart that consists of a single ventricle and two atria. when the ventricle starts contracting, deoxygenated blood is pumped through the pulmonary artery to the lungs. continued contraction then pumps oxygenated blood around the rest of the body. mixing of the two bloodstreams is minimized by the anatomy of the chambers. nervous and sensory systems the nervous system is basically the same as in other vertebrates, with a central brain, a spinal cord, and nerves throughout the body. the amphibian brain is relatively simple but broadly the same structurally as in reptiles, birds and mammals. their brains are elongated, except in caecilians, and contain the usual motor and sensory areas of tetrapods. the pineal body, known to regulate sleep patterns in humans, is thought to produce the hormones involved in hibernation and aestivation in amphibians. tadpoles retain the lateral line system of their ancestral fishes, but this is lost in terrestrial adult amphibians. some caecilians possess electroreceptors that allow them to locate objects around them when submerged in water. the ears are well developed in frogs. there is no external ear, but the large circular eardrum lies on the surface of the head just behind the eye. this vibrates and sound is transmitted through a single bone, the stapes, to the inner ear. only high - frequency sounds like mating calls are heard in this way, but low - frequency noises can be detected through another mechanism. there is a patch of specialized haircells, called papilla amphibiorum, in the inner ear capable of detecting deeper sounds. another feature, unique to frogs and salamanders, is the columella - operculum complex adjoining the auditory capsule which is involved in the transmission of both airborne and seismic signals. the ears of salamanders and caecilians are less highly developed