to get her in a boat which would collapse and sink. he sent her a friendly letter asking to reconcile and inviting her to celebrate the quinquatrus at baiae with him. he arranged an " accidental " collision between her galley and one of his captains. when returning home, he offered her his collapsible boat, as opposed to her damaged galley. the next day, nero received word of her survival after the boat sank from her freedman agermus. panicking, nero ordered a guard to " surreptitiously " drop a blade behind agermus and nero immediately had him arrested on account of attempted murder. nero ordered the assassination of agrippina. he made it look as if agrippina had committed suicide after her plot to kill nero had been uncovered. suetonius says that after agrippina ' s death, nero examined agrippina ' s corpse and discussed her good and bad points. nero also believed agrippina to haunt him after her death. cassius dio ' s account the tale of cassius dio is also somewhat different. it starts again with poppaea as the motive behind the murder. nero designed a ship that would open at the bottom while at sea. agrippina was put aboard and after the bottom of the ship opened up, she fell into the water. agrippina swam to shore so nero sent an assassin to kill her. nero then claimed agrippina had plotted to kill him and committed suicide. her reputed last words, uttered as the assassin was about to strike, were " smite my womb ", the implication here being she wished to be destroyed first in that part of her body that had given birth to so " abominable a son. " burial after agrippina ' s death, nero viewed her corpse and commented how beautiful she was, according to some. her body was cremated that night on a dining couch. at his mother ' s funeral, nero was witless, speechless and rather scared. when the news spread that agrippina had died, the roman army, senate and various people sent him letters of congratulations that he had been saved from his mother ' s plots. aftermath during the remainder of nero ' s reign, agrippina ' s grave was not covered or enclosed. her household later on gave her a modest tomb in misenum. nero would have his mother ' s death on his conscience. he felt so guilty he would sometimes have nightmares about his mother. he even saw his mother ' s ghost