themfor instance, the temple of abu simbel as depicted in death on the nilewhile the settings for they came to baghdad were places she and mallowan had recently stayed. similarly, she drew upon her knowledge of daily life on a dig throughout murder in mesopotamia. archaeologists and experts in middle eastern cultures and artefacts featured in her works include dr eric leidner in murder in mesopotamia and signor richetti in death on the nile. after the second world war, christie chronicled her time in syria in come, tell me how you live, which she described as " small beera very little book, full of everyday doings and happenings ". from 8november 2001 to march 2002, the british museum presented a " colourful and episodic exhibition " called agatha christie and archaeology : mystery in mesopotamia which illustrated how her activities as a writer and as the wife of an archaeologist intertwined. in popular culture some of christie ' s fictional portrayals have explored and offered accounts of her disappearance in 1926. the film agatha ( 1979 ), with vanessa redgrave, has christie sneaking away to plan revenge against her husband ; christie ' s heirs sued unsuccessfully to prevent the film ' s distribution. the doctor who episode " the unicorn and the wasp " ( 17 may 2008 ) stars fenella woolgar as christie, and explains her disappearance as being connected to aliens. the film agatha and the truth of murder ( 2018 ) sends her undercover to solve the murder of florence nightingale ' s goddaughter, florence nightingale shore. a fictionalised account of christie ' s disappearance is also the central theme of a korean musical, agatha. the christie affair, a christie - like mystery story of love and revenge by author nina de gramont, was a 2022 novel loosely based on christie ' s disappearance. other portrayals, such as the hungarian film kojak budapesten ( 1980 ), create their own scenarios involving christie ' s criminal skills. in the tv play murder by the book ( 1986 ), christie ( dame peggy ashcroft ) murders one of her fictional - turned - real characters, poirot. christie features as a character in gaylord larsen ' s dorothy and agatha and the london blitz murders by max allan collins. the american television program unsolved mysteries devoted a segment to her famous disappearance, with agatha portrayed by actress tessa pritchard. a young agatha is depicted in the spanish historical television series gran hotel ( 2011 ) in which she finds inspiration to write her new novel while aiding local detectives. in the alternative history television film agatha and