buses operate according to a predetermined schedule. the routes that most buses take are typically displayed in the front windows of the vehicles, which are typically private minivans with seating for approximately 15 passengers each. both the east bus station on independence avenue close to the botanical gardens and the market street bus station close to the central market are the two bus stations that serve the city of st. john ' s. there are also a number of bus companies operating on the island of barbuda. education culture the culture is primarily influenced by the traditions of west africa as well as those of the united kingdom. the most popular sport in the country is cricket. football, boat racing, and surfing are three additional popular forms of athletic competition. ( antigua sailing week attracts locals and visitors from all over the world ). music due to the fact that the majority of antiguans and barbudans are descended from west africans who were brought to the islands as slaves by europeans, the musical traditions of antigua and barbuda are predominately of an african origin and have only been marginally influenced by european musical traditions. the island nation of antigua and barbuda can be found in the lesser antilles chain of islands in the caribbean. it is a second home for many of the popular music genres that are popular throughout the caribbean, including calypso, soca, steeldrum, zouk, and reggae, and it has produced stars in these genres. steeldrum and calypso are two musical styles that were brought to antigua from trinidad and tobago, and they are the two that have had the most significant impact on the development of modern antiguan popular music. other than this, there has been very little to no research done on the musical history of antigua and barbuda. as a consequence of this, a significant amount of the knowledge on the subject comes from novels, essays, and other types of secondary sources. festivals although on some islands carnival may be used to celebrate the beginning of lent, the national carnival held every august is held to commemorate the abolition of slavery in the british west indies. the national carnival is held in august. the festive pageants, shows, and competitions, along with the other events that take place, are a major draw for tourists. cuisine antigua and barbuda cuisine is a term used to describe the culinary traditions of the islands of antigua and barbuda in the caribbean. fungie, pronounced " foon - jee ", and pepperpot are the country ' s official dish and dish of