. this polynomial is irreducible over the rationals and so the three cosines are conjugate algebraic numbers. likewise,,,, and satisfy the irreducible polynomial, and so are conjugate algebraic integers. some but not all irrational numbers are algebraic : the numbers and are algebraic since they are roots of polynomials and, respectively. the golden ratio is algebraic since it is a root of the polynomial. the numbers and e are not algebraic numbers ( see the lindemann – weierstrass theorem ). properties if a polynomial with rational coefficients is multiplied through by the least common denominator, the resulting polynomial with integer coefficients has the same roots. this shows that an algebraic number can be equivalently defined as a root of a polynomial with either integer or rational coefficients. given an algebraic number, there is a unique monic polynomial with rational coefficients of least degree that has the number as a root. this polynomial is called its minimal polynomial. if its minimal polynomial has degree, then the algebraic number is said to be of degree. for example, all rational numbers have degree 1, and an algebraic number of degree 2 is a quadratic irrational. the algebraic numbers are dense in the reals. this follows from the fact they contain the rational numbers, which are dense in the reals themselves. the set of algebraic numbers is countable ( enumerable ), and therefore its lebesgue measure as a subset of the complex numbers is 0 ( essentially, the algebraic numbers take up no space in the complex numbers ). that is to say, " almost all " real and complex numbers are transcendental. all algebraic numbers are computable and therefore definable and arithmetical. for real numbers and, the complex number is algebraic if and only if both and are algebraic. field the sum, difference, product and quotient ( if the denominator is nonzero ) of two algebraic numbers is again algebraic, as can be demonstrated by using the resultant, and algebraic numbers thus form a field ( sometimes denoted by, but that usually denotes the adele ring ). every root of a polynomial equation whose coefficients are algebraic numbers is again algebraic. that can be rephrased by saying that the field of algebraic numbers is algebraically closed. in fact, it is the smallest algebraically - closed field containing the rationals and so it is called the algebraic closure of the rationals. the set of real algebraic numbers itself forms a field. related fields numbers defined by radicals any number that can be obtained from the