killed in battle against the spaniards in the 1518 fall of tlemcen, was the founder of the pashaluk, which subsequently became the beylik, of algeria. barbarossa lost algiers in 1524 but regained it with the 1529 capture of penon of algiers, and then formally invited the sultan suleiman the magnificent to accept sovereignty over the territory and to annex algiers to the ottoman empire. algiers from this time became the chief seat of the barbary pirates. in october 1541 in the algiers expedition, the king of spain and charles v, holy roman emperor sought to capture the city, but a storm destroyed a great number of his ships, and his army of some 30, 000, chiefly made up of spaniards, was defeated by the algerians under their pasha, hassan. formally part of the ottoman empire but essentially free from ottoman control, starting in the 16th century algiers turned to piracy and ransoming. due to its location on the periphery of both the ottoman and european economic spheres, and depending for its existence on a mediterranean that was increasingly controlled by european shipping, backed by european navies, piracy became the primary economic activity. repeated attempts were made by various nations to subdue the pirates that disturbed shipping in the western mediterranean and engaged in slave raids as far north as iceland. by the 17th century, up to 40 % of the city ' s 100, 000 inhabitants were enslaved europeans. the united states fought two wars ( the first and second barbary wars ) over algiers ' attacks on shipping. among the notable people held for ransom was the future spanish novelist, miguel de cervantes, who was held captive in algiers for almost five years, and wrote two plays set in algiers of the period. the primary source for knowledge of algiers of this period, since there are no contemporary local sources, is the topografia e historia general de argel ( 1612, but written earlier ), published by diego de haedo, but whose authorship is disputed. this work describes in detail the city, the behavior of its inhabitants, and its military defenses, with the unsuccessful hope of facilitating an attack by spain so as to end the piracy. a significant number of renegades lived in algiers at the time, christians converted voluntarily to islam, many fleeing the law or other problems at home. once converted to islam, they were safe in algiers. many occupied positions of authority, such as samson rowlie, an englishman who became treasurer of algiers. the city under ottoman control was enclosed by a wall on all sides, including