her honor. these coins were scripted " diva faustina " and were elaborately decorated. he further founded a charity, calling it puellae faustinianae or girls of faustina, which assisted destitute girls of good family. finally, antoninus created a new alimenta, a roman welfare programme, as part of cura annonae. the emperor never remarried. instead, he lived with galeria lysistrate, one of faustina ' s freed women. concubinage was a form of female companionship sometimes chosen by powerful men in ancient rome, especially widowers like vespasian, and marcus aurelius. their union could not produce any legitimate offspring who could threaten any heirs, such as those of antoninus. also, as one could not have a wife and an official concubine ( or two concubines ) at the same time, antoninus avoided being pressed into a marriage with a noblewoman from another family. ( later, marcus aurelius would also reject the advances of his former fiancee ceionia fabia, lucius verus ' s sister, on the grounds of protecting his children from a stepmother, and took a concubine instead. ) favour with hadrian having filled the offices of quaestor and praetor with more than usual success, he obtained the consulship in 120 having as his colleague lucius catilius severus. he was next appointed by the emperor hadrian as one of the four proconsuls to administer italia, his district including etruria, where he had estates. he then greatly increased his reputation by his conduct as proconsul of asia, probably during 134 – 135. he acquired much favor with hadrian, who adopted him as his son and successor on 25 february 138, after the death of his first adopted son lucius aelius, on the condition that antoninus would in turn adopt marcus annius verus, the son of his wife ' s brother, and lucius, son of lucius aelius, who afterwards became the emperors marcus aurelius and lucius verus. he also adopted ( briefly ) the name imperator titus aelius caesar antoninus, in preparation for his rule. there seems to have been some opposition to antoninus ' appointment on the part of other potential claimants, among them his former consular colleague lucius catilius severus, then prefect of the city. nevertheless, antoninus assumed power without opposition. emperor on his accession, antoninus ' name and style became imp