but your elder brother. ' " chinua achebe has criticized him for this characterization, though achebe acknowledges that schweitzer ' s use of the word " brother " at all was, for a european of the early 20th century, an unusual expression of human solidarity between europeans and africans. schweitzer eventually emended and complicated this notion with his later statement that " the time for speaking of older and younger brothers has passed ". american journalist john gunther visited lambarene in the 1950s and reported schweitzer ' s patronizing attitude towards africans. he also noted the lack of africans trained to be skilled workers. by comparison, his english contemporary albert ruskin cook in uganda had been training nurses and midwives since the 1910s, and had published a manual of midwifery in the local language of luganda. after three decades in africa, schweitzer still depended on europe for nurses. reverence for life the keynote of schweitzer ' s personal philosophy ( which he considered to be his greatest contribution to mankind ) was the idea of reverence for life ( " ehrfurcht vor dem leben " ). he thought that western civilization was decaying because it had abandoned affirmation of life as its ethical foundation. in the preface to civilization and ethics ( 1923 ) he argued that western philosophy from descartes to kant had set out to explain the objective world expecting that humanity would be found to have a special meaning within it. but no such meaning was found, and the rational, life - affirming optimism of the age of enlightenment began to evaporate. a rift opened between this world - view, as material knowledge, and the life - view, understood as will, expressed in the pessimist philosophies from schopenhauer onward. scientific materialism ( advanced by herbert spencer and charles darwin ) portrayed an objective world process devoid of ethics, entirely an expression of the will - to - live. schweitzer wrote, " true philosophy must start from the most immediate and comprehensive fact of consciousness, and this may be formulated as follows : ' i am life which wills to live, and i exist in the midst of life which wills to live. ' " in nature one form of life must always prey upon another. however, human consciousness holds an awareness of, and sympathy for, the will of other beings to live. an ethical human strives to escape from this contradiction so far as possible. though we cannot perfect the endeavour we should strive for it