in part from the fact that she represented the intellectual and civilized side of war and the virtues of justice and skill, whereas ares represented mere blood lust. her superiority also derived in part from the vastly greater variety and importance of her functions and the patriotism of homer ' s predecessors, ares being of foreign origin. in the iliad, athena was the divine form of the heroic, martial ideal : she personified excellence in close combat, victory, and glory. the qualities that led to victory were found on the aegis, or breastplate, that athena wore when she went to war : fear, strife, defense, and assault. athena appears in homer ' s odyssey as the tutelary deity of odysseus, and myths from later sources portray her similarly as the helper of perseus and heracles ( hercules ). as the guardian of the welfare of kings, athena became the goddess of good counsel, prudent restraint and practical insight, and war. in a founding myth reported by pseudo - apollodorus, athena competed with poseidon for the patronage of athens. they agreed that each would give the athenians one gift and that cecrops, the king of athens, would determine which gift was better. poseidon struck the ground with his trident and a salt water spring sprang up ; this gave the athenians access to trade and water. athens at its height was a significant sea power, defeating the persian fleet at the battle of salamis — but the water was salty and undrinkable. in an alternative version of the myth from vergil ' s georgics, poseidon instead gave the athenians the first horse. athena offered the first domesticated olive tree. cecrops accepted this gift and declared athena the patron goddess of athens. the olive tree brought wood, oil, and food, and became a symbol of athenian economic prosperity. robert graves was of the opinion that " poseidon ' s attempts to take possession of certain cities are political myths ", which reflect the conflict between matriarchal and patriarchal religions. afterwards, poseidon was so angry over his defeat that he sent one of his sons, halirrhothius, to cut down the tree. but as he swung his axe, he missed his aim and it fell in himself, killing him. this was supposedly the origin of calling athena ' s sacred olive tree moria, for halirrhotius ' s attempt at revenge proved fatal ( moros in greek ). poseidon in fury accused ares of