rimush and manishtushu sargon had crushed opposition even at old age. these difficulties broke out again in the reign of his sons, where revolts broke out during the nine - year reign of rimush ( 2278 – 2270 bc ), who fought hard to retain the empire, and was successful until he was assassinated by some of his own courtiers. according to his inscriptions, he faced widespread revolts, and had to reconquer the cities of ur, umma, adab, lagash, der, and kazallu from rebellious ensis : rimush introduced mass slaughter and large scale destruction of the sumerian city - states, and maintained meticulous records of his destructions. most of the major sumerian cities were destroyed, and sumerian human losses were enormous : rimush ' s elder brother, manishtushu ( 2269 – 2255 bc ) succeeded him. the latter seems to have fought a sea battle against 32 kings who had gathered against him and took control over their pre - arab country, consisting of modern - day united arab emirates and oman. despite the success, like his brother he seems to have been assassinated in a palace conspiracy. naram - sin manishtushu ' s son and successor, naram - sin ( 2254 – 2218 bc ), due to vast military conquests, assumed the imperial title " king naram - sin, king of the four - quarters " ( lugal naram - sin, sar kibrat ' arbaim ), the four - quarters as a reference to the entire world. he was also for the first time in sumerian culture, addressed as " the god ( sumerian = dingir, akkadian = ilu ) of agade " ( akkad ), in opposition to the previous religious belief that kings were only representatives of the people towards the gods. he also faced revolts at the start of his reign, but quickly crushed them. naram - sin also recorded the akkadian conquest of ebla as well as armanum and its king. to better police syria, he built a royal residence at tell brak, a crossroads at the heart of the khabur river basin of the jezirah. naram - sin campaigned against magan which also revolted ; naram - sin " marched against magan and personally caught mandannu, its king ", where he instated garrisons to protect the main roads. the chief threat seemed to be coming from the