abel is a biblical figure in the book of genesis within abrahamic religions. he was the younger brother of cain, and the younger son of adam and eve, the first couple in biblical history. he was a shepherd who offered his firstborn flock up to god as an offering. god accepted his offering but not his brother ' s. cain then killed abel out of jealousy. according to genesis, this was the first murder in the history of mankind. life and death interpretations jewish and christian interpretations according to the narrative in genesis, abel ( hebel, in pausa habel ; habel ;, habel ) is eve ' s second son. his name in hebrew is composed of the same three consonants as a root meaning " breath ". julius wellhausen has proposed that the name is independent of the root. eberhard schrader had previously put forward the akkadian ( old assyrian dialect ) ablu ( " son " ) as a more likely etymology. in christianity, comparisons are sometimes made between the death of abel and that of jesus, the former thus seen as being the first martyr. in jesus speaks of abel as " righteous ", and the epistle to the hebrews states that " the blood of sprinkling... [ speaks ] better things than that of abel " ( ). the blood of jesus is interpreted as bringing mercy ; but that of abel as demanding vengeance ( hence the curse and mark ). abel is invoked in the litany for the dying in the roman catholic church, and his sacrifice is mentioned in the canon of the mass along with those of abraham and melchizedek. the alexandrian rite commemorates him with a feast day on december 28. according to the coptic book of adam and eve ( at 2 : 1 – 15 ), and the syriac cave of treasures, abel ' s body, after many days of mourning, was placed in the cave of treasures, before which adam and eve, and descendants, offered their prayers. in addition, the sethite line of the generations of adam swear by abel ' s blood to segregate themselves from the unrighteous. in the book of enoch ( 22 : 7 ), regarded by most christian and jewish traditions as extra - biblical, the soul of abel is described as having been appointed as the chief of martyrs, crying for vengeance, for the destruction of the seed of cain. a similar view is later shown in the testament of abraham ( a : 13 / b : 11 ), where abel has been raised to the position as the judge