were found mainly in metropolitan areas. since the late 1990s, a number have appeared in smaller communities, often as a result of a division in the town ' s existing episcopal churches. the 2007 – 08 directory of traditional anglican and episcopal parishes, published by the fellowship of concerned churchmen, contained information on over 900 parishes affiliated with either the continuing anglican churches or the anglican realignment movement, a more recent wave of anglicans withdrawing from the anglican communion ' s north american provinces. social activism a concern for social justice can be traced to very early anglican beliefs, relating to an intertwined theology of god, nature, and humanity. the anglican theologian richard hooker wrote in his book the works of that learned and judicious divine that " god hath created nothing simply for itself, but each thing in all things, and of every thing each part in other have such interest, that in the whole world nothing is found whereunto any thing created can say, ' i need thee not. ' " such statements demonstrate a theological anglican interest in social activism, which has historically appeared in movements such as evangelical anglican william wilberforce ' s campaign against slavery in the 18th century, or 19th century issues concerning industrialisation. working conditions and christian socialism lord shaftesbury, a devout evangelical, campaigned to improve the conditions in factories, in mines, for chimney sweeps, and for the education of the very poor. for years, he was chairman of the ragged school board. frederick denison maurice was a leading figure advocating reform, founding so - called " producer ' s co - operatives " and the working men ' s college. his work was instrumental in the establishment of the christian socialist movement, although he himself was not in any real sense a socialist but " a tory paternalist with the unusual desire to theories his acceptance of the traditional obligation to help the poor ", influenced anglo - catholics such as charles gore, who wrote that " the principle of the incarnation is denied unless the christian spirit can be allowed to concern itself with everything that interests and touches human life. " anglican focus on labour issues culminated in the work of william temple in the 1930s and 1940s. " pacifism a question of whether or not christianity is a pacifist religion has remained a matter of debate for anglicans. the leading anglican spokesman for pacifist ideas, from 1914 to 1945, was ernest barnes, bishop of birmingham from 1924 to 1953. he opposed both world wars. in 1937, the anglican pacifist fellowship emerged as a distinct reform organisation, seeking to make pacifism a