##nepolis galerias diana and the teatro juan ruiz de alarcon present french and french literary figures who give talks on their specialised subjects. even some of the local nightclubs feature french djs. other festivals celebrated here include carnival, the feast of san isidro labrador on 15 may, and in november, a crafts and livestock fair called the nao de china. there are a number of golf courses in acapulco including the acapulco princess and the pierre marques course, the latter designed by robert trent jones in 1972 for the world cup golf tournament. the mayan palace course was designed by pedro guericia and an economical course called the club de golf acapulco is near the convention center. the most exclusive course is that of the tres vidas golf club, designed by robert von hagge. it is located next to the ocean and is home to flocks of ducks and other birds. another famous sport tournament that has been held in acapulco since 1993 is the abierto mexicano telcel tennis tournament, an atp 500 event that takes place in the tennis courts of the princess mundo imperial, a resort located in the diamante zone of acapulco. initially it was played in clay courts but it changed to hard court. the event has gained popularity within the passing of the years, attracting some of the top tennis players in the world including novak djokovic, rafael nadal and marin cilic. the total prize money is us $ 250, 000. 00 for wta ( women ) and us $ 1, 200, 000. 00 for atp ( men ). acapulco also has a bullring, called the plaza de toros, near caletilla beach. the season runs during the winter and is called the fiesta brava. spring break before 2010, over 100, 000 american teenagers and young adults traveled to resort areas and balnearios throughout mexico during spring break each year. the main reason students head to mexico is the drinking age of 18 years ( versus 21 for the united states ), something that has been marketed by tour operators along with the sun and ocean. this has become attractive since the 1990s, especially since more traditional spring break places such as daytona beach, florida, have enacted restrictions on drinking and other behaviors. this legislation has pushed spring break tourism to various parts of mexico, with acapulco as one of the top destinations. in the late 1990s and early 2000s, cancun had been favored as the spring break destination