- l - threonine. hydrophobic side chains nonpolar amino acid interactions are the primary driving force behind the processes that fold proteins into their functional three dimensional structures. none of these amino acids ' side chains ionize easily, and therefore do not have pkas, with the exception of tyrosine ( tyr, y ). the hydroxyl of tyrosine can deprotonate at high ph forming the negatively charged phenolate. because of this one could place tyrosine into the polar, uncharged amino acid category, but its very low solubility in water matches the characteristics of hydrophobic amino acids well. special case side chains several side chains are not described well by the charged, polar and hydrophobic categories. glycine ( gly, g ) could be considered a polar amino acid since its small size means that its solubility is largely determined by the amino and carboxylate groups. however, the lack of any side chain provides glycine with a unique flexibility among amino acids with large ramifications to protein folding. cysteine ( cys, c ) can also form hydrogen bonds readily, which would place it in the polar amino acid category, though it can often be found in protein structures forming covalent bonds, called disulphide bonds, with other cysteines. these bonds influence the folding and stability of proteins, and are essential in the formation of antibodies. proline ( pro, p ) has an alkyl side chain and could be considered hydrophobic, but because the side chain joins back onto the alpha amino group it becomes particularly inflexible when incorporated into proteins. similar to glycine this influences protein structure in a way unique among amino acids. selenocysteine ( sec, u ) is a rare amino acid not directly encoded by dna, but is incorporated into proteins via the ribosome. selenocysteine has a lower redox potential compared to the similar cysteine, and participates in several unique enzymatic reactions. pyrrolysine ( pyl, o ) is another amino acid not encoded in dna, but synthesized into protein by ribosomes. it is found in archaeal species where it participates in the catalytic activity of several methyltransferases. β - and γ - amino acids amino acids with the structure, such as β - alanine, a component of carnosine and a few other peptides, are β - amino acids. ones with the