higher income, and thus less poverty, the wbg seeks to support employment training initiatives, small business development programs and strong labor protection laws. however, since much of the growth in the developing world has been inequitable, the world bank has also begun teaming with client states to map out trends in inequality and to propose public policy changes that can level the playing field. moreover, the world bank engages in a variety of nutritional, transfer payments and transport - based initiatives. children who experience under - nutrition from conception to two years of age have a much higher risk of physical and mental disability. thus, they are often trapped in poverty and are unable to make a full contribution to the social and economic development of their communities as adults. the wbg estimates that as much as 3 % of gdp can be lost as a result of under - nutrition among the poorest nations. to combat undernutrition, the wbg has partnered with unicef and the who to ensure all small children are fully fed. the wbg also offers conditional cash transfers to poor households who meet certain requirements such as maintaining children ' s healthcare or ensuring school attendance. finally, the wbg understands investment in public transportation and better roads is key to breaking rural isolation, improving access to healthcare and providing better job opportunities for the world ' s poor. united nations the un office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs ( ocha ) works to synchronize the disparate international, national and non - governmental efforts to contest poverty. ocha seeks to prevent " confusion " in relief operations and to ensure that the humanitarian response to disaster situations has greater accountability and predictability. to do so, ocha has begun deploying humanitarian coordinators and country teams to provide a solid architecture for the international community to work through. the united nation ' s children ' s fund ( unicef ) was created by the un to provide food, clothing and healthcare to european children facing famine and disease in the immediate aftermath of world war ii. after the un general assembly extended unicef ' s mandate indefinitely in 1953, it actively worked to help children in extreme poverty in more than 190 countries and territories to overcome the obstacles that poverty, violence, disease and discrimination place in a child ' s path. its current focus areas are 1 ) child survival & development 2 ) basic education & gender equality 3 ) children and hiv / aids and 4 ) child protection. the un refugee agency ( unhcr ) is mandated to lead and coordinate international action to protect refugees worldwide. its primary purpose is to safeguard the rights of refugees by ensuring