size than mere mortals and at some distance from their retainers. one strategy adopted by both sargon and naram - sin, to maintain control of the country, was to install their daughters, enheduanna and emmenanna respectively, as high priestess to sin, the akkadian version of the sumerian moon deity, nanna, at ur, in the extreme south of sumer ; to install sons as provincial ensi governors in strategic locations ; and to marry their daughters to rulers of peripheral parts of the empire ( urkesh and marhashe ). a well documented case of the latter is that of naram - sin ' s daughter tar ' am - agade at urkesh. records at the brak administrative complex suggest that the akkadians appointed locals as tax collectors. economy the population of akkad, like nearly all pre - modern states, was entirely dependent upon the agricultural systems of the region, which seem to have had two principal centres : the irrigated farmlands of southern iraq that traditionally had a yield of 30 grains returned for each grain sown and the rain - fed agriculture of northern iraq, known as the " upper country. " southern iraq during akkadian period seems to have been approaching its modern rainfall level of less than per year, with the result that agriculture was totally dependent upon irrigation. before the akkadian period, the progressive salinisation of the soils, produced by poorly drained irrigation, had been reducing yields of wheat in the southern part of the country, leading to the conversion to more salt - tolerant barley growing. urban populations there had peaked already by 2, 600 bc, and demographic pressures were high, contributing to the rise of militarism apparent immediately before the akkadian period ( as seen in the stele of the vultures of eannatum ). warfare between city states had led to a population decline, from which akkad provided a temporary respite. it was this high degree of agricultural productivity in the south that enabled the growth of the highest population densities in the world at this time, giving akkad its military advantage. the water table in this region was very high and replenished regularly — by winter storms in the headwaters of the tigris and euphrates from october to march and from snow - melt from march to july. flood levels, that had been stable from about 3, 000 to 2, 600 bc, had started falling, and by the akkadian period were a half - meter to