the rise of the rio negro starts in february or march and begins to recede in june. the madeira river rises and falls two months earlier than most of the rest of the amazon river. the depth of the amazon between manacapuru and obidos has been calculated as between. at manacapuru, the amazon ' s water level is only about above mean sea level. more than half of the water in the amazon downstream of manacapuru is below sea level. in its lowermost section, the amazon ' s depth averages, in some places as much as. the main river is navigable for large ocean steamers to manaus, upriver from the mouth. smaller ocean vessels below 9000 tons and with less than draft can reach as far as iquitos, peru, from the sea. smaller riverboats can reach higher, as far as achual point. beyond that, small boats frequently ascend to the pongo de manseriche, just above achual point in peru. annual flooding occurs in late northern latitude winter at high tide when the incoming waters of the atlantic are funnelled into the amazon delta. the resulting undular tidal bore is called the pororoca, with a leading wave that can be up to high and travel up to inland. geology the amazon river originated as a transcontinental river in the miocene epoch between 11. 8 million and 11. 3 million years ago and took its present shape approximately 2. 4 million years ago in the early pleistocene. the proto - amazon during the cretaceous flowed west, as part of a proto - amazon - congo river system, from the interior of present - day africa when the continents were connected, forming western gondwana. 80 million years ago, the two continents split. fifteen million years ago, the main tectonic uplift phase of the andean chain started. this tectonic movement is caused by the subduction of the nazca plate underneath the south american plate. the rise of the andes and the linkage of the brazilian and guyana bedrock shields, blocked the river and caused the amazon basin to become a vast inland sea. gradually, this inland sea became a massive swampy, freshwater lake and the marine inhabitants adapted to life in freshwater. eleven to ten million years ago, waters worked through the sandstone from the west and the amazon began to flow eastward, leading to the emergence of the amazon rainforest. during glacial periods, sea levels dropped and the great amazon lake rapidly drained and became a river, which would eventually become the disputed world '