of ashoka, such as dharmaraksita, are described in pali sources as leading greek ( yona ) buddhist monks, active in spreading buddhism ( the mahavamsa, xii ). some greeks ( yavana ) may have played an administrative role in the territories ruled by ashoka. the girnar inscription of rudradaman records that during the rule of ashoka, a yavana governor was in charge in the area of girnar, gujarat, mentioning his role in the construction of a water reservoir. it is thought that ashoka ' s palace at patna was modelled after the achaemenid palace of persepolis. legends about past lives buddhist legends mention stories about ashoka ' s past lives. according to a mahavamsa story, ashoka, nigrodha and devnampiya tissa were brothers in a previous life. in that life, a pratyekabuddha was looking for honey to cure another, sick pratyekabuddha. a woman directed him to a honey shop owned by the three brothers. ashoka generously donated honey to the pratyekabuddha, and wished to become the sovereign ruler of jambudvipa for this act of merit. the woman wished to become his queen, and was reborn as ashoka ' s wife asandhamitta. later pali texts credit her with an additional act of merit : she gifted the pratyekabuddha a piece of cloth made by her. these texts include the dasavatthuppakarana, the so - called cambodian or extended mahavamsa ( possibly from 9th – 10th centuries ), and the trai bhumi katha ( 15th century ). according to an ashokavadana story, ashoka was born as jaya in a prominent family of rajagriha. when he was a little boy, he gave the gautama buddha dirt imagining it to be food. the buddha approved of the donation, and jaya declared that he would become a king by this act of merit. the text also state that jaya ' s companion vijaya was reborn as ashoka ' s prime - minister radhagupta. in the later life, the buddhist monk upagupta tells ashoka that his rough skin was caused by the impure gift of dirt in the previous life. some later texts repeat this story, without mentioning the negative implications of gifting dirt ; these texts include kumaralata ' s kalpana - manditika