beverley, alfred of ( d. c. 1154 x c. 1157 ), chronicler, and sacrist of the collegiate church of st john the evangelist and st john of beverley wrote a history of britain and england in nine chapters ( c. 1148 - c. 1151 ) from its supposed foundation by the trojan brutus, down to the death of henry i in 1135. alfred ' s chief sources, in addition to bede ' s historia ecclesiastica de gentis anglorum, are geoffrey of monmouth ' s historia regum britanniae, henry of huntingdon ' s historia anglorum, the chronicle of john of worcester, and the historia regum, attributed to symeon of durham. e biography aluredus ( alfred ) the sacrist, witnessed charters over the period c. 1135 to c. 1154 in favour of beverley and the nearby religious houses of bridlington, warter and watton and rufford abbey. [ 1 ] alfred ’ s attestation of a gift of land in averham, in the east riding, to the cistercian rufford abbey ( nottinghamshire ) is of particular interest. preserved in the fifteenth - century rufford cartulary, the attestation not only shows alfred ’ s association with a cistercian abbey located over sixty miles from beverley, but also names ernaldo filio alueredi as a witness, [ 2 ] giving grounds to believe that ernaldus was the son of alfred the sacrist. we learn from the charter, therefore, that alfred in common with many secular clerks of the time, was a family man. beyond the charter evidence, what more is known of alfred comes from what he himself tells us in his history and also from later hagiographical and historical sources. in the descriptive survey of britain prefacing the history, alfred speaks of himself as contemporary with the removal of the flemings from the north of england by king henry i to south wales ( c. 1110 ). [ 3 ] in later hagiographical sources alfred is described as ‘ an old man, wise in the laws of the church ’. [ 4 ] as by c. 1157 a certain robert attests as sacrist of beverley with the minster chapter in a charter of warter priory [ 5 ] and we can therefore infer that alfred was probably dead before that date, it would appear likely that alfred was born in the final decades of the eleventh century. alfred is also