, and that he would come to claim what was rightfully his. attila interfered in a succession struggle after the death of a frankish ruler. attila supported the elder son, while aetius supported the younger. ( the location and identity of these kings is not known and subject to conjecture. ) attila gathered his vassals — gepids, ostrogoths, rugians, scirians, heruls, thuringians, alans, burgundians, among others — and began his march west. in 451, he arrived in belgica with an army exaggerated by jordanes to half a million strong. on april 7, he captured metz. other cities attacked can be determined by the hagiographic vitae written to commemorate their bishops : nicasius was slaughtered before the altar of his church in rheims ; servatus is alleged to have saved tongeren with his prayers, as saint genevieve is said to have saved paris. lupus, bishop of troyes, is also credited with saving his city by meeting attila in person. aetius moved to oppose attila, gathering troops from among the franks, the burgundians, and the celts. a mission by avitus and attila ' s continued westward advance convinced the visigoth king theodoric i ( theodorid ) to ally with the romans. the combined armies reached orleans ahead of attila, thus checking and turning back the hunnish advance. aetius gave chase and caught the huns at a place usually assumed to be near catalaunum ( modern chalons - en - champagne ). attila decided to fight the romans on plains where he could use his cavalry. the two armies clashed in the battle of the catalaunian plains, the outcome of which is commonly considered to be a strategic victory for the visigothic - roman alliance. theodoric was killed in the fighting, and aetius failed to press his advantage, according to edward gibbon and edward creasy, because he feared the consequences of an overwhelming visigothic triumph as much as he did a defeat. from aetius ' point of view, the best outcome was what occurred : theodoric died, attila was in retreat and disarray, and the romans had the benefit of appearing victorious. invasion of italy and death attila returned in 452 to renew his marriage claim with honoria, invading and ravaging italy along the way. communities became established in what would later become venice as a result of