the current political regime in angola is presidentialism, in which the president of the republic is also head of state and government ; it is advised by a council of ministers, which together with the president form the national executive power. legislative power rests with the 220 parliamentarians elected to the national assembly. the president of the republic, together with the parliament, appoints the majority of the members of the two highest bodies of the judiciary, that is, the constitutional court and the supreme court. the judiciary is still made up of the court of auditors and the supreme military court. the angolan government is composed of three branches of government : executive, legislative and judicial. for decades, political power has been concentrated in the presidency with the people ' s movement for the liberation of angola. history since the adoption of a new constitution in 2010, the politics of angola takes place in a framework of a presidential republic, whereby the president of angola is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi - party system. executive power is exercised by the government. legislative power is vested in the president, the government and parliament. angola changed from a one - party marxist - leninist system ruled by the popular movement for the liberation of angola ( mpla ), in place since independence in 1975, to a multiparty democracy based on a new constitution adopted in 1992. that same year the first parliamentary and presidential elections were held. the mpla won an absolute majority in the parliamentary elections. in the presidential elections, president jose eduardo dos santos won the first round election with more than 49 % of the vote to jonas savimbi ' s 40 %. a runoff election would have been necessary, but never took place. the renewal of civil war immediately after the elections, which were considered as fraudulent by unita, and the collapse of the lusaka protocol, created a split situation. to a certain degree the new democratic institutions worked, notably the national assembly, with the active participation of unita ' s and the fnla ' s elected mps - while jose eduardo dos santos continued to exercise his functions without democratic legitimation. however the armed forces of the mpla ( now the official armed forces of the angolan state ) and of unita fought each other until the leader of unita, jonas savimbi, was killed in action in 2002. from 2002 to 2010, the system as defined by the constitution of 1992 functioned in a relatively normal way. the executive branch of the government was composed of the president, the prime minister and