##ipes, and the flukes against the hull ( or inside a recess in the hull ). while there are numerous variations, stockless anchors consist of a set of heavy flukes connected by a pivot or ball and socket joint to a shank. cast into the crown of the anchor is a set of tripping palms, projections that drag on the bottom, forcing the main flukes to dig in. small boat anchors until the mid - 20th century, anchors for smaller vessels were either scaled - down versions of admiralty anchors, or simple grapnels. as new designs with greater holding - power - to - weight ratios were sought, a great variety of anchor designs has emerged. many of these designs are still under patent, and other types are best known by their original trademarked names. grapnel anchor / drag a traditional design, the grapnel is merely a shank ( no stock ) with four or more tines, also known as a drag. it has a benefit in that, no matter how it reaches the bottom, one or more tines are aimed to set. in coral, or rock, it is often able to set quickly by hooking into the structure, but may be more difficult to retrieve. a grapnel is often quite light, and may have additional uses as a tool to recover gear lost overboard. its weight also makes it relatively easy to move and carry, however its shape is generally not compact and it may be awkward to stow unless a collapsing model is used. grapnels rarely have enough fluke area to develop much hold in sand, clay, or mud. it is not unknown for the anchor to foul on its own rode, or to foul the tines with refuse from the bottom, preventing it from digging in. on the other hand, it is quite possible for this anchor to find such a good hook that, without a trip line from the crown, it is impossible to retrieve. herreshoff anchor designed by yacht designer l. francis herreshoff, this is essentially the same pattern as an admiralty anchor, albeit with small diamond - shaped flukes or palms. the novelty of the design lay in the means by which it could be broken down into three pieces for stowage. in use, it still presents all the issues of the admiralty pattern anchor. northill anchor originally designed as a lightweight anchor for seaplanes, this design consists of two plough - like blades mounted to a shank, with a folding stock crossing through the crown of the anchor. c