5 % of that, followed by russia at 11. 0 %, the united states at 9. 5 %, and india at 8. 3 %. before the start of world war i, most ammonia was obtained by the dry distillation of nitrogenous vegetable and animal waste products, including camel dung, where it was distilled by the reduction of nitrous acid and nitrites with hydrogen ; in addition, it was produced by the distillation of coal, and also by the decomposition of ammonium salts by alkaline hydroxides such as quicklime : for small scale laboratory synthesis, one can heat urea and calcium hydroxide : haber – bosch electrochemical ammonia can be synthesized electrochemically. the only required inputs are sources of nitrogen ( potentially atmospheric ) and hydrogen ( water ), allowing generation at the point of use. the availability of renewable energy creates the possibility of zero emission production. ' green ammonia ' is a name for ammonia produced from hydrogen that is in turn produced from carbon - free sources such as electrolysis of water. ammonia from this source can be used as a liquid fuel with zero contribution to global climate change. another electrochemical synthesis mode involves the reductive formation of lithium nitride, which can be protonated to ammonia, given a proton source. ethanol has been used as such a source, although it may degrade. the first use of this chemistry was reported in 1930, where lithium solutions in ethanol were used to produce ammonia at pressures of up to 1000 bar. in 1994, tsuneto et al. used lithium electrodeposition in tetrahydrofuran to synthesize ammonia at more moderate pressures with reasonable faradaic efficiency. other studies have since used the ethanol – tetrahydrofuran system for electrochemical ammonia synthesis. in 2019, lazouski et al. proposed a mechanism to explain observed ammonia formation kinetics. in 2020, lazouski et al. developed a solvent - agnostic gas diffusion electrode to improve nitrogen transport to the reactive lithium. the study observed production rates of up to 30 ± 5 nmol / s / cm2 and faradaic efficiencies of up to 47. 5 ± 4 % at ambient temperature and 1 bar pressure. in 2021, suryanto et al. replaced ethanol with a tetraalkyl phosphonium salt. this cation can stably undergo deprotonation – reprotonation cycles, while it enhances the medium ' s ionic conductivity