i was hypnotised! i ' ve seen it 20 times. it ' s the closest thing i ' ve got to a religion – to me he is a god ". film festival two film festivals have been named in his honor : international human rights film festival " stalker ", named after the film held annually in moscow and regional centres since 1995 international film festival " zerkalo " named after andrei tarkovsky ( meaning " mirror " ), " for fans of intellectual cinema " ; also known as tarkovsky film festival – zerkalo, zerkalo international film festival, andrei tarkovsky zerkalo international film festival, or simply zerkalo, the festival is organized by a committee headed by mikhail men, governor of ivanovo oblast. sister of andrei tarkovsky, marina tarkovsky was one of the co - founders and organizers. from 2010 the festival was directed by pavel lungin. in 2020, the president of the festival was russian director sergei bodrov. owing to the covid - 19 pandemic in russia, the 14th edition was held online in 2020, and appears to be the last one held,. the festival awards a number of prizes, including the special award for contribution to andrei tarkovsky ' s cinema. held in ivanovo since 2007, the festival is held in july each year, with the 16th edition scheduled for 22 – 27 july, to be held in various cities in the ivanovo region, with special screenings in moscow. films from france, india, greece, serbia, colombia, kazakhstan and other countries were entered into the competition, and a gala night was dedicated to tarkovsky ' s 90th birthday, on the main square of his hometown of yuryevets on 22 july. see also european art cinema slow cinema moscow international film festival references notes bibliography schmidt, stefan w. ( 2016 ). " somatography and film : nostalgia as haunting memory shown in tarkovsky ' s nostalghia. " journal of aesthetics and phenomenology, 3 ( 1 ) : 27 – 41. somatography and film : nostalgia as haunting memory shown in tarkovsky ' s nostalghia further reading external links andrei tarkovsky at senses of cinema website about andrei tarkovsky, films, articles, interviews andrei tarkovsky : biography wrestles with the filmmaker ' s remarkable life nostalghia. com - an andrei tarkovsky information site, at film studies program in the department of communication and culture, university of calgary 1932 births 1986 deaths 20th - century russian diarists 20th -