reopened in 2021. in 1955, christie was the first recipient of the mystery writers of america ' s grand master award. later that year, witness for the prosecution received an edgar award for best play. in 2013, she was voted the best crime writer and the murder of roger ackroyd the best crime novel ever by 600 professional novelists of the crime writers ' association. in 2015, and then there were none was named the " world ' s favourite christie " in a vote sponsored by the author ' s estate. many of christie ' s books and short stories have been adapted for television, radio, video games, and graphic novels. more than 30 feature films are based on her work. life and career childhood and adolescence : 1890 – 1907 agatha mary clarissa miller was born on 15 september 1890, into a wealthy upper middle class family in torquay, devon. she was the youngest of three children born to frederick alvah miller, " a gentleman of substance ", and his wife clarissa margaret " clara " miller, nee boehmer. christie ' s mother clara was born in dublin in 1854 to british army officer frederick boehmer and his wife mary ann boehmer ( nee west ). boehmer died in jersey in 1863, leaving his widow to raise clara and her brothers on a meagre income. two weeks after boehmer ' s death, mary ' s sister margaret west married widowed dry goods merchant nathaniel frary miller, a us citizen. to assist mary financially, they agreed to foster nine - year - old clara ; the family settled in timperley, cheshire. margaret and nathaniel had no children together, but nathaniel had a 17 - year - old son, fred miller, from his previous marriage. fred was born in new york city and travelled extensively after leaving his swiss boarding school. he and clara were married in london in 1878. their first child, margaret frary ( " madge " ), was born in torquay in 1879. the second, louis montant ( " monty " ), was born in morristown, new jersey, in 1880, while the family was on an extended visit to the united states. when fred ' s father died in 1869, he left clara £2, 000 ( approximately ) ; in 1881 they used this to buy the leasehold of a villa in torquay named ashfield. it was here that their third and last child, agatha, was born in 1890. she described her childhood as " very happy ". the millers lived mainly in devon but often visited