significantly in food webs. in polluted areas, plant growth may be affected by root uptake of arsenate, which is a phosphate analog and therefore readily transported in plant tissues and cells. in polluted areas, uptake of the more toxic arsenite ion ( found more particularly in reducing conditions ) is likely in poorly - drained soils. toxicity in animals biological mechanism arsenic ' s toxicity comes from the affinity of arsenic ( iii ) oxides for thiols. thiols, in the form of cysteine residues and cofactors such as lipoic acid and coenzyme a, are situated at the active sites of many important enzymes. arsenic disrupts atp production through several mechanisms. at the level of the citric acid cycle, arsenic inhibits lipoic acid, which is a cofactor for pyruvate dehydrogenase. by competing with phosphate, arsenate uncouples oxidative phosphorylation, thus inhibiting energy - linked reduction of nad +, mitochondrial respiration and atp synthesis. hydrogen peroxide production is also increased, which, it is speculated, has potential to form reactive oxygen species and oxidative stress. these metabolic interferences lead to death from multi - system organ failure. the organ failure is presumed to be from necrotic cell death, not apoptosis, since energy reserves have been too depleted for apoptosis to occur. exposure risks and remediation occupational exposure and arsenic poisoning may occur in persons working in industries involving the use of inorganic arsenic and its compounds, such as wood preservation, glass production, nonferrous metal alloys, and electronic semiconductor manufacturing. inorganic arsenic is also found in coke oven emissions associated with the smelter industry. the conversion between as ( iii ) and as ( v ) is a large factor in arsenic environmental contamination. according to croal, gralnick, malasarn and newman, " [ the ] understanding [ of ] what stimulates as ( iii ) oxidation and / or limits as ( v ) reduction is relevant for bioremediation of contaminated sites ( croal ). the study of chemolithoautotrophic as ( iii ) oxidizers and the heterotrophic as ( v ) reducers can help the understanding of the oxidation and / or reduction of arsenic. treatment treatment of chronic arsenic poisoning is possible. british anti - lewisite ( dimercaprol ) is prescribed in doses of 5 mg / kg up to 300 mg every 4 hours for