##nia and colorado sub - plates between the early jurassic ( 190 ma ) and the early cretaceous ( 126. 7 ma ). around 150 ma sea - floor spreading propagated northward into the southern segment. no later than 130 ma rifting had reached the walvis ridge – rio grande rise. in the central segment rifting started to break africa in two by opening the benue trough around 118 ma. rifting in the central segment, however, coincided with the cretaceous normal superchron ( also known as the cretaceous quiet period ), a 40 ma period without magnetic reversals, which makes it difficult to date sea - floor spreading in this segment. the equatorial segment is the last phase of the break - up, but, because it is located on the equator, magnetic anomalies cannot be used for dating. various estimates date the propagation of seafloor spreading in this segment and consequent opening of the equatorial atlantic gateway ( eag ) to the period 120 – 96 ma. this final stage, nevertheless, coincided with or resulted in the end of continental extension in africa. about 50 ma the opening of the drake passage resulted from a change in the motions and separation rate of the south american and antarctic plates. first, small ocean basins opened and a shallow gateway appeared during the middle eocene. 34 – 30 ma a deeper seaway developed, followed by an eocene – oligocene climatic deterioration and the growth of the antarctic ice sheet. closure of the atlantic an embryonic subduction margin is potentially developing west of gibraltar. the gibraltar arc in the western mediterranean is migrating westward into the central atlantic where it joins the converging african and eurasian plates. together these three tectonic forces are slowly developing into a new subduction system in the eastern atlantic basin. meanwhile, the scotia arc and caribbean plate in the western atlantic basin are eastward - propagating subduction systems that might, together with the gibraltar system, represent the beginning of the closure of the atlantic ocean and the final stage of the atlantic wilson cycle. history human origin humans evolved in africa ; around 7 mya ; then developing stone tools around 2. 6 mya ; to finally evolve as modern humans around 200 kya. the earliest evidence for the complex behavior associated with this behavioral modernity has been found in the greater cape floristic region ( gcfr ) along the coast of south africa. during the latest glacial stages, the now - submerged plains of the agulhas bank were exposed above sea level, extending the south african coastline farther south by hundreds of