of energy absorbed by the electron in excess of this amount is converted to kinetic energy according to the conservation of energy. the atom is said to have undergone the process of ionization. if the electron absorbs a quantity of energy less than the binding energy, it will be transferred to an excited state. after a certain time, the electron in an excited state will " jump " ( undergo a transition ) to a lower state. in a neutral atom, the system will emit a photon of the difference in energy, since energy is conserved. if an inner electron has absorbed more than the binding energy ( so that the atom ionizes ), then a more outer electron may undergo a transition to fill the inner orbital. in this case, a visible photon or a characteristic x - ray is emitted, or a phenomenon known as the auger effect may take place, where the released energy is transferred to another bound electron, causing it to go into the continuum. the auger effect allows one to multiply ionize an atom with a single photon. there are rather strict selection rules as to the electronic configurations that can be reached by excitation by light — however, there are no such rules for excitation by collision processes. history and developments one of the earliest steps towards atomic physics was the recognition that matter was composed of atoms. it forms a part of the texts written in 6th century bc to 2nd century bc, such as those of democritus or written by. this theory was later developed in the modern sense of the basic unit of a chemical element by the british chemist and physicist john dalton in the 18th century. at this stage, it wasn ' t clear what atoms were, although they could be described and classified by their properties ( in bulk ). the invention of the periodic system of elements by dmitri mendeleev was another great step forward. the true beginning of atomic physics is marked by the discovery of spectral lines and attempts to describe the phenomenon, most notably by joseph von fraunhofer. the study of these lines led to the bohr atom model and to the birth of quantum mechanics. in seeking to explain atomic spectra, an entirely new mathematical model of matter was revealed. as far as atoms and their electron shells were concerned, not only did this yield a better overall description, i. e. the atomic orbital model, but it also provided a new theoretical basis for chemistry ( quantum chemistry ) and spectroscopy. since the second world war, both theoretical and experimental fields have advanced at a rapid pace. this can be attributed to