the city. aberdeen city council is responsible for city - owned infrastructure which is paid for by a mixture of council tax and income from the scottish government. infrastructure and services run by the council include : nursery, primary and secondary education, roads, clearing snow in winter, city wardens, maintaining parks, refuse collection, economic development, public analyst, public mortuary, street cleaning and street lighting. infrastructure in private hands includes electricity, gas and telecoms. water and sewerage services are provided by scottish water. police : policing in aberdeen is the responsibility of police scotland ( the british transport police has responsibility for railways ). ambulance : the north east divisional headquarters of the scottish ambulance service is located in aberdeen. fire and rescue : this is the responsibility of the scottish fire and rescue service. lifeboat : the royal national lifeboat institution operates aberdeen lifeboat station. it is located at victoria dock entrance in york place. twin cities aberdeen is twinned with stavanger, norway, since 1990 regensburg, germany, since 1955 clermont - ferrand, france, since 1983 gomel, belarus, since 1990 bulawayo, zimbabwe, since 1986 houston, texas, us, since 1979, is twinned with the former region of grampian of which aberdeen is the regional centre kobe, japan, since 2022, is twinned with aberdeen for its hydrogen work. notable people and residents william alexander ( 1826 - 1894 ), journalist and author of johnny gibb of gushetneuk. leslie benzies, former president of rockstar north, creators of the critically acclaimed grand theft auto series. scott booth, former football player, played for aberdeen f. c., fc twente, borussia dortmund and the scotland national football team. alf burnett, footballer who played for dundee united lord byron frs ( 1788 – 1824 ), poet, was raised ( age 2 – 10 ) in aberdeen. andrew cant, ( 1584 – 1663 ) presbyterian minister and leader of the scottish covenanters david carry, swimmer, 2x 2006 commonwealth games gold medallist. henry cecil, one of the most successful horse trainers of all time. oswald chambers, author of my utmost for his highest alexander christie, portrait painter. dan crenshaw, member of the u. s. house of representatives from texas ' s 2nd district. andrew cruickshank, actor famous for his role in dr finlay ' s casebook john mathieson dodds, apprentice and engineer with metrovick, manchester and radar pioneer in chain home defence system for 1940 battle of britain. neil