in support of british regulars thirteen years before to secure an expanded british empire. together, these militias denied france ' s claims to north america west of the mississippi river in the french and indian war. the thirteen colonial state legislatures independently funded and controlled their local militias. in the american revolution, they trained and provided continental line regiments to the regular army, each with their own state officer corps. motivation was also a major asset : each colonial capital had its own newspapers and printers, and the patriots enjoyed more popular support than the loyalists. britain hoped that the loyalists would do much of the fighting, but found that the loyalists did not engage as significantly as they had hoped. continental army when the revolutionary war began, the second continental congress lacked a professional army or navy, but each colony maintained local militias. militiamen were lightly armed, had little training, and usually did not have uniforms. their units served for only a few weeks or months at a time and lacked the training and discipline of more experienced soldiers. local county militias were reluctant to travel far from home and they were unavailable for extended operations. to compensate for this, the continental congress established a regular force known as the continental army on june 14, 1775, which proved to be the origin of the modern united states army, and appointed washington as its commander - in - chief. however, it suffered significantly from the lack of an effective training program and from largely inexperienced officers and sergeants, offset by a few senior officers. each state legislature appointed officers for both county and state militias and their regimental continental line officers ; although washington was required to accept congressional appointments, he was still permitted to choose and command his own generals, such as nathanael greene ; his chief of artillery, henry knox ; and alexander hamilton, the chief of staff. one of washington ' s most successful general officer recruits was baron friedrich wilhelm von steuben, a veteran of the prussian general staff who wrote the revolutionary war drill manual. the development of the continental army was always a work in progress and washington used both his regulars and state militias throughout the war ; when properly employed, the combination allowed them to overwhelm smaller british forces, as they did in battles at concord, boston, bennington, and saratoga. both sides used partisan warfare, but the state militias effectively suppressed loyalist activity when british regulars were not in the area. washington designed the overall military strategy of the revolutionary war in cooperation with congress, established the principle of civilian supremacy in military affairs, personally recruited his senior officer corps, and kept the states focused on a common goal. for