##kali metals show increasing atomic radius, decreasing electronegativity, increasing reactivity, and decreasing melting and boiling points as well as heats of fusion and vaporisation. in general, their densities increase when moving down the table, with the exception that potassium is less dense than sodium. one of the very few properties of the alkali metals that does not display a very smooth trend is their reduction potentials : lithium ' s value is anomalous, being more negative than the others. this is because the li + ion has a very high hydration energy in the gas phase : though the lithium ion disrupts the structure of water significantly, causing a higher change in entropy, this high hydration energy is enough to make the reduction potentials indicate it as being the most electropositive alkali metal, despite the difficulty of ionising it in the gas phase. the stable alkali metals are all silver - coloured metals except for caesium, which has a pale golden tint : it is one of only three metals that are clearly coloured ( the other two being copper and gold ). additionally, the heavy alkaline earth metals calcium, strontium, and barium, as well as the divalent lanthanides europium and ytterbium, are pale yellow, though the colour is much less prominent than it is for caesium. their lustre tarnishes rapidly in air due to oxidation. they all crystallise in the body - centered cubic crystal structure, and have distinctive flame colours because their outer s electron is very easily excited. indeed, these flame test colours are the most common way of identifying them since all their salts with common ions are soluble. all the alkali metals are highly reactive and are never found in elemental forms in nature. because of this, they are usually stored in mineral oil or kerosene ( paraffin oil ). they react aggressively with the halogens to form the alkali metal halides, which are white ionic crystalline compounds that are all soluble in water except lithium fluoride ( li f ). the alkali metals also react with water to form strongly alkaline hydroxides and thus should be handled with great care. the heavier alkali metals react more vigorously than the lighter ones ; for example, when dropped into water, caesium produces a larger explosion than potassium if the same number of moles of each metal is used. the alkali metals have the lowest first ionisation energies in their respective periods of the periodic table because of their low