to the apple l. several boards have been found with numbered stickers affixed to them, which appear to be inspection stickers from the pcb manufacturer / assembler. a batch of boards is known to have numbers hand - written in black permanent marker on the back ; these usually appear as " 01 - 00 # # ". as of january 2022, 29 apple - 1s with a serial number are known. the highest known number is. two original apple - 1s have been analyzed by psa, los angeles, concluding the serial numbers had been hand - written by steve jobs. hardware wozniak ' s design originally used a motorola 6800 processor, which cost $ 175, but when mos technology introduced the much cheaper 6502 microprocessor ( $ 25 ) he switched. the apple i cpu ran at, a fraction ( ) of the ntsc color carrier which simplified video circuitry. memory used the new 4 - kbit dram chips, and was, expandable to on board, or externally. the board was designed to use the next generation of 16 - kbit memory chips when they became available. an optional $ 75 plug - in cassette interface card allowed users to store programs on ordinary audio cassette tapes. a basic interpreter, originally written by wozniak, was provided that let users easily write programs and play simple games. an onboard ac power supply was included. video the apple i ' s built - in computer terminal circuitry with tv composite output used shift register memory and a character generator. all one needed was a television set and a ascii keyboard. the apple i did not come with a case. it was either used as - is or some chose to build custom ( mostly wooden ) cases. competing machines such as the altair 8800 generally were programmed with front - mounted toggle switches and used indicator lights ( red leds, most commonly ) for output, and had to be extended with separate hardware to allow connection to a computer terminal or a teletypewriter machine. this made the apple i, along with earlier introduced sphere 1 and other hobbyist microcomputers, an innovative machine for its day. the computer used a signetics 2513 64×8×5 character generator, capable of displaying uppercase characters, numbers and basic punctuation and math symbols with a 5x8 pixel font : apple cassette interface expansion a cassette interface was available in the form of an optional add - on for the apple i ' s expansion slot. a cassette deck plugged