. the general consensus in the scientific community, however, was to associate this type of complexity with kolmogorov, who was concerned with randomness of a sequence, while algorithmic probability became associated with solomonoff, who focused on prediction using his invention of the universal prior probability distribution. the broader area encompassing descriptional complexity and probability is often called kolmogorov complexity. the computer scientist ming li considers this an example of the matthew effect : "... to everyone who has, more will be given... " there are several other variants of kolmogorov complexity or algorithmic information. the most widely used one is based on self - delimiting programs, and is mainly due to leonid levin ( 1974 ). an axiomatic approach to kolmogorov complexity based on blum axioms ( blum 1967 ) was introduced by mark burgin in the paper presented for publication by andrey kolmogorov. basic results in the following discussion, let k ( s ) be the complexity of the string s. it is not hard to see that the minimal description of a string cannot be too much larger than the string itself — the program generatestring2 above that outputs s is a fixed amount larger than s. theorem : there is a constant c such that. k ( s ) ≤ | s | + c. uncomputability of kolmogorov complexity a naive attempt at a program to compute k at first glance it might seem trivial to write a program which can compute k ( s ) for any s, such as the following : function kolmogorovcomplexity ( string s ) for i = 1 to infinity : for each string p of length exactly i if isvalidprogram ( p ) and evaluate ( p ) = = s return i this program iterates through all possible programs ( by iterating through all possible strings and only considering those which are valid programs ), starting with the shortest. each program is executed to find the result produced by that program, comparing it to the input s. if the result matches then the length of the program is returned. however this will not work because some of the programs p tested will not terminate, e. g. if they contain infinite loops. there is no way to avoid all of these programs by testing them in some way before executing them due to the non - computability of the halting problem. what is more, no program at all can compute the function k, be it ever so sophisticated. this