shells become very similar and so the order in which they are said to be populated by electrons ( e. g., cr = [ ar ] 4s13d5 and cr2 + = [ ar ] 3d4 ) can be rationalized only somewhat arbitrarily. electron properties with the development of quantum mechanics and experimental findings ( such as the two slit diffraction of electrons ), it was found that the electrons orbiting a nucleus could not be fully described as particles, but needed to be explained by wave – particle duality. in this sense, electrons have the following properties : wave - like properties : electrons do not orbit a nucleus in the manner of a planet orbiting the sun, but instead exist as standing waves. thus the lowest possible energy an electron can take is similar to the fundamental frequency of a wave on a string. higher energy states are similar to harmonics of that fundamental frequency. the electrons are never in a single point location, though the probability of interacting with the electron at a single point can be found from the electron ' s wave function. the electron ' s charge acts like it is smeared out in space in a continuous distribution, proportional at any point to the squared magnitude of the electron ' s wave function. particle - like properties : the number of electrons orbiting a nucleus can be only an integer. electrons jump between orbitals like particles. for example, if one photon strikes the electrons, only one electron changes state as a result. electrons retain particle - like properties such as : each wave state has the same electric charge as its electron particle. each wave state has a single discrete spin ( spin up or spin down ) depending on its superposition. thus, electrons cannot be described simply as solid particles. an analogy might be that of a large and often oddly shaped " atmosphere " ( the electron ), distributed around a relatively tiny planet ( the nucleus ). atomic orbitals exactly describe the shape of this " atmosphere " only when one electron is present. when more electrons are added, the additional electrons tend to more evenly fill in a volume of space around the nucleus so that the resulting collection ( " electron cloud " ) tends toward a generally spherical zone of probability describing the electron ' s location, because of the uncertainty principle. formal quantum mechanical definition atomic orbitals may be defined more precisely in formal quantum mechanical language. they are approximate solutions to the schrodinger equation for the electrons bound to the atom by the electric field of the atom ' s nucleus. specifically, in quantum mechanics, the state of an atom, i