the bacteria in the human mouth being harmless. focused attention on cavity - causing bacteria such as streptococcus mutans has led research into new mouthwash treatments that prevent these bacteria from initially growing. while current mouthwash treatments must be used with a degree of frequency to prevent this bacteria from regrowing, future treatments could provide a viable long - term solution. a clinical trial and laboratory studies have shown that alcohol - containing mouthwash could reduce the growth of neisseria gonorrhoeae in the pharynx. however, subsequent trials have found that there was no difference in gonorrhoea cases among men using daily mouthwash compared to those who did not use mouthwash for 12 weeks. ingredients alcohol alcohol is added to mouthwash not to destroy bacteria but to act as a carrier agent for essential active ingredients such as menthol, eucalyptol and thymol, which help to penetrate plaque. sometimes a significant amount of alcohol ( up to 27 % vol ) is added, as a carrier for the flavor, to provide " bite ". because of the alcohol content, it is possible to fail a breathalyzer test after rinsing, although breath alcohol levels return to normal after 10 minutes. in addition, alcohol is a drying agent, which encourages bacterial activity in the mouth, releasing more malodorous volatile sulfur compounds. therefore, alcohol - containing mouthwash may temporarily worsen halitosis in those who already have it, or, indeed, be the sole cause of halitosis in other individuals. it is hypothesized that alcohol in mouthwashes acts as a carcinogen ( cancer - inducing agent ). generally, there is no scientific consensus about this. one review stated : the same researchers also state that the risk of acquiring oral cancer rises almost five times for users of alcohol - containing mouthwash who neither smoke nor drink ( with a higher rate of increase for those who do ). in addition, the authors highlight side effects from several mainstream mouthwashes that included dental erosion and accidental poisoning of children. the review garnered media attention and conflicting opinions from other researchers. yinka ebo of cancer research uk disputed the findings, concluding that " there is still not enough evidence to suggest that using mouthwash that contains alcohol will increase the risk of mouth cancer ". studies conducted in 1985, 1995, 2003, and 2012 did not support an association between alcohol - containing mouth rinses and oral cancer. andrew penman, chief executive of the cancer council new south wales