have achieved national and international fame. these include the adelaide symphony orchestra, the adelaide youth orchestra, rock bands the angels, atlas genius, cold chisel, the superjesus, wolf & cub, roots / blues group the audreys, internationally acclaimed metal acts i killed the prom queen and double dragon, popular australian hip - hop outfit hilltop hoods, pop acts like sia, orianthi, guy sebastian, and wes carr, as well as internationally successful tribute act, the australian pink floyd show. noted rocker jimmy barnes ( formerly lead vocalist with cold chisel ) spent most of his youth in the northern suburb of elizabeth. paul kelly grew up in adelaide and was head prefect at rostrevor college. the first australian idol winner, guy sebastian, hails from the north - eastern suburb of golden grove. television adelaide is served by numerous digital free - to - air television channels : abc abc hd ( abc broadcast in hd ) abc tv plus abc me abc news sbs sbs hd ( sbs broadcast in hd ) sbs world movies hd sbs viceland hd sbs food nitv sbs worldwatch seven 7hd ( seven broadcast in hd ) 7two 7mate 7bravo 7flix racing. com nine 9hd ( nine broadcast in hd ) 9gem 9go! 9life 9gem hd 9rush extra 10 10 hd ( 10 broadcast in hd ) 10 bold 10 peach 10 shake tvsn gecko tv c44 adelaide ( adelaide ' s community tv station ) all of the five australian national television networks broadcast both high - definition digital and standard - definition digital television services in adelaide. they share three transmission towers on the ridge near the summit of mount lofty. there are two other transmission sites at 25 grenfell street, adelaide and elizabeth downs. the two government - funded stations are run by the australian broadcasting corporation ( abc south australia ) and the special broadcasting service ( sbs ). the seven network and network ten both own their adelaide stations ( sas - 7 and ads - 10 respectively ). adelaide ' s nws - 9 is part of the nine network. adelaide also has a community television station, channel 44. as part of a nationwide phase - out of analogue television in australia, adelaide ' s analogue television service was shut down on 2 april 2013. the foxtel pay tv service is also available via cable or satellite to the entire metropolitan area. all the major broadcasting networks also operate online on - demand television services, alongside internet - only services such as stan, fetch tv, netflix, youtube, disney +,