mount lofty occur during winter. dewpoints in the summer typically range from. there are usually several days in summer where the temperature reaches or above ; the frequency of these temperatures has been increasing in recent years. temperature extremes range from - 0. 4 °c ( 31. 4 °f ), 8 june 1982 to 47. 7 °c ( 117. 9 °f ), 24 january 2019. the city features 90. 6 clear days annually. the average sea temperature ranges from in august to in february. liveability adelaide was consistently ranked in the world ' s 10 most liveable cities through the 2010s by the economist intelligence unit. in june 2021, the economist ranked adelaide the third most liveable city in the world, behind auckland and osaka. in june 2023, adelaide was ranked the twelfth most liveable city in the world by the economist intelligence unit. in december 2021, adelaide was named the world ' s second national park city, after the state government had lobbied for this title. it was ranked the most liveable city in australia by the property council of australia, based on surveys of residents ' views of their own city, between 2010 and 2013, dropping to second place in 2014. governance adelaide, as the capital of south australia, is the seat of the government of south australia. the bicameral parliament of south australia consists of the lower house known as the house of assembly and the upper house known as the legislative council. general elections are held every four years, the last being the 2022 south australian state election. as adelaide is south australia ' s capital and most populous city, the state government co - operates extensively with the city of adelaide. in 2006, the ministry for the city of adelaide was created to facilitate the state government ' s collaboration with the adelaide city council and the lord mayor to improve adelaide ' s image. the state parliament ' s capital city committee is also involved in the governance of the city of adelaide, being primarily concerned with the planning of adelaide ' s urban development and growth. reflecting south australia ' s status as australia ' s most centralised state, adelaide elects a substantial majority of the south australian house of assembly. of the 47 seats in the chamber, 34 seats ( three - quarters of the legislature ) are based in adelaide, and two rural seats include adelaide suburbs. local governments the adelaide metropolitan area is divided between nineteen local government areas. at its centre, the city of adelaide administers the adelaide city centre, north adelaide, and the surrounding adelaide parklands. it is the oldest municipal authority in australia and was established in