' s marital status, how many children they have, or if they are planning to get pregnant any time soon. moreover, some women are not allowed to work by their husbands after graduating from higher educational institutions. she mentions that the most crucial problem affecting this phenomenon is the fact women do not stand up for their rights. it is also mentioned that according to various sources, there is an inequality in men ' s and women ' s monthly wages. in all the sectors, the average monthly salary of men is much higher than women even with the same years of education. it is stated that eliminating the discrimination between two genders would positively impact the country ' s economy. ani kojoyan mentions that this is a crucial problem for the economy except for being a women ' s rights violation. thus, the armenian government should take care that unemployed women can find jobs and become taxpayers. migrant workers since gaining independence in 1991, hundreds of thousands of armenia ' s residents have gone abroad, mainly to russia, in search of work. unemployment has been the major cause of this massive labor emigration. osce experts estimate that between 116, 000 and 147, 000 people left armenia for economic reasons between 2002 and 2004, with two - thirds of them returning home by february 2005. according to estimates by the national statistical survey, the rate of labor emigration was twice as higher in 2001 and 2002. according to an osce survey, a typical armenian migrant worker is a married man aged between 41 and 50 years who " began looking for work abroad at the age of 32 - 33. " for armenians, another feature of migration was an increase in a variety of threats. the journey itself was extremely dangerous. to pay their way, may departing migrants took out loans failed, the whole family ' s future was put at a risk. as a consequence, the practice of delaying or refusing to pay part or all of a migrant workers wages has become common. the risks were also heightened by many emigrants failure. this type of migration inherited almost all of the negative characteristics that described pre - transition labor migration. during the workshop, participants addressed the increasing importance of migration as a growth factor, as well as the significance of sdg target 10. 7 on anticipated and well - managed migration policies for armenia. natural environment protection environmental project implementation unit implements projects related to natural environment protection. armenia ' s greenhouse gas emissions decreased 62 % from 1990 to 2013, averaging - 1. 3 % annually. armenia is working on addressing its environmental problems. ministry of environment has introduced a pollution fee system by which