##asiaster with one of the many writers named " hilary " active in the period. in 1899, germain morin suggested that the writer was isaac, a converted jew and writer of a tract on the trinity and incarnation, who was exiled to spain in 378 – 380 and then relapsed to judaism. morin afterwards abandoned this theory of the authorship in favour of decimus hilarianus hilarius, proconsul of africa in 377. alternatively, paolo angelo ballerini attempted to sustain the traditional attribution of the work to ambrose, in his complete edition of that father ' s work. this is extremely problematic, though, since it would require ambrose to have written the book before he became a bishop, and then added to it in later years, incorporating later remarks of hilary of poitiers on romans. no identifications, therefore, have acquired lasting popularity with scholars, and ambrosiaster ' s identity remains a mystery. other works several other works which now survive only as fragments have been attributed to this same author. these include a commentary on matthew 24, and discussions on the parable of the leaven, the denial of peter, and jesus ' s arrest. in 1905, alexander souter established that ambrosiaster was also the author of the quaestiones veteris et novi testamenti, a lengthy collection of exegetical and polemical tractates which manuscripts have traditionally ascribed to augustine. influence many scholars argue that ambrosiaster ' s works were essentially pelagian, although this is disputed. pelagius cited him extensively. for example, alfred smith argued that pelagius ' " view of predestination he seems to have taken from ambrosiaster. his doctrine with regard to original sin appears to have come from the same source ". however, augustine also made use of ambrosiaster ' s commentaries. notes bibliography bussieres, marie - pierre. ambrosiaster. contre les paiens. sur le destin. texte, traduction et commentaire. paris, editions du cerfs ( sources chretiennes 512 ), 2007. moreschini, claudio, and enrico norelli. 2005 " ambrosiaster, " in early christian greek and latin literature : a literary history. peabody, mass : hendrickson publishers. vol. 2, p. 296 - 98. mundle, wilhelm. 1919. die exegese der paulinischen briefe im kommenta