that linguistic correctness and eloquence derive from qurʾanic usage,, and bedouin speech — positioning itself against lahn al - ʿamma ( ), the solecism it viewed as defective. western lexicography of arabic in the second half of the 19th century, the british arabist edward william lane, working with the egyptian scholar, compiled the arabic – english lexicon by translating material from earlier arabic lexica into english. the german arabist hans wehr, with contributions from hedwig klein, compiled the arabisches worterbuch fur die schriftsprache der gegenwart ( 1952 ), later translated into english as a dictionary of modern written arabic ( 1961 ), based on established usage, especially in literature. modern arabic lexicography the academy of the arabic language in cairo sought to publish a historical dictionary of arabic in the vein of the oxford english dictionary, tracing the changes of meanings and uses of arabic words over time. a first volume of al - muʿjam al - kabir was published in 1956 under the leadership of taha hussein. the project is not yet complete ; its 15th volume, covering the letter sad, was published in 2022. loanwords the most important sources of borrowings into ( pre - islamic ) arabic are from the related ( semitic ) languages aramaic, which used to be the principal, international language of communication throughout the ancient near and middle east, and ethiopic. many cultural, religious and political terms have entered arabic from iranian languages, notably middle persian, parthian, and ( classical ) persian, and hellenistic greek ( kimiyaʼ has as origin the greek khymia, meaning in that language the melting of metals ; see roger dachez, histoire de la medecine de l ' antiquite au xxe siecle, tallandier, 2008, p. 251 ), alembic ( distiller ) from ambix ( cup ), almanac ( climate ) from almenichiakon ( calendar ). for the origin of the last three borrowed words, see alfred - louis de premare, foundations of islam, seuil, l ' univers historique, 2002. some arabic borrowings from semitic or persian languages are, as presented in de premare ' s above - cited book : madinah / medina ( مدينة, city or city square ), a word of aramaic origin / " mədi ( n ) tta " (