##ation with aqueous pka values of around 16 – 19, they are, in general, slightly weaker acids than water. with strong bases such as sodium hydride or sodium they form salts called alkoxides, with the general formula ( where r is an alkyl and m is a metal ). 2 r - oh + 2 nah - > 2 r - o - na + 2 h2 2 r - oh + 2 na - > 2 r - o - na + h2 the acidity of alcohols is strongly affected by solvation. in the gas phase, alcohols are more acidic than in water. in dmso, alcohols ( and water ) have a pka of around 29 – 32. as a consequence, alkoxides ( and hydroxide ) are powerful bases and nucleophiles ( e. g., for the williamson ether synthesis ) in this solvent. in particular, or in dmso can be used to generate significant equilibrium concentrations of acetylide ions through the deprotonation of alkynes ( see favorskii reaction ). nucleophilic substitution tertiary alcohols react with hydrochloric acid to produce tertiary alkyl chloride. primary and secondary alcohols are converted to the corresponding chlorides using thionyl chloride and various phosphorus chloride reagents. primary and secondary alcohols, likewise, convert to alkyl bromides phosphorus tribromide, for example : 3 r - oh + pbr3 - > 3 rbr + h3po3 in the barton - mccombie deoxygenation an alcohol is deoxygenated to an alkane with tributyltin hydride or a trimethylborane - water complex in a radical substitution reaction. dehydration meanwhile, the oxygen atom has lone pairs of nonbonded electrons that render it weakly basic in the presence of strong acids such as sulfuric acid. for example, with methanol : upon treatment with strong acids, alcohols undergo the e1 elimination reaction to produce alkenes. the reaction, in general, obeys zaitsev ' s rule, which states that the most stable ( usually the most substituted ) alkene is formed. tertiary alcohols eliminate easily at just above room temperature, but primary alcohols require a higher temperature. this is a diagram of acid catalysed dehydration of ethanol to produce ethylene : a more controlled elimination reaction requires the formation