other hand, came from a pharisaic family ( her brother was simeon ben shetach, a famous pharisee leader ) and was more sympathetic to their cause and protected them throughout his turbulent reign. like his father, alexander also served as the high priest. this raised the ire of the religious authorities who insisted that these two offices should not be combined. according to the talmud, yannai was a questionable desecrated priest ( rumour had it that his mother was captured in modiin and violated ) and, in the opinion of the pharisees, was not allowed to serve in the temple. this infuriated the king and he sided with the sadducees who defended him. this incident led the king to turn against the pharisees and he persecuted them until his death. war with ptolemy lathyrus alexander ' s first expedition was against the city of ptolemais. while alexander went ahead to besiege the city, zoilus of dora took the opportunity to see if he could relieve ptolemais in hopes of establishing his rule over coastal territories. alexander ' s hasmonean army quickly defeated zoilus ' s forces. ptolemais then requested aid from ptolemy ix lathyros, who had been banished by his mother cleopatra iii ; ptolemy founded a kingdom in cyprus after being cast out by his mother. the situation at ptolemais was seized as an opportunity by ptolemy to possibly gain a stronghold and control the judean coast in order to invade egypt by sea. however, an individual named demaenetus convinced the inhabitants of their imprudence in requesting ptolemy ' s assistance. they realised that by allying themselves with ptolemy, they had unintentionally declared war on cleopatra. when ptolemy arrived at the city, the inhabitants denied him access. alexander too didn ' t want to be involved in a war between cleopatra and ptolemy, so he abandoned his campaign against ptolemais and returned to jerusalem. after offering ptolemy four hundred talents and a peace treaty in return for zoilus ' s death, alexander met him with treachery by negotiating an alliance with cleopatra. once he had formed an alliance with ptolemy, alexader continued his conquests by capturing the coastal cities of dora and straton ' s tower. as soon as ptolemy learned of alexander ' s scheme, he was determined to kill him. ptolemy put ptolemais under siege, but left his generals to attack the city, while he continued to pursue alexander. ptolemy '