600, 000 arms ( mostly british enfield rifles ) that enabled the confederate army to fight on for two more years and the commerce raiders were used in raiding u. s. merchant marine ships in the atlantic and pacific oceans. insurance rates skyrocketed and the american flag virtually disappeared from international waters. however, the same ships were reflagged with european flags and continued unmolested. after the war ended, the u. s. government demanded that britain compensate it for the damage done by blockade runners and raiders outfitted in british ports. britain partly acquiesced to the demand, paying the u. s. $ 15 million in 1871 only for commerce raiding. dincaslan argues that another outcome of the blockade was oil ' s rise to prominence as a widely used and traded commodity. the already declining whale oil industry took a blow as many old whaling ships were used in blockade efforts such as the stone fleet, and confederate raiders harassing union whalers aggravated the situation. oil products that had been treated mostly as lubricants, especially kerosene, started to replace whale oil used in lamps and essentially became a fuel commodity. this increased the importance of oil as a commodity, long before its eventual use as fuel for combustion engines. diplomacy although the confederacy hoped that britain and france would join them against the union, this was never likely, and so they instead tried to bring the british and french governments in as mediators. the union, under lincoln and secretary of state william h. seward, worked to block this and threatened war if any country officially recognized the existence of the confederate states of america. in 1861, southerners voluntarily embargoed cotton shipments, hoping to start an economic depression in europe that would force britain to enter the war to get cotton, but this did not work. worse, europe turned to egypt and india for cotton, which they found superior, hindering the south ' s recovery after the war. cotton diplomacy proved a failure as europe had a surplus of cotton, while the 1860 – 62 crop failures in europe made the north ' s grain exports of critical importance. it also helped to turn european opinion further away from the confederacy. it was said that " king corn was more powerful than king cotton ", as u. s. grain went from a quarter of the british import trade to almost half. meanwhile, the war created employment for arms makers, ironworkers, and ships to transport weapons. lincoln ' s administration initially failed to appeal to european public opinion. at first, diplomats explained that the