; his hair was slightly curly and inclined to golden ; his eyebrows met. his ears were of moderate size, and his nose projected a little at the top and then bent ever so slightly inward. his complexion was between dark and fair. he was short of stature, although julius marathus, his freedman and keeper of his records, says that he was five feet and nine inches ( just under 5 ft. 7 in., or 1. 70 meters, in modern height measurements ), but this was concealed by the fine proportion and symmetry of his figure, and was noticeable only by comparison with some taller person standing beside him... ", adding that " his shoes [ were ] somewhat high - soled, to make him look taller than he really was ". scientific analysis of traces of paint found in his official statues shows that he most likely had light brown hair and eyes ( his hair and eyes were depicted as the same color ). his official images were very tightly controlled and idealized, drawing from a tradition of hellenistic portraiture rather than the tradition of realism in roman portraiture. he first appeared on coins at the age of 19, and from about 29 bc " the explosion in the number of augustan portraits attests a concerted propaganda campaign aimed at dominating all aspects of civil, religious, economic and military life with augustus ' s person. " the early images did indeed depict a young man, but although there were gradual changes his images remained youthful until he died in his seventies, by which time they had " a distanced air of ageless majesty ", according to the classicist r. r. r. smith. among the best known of many surviving portraits are the augustus of prima porta, the image on the ara pacis, and the via labicana augustus, which depicts him in his role as pontifex maximus. several cameo portraits include the blacas cameo and gemma augustea. see also augustan and julio - claudian art augustan literature ( ancient rome ) propaganda in augustan rome bierzo edict gaius maecenas indo - roman trade relations julio - claudian family tree list of roman emperors temple of augustus notes references sources ancient sources modern sources further reading external links works by and about augustus at perseus digital library gallery of the ancient art : august the via iulia augusta : road built by the romans ; constructed on the orders of augustus between the 13 – 12 b. c. augustan legionaries – augustus ' s legions and legionaries augustus – short biography at the bbc