##sons confined in an external potential and cooled to temperatures very near absolute zero. under such conditions, a large fraction of the bosons occupy the lowest quantum state of the external potential, at which point quantum effects become apparent on a macroscopic scale. this state of matter was first predicted by satyendra nath bose and albert einstein in 1924 – 25. bose first sent a paper to einstein on the quantum statistics of light quanta ( now called photons ). einstein was impressed, translated the paper from english to german and submitted it for bose to the zeitschrift fur physik, which published it. einstein then extended bose ' s ideas to material particles ( or matter ) in two other papers. seventy years later, in 1995, the first gaseous condensate was produced by eric cornell and carl wieman at the university of colorado at boulder nist - jila lab, using a gas of rubidium atoms cooled to 170 nanokelvin ( nk ) ( ). a record cold temperature of 450 ± 80 picokelvin ( pk ) ( ) in a bec of sodium atoms was achieved in 2003 by researchers at the massachusetts institute of technology ( mit ). the associated black - body ( peak emittance ) wavelength of 6, 400 kilometers is roughly the radius of earth. absolute temperature scales absolute, or thermodynamic, temperature is conventionally measured in kelvin ( celsius - scaled increments ) and in the rankine scale ( fahrenheit - scaled increments ) with increasing rarity. absolute temperature measurement is uniquely determined by a multiplicative constant which specifies the size of the degree, so the ratios of two absolute temperatures, t2 / t1, are the same in all scales. the most transparent definition of this standard comes from the maxwell – boltzmann distribution. it can also be found in fermi – dirac statistics ( for particles of half - integer spin ) and bose – einstein statistics ( for particles of integer spin ). all of these define the relative numbers of particles in a system as decreasing exponential functions of energy ( at the particle level ) over kt, with k representing the boltzmann constant and t representing the temperature observed at the macroscopic level. negative temperatures temperatures that are expressed as negative numbers on the familiar celsius or fahrenheit scales are simply colder than the zero points of those scales. certain systems can achieve truly negative temperatures ; that is, their thermodynamic temperature ( expressed in kelvins ) can