nonmanual markers. just as phonemes of sound distinguish meaning in spoken languages, those parameters are the phonemes that distinguish meaning in signed languages like asl. changing any one of them may change the meaning of a sign, as illustrated by the asl signs think and disappointed : there are also meaningful nonmanual signals in asl, which may include movement of the eyebrows, the cheeks, the nose, the head, the torso, and the eyes. william stokoe proposed that such components are analogous to the phonemes of spoken languages. there has also been a proposal that they are analogous to classes like place and manner of articulation. as in spoken languages, those phonological units can be split into distinctive features. for instance, the handshapes / 2 / and / 3 / are distinguished by the presence or absence of the feature [ ± closed thumb ], as illustrated to the right. asl has processes of allophony and phonotactic restrictions. there is ongoing research into whether asl has an analog of syllables in spoken language. grammar morphology asl has a rich system of verbal inflection, which involves both grammatical aspect : how the action of verbs flows in time — and agreement marking. aspect can be marked by changing the manner of movement of the verb ; for example, continuous aspect is marked by incorporating rhythmic, circular movement, while punctual aspect is achieved by modifying the sign so that it has a stationary hand position. verbs may agree with both the subject and the object, and are marked for number and reciprocity. reciprocity is indicated by using two one - handed signs ; for example, the sign shoot, made with an l - shaped handshape with inward movement of the thumb, inflects to shoot [ reciprocal ], articulated by having two l - shaped hands " shooting " at each other. asl has a productive system of classifiers, which are used to classify objects and their movement in space. for example, a rabbit running downhill would use a classifier consisting of a bent v classifier handshape with a downhill - directed path ; if the rabbit is hopping, the path is executed with a bouncy manner. in general, classifiers are composed of a " classifier handshape " bound to a " movement root ". the classifier handshape represents the object as a whole, incorporating such attributes as surface, depth, and shape, and is usually very iconic. the movement root consists of a path, a direction and