hand and wearing her characteristic corinthian helmet while resting her shield against a nearby herma. the roman goddess minerva adopted most of athena ' s greek iconographical associations, but was also integrated into the capitoline triad. post - classical culture art and symbolism early christian writers, such as clement of alexandria and firmicus, denigrated athena as representative of all the things that were detestable about paganism ; they condemned her as " immodest and immoral ". during the middle ages, however, many attributes of athena were given to the virgin mary, who, in fourth - century portrayals, was often depicted wearing the gorgoneion. some even viewed the virgin mary as a warrior maiden, much like athena parthenos ; one anecdote tells that the virgin mary once appeared upon the walls of constantinople when it was under siege by the avars, clutching a spear and urging the people to fight. during the middle ages, athena became widely used as a christian symbol and allegory, and she appeared on the family crests of certain noble houses. during the renaissance, athena donned the mantle of patron of the arts and human endeavor ; allegorical paintings involving athena were a favorite of the italian renaissance painters. in sandro botticelli ' s painting pallas and the centaur, probably painted sometime in the 1480s, athena is the personification of chastity, who is shown grasping the forelock of a centaur, who represents lust. andrea mantegna ' s 1502 painting minerva expelling the vices from the garden of virtue uses athena as the personification of graeco - roman learning chasing the vices of medievalism from the garden of modern scholarship. athena is also used as the personification of wisdom in bartholomeus spranger ' s 1591 painting the triumph of wisdom or minerva victorious over ignorance. during the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, athena was used as a symbol for female rulers. in his book a revelation of the true minerva ( 1582 ), thomas blennerhassett portrays queen elizabeth i of england as a " new minerva " and " the greatest goddesse nowe on earth ". a series of paintings by peter paul rubens depict athena as marie de ' medici ' s patron and mentor ; the final painting in the series goes even further and shows marie de ' medici with athena ' s iconography, as the mortal incarnation of the goddess herself. the flemish sculptor jean - pierre - antoine tassaert ( jan peter anton