alchemical treatises have been analysed in detail in g. jan meulenbeld ' s history of indian medical literature. the discussion of these works in himl gives a summary of the contents of each work, their special features, and where possible the evidence concerning their dating. chapter 13 of himl, various works on rasasastra and ratnasastra ( or various works on alchemy and gems ) gives brief details of a further 655 ( six hundred and fifty - five ) treatises. in some cases meulenbeld gives notes on the contents and authorship of these works ; in other cases references are made only to the unpublished manuscripts of these titles. a great deal remains to be discovered about indian alchemical literature. the content of the sanskrit alchemical corpus has not yet ( 2014 ) been adequately integrated into the wider general history of alchemy. islamic world after the fall of the roman empire, the focus of alchemical development moved to the islamic world. much more is known about islamic alchemy because it was better documented : indeed, most of the earlier writings that have come down through the years were preserved as arabic translations. the word alchemy itself was derived from the arabic word al - kimiya ( الكيمياء ). the early islamic world was a melting pot for alchemy. platonic and aristotelian thought, which had already been somewhat appropriated into hermetical science, continued to be assimilated during the late 7th and early 8th centuries through syriac translations and scholarship. in the late ninth and early tenth centuries, the arabic works attributed to jabir ibn hayyan ( latinized as " geber " or " geberus " ) introduced a new approach to alchemy. paul kraus, who wrote the standard reference work on jabir, put it as follows : islamic philosophers also made great contributions to alchemical hermeticism. the most influential author in this regard was arguably jabir. jabir ' s ultimate goal was takwin, the artificial creation of life in the alchemical laboratory, up to, and including, human life. he analyzed each aristotelian element in terms of four basic qualities of hotness, coldness, dryness, and moistness. according to jabir, in each metal two of these qualities were interior and two were exterior. for example, lead was externally cold and dry, while gold was hot and moist. thus, jabir theorized, by rearranging the qualities of