element that constitutes all things. while each pre - socratic philosopher gave a different answer as to the identity of this element ( water for thales and air for anaximenes ), anaximander understood the beginning or first principle to be an endless, unlimited primordial mass ( apeiron ), subject to neither old age nor decay, that perpetually yielded fresh materials from which everything we perceive is derived. he proposed the theory of the apeiron in direct response to the earlier theory of his teacher, thales, who had claimed that the primary substance was water. the notion of temporal infinity was familiar to the greek mind from remote antiquity in the religious concept of immortality, and anaximander ' s description was in terms appropriate to this conception. this arche is called " eternal and ageless ". ( hippolytus (? ), refutation, i, 6, i ; dk b2 ) " aristotle puts things in his own way regardless of historical considerations, and it is difficult to see that it is more of an anachronism to call the boundless " intermediate between the elements " than to say that it is " distinct from the elements. " indeed, if once we introduce the elements at all, the former description is the more adequate of the two. at any rate, if we refuse to understand these passages as referring to anaximander, we shall have to say that aristotle paid a great deal of attention to some one whose very name has been lost, and who not only agreed with some of anaximander ' s views, but also used some of his most characteristic expressions. we may add that in one or two places aristotle certainly seems to identify the " intermediate " with the something " distinct from " the elements. " " it is certain that he [ anaximander ] cannot have said anything about elements, which no one thought of before empedokles, and no one could think of before parmenides. the question has only been mentioned because it has given rise to a lengthy controversy, and because it throws light on the historical value of aristotle ' s statements. from the point of view of his own system, these may be justified ; but we shall have to remember in other cases that, when he seems to attribute an idea to some earlier thinker, we are not bound to take what he says in an historical sense. " for anaximander, the principle of things, the constituent of all substances, is nothing determined and not an