zone backfired, as the latter increased their regional autonomy. byzantine authority survived, but in a much weakened state. in 1197, local lord dobromir chrysos established himself in the region of vardar macedonia, defying the imperial power for several years. during the first years of alexios ' reign, relations between byzantium and serbia were good, since his daughter eudokia angelina was married to serbian grand prince stefan nemanjic ii, who was granted the title of sebastokrator. but in 1200, those relations deteriorated. the marriage between stefan and eudokia was dissolved, and the alliance between serbia and byzantium ended, leaving byzantium without a single ally in southeastern europe. fourth crusade soon, alexios was threatened by a new and more formidable danger. in 1202, soldiers assembled at venice to launch the fourth crusade. alexios iv angelos, the son of the deposed isaac ii, had recently escaped from constantinople and now appealed for support to the crusaders, promising to end the east – west schism, to pay for their transport, and to provide military support if they would help him depose his uncle and ascend to his father ' s throne. the crusaders, whose objective had been egypt, were persuaded to set their course for constantinople, arriving there in june 1203, proclaiming alexios iv as emperor, and inviting the populace of the capital to depose his uncle. alexios iii took no effective measures to resist, and his attempts to bribe the crusaders failed. his son - in - law, theodore i laskaris, who was the only one to attempt anything significant, was defeated at scutari, and the siege of constantinople began. misgovernment by alexios iii had left the byzantine navy with only 20 worm - eaten hulks by the time the crusaders arrived. in july, the crusaders, led by the aged doge enrico dandolo, scaled the walls and took control of a major section of the city. in the ensuing fighting, the crusaders set the city on fire, ultimately leaving 20, 000 people homeless. on 17 july, alexios iii finally took action and led 17 divisions from the gate of st. romanus, vastly outnumbering the crusaders. his courage failed, however, and the byzantine army returned to the city without a fight. his courtiers demanded action, and alexios iii promised to fight. instead, that night ( 17 / 18 july ), alexios iii hid in the palace, and finally,