. the thelemite lon milo duquette noted that crowley " was by no means perfect " and " often alienated those who loved him dearest. " political opinions crowley enjoyed being outrageous and flouting conventional morality, with john symonds noting that he " was in revolt against the moral and religious values of his time ". crowley ' s political thought was studied by academic marco pasi, who noted that for crowley, socio - political concerns were subordinate to metaphysical and spiritual ones. he was neither on the political left nor right but perhaps best categorized as a " conservative revolutionary " despite not being affiliated with the german - based movement of the same name. pasi described crowley ' s fascination to the extreme ideologies of nazism and marxism – leninism, which aimed to violently overturn society : " what crowley liked about nazism and communism, or at least what made him curious about them, was the anti - christian position and the revolutionary and socially subversive implications of these two movements. in their subversive powers, he saw the possibility of an annihilation of old religious traditions, and the creation of a void that thelema, subsequently, would be able to fill. " crowley described democracy as an " imbecile and nauseating cult of weakness ", and commented that the book of the law proclaimed that " there is the master and there is the slave ; the noble and the serf ; the ' lone wolf ' and the herd ". in this attitude, he was influenced by the work of friedrich nietzsche and by social darwinism. although he had contempt for most of the british aristocracy, he regarded himself as an aristocrat and styled himself as laird boleskine, once describing his ideology as " aristocratic communism ". opinions on race and gender crowley was bisexual, but exhibited a preference for women, with his relationships with men being fewer and mostly in the early part of his life. in particular he had an attraction toward " exotic women ", and claimed to have fallen in love on multiple occasions ; kaczynski stated that " when he loved, he did so with his whole being, but the passion was typically short - lived ". even in later life, crowley was able to attract young bohemian women to be his lovers, largely due to his charisma. he applied the term " scarlet woman " to various female lovers whom he believed played an important role in his magical work. during homosexual acts, he usually played ' the passive role ', which booth believed " appealed