son juan his only male heir. after the july 1936 attempted coup d ' etat against the democratically elected republican government a war broke out in spain. on 30 july 1936, alfonso ' s son juan took the initiative of leaving cannes to go to spain to join the rebel faction, with the former king ( then in a hunting trip in czechoslovakia ) reportedly giving consent, so juan de borbon crossed the border set to join the front in somosierra dressed in a blue jumpsuit and red beret under the fake name " juan lopez ". however, rebel general emilio mola, mastermind behind the putschist plot, was warned of the move and had juan returned. the former king made it clear he favoured the rebel faction against the republican government. in september 1936, the general who had emerged as leader of the rebel faction, francisco franco, declared that he would not restore alfonso as king. death on 15 january 1941, alfonso xiii renounced his rights to the defunct spanish throne in favour of juan. he died of a heart attack in rome on 28 february that year. in spain, dictator francisco franco ordered three days of national mourning. the ex - king ' s funeral was held in rome in the church of santa maria degli angeli e dei martiri. he was buried in the church of santa maria in monserrato degli spagnoli, the spanish national church in rome, immediately below the tombs of popes callixtus iii and alexander vi. in january 1980 his remains were transferred to el escorial in spain. legacy alfonso was a promoter of tourism in spain. the need for the lodging of his wedding guests prompted the construction of the luxurious hotel palace in madrid. he also supported the creation of a network of state - run lodges, paradores, in historic buildings of spain. his fondness for the sport of football led to the patronage of several " royal " ( " real " in spanish ) football clubs, the first being real club deportivo de la coruna in 1907. selected others include real madrid, real sociedad, real betis, real union, espanyol, real zaragoza and real racing club. an avenue in the northern madrid neighbourhood of chamartin, avenida de alfonso xiii, is named after him. a plaza or town centre in iloilo city, philippines ( now plaza libertad ) was named in his honour called plaza alfonso xiii. a street in merthyr tydfil, in wales, was built especially to house spanish immigrants