, the mineral albchrome, the cement antea, the investment balfin group and the technology albtelecom, vodafone, telekom albania and others. in 2012, albania ' s gdp per capita stood at 30 % of the european union average, while gdp ( ppp ) per capita was 35 %. albania was one of three countries in europe to record an economic growth in the first quarter of 2010 after the global financial crisis. the international monetary fund predicted 2. 6 % growth for albania in 2010 and 3. 2 % in 2011. according to forbes,, the gross domestic product ( gdp ) was growing at 2. 8 %. the country had a trade balance of −9. 7 % and unemployment rate of 14. 7 %. foreign direct investment has increased significantly in recent years as the government has embarked on an ambitious programme to improve the business climate through fiscal and legislative reforms. primary sector agriculture in the country is based on small to medium - sized family - owned dispersed units. it remains a significant sector of the economy of albania. it employs 41 % of the population, and about 24. 31 % of the land is used for agricultural purposes. one of the earliest farming sites in europe has been found in the southeast of the country. as part of the pre - accession process of albania to the european union, farmers are being aided through ipa funds to improve albanian agriculture standards. albania produces significant amounts of fruits ( apples, olives, grapes, oranges, lemons, apricots, peaches, cherries, figs, sour cherries, plums, and strawberries ), vegetables ( potatoes, tomatoes, maize, onions, and wheat ), sugar beets, tobacco, meat, honey, dairy products, traditional medicine and aromatic plants. further, the country is a worldwide significant producer of salvia, rosemary and yellow gentian. the country ' s proximity to the ionian sea and the adriatic sea give the underdeveloped fishing industry great potential. the world bank and european community economists report that, albania ' s fishing industry has good potential to generate export earnings because prices in the nearby greek and italian markets are many times higher than those in the albanian market. the fish available off the coasts of the country are carp, trout, sea bream, mussels and crustaceans. albania has one of europe ' s longest histories of viticulture. today ' s region was one of the few places where vine was naturally grown during the ice age.