alexis carrel ( ; 28 june 1873 – 5 november 1944 ) was a french surgeon and biologist who was awarded the nobel prize in physiology or medicine in 1912 for pioneering vascular suturing techniques. he invented the first perfusion pump with charles lindbergh opening the way to organ transplantation. carrel was also a pioneer in transplantology and thoracic surgery. he is known for his leading role in implementing eugenic policies in vichy france. biography born in sainte - foy - les - lyon, rhone, carrel was raised in a devout catholic family and was educated by jesuits, though he had become an agnostic by the time he became a university student. he was a member of learned societies in the u. s., spain, russia, sweden, the netherlands, belgium, france, vatican city, germany, italy, and greece, and was elected twice, in 1924 and 1927, as an honorary member of the academy of sciences of the ussr. he also received honorary doctorates from queen ' s university of belfast, princeton university, california, new york, brown university, and columbia university. in 1902, he was claimed to have witnessed the miraculous cure of marie bailly at lourdes, which became famous in part because she named carrel as a witness of her cure. after the notoriety surrounding the event, carrel could not obtain a hospital appointment because of the pervasive anticlericalism in the french university system at the time. in 1903, he emigrated to montreal, canada, but soon relocated to chicago, illinois, to work for hull laboratory. while there he collaborated with american physician charles claude guthrie in work on vascular suture and the transplantation of blood vessels and organs as well as the head, and carrel was awarded the 1912 nobel prize in physiology or medicine for these efforts. in 1906, he joined the newly formed rockefeller institute of medical research in new york where he spent the rest of his career. there he did significant work on tissue cultures with pathologist montrose thomas burrows. in the 1930s, carrel and charles lindbergh became close friends not only because of the years they worked together but also because they shared personal, political, and social views. lindbergh initially sought out carrel to see if his sister - in - law ' s heart, damaged by rheumatic fever, could be repaired. when lindbergh saw the crudeness of carrel ' s machinery, he offered to build new equipment for the scientist. eventually they built the first perfusion pump, an invention instrumental to