. in december 2005, the fia gave approval to superleague formula racing, which debuted in 2008, whereby the racing teams are owned and run by prominent sports clubs such as a. c. milan and liverpool f. c. after 25 years away from the sport, former formula 2 champion jonathan palmer reopened the f2 category again ; most drivers have graduated from the formula palmer audi series. the category is officially registered as the fia formula two championship. most rounds have two races and are support races to the fia world touring car championship. touring car racing touring car racing is a style of road racing that is run with production - derived four - seat race cars. the lesser use of aerodynamics means following cars have a much easier time passing than in open - wheel racing. it often features full - contact racing with subtle bumping and nudging due to the small speed differentials and large grids. the major touring car championships conducted worldwide are the supercars championship ( australia ), british touring car championship, deutsche tourenwagen masters ( dtm ), world touring car championship and the world touring car cup. the european touring car cup is a one - day event open to super 2000 specification touring cars from europe ' s many national championships. the sports car club of america ' s speed world challenge touring car and gt championships are dominant in north america. america ' s historic trans - am series is undergoing a period of transition, but is still the longest - running road racing series in the u. s. the national auto sport association also provides a venue for amateurs to compete in home - built factory - derived vehicles on various local circuits. sports car racing in sports car racing, production - derived versions of two - seat sports cars, also known as grand tourers ( gts ), and purpose - built sports prototype cars compete within their respective classes on closed circuits. the premier championship series of sports car racing is the fia world endurance championship. the main series for gt car racing is the gt world challenge europe, divided into two separate championships : the gt world challenge europe sprint cup and the gt world challenge europe endurance cup. this series has formed after the folding of the various fia gt championships. other major gt championships include the gt world challenge america, gt world challenge asia, super gt, and the international gt open. there are minor regional and national gt series using mainly gt4 and gt3 cars featuring both amateur and professional drivers. sports prototypes, unlike gt cars, do not rely on road - legal cars as a base. they are closed - wheel