: a constant light ( from a fixed lens ), one flash per minute ( from a rotating lens with eight panels ), and two per minute ( sixteen panels ). in late 1825, to reduce the loss of light in the reflecting elements, fresnel proposed to replace each mirror with a catadioptric prism, through which the light would travel by refraction through the first surface, then total internal reflection off the second surface, then refraction through the third surface. the result was the lighthouse lens as we now know it. in 1826 he assembled a small model for use on the canal saint - martin, but he did not live to see a full - sized version. the first fixed lens with toroidal prisms was a first - order apparatus designed by the scottish engineer alan stevenson under the guidance of leonor fresnel, and fabricated by isaac cookson & co. from french glass ; it entered service at the isle of may in 1836. the first large catadioptric lenses were fixed third - order lenses made in 1842 for the lighthouses at gravelines and ile vierge. the first fully catadioptric first - order lens, installed at ailly in 1852, gave eight rotating beams assisted by eight catadioptric panels at the top ( to lengthen the flashes ), plus a fixed light from below. the first fully catadioptric lens with purely revolving beams — also of first order — was installed at saint - clement - des - baleines in 1854, and marked the completion of augustin fresnel ' s original carte des phares. production of one - piece stepped dioptric lenses — roughly as envisaged by buffon — became practical in 1852, when john l. gilliland of the brooklyn flint - glass company patented a method of making such lenses from press - molded glass. by the 1950s, the substitution of plastic for glass made it economic to use fine - stepped fresnel lenses as condensers in overhead projectors. still finer steps can be found in low - cost plastic " sheet " magnifiers. honors fresnel was elected to the societe philomathique de paris in april 1819, and in 1822 became one of the editors of the societe ' s bulletin des sciences. as early as may 1817, at arago ' s suggestion, fresnel applied for membership of the academie des sciences, but received only one vote. the successful candidate on that occasion was joseph fourier. in november 1822, fourier ' s elevation to permanent