the eye moved from one color to a contrasting color, the eye would spasm, or " kick. " likewise, he discovered that the contrast of two seeming opposites was a common feature in haiku. ginsberg used this technique in his poetry, putting together two starkly dissimilar images : something weak with something strong, an artifact of high culture with an artifact of low culture, something holy with something unholy. the example ginsberg most often used was " hydrogen jukebox " ( which later became the title of a song cycle composed by philip glass with lyrics drawn from ginsberg ' s poems ). another example is ginsberg ' s observation on bob dylan during dylan ' s hectic and intense 1966 electric - guitar tour, fueled by a cocktail of amphetamines, opiates, alcohol, and psychedelics, as a dexedrine clown. the phrases " eyeball kick " and " hydrogen jukebox " both show up in howl, as well as a direct quote from cezanne : " pater omnipotens aeterna deus ". inspiration from music allen ginsberg also found inspiration in music. he frequently included music in his poetry, invariably composing his tunes on an old indian harmonium, which he often played during his readings. he wrote and recorded music to accompany william blake ' s songs of innocence and songs of experience. he also recorded a handful of other albums. to create music for howl and wichita vortex sutra, he worked with the minimalist composer, philip glass. ginsberg worked with, drew inspiration from, and inspired artists such as bob dylan, the clash, patti smith, phil ochs, and the fugs. he worked with dylan on various projects and maintained a friendship with him over many years. in 1981, ginsberg recorded a song called " birdbrain. " he was backed by the gluons, and the track was released as a single. in 1996, he recorded a song co - written with paul mccartney and philip glass, " the ballad of the skeletons ", which reached number 8 on the triple j hottest 100 for that year. style and technique from the study of his idols and mentors and the inspiration of his friends — not to mention his own experiments — ginsberg developed an individualistic style that ' s easily identified as ginsbergian. ginsberg stated that whitman ' s long line was a dynamic technique few other poets had ventured to develop further, and whitman is also often compared to ginsberg because their poetry sexualized