wordy warfare ", and the people divided into parties, sometimes demonstrating in the streets in support of one side or the other. arianism appealed to many high - level leaders and clergy in both the western and eastern empires. although the western emperor gratian ( ) supported orthodoxy, his younger half brother valentinian ii, who became his colleague in the empire in 375, adhered to the arian creed. ambrose sought to refute arian propositions theologically, but ambrose did not sway the young prince ' s position. in the east, emperor theodosius i ( ) likewise professed the nicene creed ; but there were many adherents of arianism throughout his dominions, especially among the higher clergy. in this state of religious ferment, two leaders of the arians, bishops palladius of ratiaria and secundianus of singidunum, confident of numbers, prevailed upon gratian to call a general council from all parts of the empire. this request appeared so equitable that gratian complied without hesitation. however, ambrose feared the consequences and prevailed upon the emperor to have the matter determined by a council of the western bishops. accordingly, a synod composed of thirty - two bishops was held at aquileia in the year 381. ambrose was elected president and palladius, being called upon to defend his opinions, declined. a vote was then taken and palladius and his associate secundianus were deposed from their episcopal offices. ambrose struggled with arianism for over half of his term in the episcopate. ecclesiastical unity was important to the church, but it was no less important to the state, and as a roman, ambrose felt strongly about that. judaism was more attractive for those seeking conversion than previous scholars have realized, and pagans were still in the majority. conflict over heresies loomed large in an age of religious ferment comparable to the reformation of the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries. orthodox christianity was determining how to define itself as it faced multiple challenges on both a theological and a practical level, and ambrose exercised crucial influence at a crucial time. imperial relations ambrose had good relations and varying levels of influence with the roman emperors gratian, valentinian ii and theodosius i, but exactly how much influence, what kind of influence, and in what ways, when, has been debated in the scholarship of the late twentieth and early twenty - first centuries. gratian it has long been convention to see gratian and ambrose as having a personal friendship