the house guardian goddess, to convey their wishes for a large catch, and to the god of mountains for safe hunting. the ainu traditionally hunt bears during the spring thaw. at that time, bears are weak because they haven ' t eaten during their long hibernation. ainu hunters catch hibernating bears or bears that have just left hibernation dens. when they hunt bear in summer, they use a spring trap loaded with an arrow, called an amappo. the ainu usually use arrows to hunt deer. also, they drive deer into a river or sea and shoot them with arrows. for a large catch, a whole village would drive a herd of deer off a cliff and club them to death. fishing fishing is important to ainu culture. they largely catch trout in summer and salmon in autumn, as well as ito ( japanese huchen ), dace, and other fish. spears called marek " were often used. other methods were " tesh " fishing, " uray " fishing, and " rawomap " fishing. many villages were built near rivers or along the coast. each village or individual had a definite river fishing territory. outsiders could not freely fish there and needed to ask the owner. japanese lacquerware japanese lacquerware was used in everyday life as tableware and often used in ceremonies ( ritual utensils ), such as the cups used to offer alcohol when praying to the kamui. lacquerware was often treated as treasure, and it was also used as containers for storing other treasures. one of the characteristics of ainu lacquerware is that it is almost entirely imported from the south of honshu. some pieces may have been lacquered in matsumae in southern hokkaido, but since the technique of lacquering is from honshu, lacquerware can be considered an introduced item among ainu folk implements. there are examples of spatulas and other objects used by the ainu people for ceremonial purposes that remain in clusters of the same size, and some are specifically produced for trading with the ainu. ornaments traditionally, ainu men wear a crown called a sapanpe for important ceremonies. sapanpe are made from wood fibre with bundles of partially shaved wood. the crown has wooden figures of animal gods and other ornaments on its centre. men carry an emush ( ceremonial sword ) secured by an emush at strap to their shoulders. ainu women traditionally wear matanpushi, embroidered headbands,