not intended to see. chariclo intervened on her son ' s behalf and begged athena to have mercy. athena replied that she could not restore tiresias ' s eyesight, so, instead, she gave him the ability to understand the language of the birds and thus foretell the future. myrmex was a clever and chaste attic girl who became quickly a favourite of athena. however when athena invented the plough, myrmex went to the atticans and told them that it was in fact her own invention. hurt by the girl ' s betrayal, athena transformed her into the small insect bearing her name, the ant. the fable of arachne appears in ovid ' s metamorphoses ( 8 ad ) ( vi. 5 – 54 and 129 – 145 ), which is nearly the only extant source for the legend. the story does not appear to have been well known prior to ovid ' s rendition of it and the only earlier reference to it is a brief allusion in virgil ' s georgics, ( 29 bc ) ( iv, 246 ) that does not mention arachne by name. according to ovid, arachne ( whose name means spider in ancient greek ) was the daughter of a famous dyer in tyrian purple in hypaipa of lydia, and a weaving student of athena. she became so conceited of her skill as a weaver that she began claiming that her skill was greater than that of athena herself. athena gave arachne a chance to redeem herself by assuming the form of an old woman and warning arachne not to offend the deities. arachne scoffed and wished for a weaving contest, so she could prove her skill. athena wove the scene of her victory over poseidon in the contest for the patronage of athens. athena ' s tapestry also depicted the 12 olympian gods and defeat of mythological figures who challenged their authority. arachne ' s tapestry featured twenty - one episodes of the deities ' infidelity, including zeus being unfaithful with leda, with europa, and with danae. it represented the unjust and discrediting behavior of the gods towards mortals. athena admitted that arachne ' s work was flawless, but was outraged at arachne ' s offensive choice of subject, which displayed the failings and transgressions of the deities. finally, losing her temper, athena destroyed arachne ' s tapestry and loom, striking it with her shuttle. athena then struck arachne