amathus, allied with citium and soli ; and even after alexander the city resisted annexation, and was bound over to give hostages to seleucus. its political importance was now ended but its temple of adonis and aphrodite amathusia remained famous in roman times. the epithet amathusia in roman poetry often means little more than " cypriote, " but attesting to the fame of the city. from the 4th century bc the pedestals of two sculptures donated by the last basileus of amathous, androkles, representing his two sons, orestheus and andragoras, have survived. their inscriptions are in both eteocyprian and greek languages. the decline of amathus is often measured by the ptolemaic gifts to argos, where amathus donated only 40 drachmas in 170 - 160 bc, but kition and salamis gave 208, kourion 172, and paphos 100. however, this figure contradicts the archaeologic evidence of new buildings in this period including a balneion, a bath, a gymnasium, as well as fortifications of the acropolis, including a new tower. the port of paphos appears to have lost traffic compared to amathus in the ptolemaic period, an indication that paphos, as the capital of the island, perhaps offered fewer drachmas than the other cities for different reasons, like amathus. roman era in the roman era amathus became the capital of one of the four administrative regions of cyprus. a roman temple was built in the 1st century ad on top of the hellenistic predecessor. the temple facilities remained so important in roman times that ' amathusia ' was used as a synonym for ' cypriot '. late antiquity and the middle ages later, in the 4th century ad, amasus became the see of a christian bishop and continued to flourish until the byzantine period. of its bishops, heliodorus was at the council of chalcedon in 451 and alexander at the second council of nicaea in 787. in the late 6th century, saint ioannis eleimonas ( john the charitable ), protector of the knights of st. john, was born in amathus and after 614 sent theodorus, bishop of amathus, to jerusalem to ransom some slaves. today, amathus is a see of the church of cyprus and is also listed ( under the name " amathus in cypro ", to distinguish it