hasansu, zayamchai, and tovuzchai uncovered from the btc pipeline have revealed early iron age artifacts. azerbaijani carpets can be categorized under several large groups and a multitude of subgroups. scientific research of the azerbaijani carpet is connected with the name of latif karimov, a prominent scientist and artist. it was his classification that related the four large groups of carpets with the four geographical zones of azerbaijan, guba - shirvan, ganja - kazakh, karabakh and tabriz. cuisine the traditional cuisine is famous for an abundance of vegetables and greens used seasonally in the dishes. fresh herbs, including mint, cilantro ( coriander ), dill, basil, parsley, tarragon, leeks, chives, thyme, marjoram, green onion, and watercress, are very popular and often accompany main dishes on the table. climatic diversity and fertility of the land are reflected in the national dishes, which are based on fish from the caspian sea, local meat ( mainly mutton and beef ), and an abundance of seasonal vegetables and greens. saffron - rice plov is the flagship food in azerbaijan and black tea is the national beverage. azerbaijanis often use traditional armudu ( pear - shaped ) glass as they have very strong tea culture. popular traditional dishes include bozbash ( lamb soup that exists in several regional varieties with the addition of different vegetables ), qutab ( fried turnover with a filling of greens or minced meat ) and dushbara ( sort of dumplings of dough filled with ground meat and flavor ). architecture azerbaijani architecture typically combines elements of east and west. azerbaijani architecture has heavy influences from persian architecture. many ancient architectural treasures such as the maiden tower and palace of the shirvanshahs in the walled city of baku survive in modern azerbaijan. entries submitted on the unesco world heritage tentative list include the ateshgah of baku, momine khatun mausoleum, hirkan national park, binagadi asphalt lake, lokbatan mud volcano, shusha state historical and architectural reserve, baku stage mountain, caspian shore defensive constructions, ordubad national reserve and the palace of shaki khans. among other architectural treasures are quadrangular castle in mardakan, parigala in yukhary chardaglar, a number of bridges spanning the aras river, and several mausoleums. in the 19th and early 20th centuries, little monumental architecture was created, but distinctive residences were