##aradisus, 321 bc. in the winter of 327 / 326 bc, alexander personally led a campaign against the aspasioi of the kunar valley, the guraeans of the guraeus valley, and the assakenoi of the swat and buner valleys. a fierce contest ensued with the aspasioi in which alexander was wounded in the shoulder by a dart, but eventually the aspasioi lost. alexander then faced the assakenoi, who fought against him from the strongholds of massaga, ora and aornos. the fort of massaga was reduced only after days of bloody fighting, in which alexander was wounded seriously in the ankle. according to curtius, " not only did alexander slaughter the entire population of massaga, but also did he reduce its buildings to rubble. " a similar slaughter followed at ora. in the aftermath of massaga and ora, numerous assakenians fled to the fortress of aornos. alexander followed close behind and captured the strategic hill - fort after four bloody days. after aornos, alexander crossed the indus and fought and won an epic battle against king porus, who ruled a region lying between the hydaspes and the acesines ( chenab ), in what is now the punjab, in the battle of the hydaspes in 326 bc. alexander was impressed by porus ' s bravery, and made him an ally. he appointed porus as satrap, and added to porus ' s territory land that he did not previously own, towards the south - east, up to the hyphasis ( beas ). choosing a local helped him control these lands so distant from greece. alexander founded two cities on opposite sides of the hydaspes river, naming one bucephala, in honour of his horse, who died around this time. the other was nicaea ( victory ), thought to be located at the site of modern - day mong, punjab. philostratus the elder in the life of apollonius of tyana writes that in the army of porus there was an elephant who fought brave against alexander ' s army and alexander dedicated it to the helios ( sun ) and named it ajax, because he thought that a so great animal deserved a great name. the elephant had gold rings around its tusks and an inscription was on them written in greek : " alexander the son of zeus dedicates ajax to the helios " (