joined in india by eckenstein and several other mountaineers : guy knowles, h. pfannl, v. wesseley, and jules jacot - guillarmod. together, the eckenstein - crowley expedition attempted k2, which had never been climbed. on the journey, crowley was afflicted with influenza, malaria, and snow blindness, and other expedition members were also struck with illness. they reached an altitude of before turning back. having arrived in paris in november 1902, he socialized with his friend the painter gerald kelly, and through him became a fixture of the parisian arts scene. whilst there, crowley wrote a series of poems on the work of an acquaintance, the sculptor auguste rodin. these poems were later published as rodin in rime ( 1907 ). one of those frequenting this milieu was w. somerset maugham, who after briefly meeting crowley later used him as a model for the character of oliver haddo in his novel the magician ( 1908 ). he returned to boleskine in april 1903. in august, crowley wed gerald kelly ' s sister rose edith kelly in a " marriage of convenience " to prevent her from entering an arranged marriage ; the marriage appalled the kelly family and damaged his friendship with gerald. heading on a honeymoon to paris, cairo, and then ceylon, crowley fell in love with rose and worked to prove his affections. while on his honeymoon, he wrote her a series of love poems, published as rosa mundi and other love songs ( 1906 ), as well as authoring the religious satire why jesus wept ( 1904 ). developing thelema egypt and the book of the law : 1904 in february 1904, crowley and rose arrived in cairo. claiming to be a prince and princess, they rented an apartment in which crowley set up a temple room and began invoking ancient egyptian deities, while studying islamic mysticism and arabic. according to crowley ' s later account, rose regularly became delirious and informed him " they are waiting for you. " on 18 march, she explained that " they " were the god horus, and on 20 march proclaimed that " the equinox of the gods has come ". she led him to a nearby museum, where she showed him a seventh - century bce mortuary stele known as the stele of ankh - ef - en - khonsu ; crowley thought it important that the exhibit ' s number was 666, the number of the beast in christian belief, and in later years