twice as wide as single - sideband techniques ; it thus may be viewed as spectrally inefficient. within a frequency band, only half as many transmissions ( or " channels " ) can thus be accommodated. for this reason analog television employs a variant of single - sideband ( known as vestigial sideband, somewhat of a compromise in terms of bandwidth ) in order to reduce the required channel spacing. another improvement over standard am is obtained through reduction or suppression of the carrier component of the modulated spectrum. in figure 2 this is the spike in between the sidebands ; even with full ( 100 % ) sine wave modulation, the power in the carrier component is twice that in the sidebands, yet it carries no unique information. thus there is a great advantage in efficiency in reducing or totally suppressing the carrier, either in conjunction with elimination of one sideband ( single - sideband suppressed - carrier transmission ) or with both sidebands remaining ( double sideband suppressed carrier ). while these suppressed carrier transmissions are efficient in terms of transmitter power, they require more sophisticated receivers employing synchronous detection and regeneration of the carrier frequency. for that reason, standard am continues to be widely used, especially in broadcast transmission, to allow for the use of inexpensive receivers using envelope detection. even ( analog ) television, with a ( largely ) suppressed lower sideband, includes sufficient carrier power for use of envelope detection. but for communications systems where both transmitters and receivers can be optimized, suppression of both one sideband and the carrier represent a net advantage and are frequently employed. a technique used widely in broadcast am transmitters is an application of the hapburg carrier, first proposed in the 1930s but impractical with the technology then available. during periods of low modulation the carrier power would be reduced and would return to full power during periods of high modulation levels. this has the effect of reducing the overall power demand of the transmitter and is most effective on speech type programmes. various trade names are used for its implementation by the transmitter manufacturers from the late 80 ' s onwards. modulation index the am modulation index is a measure based on the ratio of the modulation excursions of the rf signal to the level of the unmodulated carrier. it is thus defined as : where and are the modulation amplitude and carrier amplitude, respectively ; the modulation amplitude is the peak ( positive or negative ) change in the rf amplitude from its unmodulated value. modulation index is normally expressed as a percentage, and may be displayed