academic freedom before a packed audience at the royal albert hall in london, with the times reporting he was wildly cheered throughout. four days later he returned to the us and took up a position at the institute for advanced study, noted for having become a refuge for scientists fleeing nazi germany. at the time, most american universities, including harvard, princeton and yale, had minimal or no jewish faculty or students, as a result of their jewish quotas, which lasted until the late 1940s. einstein was still undecided on his future. he had offers from several european universities, including christ church, oxford, where he stayed for three short periods between may 1931 and june 1933 and was offered a five - year research fellowship ( called a " studentship " at christ church ), but in 1935, he arrived at the decision to remain permanently in the united states and apply for citizenship. einstein ' s affiliation with the institute for advanced study would last until his death in 1955. he was one of the four first selected ( along with john von neumann, kurt godel, and hermann weyl ) at the new institute. he soon developed a close friendship with godel ; the two would take long walks together discussing their work. bruria kaufman, his assistant, later became a physicist. during this period, einstein tried to develop a unified field theory and to refute the accepted interpretation of quantum physics, both unsuccessfully. he lived in princeton at his home from 1935 onwards. the albert einstein house was made a national historic landmark in 1976. world war ii and the manhattan project in 1939, a group of hungarian scientists that included emigre physicist leo szilard attempted to alert washington to ongoing nazi atomic bomb research. the group ' s warnings were discounted. einstein and szilard, along with other refugees such as edward teller and eugene wigner, " regarded it as their responsibility to alert americans to the possibility that german scientists might win the race to build an atomic bomb, and to warn that hitler would be more than willing to resort to such a weapon. " to make certain the us was aware of the danger, in july 1939, a few months before the beginning of world war ii in europe, szilard and wigner visited einstein to explain the possibility of atomic bombs, which einstein, a pacifist, said he had never considered. he was asked to lend his support by writing a letter, with szilard, to president roosevelt, recommending the us pay attention and engage in its own nuclear weapons research. the letter is believed to be "