people to believe anything, even to take actions that are destructive. the opinions amongst experts and industry insiders are mixed, with sizable fractions both concerned and unconcerned by risk from eventual superintelligent ai. personalities such as stephen hawking, bill gates, elon musk have expressed concern about existential risk from ai. in the early 2010 ' s, experts argued that the risks are too distant in the future to warrant research or that humans will be valuable from the perspective of a superintelligent machine. however, after 2016, the study of current and future risks and possible solutions became a serious area of research. in 2023, ai pioneers including geoffrey hinton, yoshua bengio, demis hassabis, and sam altman issued the joint statement that " mitigating the risk of extinction from ai should be a global priority alongside other societal - scale risks such as pandemics and nuclear war ". ethical machines and alignment friendly ai are machines that have been designed from the beginning to minimize risks and to make choices that benefit humans. eliezer yudkowsky, who coined the term, argues that developing friendly ai should be a higher research priority : it may require a large investment and it must be completed before ai becomes an existential risk. machines with intelligence have the potential to use their intelligence to make ethical decisions. the field of machine ethics provides machines with ethical principles and procedures for resolving ethical dilemmas. the field of machine ethics is also called computational morality, and was founded at an aaai symposium in 2005. other approaches include wendell wallach ' s " artificial moral agents " and stuart j. russell ' s three principles for developing provably beneficial machines. regulation the regulation of artificial intelligence is the development of public sector policies and laws for promoting and regulating artificial intelligence ( ai ) ; it is therefore related to the broader regulation of algorithms. the regulatory and policy landscape for ai is an emerging issue in jurisdictions globally. according to ai index at stanford, the annual number of ai - related laws passed in the 127 survey countries jumped from one passed in 2016 to 37 passed in 2022 alone. between 2016 and 2020, more than 30 countries adopted dedicated strategies for ai. most eu member states had released national ai strategies, as had canada, china, india, japan, mauritius, the russian federation, saudi arabia, united arab emirates, us and vietnam. others were in the process of elaborating their own ai strategy, including bangladesh, malaysia and tunisia. the global partnership on artificial intelligence