resigned after serving only six months. upon returning to tennessee, jackson was elected as a judge of the tennessee superior court. in 1802, he also became major general, or commander, of the tennessee militia, a position that was determined by a vote of the militia ' s officers. the vote was tied between jackson and john sevier, a popular revolutionary war veteran and former governor, but the governor, archibald roane, broke the tie in jackson ' s favor. jackson later accused sevier of fraud and bribery. sevier responded by impugning rachel ' s honor, resulting in a shootout on a public street. soon afterwards, they met to duel, but parted without having fired at each other. planting career and slavery jackson resigned his judgeship in 1804. he had almost gone bankrupt when the credit he used for land speculation collapsed in the wake of an earlier financial panic. he had to sell hunter ' s hill, as well as of land he bought for speculation, and bought a smaller plantation near nashville that he would call the hermitage. he focused on recovering from his losses by becoming a successful planter and merchant. the hermitage would grow to, making it one of the largest cotton - growing plantations in the state. like most planters in the southern united states, jackson used slave labor. in 1804, jackson had nine african american slaves ; by 1820, he had over 100 ; and by his death in 1845, he had over 150. over his lifetime, he owned a total of 300 slaves. jackson subscribed to the paternalistic idea of slavery, which claimed that slave ownership was morally acceptable as long as slaves were treated with humanity and their basic needs were cared for. in practice, slaves were treated as a form of wealth whose productivity needed to be protected. jackson directed harsh punishment for slaves who disobeyed or ran away. for example, in an 1804 advertisement to recover a runaway slave, he offered " ten dollars extra, for every hundred lashes any person will give him " up to three hundred lashes — a number that would likely have been deadly. jackson also participated in the local slave trade. over time, his accumulation of wealth in both slaves and land placed him among the elite families of tennessee. duel with dickinson and adventure with burr in may 1806, jackson fought a duel with charles dickinson. they had gotten into an argument over a horse race, and dickinson allegedly uttered a slur against rachel. during the duel, dickinson fired first, and the bullet hit jackson in the chest. the wound was not life - threatening because the