a nonprofit organization dedicated to children, learning, and advanced software development. for their first ten years, kay and his viewpoints group were based at applied minds in glendale, california, where he and ferren worked on various projects. kay served as president of the institute until its closure in 2018. in 2002 kay joined hp labs as a senior fellow, departing when hp disbanded the advanced software research team on july 20, 2005. he has been an adjunct professor of computer science at the university of california, los angeles, a visiting professor at kyoto university, and an adjunct professor at the massachusetts institute of technology ( mit ). kay served on the advisory board of tti / vanguard. squeak, etoys, and croquet in december 1995, while still at apple, kay collaborated with many others to start the open source squeak version of smalltalk. as part of this effort, in november 1996, his team began research on what became the etoys system. more recently he started, with david a. smith, david p. reed, andreas raab, rick mcgeer, julian lombardi, and mark mccahill, the croquet project, an open - source networked 2d and 3d environment for collaborative work. tweak in 2001, it became clear that the etoy architecture in squeak had reached its limits in what the morphic interface infrastructure could do. andreas raab, a researcher in kay ' s group then at hewlett - packard, proposed defining a " script process " and providing a default scheduling mechanism that avoided several more general problems. the result was a new user interface, proposed to replace the squeak morphic user interface. tweak added mechanisms of islands, asynchronous messaging, players and costumes, language extensions, projects, and tile scripting. its underlying object system is class - based, but to users ( during programming ) it acts as if it were prototype - based. tweak objects are created and run in tweak project windows. the children ' s machine in november 2005, at the world summit on the information society, the mit research laboratories unveiled a new laptop computer for educational use around the world. it has many names, including the $ 100 laptop, the one laptop per child program, the children ' s machine, and the xo - 1. the program was founded and is sustained by kay ' s friend nicholas negroponte, and is based on kay ' s dynabook ideal. kay is a prominent co - developer of the computer, focusing on its