out food, as opposed to his nemesis j. r. ewing frequenting fine restaurants. among the numerous american television series and films that feature chinese restaurants as a setting include a christmas story, seinfeld ( particularly the episode " the chinese restaurant " ), sex and the city, big trouble in little china, south park, year of the dragon, lethal weapon 4, mickey blue eyes, booty call, rush hour 2, and men in black 3. in most cases, it is not an actual restaurant but a movie set that typifies the stereotypical american chinese eatery, featuring " paper lanterns and intricate woodwork ", with " numerous fish tanks and detailed [ red ] wallpaper [ with gold designs ] " and " golden dragons ", plus " hanging ducks in the window ". cultural impact impact on united states in 2023, there are more chinese restaurants in the united states than all american fast food restaurants combined. chinese american cuisine provides an option for americans to taste chinese food, which is adapted to both chinese and american flavors. it allows people in america to learn more about chinese traditional culture and customs. in this process, chinese americans have developed a new cuisine which is different from " traditional chinese food, " and contribute to the food diversity in america. through running their own restaurants or eateries, first - generation chinese immigrants eliminated discrimination against them and gained sufficient income to send the next generations to universities or colleges. for chinese americans, american chinese cuisine has already become part of their childhood memories and life, which also would be a bridge between chinese and american cultures. for example, panda express and p. f. chang ' s, two of the most famous american chinese restaurants in the united states that have become the symbol of american chinese cuinsine and have gained appreciation from many americans. in addition, american chinese cuisine brought some new ingredients and cooking methods to the united states, such as stir - frying and steaming. thus, many restaurants in the united states started to combine existing dishes with chinese cooking techniques and flavors, which promoted the development of fusion cuisine. introduction of chinese food also triggered people ' s curiosity about more asian food, such as japanese, thai and singaporean food, and led to a prevalence of asian cuisine. impact on china although chinese people will regard american chinese food as inauthentic food and less likely to have it, or they will not recognize american chinese cuisine, in recent years, some american chinese food restaurants have opened in some cities of china, such as beijing and shanghai. p. f