johnson ' s veto of a bill for statehood for colorado territory was sustained ; enough senators agreed that a district with a population of 30, 000 was not yet worthy of statehood to win the day. in january 1867, congressman stevens introduced legislation to dissolve the southern state governments and reconstitute them into five military districts, under martial law. the states would begin again by holding constitutional conventions. african americans could vote for or become delegates ; former confederates could not. in the legislative process, congress added to the bill that restoration to the union would follow the state ' s ratification of the fourteenth amendment, and completion of the process of adding it to the constitution. johnson and the southerners attempted a compromise, whereby the south would agree to a modified version of the amendment without the disqualification of former confederates, and for limited black suffrage. the republicans insisted on the full language of the amendment, and the deal fell through. although johnson could have pocket vetoed the first reconstruction act as it was presented to him less than ten days before the end of the thirty - ninth congress, he chose to veto it directly on march 2, 1867 ; congress overruled him the same day. also on march 2, congress passed the tenure of office act over the president ' s veto, in response to statements during the swing around the circle that he planned to fire cabinet secretaries who did not agree with him. this bill, requiring senate approval for the firing of cabinet members during the tenure of the president who appointed them and for one month afterwards, was immediately controversial, with some senators doubting that it was constitutional or that its terms applied to johnson, whose key cabinet officers were lincoln holdovers. impeachment secretary of war edwin stanton was an able and hard - working man, but difficult to deal with. johnson both admired and was exasperated by his war secretary, who, in combination with general of the army grant, worked to undermine the president ' s southern policy from within his own administration. johnson considered firing stanton, but respected him for his wartime service as secretary. stanton, for his part, feared allowing johnson to appoint his successor and refused to resign, despite his public disagreements with his president. the new congress met for a few weeks in march 1867, then adjourned, leaving the house committee on the judiciary behind, tasked in the first impeachment inquiry against johnson with reporting back to the full house whether there were grounds for johnson to be impeached. this committee duly met, examined the president ' s bank accounts, and summoned members of the cabinet to testify.