speaking through the hero of his third play the acharnians ( staged at the lenaia, where there were few or no foreign dignitaries ), the poet carefully distinguishes between the polis and the real targets of his acerbic wit : aristophanes repeatedly savages cleon in his later plays. but these satirical diatribes appear to have had no effect on cleon ' s political career — a few weeks after the performance of the knights — a play full of anti - cleon jokes — cleon was elected to the prestigious board of ten generals. cleon also seems to have had no real power to limit or control aristophanes : the caricatures of him continued up to and even beyond his death. in the absence of clear biographical facts about aristophanes, scholars make educated guesses based on interpretation of the language in the plays. inscriptions and summaries or comments by hellenistic and byzantine scholars can also provide useful clues. we know from a combination of these sources, and especially from comments in the knights and the clouds, that aristophanes ' first three plays were not directed by him ; they were instead directed by callistratus and philoneides, an arrangement that seemed to suit aristophanes since he appears to have used these same directors in many later plays as well ( philoneides for example later directed the frogs and he was also credited, perhaps wrongly, with directing the wasps ). aristophanes ' s use of directors complicates our reliance on the plays as sources of biographical information, because apparent self - references might have been made with reference to his directors instead. thus, for example, a statement by the chorus in the acharnians seems to indicate that the " poet " had a close, personal association with the island of aegina. similarly, the hero in the acharnians complains about cleon " dragging me into court " over " last year ' s play. " comments made by the chorus referring to aristophanes in the clouds have been interpreted as evidence that he can hardly have been more than 18 years old when his first play the banqueters was produced. the second parabasis in wasps appears to indicate that he reached some kind of temporary accommodation with cleon following either the controversy over the babylonians or a subsequent controversy over the knights. it has been inferred from statements in the clouds and peace that aristophanes was prematurely bald. aristophanes was probably victorious at least once at the