by car, limousine or golf cart. acapulco ' s reputation of a high - energy party town and the nightlife have long been draws of the city for tourists. from november to april, luxury liners stop here daily and include ships such as the, the, crystal harmony, and all the princess line ships. despite acapulco ' s international fame, most of its visitors are from central mexico, especially the affluent from mexico city. acapulco is one of the embarkation ports for the mexican cruise line ocean star cruises. for the christmas season of 2009, acapulco received 470, 000 visitors, most of whom are mexican nationals, adding 785 million pesos to the economy. eighty percent arrive by land and eighteen percent by air. the area has over 25, 000 condominiums, most of which function as second homes for their mexican owners. acapulco is still popular with mexican celebrities and the wealthy, such as luis miguel and placido domingo, who maintain homes there. problems from the latter 20th century on, the city has also taken on other less - positive reputations. some consider it a passe resort, eclipsed by the newer cancun and cabo san lucas. over the years, a number of problems have developed here, especially in the bay and the older sections of the city. the large number of wandering vendors on the beaches, who offer everything from newspapers to massages, are a recognized problem. it is a bother to tourists who simply want to relax on the beach, but the government says it is difficult to eradicate, as there is a lot of unemployment and poverty in the city. around the city are many small shantytowns that cling to the mountainsides, populated by migrants who have come to the city looking for work. in the last decade, drug - related violence has caused massive problems for the local tourism trade. another problem is the garbage that has accumulated in the bay. although 60. 65 tons have recently been extracted from the bays of acapulco and nearby zihuatanejo, more needs to be done. most of trash removal during the off seasons is done on the beaches and in the waters closest to them. however, the center of the bay is not touched. the reason trash winds up in the bay is that it is common in the city to throw it in streets, rivers and the bay itself. the most common items cleaned out of the bay are beer bottles and car tires. acapul