its virtuosity. at the turn of the 20th century, the adroit performances of john singer sargent were alternately admired and viewed with skepticism for their manual fluency, yet at nearly the same time the artist who would become the era ' s most recognized and peripatetic iconoclast, pablo picasso, was completing a traditional academic training at which he excelled. a common contemporary criticism of some modern art occurs along the lines of objecting to the apparent lack of skill or ability required in the production of the artistic object. in conceptual art, marcel duchamp ' s fountain is among the first examples of pieces wherein the artist used found objects ( " ready - made " ) and exercised no traditionally recognised set of skills. tracey emin ' s my bed, or damien hirst ' s the physical impossibility of death in the mind of someone living follow this example and also manipulate the mass media. emin slept ( and engaged in other activities ) in her bed before placing the result in a gallery as work of art. hirst came up with the conceptual design for the artwork but has left most of the eventual creation of many works to employed artisans. hirst ' s celebrity is founded entirely on his ability to produce shocking concepts. the actual production in many conceptual and contemporary works of art is a matter of assembly of found objects. however, there are many modernist and contemporary artists who continue to excel in the skills of drawing and painting and in creating hands - on works of art. purpose art has had a great number of different functions throughout its history, making its purpose difficult to abstract or quantify to any single concept. this does not imply that the purpose of art is " vague ", but that it has had many unique, different reasons for being created. some of these functions of art are provided in the following outline. the different purposes of art may be grouped according to those that are non - motivated, and those that are motivated ( levi - strauss ). non - motivated functions the non - motivated purposes of art are those that are integral to being human, transcend the individual, or do not fulfill a specific external purpose. in this sense, art, as creativity, is something humans must do by their very nature ( i. e., no other species creates art ), and is therefore beyond utility. basic human instinct for harmony, balance, rhythm. art at this level is not an action or an object, but an internal appreciation of balance and harmony ( beauty ), and therefore an aspect of being human