were dismantled as part of war reparations. following this, the company ' s entire assets were expropriated without compensation. on 17 august 1948, auto union ag of chemnitz was deleted from the commercial register. these actions had the effect of liquidating germany ' s auto union ag. the remains of the audi plant of zwickau became the veb ( for " people owned enterprise " ) or awz ( in english : automobile works zwickau ). with no prospect of continuing production in soviet - controlled east germany, auto union executives began the process of relocating what was left of the company to west germany. a site was chosen in ingolstadt, bavaria, to start a spare parts operation in late 1945, which would eventually serve as the headquarters of the reformed auto union in 1949. the former audi factory in zwickau restarted assembly of the pre - war models in 1949. these dkw models were renamed to ifa f8 and ifa f9 and were similar to the west german versions. west and east german models were equipped with the traditional and renowned dkw two - stroke engines. the zwickau plant manufactured the infamous trabant until 1991, when it came under volkswagen control — effectively bringing it under the same umbrella as audi since 1945. new auto union unit a new west german headquartered auto union was launched in ingolstadt with loans from the bavarian state government and marshall plan aid. the reformed company was launched 3 september 1949 and continued dkw ' s tradition of producing front - wheel drive vehicles with two - stroke engines. this included production of a small but sturdy 125 cc motorcycle and a dkw delivery van, the dkw f89 l at ingolstadt. the ingolstadt site was large, consisting of an extensive complex of formerly military buildings which was suitable for administration as well as vehicle warehousing and distribution, but at this stage there was at ingolstadt no dedicated plant suitable for mass production of automobiles : for manufacturing the company ' s first post - war mass - market passenger car plant capacity in dusseldorf was rented from rheinmetall - borsig. it was only ten years later, after the company had attracted an investor, when funds became available for construction of major car plant at the ingolstadt head office site. in 1958, in response to pressure from friedrich flick, then the company ' s largest single shareholder, daimler - benz took an 87 % holding in the auto union company, and this was increased to a 100 %