from arabic and persian, so the script does not have an inherent vowel for arabic and persian words. the inconsistency of its vowel notation makes it difficult to categorize. phagspa the imperial mongol script called phagspa was derived from the tibetan abugida, but all vowels are written in - line rather than as diacritics. however, it retains the features of having an inherent vowel / a / and having distinct initial vowel letters. pahawh pahawh hmong is a non - segmental script that indicates syllable onsets and rimes, such as consonant clusters and vowels with final consonants. thus it is not segmental and cannot be considered an abugida. however, it superficially resembles an abugida with the roles of consonant and vowel reversed. most syllables are written with two letters in the order rime – onset ( typically vowel - consonant ), even though they are pronounced as onset - rime ( consonant - vowel ), rather like the position of the vowel in devanagari, which is written before the consonant. pahawh is also unusual in that, while an inherent rime ( with mid tone ) is unwritten, it also has an inherent onset. for the syllable, which requires one or the other of the inherent sounds to be overt, it is that is written. thus it is the rime ( vowel ) that is basic to the system. meroitic it is difficult to draw a dividing line between abugidas and other segmental scripts. for example, the meroitic script of ancient sudan did not indicate an inherent a ( one symbol stood for both m and ma, for example ), and is thus similar to brahmic family of abugidas. however, the other vowels were indicated with full letters, not diacritics or modification, so the system was essentially an alphabet that did not bother to write the most common vowel. shorthand several systems of shorthand use diacritics for vowels, but they do not have an inherent vowel, and are thus more similar to thaana and kurdish script than to the brahmic scripts. the gabelsberger shorthand system and its derivatives modify the following consonant to represent vowels. the pollard script, which was based on shorthand, also uses diacritics for vowels ; the placements of the vowel relative to the consonant indicates tone. pitman shorthand uses straight strokes and quarter - circle marks in different orientations as the principal " alphabet " of consonants ;