wheat and 60 % to 150 % for rice, depending on geographic area ) as world population doubled. heavy reliance on petrochemicals has raised concerns that oil shortages could increase costs and reduce agricultural output. industrialized agriculture depends on fossil fuels in two fundamental ways : direct consumption on the farm and manufacture of inputs used on the farm. direct consumption includes the use of lubricants and fuels to operate farm vehicles and machinery. indirect consumption includes the manufacture of fertilizers, pesticides, and farm machinery. in particular, the production of nitrogen fertilizer can account for over half of agricultural energy usage. together, direct and indirect consumption by us farms accounts for about 2 % of the nation ' s energy use. direct and indirect energy consumption by u. s. farms peaked in 1979, and has since gradually declined. food systems encompass not just agriculture but off - farm processing, packaging, transporting, marketing, consumption, and disposal of food and food - related items. agriculture accounts for less than one - fifth of food system energy use in the us. plastic pollution plastic products are used extensively in agriculture, including to increase crop yields and improve the efficiency of water and agrichemical use. " agriplastic " products include films to cover greenhouses and tunnels, mulch to cover soil ( e. g. to suppress weeds, conserve water, increase soil temperature and aid fertilizer application ), shade cloth, pesticide containers, seedling trays, protective mesh and irrigation tubing. the polymers most commonly used in these products are low - density polyethylene ( lpde ), linear low - density polyethylene ( lldpe ), polypropylene ( pp ) and polyvinyl chloride ( pvc ). the total amount of plastics used in agriculture is difficult to quantify. a 2012 study reported that almost 6. 5 million tonnes per year were consumed globally while a later study estimated that global demand in 2015 was between 7. 3 million and 9 million tonnes. widespread use of plastic mulch and lack of systematic collection and management have led to the generation of large amounts of mulch residue. weathering and degradation eventually cause the mulch to fragment. these fragments and larger pieces of plastic accumulate in soil. mulch residue has been measured at levels of 50 to 260 kg per hectare in topsoil in areas where mulch use dates back more than 10 years, which confirms that mulching is a major source of both microplastic and macroplastic soil contamination. agricultural plastics