the anglo - saxon chronicle, three of which involved alfred. similar small skirmishes with independent viking raiders would have occurred for much of the period as they had for decades. in 883, pope marinus exempted the saxon quarter in rome from taxation, probably in return for alfred ' s promise to send alms annually to rome, which may be the origin of the medieval tax called peter ' s pence. the pope sent gifts to alfred, including what was reputed to be a piece of the true cross. after the signing of the treaty with guthrum, alfred was spared any large - scale conflicts for some time. despite this relative peace, the king was forced to deal with a number of danish raids and incursions. among these was a raid in kent, an allied kingdom in south east england, during the year 885, which was possibly the largest raid since the battles with guthrum. asser ' s account of the raid places the danish raiders at the saxon city of rochester, where they built a temporary fortress in order to besiege the city. in response to this incursion, alfred led an anglo - saxon force against the danes who, instead of engaging the army of wessex, fled to their beached ships and sailed to another part of britain. the retreating danish force supposedly left britain the following summer. not long after the failed danish raid in kent, alfred dispatched his fleet to east anglia. the purpose of this expedition is debated, but asser claims that it was for the sake of plunder. after travelling up the river stour, the fleet was met by danish vessels that numbered 13 or 16 ( sources vary on the number ), and a battle ensued. the anglo - saxon fleet emerged victorious, and as henry of huntingdon writes, " laden with spoils ". the victorious fleet was surprised when attempting to leave the river stour and was attacked by a danish force at the mouth of the river. the danish fleet defeated alfred ' s fleet, which may have been weakened in the previous engagement. king of the anglo - saxons a year later, in 886, alfred reoccupied the city of london and set out to make it habitable again. alfred entrusted the city to the care of his son - in - law æthelred, ealdorman of mercia. soon afterwards, alfred restyled himself as " king of the anglo - saxons ". the restoration of london progressed through the latter half of the 880s and is believed to have revolved around