, including the athens concert hall ( megaro moussikis ), which attracts world class artists. the athens planetarium, located in andrea syngrou avenue, in palaio faliro is one of the largest and best equipped digital planetaria in the world. the stavros niarchos foundation cultural center, inaugurated in 2016, will house the national library of greece and the greek national opera. in 2018 athens was designated as the world book capital by unesco. restaurants, tavernas and bars can be found in the entertainment hubs in plaka and the trigono areas of the historic centre, the inner suburbs of gazi and psyrri are especially busy with nightclubs and bars, while kolonaki, exarchia, metaxourgeio, koukaki and pangrati offer more of a cafe and restaurant scene. the coastal suburbs of microlimano, alimos and glyfada include many tavernas, beach bars and busy summer clubs. the most successful songs during the period 1870 – 1930 were the athenian serenades ( αθηναικες κανταδες ), based on the heptanesean kantadhes ( κανταδες ' serenades ' ; sing. : κανταδα ) and the songs performed on stage ( επιθεωρησιακα τραγουδια ' theatrical revue songs ' ) in revues, musical comedies, operettas and nocturnes that were dominating athens ' theatre scene. in 1922, following the war, genocide and later population exchange suffered by the greek population of asia minor, many ethnic greeks fled to athens. they settled in poor neighbourhoods and brought with them rebetiko music, making it also popular in greece, and which later became the base for the laiko music. other forms of song popular today in greece are elafrolaika, entechno, dimotika, and skyladika. greece ' s most notable, and internationally famous, composers of greek song, mainly of the entechno form, are manos hadjidakis and mikis theodorakis. both composers have achieved fame abroad for their composition of film scores. the renowned american - born greek soprano maria callas spent her teenage years in athens, where she settled in 1937. her professional opera career started in 1940 in athens, with the greek national opera. in 2018, the city