could be dated to 2000 bce, strongly suggesting that the first alphabet had developed about that time. the script was based on letter appearances and names, believed to be based on egyptian hieroglyphs. this script had no characters representing vowels. originally, it probably was a syllabary — a script where syllables are represented with characters — with symbols that were not needed being removed. the best - attested bronze age alphabet is ugaritic, invented in ugarit ( syria ) before the 15th century bce. this was an alphabetic cuneiform script with 30 signs, including three that indicate the following vowel. this script was not used after the destruction of ugarit in 1178 bce. the proto - sinaitic script eventually developed into the phoenician alphabet, conventionally called " proto - canaanite " before 1050 bce. the oldest text in phoenician script is an inscription on the sarcophagus of king ahiram 1000 bce. this script is the parent script of all western alphabets. by the tenth century bce, two other forms distinguish themselves, canaanite and aramaic. the aramaic gave rise to the hebrew script. the south arabian alphabet, a sister script to the phoenician alphabet, is the script from which the ge ' ez alphabet, an abugida, a writing system where consonant - vowel sequences are written as units, which was used around the horn of africa, descended. vowel - less alphabets are called abjads, currently exemplified in others such as arabic, hebrew, and syriac. the omission of vowels was not always a satisfactory solution due to the need of preserving sacred texts. " weak " consonants are used to indicate vowels. these letters have a dual function since they can also be used as pure consonants. the proto - sinaitic script and the ugaritic script were the first scripts with a limited number of signs instead of using many different signs for words, in contrast to the other widely used writing systems at the time, cuneiform, egyptian hieroglyphs, and linear b. the phoenician script was probably the first phonemic script, and it contained only about two dozen distinct letters, making it a script simple enough for traders to learn. another advantage of the phoenician alphabet was that it could write different languages since it recorded words phonemically. the phoenician script was spread across the mediterranean by the phoenicians. the greek alphabet was the first alphabet in which vowels have independent