##hs ) estimated that approximately 150, 000 children had received acupuncture treatment for a variety of conditions. in 2008 a study determined that the use of acupuncture - needle treatment on children was " questionable " due to the possibility of adverse side - effects and the pain manifestation differences in children versus adults. the study also includes warnings against practicing acupuncture on infants, as well as on children who are over - fatigued, very weak, or have over - eaten. when used on children, acupuncture is considered safe when administered by well - trained, licensed practitioners using sterile needles ; however, a 2011 review found there was limited research to draw definite conclusions about the overall safety of pediatric acupuncture. the same review found 279 adverse events, 25 of them serious. the adverse events were mostly mild in nature ( e. g. bruising or bleeding ). the prevalence of mild adverse events ranged from 10. 1 % to 13. 5 %, an estimated 168 incidences among 1, 422 patients. on rare occasions adverse events were serious ( e. g. cardiac rupture or hemoptysis ) ; many might have been a result of substandard practice. the incidence of serious adverse events was 5 per one million, which included children and adults. when used during pregnancy, the majority of adverse events caused by acupuncture were mild and transient, with few serious adverse events. the most frequent mild adverse event was needling or unspecified pain, followed by bleeding. although two deaths ( one stillbirth and one neonatal death ) were reported, there was a lack of acupuncture - associated maternal mortality. limiting the evidence as certain, probable or possible in the causality evaluation, the estimated incidence of adverse events following acupuncture in pregnant women was 131 per 10, 000. although acupuncture is not contraindicated in pregnant women, some specific acupuncture points are particularly sensitive to needle insertion ; these spots, as well as the abdominal region, should be avoided during pregnancy. moxibustion and cupping four adverse events associated with moxibustion were bruising, burns and cellulitis, spinal epidural abscess, and large superficial basal cell carcinoma. ten adverse events were associated with cupping. the minor ones were keloid scarring, burns, and bullae ; the serious ones were acquired hemophilia a, stroke following cupping on the back and neck, factitious panniculitis, revers