parallel faces " of " two coupled prisms " gave a phase difference of 1 / 4 of a cycle ( 90° ). these findings were contained in a memoir submitted to the academie on 10 november 1817 and read a fortnight later. an undated marginal note indicates that the two coupled prisms were later replaced by a single " parallelepiped in glass " — now known as a fresnel rhomb. this was the memoir whose " supplement ", dated january 1818, contained the method of superposing sinusoidal functions and the restatement of malus ' s law in terms of amplitudes. in the same supplement, fresnel reported his discovery that optical rotation could be emulated by passing the polarized light through a fresnel rhomb ( still in the form of " coupled prisms " ), followed by an ordinary birefringent lamina sliced parallel to its axis, with the axis at 45° to the plane of reflection of the fresnel rhomb, followed by a second fresnel rhomb at 90° to the first. in a further memoir read on 30 march, fresnel reported that if polarized light was fully " depolarized " by a fresnel rhomb — now described as a parallelepiped — its properties were not further modified by a subsequent passage through an optically rotating medium or device. the connection between optical rotation and birefringence was further explained in 1822, in the memoir on elliptical and circular polarization. this was followed by the memoir on reflection, read in january 1823, in which fresnel quantified the phase shifts in total internal reflection, and thence calculated the precise angle at which a fresnel rhomb should be cut in order to convert linear polarization to circular polarization. for a refractive index of 1. 51, there were two solutions : about 48. 6° and 54. 6°. double refraction background : uniaxial and biaxial crystals ; biot ' s laws when light passes through a slice of calcite cut perpendicular to its optic axis, the difference between the propagation times of the ordinary and extraordinary waves has a second - order dependence on the angle of incidence. if the slice is observed in a highly convergent cone of light, that dependence becomes significant, so that a chromatic - polarization experiment will show a pattern of concentric rings. but most minerals, when observed in this manner, show a more