##meral system. also, it may be taken as suggesting that consonantal alphabets, in contrast to e. g. the greek alphabet, were not yet true alphabets. florian coulmas, a critic of daniels and of the abjad terminology, argues that this terminology can confuse alphabets with " transcription systems ", and that there is no reason to relegate the hebrew, aramaic or phoenician alphabets to second - class status as an " incomplete alphabet ". however, daniels ' s terminology has found acceptance in the linguistic community. origins the first abjad to gain widespread usage was the phoenician abjad. unlike other contemporary scripts, such as cuneiform and egyptian hieroglyphs, the phoenician script consisted of only a few dozen symbols. this made the script easy to learn, and seafaring phoenician merchants took the script throughout the then - known world. the phoenician abjad was a radical simplification of phonetic writing, since hieroglyphics required the writer to pick a hieroglyph starting with the same sound that the writer wanted to write in order to write phonetically, much as man ' yogana ( kanji used solely for phonetic use ) was used to represent japanese phonetically before the invention of kana. phoenician gave rise to a number of new writing systems, including the widely used aramaic abjad and the greek alphabet. the greek alphabet evolved into the modern western alphabets, such as latin and cyrillic, while aramaic became the ancestor of many modern abjads and abugidas of asia. impure abjads impure abjads have characters for some vowels, optional vowel diacritics, or both. the term pure abjad refers to scripts entirely lacking in vowel indicators. however, most modern abjads, such as arabic, hebrew, aramaic, and pahlavi, are " impure " abjadsthat is, they also contain symbols for some of the vowel phonemes, although the said non - diacritic vowel letters are also used to write certain consonants, particularly approximants that sound similar to long vowels. a " pure " abjad is exemplified ( perhaps ) by very early forms of ancient phoenician, though at some point ( at least by the 9th century bc ) it and most of the contemporary semitic abjads had begun to overload a few of the consonant symbols with a secondary function as vowel markers, called matres lectionis