empire epigraphics and very useful to historians. as an example, two seals and one sealing were found in the royal cemetery at ur which contained the name of sargons ' s daughter en - hedu - ana. this provided confirmation of her existence. the seals read " en - hedu - ana, daughter of sargon : ilum - pal [ il ] ( is ) her coiffeur " and " adda, estate supervisor / majordomo of en - hedu - ana ". at tell mozan ( ancient urkesh ) brought to light a clay sealing of tar ' am - agade ( akkad loves < her > ), a previously unknown daughter of naram - sin, who was possibly married to an unidentified local endan ( ruler ). later copies and literary compositions so great was the akkadian empire, especially sargon and narim - sin, that its history was passed down for millenia. this ranged on one end to purported copies of still existing sargonic period inscriptions to literary tales made up from the whole cloth at the other. a few examples : great rebellion against naram - sin – at one point in his reign much of the empire, especially in the old mainly sumerian city - states, rose up against naram - sin. the revolt was crushed but the echoes of the event were passed down in history. some of the tales, like " naram - sin and the enemy hordes " ( old babylonian – purported to be a copy of an inscription at the temple of nergal in cutha ) and " gula - an and the seventeen kings against naram - sin " were literary compositions which further developed and changed the themes. the earliest examplar, from the old babylonian period, is found in several incomplete tablets and fragments, which differ somewhat, purporting to be copies of an inscription on a statue of naram - sin standing in the ekur temple of enlil at nippur. because it aligns with known contemporary inscriptions and year name it is considered authentic, which the usual mesopotamian slant that something going wrong means you displeased the gods. cursing of agade – a purely literary composition which was handed down for millennia in mesopotamia. composed in the ur iii period, a century or at most two after the events, it is essentially agitprop. after a long period of akkadian dominance the sumerians from the south ar back in ascendancy. the ur rule is sometimes