in order to obtain food supplies. as he returned towards constantinople, alexios v attacked his rearguard. the byzantines were defeated, the imperial standard and an important icon of the virgin ( the panagia nikopoios ) were captured. the byzantines lost some of their best soldiers in the clash, and alexios v was lucky to escape alive. at about this time alexios v attempted to destroy the crusader fleet with fire - ships, but to little effect. the loss of the icon, traditionally seen as a physical embodiment of divine protection for the city, was a severe psychological blow. its possession by the crusaders convinced many of the population of constantinople that the victory of the westerners was now divinely sanctioned, as a punishment for the sins of the byzantines. around 8 february, alexios v met the doge of venice, enrico dandolo, for peace talks. the conditions demanded by the venetian, however, were too harsh for the byzantines to consider. choniates states that the meeting was brought to a close by a sudden attack by crusader cavalry on alexios v and his entourage, the emperor narrowly escaping capture. alexios iv was probably killed the same day ; the insistence by the crusaders that he be restored to the throne may have precipitated his death. when news of the death of alexios iv reached the crusaders, relations between them and alexios v deteriorated further. the forcible expulsion of all latins resident in constantinople in march seems to have been the tipping point which led the crusaders to begin actively negotiating amongst themselves regarding the partition of the byzantine empire. they also began to prepare for their final assault on the city, which took place the following month. the fall of constantinople, flight and death the defenders of constantinople held out against a crusader assault on 9 april. the crusaders ' second attack three days later, however, proved too strong to repel. breaking through the walls near the petria gate, the crusaders entered the city and looted the blachernae palace. alexios v attempted to rally the people to the defence of the city, but with no success. alexios v then boarded a fishing boat and fled the city towards thrace on the night of 12 april 1204, accompanied by eudokia angelina and her mother euphrosyne doukaina kamatera. in the hagia sophia constantine laskaris was acclaimed as emperor, but being unable to persuade the varangians to continue the fight, in the early hours of 13 april he also