##trameters, arranged symmetrically in two sections such that each half resembles the other in meter and line length ; the agon and parabasis can be considered specific instances of symmetrical scenes : parabasis – verses through which the chorus addresses the audience directly, firstly in the middle of the play and again near the end ( see the section below, parabasis ) ; agon – a formal debate that decides the outcome of the play, typically in anapestic tetrameter, though iambs are sometimes used to delineate inferior arguments ; episodes – sections of dialogue in iambic trimeter, often in a succession of scenes featuring minor characters towards the end of a play ; songs ( ' strophes ' / ' antistrophes ' or ' odes ' / ' antodes ' ) – often in symmetrical pairs where each half has the same meter and number of lines as the other, used as transitions between other structural elements, or between scenes while actors change costume, and often commenting on the action ; exodus – the departure of the chorus and the actors, in song and dance celebrating the hero ' s victory and sometimes celebrating a symbolic marriage. the rules of competition did not prevent a playwright arranging and adjusting these elements to suit his particular needs. in the acharnians and peace, for example, there is no formal agon whereas in the clouds there are two agons. parabasis the parabasis is an address to the audience by the chorus or chorus leader while the actors leave or have left the stage. in this role, the chorus is sometimes out of character, as the author ' s voice, and sometimes in character, although these capacities are often difficult to distinguish. generally the parabasis occurs somewhere in the middle of a play and often there is a second parabasis towards the end. the elements of a parabasis have been defined and named by scholars but it is probable that aristophanes ' own understanding was less formal. the selection of elements can vary from play to play and it varies considerably within plays between first and second parabasis. the early plays ( the acharnians to the birds ) are fairly uniform in their approach however and the following elements of a parabasis can be found within them. kommation : this is a brief prelude, comprising short lines and often including a valediction to the departing actors, such as ( go rejoicing! ). parabasis proper : this is usually a defense of the author ' s work