as seen in one of the nemi ship anchors. this basic design remained unchanged for centuries, with the most significant changes being to the overall proportions, and a move from stocks made of wood to iron stocks in the late 1830s and early 1840s. since one fluke always protrudes up from the set anchor, there is a great tendency of the rode to foul the anchor as the vessel swings due to wind or current shifts. when this happens, the anchor may be pulled out of the bottom, and in some cases may need to be hauled up to be re - set. in the mid - 19th century, numerous modifications were attempted to alleviate these problems, as well as improve holding power, including one - armed mooring anchors. the most successful of these patent anchors, the trotman anchor, introduced a pivot at the centre of the crown where the arms join the shank, allowing the " idle " upper arm to fold against the shank. when deployed the lower arm may fold against the shank tilting the tip of the fluke upwards, so each fluke has a tripping palm at its base, to hook on the bottom as the folded arm drags along the seabed, which unfolds the downward oriented arm until the tip of the fluke can engage the bottom. handling and storage of these anchors requires special equipment and procedures. once the anchor is hauled up to the hawsepipe, the ring end is hoisted up to the end of a timber projecting from the bow known as the cathead. the crown of the anchor is then hauled up with a heavy tackle until one fluke can be hooked over the rail. this is known as " catting and fishing " the anchor. before dropping the anchor, the fishing process is reversed, and the anchor is dropped from the end of the cathead. stockless anchor the stockless anchor, patented in england in 1821, represented the first significant departure in anchor design in centuries. although their holding - power - to - weight ratio is significantly lower than admiralty pattern anchors, their ease of handling and stowage aboard large ships led to almost universal adoption. in contrast to the elaborate stowage procedures for earlier anchors, stockless anchors are simply hauled up until they rest with the shank inside the hawsepipes, and the flukes against the hull ( or inside a recess in the hull ). while there are numerous variations, stockless anchors consist of a set of heavy flukes connected by a pivot or ball and socket joint to a shank