was as navigator. although mission control normally performed all the actual navigation calculations, it was necessary to have a crew member adept at navigation so that the crew could return to earth in case communication with mission control was lost. lovell navigated by star sightings using a sextant built into the spacecraft, measuring the angle between a star and the earth ' s ( or the moon ' s ) horizon. this task was made difficult by a large cloud of debris around the spacecraft, which made it hard to distinguish the stars. by seven hours into the mission, the crew was about 1hour and 40 minutes behind flight plan because of the problems in moving away from the s - ivb and lovell ' s obscured star sightings. the crew placed the spacecraft into passive thermal control ( ptc ), also called " barbecue roll ", in which the spacecraft rotated about once per hour around its long axis to ensure even heat distribution across the surface of the spacecraft. in direct sunlight, parts of the spacecraft ' s outer surface could be heated to over, while the parts in shadow would be. these temperatures could cause the heat shield to crack and propellant lines to burst. because it was impossible to get a perfect roll, the spacecraft swept out a cone as it rotated. the crew had to make minor adjustments every half hour as the cone pattern got larger and larger. the first mid - course correction came eleven hours into the flight. the crew had been awake for more than 16 hours. before launch, nasa had decided at least one crew member should be awake at all times to deal with problems that might arise. borman started the first sleep shift but found sleeping difficult because of the constant radio chatter and mechanical noises. testing on the ground had shown that the service propulsion system ( sps ) engine had a small chance of exploding when burned for long periods unless its combustion chamber was " coated " first by burning the engine for a short period. this first correction burn was only 2. 4 seconds and added about velocity prograde ( in the direction of travel ). this change was less than the planned, because of a bubble of helium in the oxidizer lines, which caused unexpectedly low propellant pressure. the crew had to use the small rcs thrusters to make up the shortfall. two later planned mid - course corrections were canceled because the apollo8 trajectory was found to be perfect. about an hour after starting his sleep shift, borman obtained permission from ground control to take a seconal sleeping pill. the pill had little effect. bo