seismic experiment package used to measure moonquakes and a retroreflector array used for the lunar laser ranging experiment. then armstrong walked from the lm to take photographs at the rim of little west crater while aldrin collected two core samples. he used the geologist ' s hammer to pound in the tubes — the only time the hammer was used on apollo 11 — but was unable to penetrate more than deep. the astronauts then collected rock samples using scoops and tongs on extension handles. many of the surface activities took longer than expected, so they had to stop documenting sample collection halfway through the allotted 34 minutes. aldrin shoveled of soil into the box of rocks in order to pack them in tightly. two types of rocks were found in the geological samples : basalt and breccia. three new minerals were discovered in the rock samples collected by the astronauts : armalcolite, tranquillityite, and pyroxferroite. armalcolite was named after armstrong, aldrin, and collins. all have subsequently been found on earth. while on the surface, armstrong uncovered a plaque mounted on the lm ladder, bearing two drawings of earth ( of the western and eastern hemispheres ), an inscription, and signatures of the astronauts and president nixon. the inscription read : at the behest of the nixon administration to add a reference to god, nasa included the vague date as a reason to include a. d., which stands for anno domini ( " in the year of our lord " ). mission control used a coded phrase to warn armstrong his metabolic rates were high, and that he should slow down. he was moving rapidly from task to task as time ran out. as metabolic rates remained generally lower than expected for both astronauts throughout the walk, mission control granted the astronauts a 15 - minute extension. in a 2010 interview, armstrong explained that nasa limited the first moonwalk ' s time and distance because there was no empirical proof of how much cooling water the astronauts ' plss backpacks would consume to handle their body heat generation while working on the moon. lunar ascent aldrin entered eagle first. with some difficulty the astronauts lifted film and two sample boxes containing of lunar surface material to the lm hatch using a flat cable pulley device called the lunar equipment conveyor ( lec ). this proved to be an inefficient tool, and later missions preferred to carry equipment and samples up to the lm by hand. armstrong reminded aldrin of a bag of memorial