the cycles of the heavens. one nepohualtzintzin ( 91 ) represented the number of days that a season of the year lasts, two nepohualtzitzin ( 182 ) is the number of days of the corn ' s cycle, from its sowing to its harvest, three nepohualtzintzin ( 273 ) is the number of days of a baby ' s gestation, and four nepohualtzintzin ( 364 ) completed a cycle and approximated one year. when translated into modern computer arithmetic, the nepohualtzintzin amounted to the rank from 10 to 18 in floating point, which precisely calculated large and small amounts, although round off was not allowed. the rediscovery of the nepohualtzintzin was due to the mexican engineer david esparza hidalgo, who in his travels throughout mexico found diverse engravings and paintings of this instrument and reconstructed several of them in gold, jade, encrustations of shell, etc. very old nepohualtzintzin are attributed to the olmec culture, and some bracelets of mayan origin, as well as a diversity of forms and materials in other cultures. sanchez wrote in arithmetic in maya that another base 5, base 4 abacus had been found in the yucatan peninsula that also computed calendar data. this was a finger abacus, on one hand, 0, 1, 2, 3, and 4 were used ; and on the other hand 0, 1, 2, and 3 were used. note the use of zero at the beginning and end of the two cycles. the quipu of the incas was a system of colored knotted cords used to record numerical data, like advanced tally sticks – but not used to perform calculations. calculations were carried out using a yupana ( quechua for " counting tool " ; see figure ) which was still in use after the conquest of peru. the working principle of a yupana is unknown, but in 2001 italian mathematician de pasquale proposed an explanation. by comparing the form of several yupanas, researchers found that calculations were based using the fibonacci sequence 1, 1, 2, 3, 5 and powers of 10, 20, and 40 as place values for the different fields in the instrument. using the fibonacci sequence would keep the number of grains within any one field at a minimum. russia the russian abacus, the schoty (, plural from, counting ), usually has