from behind the scenes, and even claudius allowed her to be a separate court and decide on empire matters. agrippina even signed government documents and officially dealt with foreign ambassadors. she also claimed auctoritas ( power of commanding ) and autokrateira ( self - ruler as empress ) in front of the senate, the people and the army. also that year, claudius had founded a roman colony and called the colony colonia claudia ara agrippinensis or agrippinensium, today known as cologne, after agrippina who was born there. this colony was the only roman colony to be named after a roman woman. in 51, she was given a carpentum which she used. a carpentum was a sort of ceremonial carriage usually reserved for priests, such as the vestal virgins, and sacred statues. that same year she appointed sextus afranius burrus as the head of the praetorian guard, replacing the previous head of the praetorian guard, rufrius crispinus. she assisted claudius in administering the empire and became very wealthy and powerful. ancient sources claim that agrippina successfully influenced claudius into adopting her son and making him his successor. lucius domitius ahenobarbus was adopted by his great maternal uncle and stepfather in 50. lucius ' name was changed to nero claudius caesar drusus germanicus and he became claudius ' s adopted son, heir and recognised successor. agrippina and claudius betrothed nero to his step sister claudia octavia, and agrippina arranged to have seneca the younger return from exile to tutor the future emperor. claudius chose to adopt nero because of his julian and claudian lineage. agrippina deprived britannicus of his heritage and further isolated him from his father and succession for the throne in every way possible. for instance, in 51, agrippina ordered the execution of britannicus ' tutor sosibius because he had confronted her and was outraged by claudius ' adoption of nero and his choice of nero as successor, instead of choosing his own son britannicus. nero and octavia were married on june 9, 53. claudius later repented of marrying agrippina and adopting nero, began to favour britannicus, and started preparing him for the throne. his actions allegedly gave agrippina a motive to eliminate claudius. the ancient sources say she poisoned claudius on october 13, 54 ( a sunday ) with a plate of deadly mushrooms at a banquet, thus enabling nero to quickly take the throne as emperor.