essay missed the point of the set topic and that the arguments were inadequate. schopenhauer, who had been very confident that he would win, was enraged by this rejection. he published both essays as the two basic problems of ethics. the first edition, published in 1841, again failed to draw attention to his philosophy. in the preface to the second edition, in 1860, he was still pouring insults on the royal danish society. two years later, after some negotiations, he managed to convince his publisher, brockhaus, to print the second, updated edition of the world as will and representation. that book was again mostly ignored and the few reviews were mixed or negative. schopenhauer began to attract some followers, mostly outside academia, among practical professionals ( several of them were lawyers ) who pursued private philosophical studies. he jokingly referred to them as " evangelists " and " apostles ". one of the most active early followers was julius frauenstadt, who wrote numerous articles promoting schopenhauer ' s philosophy. he was also instrumental in finding another publisher after brockhaus declined to publish parerga and paralipomena, believing that it would be another failure. though schopenhauer later stopped corresponding with him, claiming that he did not adhere closely enough to his ideas, frauenstadt continued to promote schopenhauer ' s work. they renewed their communication in 1859 and schopenhauer named him heir for his literary estate. frauenstadt also became the editor of the first collected works of schopenhauer. in 1848, schopenhauer witnessed violent upheaval in frankfurt after general hans adolf erdmann von auerswald and prince felix lichnowsky were murdered. he became worried for his own safety and property. even earlier in life he had had such worries and kept a sword and loaded pistols near his bed to defend himself from thieves. he gave a friendly welcome to austrian soldiers who wanted to shoot revolutionaries from his window and as they were leaving he gave one of the officers his opera glasses to help him monitor rebels. the rebellion passed without any loss to schopenhauer and he later praised alfred i, prince of windisch - gratz for restoring order. he even modified his will, leaving a large part of his property to a prussian fund that helped soldiers who became invalids while fighting rebellion in 1848 or the families of soldiers who died in battle. as young hegelians were advocating change and progress, schopenhauer claimed that misery is natural for humans and that, even