chr $ ( 13, 10 ) endm exit end demomain use of assembly language historical perspective assembly languages were not available at the time when the stored - program computer was introduced. kathleen booth " is credited with inventing assembly language " based on theoretical work she began in 1947, while working on the arc2 at birkbeck, university of london following consultation by andrew booth ( later her husband ) with mathematician john von neumann and physicist herman goldstine at the institute for advanced study. in late 1948, the electronic delay storage automatic calculator ( edsac ) had an assembler ( named " initial orders " ) integrated into its bootstrap program. it used one - letter mnemonics developed by david wheeler, who is credited by the ieee computer society as the creator of the first " assembler ". reports on the edsac introduced the term " assembly " for the process of combining fields into an instruction word. soap ( symbolic optimal assembly program ) was an assembly language for the ibm 650 computer written by stan poley in 1955. assembly languages eliminate much of the error - prone, tedious, and time - consuming first - generation programming needed with the earliest computers, freeing programmers from tedium such as remembering numeric codes and calculating addresses. they were once widely used for all sorts of programming. however, by the late 1950s, their use had largely been supplanted by higher - level languages, in the search for improved programming productivity. today, assembly language is still used for direct hardware manipulation, access to specialized processor instructions, or to address critical performance issues. typical uses are device drivers, low - level embedded systems, and real - time systems ( see ). numerous programs have been written entirely in assembly language. the burroughs mcp ( 1961 ) was the first computer for which an operating system was not developed entirely in assembly language ; it was written in executive systems problem oriented language ( espol ), an algol dialect. many commercial applications were written in assembly language as well, including a large amount of the ibm mainframe software written by large corporations. cobol, fortran and some pl / i eventually displaced much of this work, although a number of large organizations retained assembly - language application infrastructures well into the 1990s. assembly language has long been the primary development language for 8 - bit home computers such atari 8 - bit family, apple ii, msx, zx spectrum, and commodore 64. interpreted basic dialects on these systems offer insufficient execution speed and insufficient facilities to take full advantage of the available hardware