etymology the word abacus dates to at least ad 1387 when a middle english work borrowed the word from latin that described a sandboard abacus. the latin word is derived from ancient greek ( abax ) which means something without a base, and colloquially, any piece of rectangular material. alternatively, without reference to ancient texts on etymology, it has been suggested that it means " a square tablet strewn with dust ", or " drawing - board covered with dust ( for the use of mathematics ) " ( the exact shape of the latin perhaps reflects the genitive form of the greek word, ( abakos ) ). while the table strewn with dust definition is popular, some argue evidence is insufficient for that conclusion. greek probably borrowed from a northwest semitic language like phoenician, evidenced by a cognate with the hebrew word ʾabaq ( ), or " dust " ( in the post - biblical sense " sand used as a writing surface " ). both abacuses and abaci are used as plurals. the user of an abacus is called an abacist. history mesopotamia the sumerian abacus appeared between 2700 and 2300 bc. it held a table of successive columns which delimited the successive orders of magnitude of their sexagesimal ( base 60 ) number system. some scholars point to a character in babylonian cuneiform that may have been derived from a representation of the abacus. it is the belief of old babylonian scholars, such as ettore carruccio, that old babylonians " seem to have used the abacus for the operations of addition and subtraction ; however, this primitive device proved difficult to use for more complex calculations ". egypt greek historian herodotus mentioned the abacus in ancient egypt. he wrote that the egyptians manipulated the pebbles from right to left, opposite in direction to the greek left - to - right method. archaeologists have found ancient disks of various sizes that are thought to have been used as counters. however, wall depictions of this instrument are yet to be discovered. persia at around 600 bc, persians first began to use the abacus, during the achaemenid empire. under the parthian, sassanian, and iranian empires, scholars concentrated on exchanging knowledge and inventions with the countries around them – india, china, and the roman empire - which is how the abacus may have been exported to other countries. greece the earliest archaeological evidence for the use of the greek abacus dates to the 5th century bc. demosthenes ( 384