##ation, addition, subtraction, multiplication and division ; to which may be added extraction of roots : it is also call ' d logistica numeralis. algorism, the practical operation in the several parts of specious arithmetick or algebra ; sometimes it is taken for the practice of common arithmetick by the ten numeral figures. in 1751, in the young algebraist ' s companion, daniel fenning contrasts the terms algorism and algorithm as follows : algorithm signifies the first principles, and algorism the practical part, or knowing how to put the algorithm in practice., the term algorithm is attested to mean a " step - by - step procedure " in english. in 1842, in the dictionary of science, literature and art, it says : algorithm, signifies the art of computing in reference to some particular subject, or in some particular way ; as the algorithm of numbers ; the algorithm of the differential calculus. machine usage in 1928, a partial formalization of the modern concept of algorithms began with attempts to solve the entscheidungsproblem ( decision problem ) posed by david hilbert. later formalizations were framed as attempts to define " effective calculability " or " effective method ". those formalizations included the godel – herbrand – kleene recursive functions of 1930, 1934 and 1935, alonzo church ' s lambda calculus of 1936, emil post ' s formulation 1 of 1936, and alan turing ' s turing machines of 1936 – 37 and 1939. informal definition one informal definition is " a set of rules that precisely defines a sequence of operations ", which would include all computer programs ( including programs that do not perform numeric calculations ), and ( for example ) any prescribed bureaucratic procedure or cook - book recipe. in general, a program is an algorithm only if it stops eventually — even though infinite loops may sometimes prove desirable. a prototypical example of an algorithm is the euclidean algorithm, which is used to determine the maximum common divisor of two integers ; an example ( there are others ) is described by the flowchart above and as an example in a later section. offer an informal meaning of the word " algorithm " in the following quotation : an " enumerably infinite set " is one whose elements can be put into one - to - one correspondence with the integers. thus boolos and jeffrey are saying that an algorithm implies instructions for a process that " creates " output integers from an arbitrary " input " integer or integers that, in