##an abdullah. audi developed a corporate sound concept, with audi sound studio designed for producing the corporate sound. the corporate sound project began with sound agency klangerfinder gmbh & co kg and s12 gmbh. audio samples were created in klangerfinder ' s sound studio in stuttgart, becoming part of audi sound studio collection. other audi sound studio components include the brand music pool, the brand voice. audi also developed sound branding toolkit including certain instruments, sound themes, rhythm and car sounds which all are supposed to reflect the audi sound character. audi started using a beating heart sound trademark beginning in 1996. an updated heartbeat sound logo, developed by agencies klangerfinder gmbh & co kg of stuttgart and s12 gmbh of munich, was first used in 2010 in an audi a8 commercial with the slogan the art of progress. slogans audi ' s corporate tagline is, meaning " progress through technology ". the german - language tagline is used in many european countries, including the united kingdom ( but not in italy, where is used ), and in other markets, such as latin america, oceania, africa and parts of asia including japan. originally, the american tagline was innovation through technology, but in canada vorsprung durch technik was used. since 2007, audi has used the slogan truth in engineering in the u. s. however, since the audi emissions testing scandal came to light in september 2015, this slogan was lambasted for being discordant with reality. in fact, just hours after disgraced volkswagen ceo martin winterkorn admitted to cheating on emissions data, an advertisement during the 2015 primetime emmy awards promoted audi ' s latest advances in low emissions technology with kermit the frog stating, " it ' s not that easy being green. " vorsprung durch technik was first used in english - language advertising after sir john hegarty of the bartle bogle hegarty advertising agency visited the audi factory in 1982. in the original british television commercials, the phrase was voiced by geoffrey palmer. after its repeated use in advertising campaigns, the phrase found its way into popular culture, including the british comedy only fools and horses, the u2 song " zooropa " and the blur song " parklife ". similar - sounding phrases have also been used, including as the punchline for a joke in the movie lock, stock and two smoking barrels and in the british tv series peep show. typography audi sans ( based on univers extended ) was originally created in 1997 by