measures the ability of a machine to simulate human conversation. since we can only observe the behavior of the machine, it does not matter if it is " actually " thinking or literally has a " mind ". turing notes that we can not determine these things about other people but " it is usual to have a polite convention that everyone thinks " russell and norvig agree with turing that ai must be defined in terms of " acting " and not " thinking ". however, they are critical that the test compares machines to people. " aeronautical engineering texts, " they wrote, " do not define the goal of their field as making ' machines that fly so exactly like pigeons that they can fool other pigeons. ai founder john mccarthy agreed, writing that " artificial intelligence is not, by definition, simulation of human intelligence ". mccarthy defines intelligence as " the computational part of the ability to achieve goals in the world. " another ai founder, marvin minsky similarly defines it as " the ability to solve hard problems ". these definitions view intelligence in terms of well - defined problems with well - defined solutions, where both the difficulty of the problem and the performance of the program are direct measures of the " intelligence " of the machine — and no other philosophical discussion is required, or may not even be possible. another definition has been adopted by google, a major practitioner in the field of ai. this definition stipulates the ability of systems to synthesize information as the manifestation of intelligence, similar to the way it is defined in biological intelligence. evaluating approaches to ai no established unifying theory or paradigm has guided ai research for most of its history. the unprecedented success of statistical machine learning in the 2010s eclipsed all other approaches ( so much so that some sources, especially in the business world, use the term " artificial intelligence " to mean " machine learning with neural networks " ). this approach is mostly sub - symbolic, soft and narrow ( see below ). critics argue that these questions may have to be revisited by future generations of ai researchers. symbolic ai and its limits symbolic ai ( or " gofai " ) simulated the high - level conscious reasoning that people use when they solve puzzles, express legal reasoning and do mathematics. they were highly successful at " intelligent " tasks such as algebra or iq tests. in the 1960s, newell and simon proposed the physical symbol systems hypothesis : " a physical symbol system has the necessary and sufficient means of general intelligent action. " however, the symbolic approach failed on many tasks that humans solve easily, such as learning, recognizing an