developed appropriate trading rules for curbstone brokers, organized by mendels. the informal curb association formed in 1910 to weed out undesirables. the curb exchange was for years at odds with the new york stock exchange ( nyse ), or " big board ", operating several buildings away. explained the new york times in 1910, the big board looked at the curb as " a trading place for ' cats and dogs. ' " on april 1, 1910, however, when the nyse abolished its unlisted department, the nyse stocks " made homeless by the abolition " were " refused domicile " by the curb brokers on broad street until they had complied with the " curb list " of requirements. in 1911, mendels and his advisers drew up a constitution and formed the new york curb market association, which can be considered the first formal constitution of american stock exchange. 1920s - 1940s : move indoors in 1920, journalist edwin c. hill wrote that the curb exchange on lower broad street was a " roaring, swirling whirlpool " that " tears control of a gold - mine from an unlucky operator, and pauses to auction a puppy - dog. it is like nothing else under the astonished sky that is its only roof. " after a group of curb brokers formed a real estate company to design a building, starrett & van vleck designed the new exchange building on greenwich street in lower manhattan between thames and rector, at 86 trinity place. it opened in 1921, and the curbstone brokers moved indoors on june 27, 1921. in 1929, the new york curb market changed its name to the new york curb exchange. the curb exchange soon became the leading international stock market, and according to historian robert sobel, " had more individual foreign issues on its list than [... ] all other american securities markets combined. " edward reid mccormick was the first president of the new york curb market association and is credited with moving the market indoors. george rea was approached about the position of president of the new york curb exchange in 1939. he was unanimously elected as the first paid president in the history of the curb exchange. he was paid $ 25, 000 per year ( equivalent to $ today ) and held the position for three years before offering his resignation in 1942. he left the position having " done such a good job that there is virtually no need for a full - time successor. " modernization as the american stock exchange in 1953 the curb exchange was renamed the american stock exchange.