which is an advantage in relatively dry zones, or some combination of these and possibly other factors. heterocarpy, or the ability to produce different fruit morphs, has evolved and is common in asteraceae. it allows seeds to be dispersed over varying distances and each is adapted to different environments, increasing chances of survival. etymology and pronunciation the original name compositae is still valid under the international code of nomenclature for algae, fungi, and plants. it refers to the " composite " nature of the capitula, which consist of a few or many individual flowers. the alternative ( as it came later ) name asteraceae ( ) comes to international scientific vocabulary from neo - latin, from aster, the type genus, + - aceae, a standardized suffix for plant family names in modern taxonomy. this genus name comes from the classical latin word, " star ", which came from ancient greek ( ), " star ". it refers to the star - like form of the inflorescence. the vernacular name daisy, widely applied to members of this family, is derived from the old english name of the daisy ( bellis perennis ) :, meaning " day ' s eye ". this is because the petals open at dawn and close at dusk. distribution and habitat asteraceae species have a widespread distribution, from subpolar to tropical regions in a wide variety of habitats. most occur in hot desert and cold or hot semi - desert climates, and they are found on every continent but antarctica. they are especially numerous in tropical and subtropical regions ( notably central america, eastern brazil, the mediterranean, the levant, southern africa, central asia, and southwestern china ). the largest proportion of the species occur in the arid and semi - arid regions of subtropical and lower temperate latitudes. the asteraceae family comprises 10 % of all flowering plant species. ecology asteraceae are especially common in open and dry environments. many members of asteraceae are pollinated by insects, which explains their value in attracting beneficial insects, but anemophily is also present ( e. g. ambrosia, artemisia ). there are many apomictic species in the family. seeds are ordinarily dispersed intact with the fruiting body, the cypsela. anemochory ( wind dispersal ) is common, assisted by a hairy pappus. epizoochory is another common method, in which the dispersal unit, a single cypsela ( e. g. bidens ) or