some cases very profusely. the end branches of an axon are called telodendria. the swollen end of a telodendron is known as the axon terminal which joins the dendrite or cell body of another neuron forming a synaptic connection. axons make contact with other cellsusually other neurons but sometimes muscle or gland cellsat junctions called synapses. in some circumstances, the axon of one neuron may form a synapse with the dendrites of the same neuron, resulting in an autapse. at a synapse, the membrane of the axon closely adjoins the membrane of the target cell, and special molecular structures serve to transmit electrical or electrochemical signals across the gap. some synaptic junctions appear along the length of an axon as it extends ; these are called en passant ( " in passing " ) synapses and can be in the hundreds or even the thousands along one axon. other synapses appear as terminals at the ends of axonal branches. a single axon, with all its branches taken together, can target multiple parts of the brain and generate thousands of synaptic terminals. a bundle of axons make a nerve tract in the central nervous system, and a fascicle in the peripheral nervous system. in placental mammals the largest white matter tract in the brain is the corpus callosum, formed of some 200 million axons in the human brain. anatomy axons are the primary transmission lines of the nervous system, and as bundles they form nerves. some axons can extend up to one meter or more while others extend as little as one millimeter. the longest axons in the human body are those of the sciatic nerve, which run from the base of the spinal cord to the big toe of each foot. the diameter of axons is also variable. most individual axons are microscopic in diameter ( typically about one micrometer ( µm ) across ). the largest mammalian axons can reach a diameter of up to 20 µm. the squid giant axon, which is specialized to conduct signals very rapidly, is close to 1 millimeter in diameter, the size of a small pencil lead. the numbers of axonal telodendria ( the branching structures at the end of the axon ) can also differ from one nerve fiber to the next. axons in the central nervous system ( cns ) typically show multiple telodendria, with many synaptic end points