managers until 1996. by 1996, isps were beginning to charge flat rates for unlimited access, which they could do at a profit because they only provided internet access. even though aol would lose money with such a pricing scheme, it was forced by market conditions to offer unlimited access in october 1996. in order to return to profitability, aol rapidly shifted its focus from content creation to advertising, resulting in less of a need to carefully moderate every forum and chat room to keep users willing to pay by the minute to remain connected. after unlimited access, aol considered scrapping the program entirely, but continued it with a reduced number of community leaders, with scaled - back roles in creating content. although community leaders continued to receive free access, after 1996 they were motivated more by the prestige of the position and the access to moderator tools and restricted areas within aol. by 1999, there were over 15, 000 volunteers in the program. in may 1999, two former volunteers filed a class - action lawsuit alleging aol violated the fair labor standards act by treating volunteers like employees. volunteers had to apply for the position, commit to working for at least three to four hours a week, fill out timecards and sign a non - disclosure agreement. on july 22, aol ended its youth corps, which consisted of 350 underage community leaders. at this time, the united states department of labor began an investigation into the program, but it came to no conclusions about aol ' s practices. aol ended its community leader program on june 8, 2005. the class action lawsuit dragged on for years, even after aol ended the program and aol declined as a major internet company. in 2010, aol finally agreed to settle the lawsuit for $ 15 million. the community leader program was found to be an example of co - production in a 2009 article in international journal of cultural studies. billing disputes aol has faced a number of lawsuits over claims that it has been slow to stop billing customers after their accounts have been canceled, either by the company or the user. in addition, aol changed its method of calculating used minutes in response to a class action lawsuit. previously, aol would add 15 seconds to the time a user was connected to the service and round up to the next whole minute ( thus, a person who used the service for 12 minutes and 46 seconds would be charged for 14 minutes ). aol claimed this was to account for sign on / sign off time, but because this practice was not made known to its customers, the