##ilia thompsoni ), which can reach. a caecilian ' s skin has a large number of transverse folds and in some species contains tiny embedded dermal scales. it has rudimentary eyes covered in skin, which are probably limited to discerning differences in light intensity. it also has a pair of short tentacles near the eye that can be extended and which have tactile and olfactory functions. most caecilians live underground in burrows in damp soil, in rotten wood and under plant debris, but some are aquatic. most species lay their eggs underground and when the larvae hatch, they make their way to adjacent bodies of water. others brood their eggs and the larvae undergo metamorphosis before the eggs hatch. a few species give birth to live young, nourishing them with glandular secretions while they are in the oviduct. caecilians have a mostly gondwanan distribution, being found in tropical regions of africa, asia and central and south america. anatomy and physiology skin the integumentary structure contains some typical characteristics common to terrestrial vertebrates, such as the presence of highly cornified outer layers, renewed periodically through a moulting process controlled by the pituitary and thyroid glands. local thickenings ( often called warts ) are common, such as those found on toads. the outside of the skin is shed periodically mostly in one piece, in contrast to mammals and birds where it is shed in flakes. amphibians often eat the sloughed skin. caecilians are unique among amphibians in having mineralized dermal scales embedded in the dermis between the furrows in the skin. the similarity of these to the scales of bony fish is largely superficial. lizards and some frogs have somewhat similar osteoderms forming bony deposits in the dermis, but this is an example of convergent evolution with similar structures having arisen independently in diverse vertebrate lineages. amphibian skin is permeable to water. gas exchange can take place through the skin ( cutaneous respiration ) and this allows adult amphibians to respire without rising to the surface of water and to hibernate at the bottom of ponds. to compensate for their thin and delicate skin, amphibians have evolved mucous glands, principally on their heads, backs and tails. the secretions produced by these help keep the skin moist. in addition, most species of amphibian have granular glands that secrete dista