italy to fight for antony ' s rights against octavian. lucius and fulvia took a political and martial gamble in opposing octavian however, since the roman army still depended on the triumvirs for their salaries. lucius and his allies ended up in a defensive siege at perusia, where octavian forced them into surrender in early 40 bc. lucius and his army were spared because of his kinship with antony, the strongman of the east, while fulvia was exiled to sicyon. octavian showed no mercy, however, for the mass of allies loyal to lucius. on 15 march, the anniversary of julius caesar ' s assassination, he had 300 roman senators and equestrians executed for allying with lucius. perusia also was pillaged and burned as a warning for others. this bloody event sullied octavian ' s reputation and was criticized by many, such as augustan poet sextus propertius. sextus pompeius, the son of pompey and still a renegade general, following julius caesar ' s victory over his father, had established himself in sicily and sardinia as part of an agreement reached with the second triumvirate in 39 bc. both antony and octavian were vying for an alliance with pompeius. octavian succeeded in a temporary alliance in 40 bc when he married scribonia, a sister ( or daughter ) of pompeius ' s father - in - law lucius scribonius libo. scribonia gave birth to octavian ' s only natural child, julia, the same day that he divorced her to marry livia drusilla, little more than a year after their marriage. while in egypt, antony had been engaged in an affair with cleopatra and had fathered three children with her. aware of his deteriorating relationship with octavian, antony left cleopatra ; he sailed to italy in 40 bc with a large force to oppose octavian, laying siege to brundisium. this new conflict proved untenable for both octavian and antony, however. their centurions, who had become important figures politically, refused to fight because of their caesarian cause, while the legions under their command followed suit. meanwhile, in sicyon, antony ' s wife fulvia died of a sudden illness while antony was en route to meet her. fulvia ' s death and the mutiny of their centurions allowed the two remaining triumvirs to effect a reconciliation. in the autumn of 40, octavian and antony