du jury twice, and the best director award once. he was also nominated for the palme d ' or three times. in 1987, the bafta award for best foreign language film of the british academy of film and television arts for the sacrifice. under the influence of glasnost and perestroika, tarkovsky was finally recognized in the soviet union in the autumn of 1986, shortly before his death, by a retrospective of his films in moscow. after his death, an entire issue of the film magazine iskusstvo kino was devoted to tarkovsky. in their obituaries, the film committee of the council of ministers of the soviet union and the union of soviet film makers expressed their sorrow that tarkovsky had to spend the last years of his life in exile. posthumously, he was awarded the lenin prize in 1990, one of the highest state honors in the soviet union. in 1989, the andrei tarkovsky memorial prize was established, with its first recipient being the russian animator yuri norstein. in three consecutive events, the moscow international film festival awarded the andrei tarkovsky award in 1993, 1995, and 1997. in 1996, the andrei tarkovsky museum opened in yuryevets, his childhood town. a minor planet, 3345 tarkovskij, discovered by soviet astronomer lyudmila karachkina in 1982, has been named after him. tarkovsky has been the subject of several documentaries. most notable is the 1988 documentary moscow elegy, by russian film director alexander sokurov. sokurov ' s own work has been heavily influenced by tarkovsky. the film consists mostly of narration over stock footage from tarkovsky ' s films. directed by andrei tarkovsky is a 1988 documentary film by michal leszczylowski, an editor of the film the sacrifice. film director chris marker produced the television documentary one day in the life of andrei arsenevich as an homage to andrei tarkovsky in 2000. at the entrance to the gerasimov institute of cinematography in moscow, there is a monument that includes statues of tarkovsky, gennady shpalikov and vasily shukshin. reception and legacy andrei tarkovsky and his works have received praise from many filmmakers, critics and thinkers. the swedish filmmaker ingmar bergman was quoted as saying : " tarkovsky for me is the greatest [ of us all ], the one who invented a new language, true to the nature of film, as it captures life as a reflection, life as a dream ". the japanese filmmaker akira ku