that already married poppaea would be pressing nero. some modern historians theorise that nero ' s decision to kill agrippina was prompted by her plot to replace him with either gaius rubellius plautus ( nero ' s maternal second cousin ) or britannicus ( claudius ' biological son ). tacitus claims that nero considered poisoning or stabbing her, but felt these methods were too difficult and suspicious, so he settled on – after the advice of his former tutor anicetus – building a self - sinking boat. though aware of the plot, agrippina embarked on this boat and was nearly crushed by a collapsing lead ceiling only to be saved by the side of a sofa breaking the ceiling ' s fall. though the collapsing ceiling missed agrippina, it crushed her attendant who was outside by the helm. the boat failed to sink from the lead ceiling, so the crew then sank the boat, but agrippina swam to shore. her friend, acerronia polla, was attacked by oarsmen while still in the water, and was either bludgeoned to death or drowned, since she was exclaiming that she was agrippina, with the intention of being saved. she did not know, however, that this was an assassination attempt, not a mere accident. agrippina was met at the shore by crowds of admirers. news of agrippina ' s survival reached nero so he sent three assassins to kill her. suetonius ' s account suetonius says that agrippina ' s " over - watchful " and " over - critical " eye that she kept over nero drove him to murdering her. after months of attempting to humiliate her by depriving her of her power, honour, and bodyguards, he also expelled her from the palatine, followed by the people he sent to " pester " her with lawsuits and " jeers and catcalls ". when he eventually turned to murder, he first tried poison, three times in fact. she prevented her death by taking the antidote in advance. afterwards, he rigged up a machine in her room which would drop her ceiling tiles onto her as she slept, but she once again escaped her death after she received word of the plan. nero ' s final plan was to get her in a boat which would collapse and sink. he sent her a friendly letter asking to reconcile and inviting her to celebrate the quinquatrus at baiae with him. he arranged an " accidental " collision between her galley and one