produced by electrical means, so could consonants, so could articulate speech. " he also later remarked : " i thought that helmholtz had done it... and that my failure was due only to my ignorance of electricity. it was a valuable blunder... if i had been able to read german in those days, i might never have commenced my experiments! " family tragedy in 1865, when the bell family moved to london, bell returned to weston house as an assistant master and, in his spare hours, continued experiments on sound using a minimum of laboratory equipment. bell concentrated on experimenting with electricity to convey sound and later installed a telegraph wire from his room in somerset college to that of a friend. throughout late 1867, his health faltered mainly through exhaustion. his younger brother, edward " ted ", was similarly affected by tuberculosis. while bell recovered ( by then referring to himself in correspondence as " a. g. bell " ) and served the next year as an instructor at somerset college, bath, england, his brother ' s condition deteriorated. edward would never recover. upon his brother ' s death, bell returned home in 1867. his older brother melville had married and moved out. with aspirations to obtain a degree at university college london, bell considered his next years as preparation for the degree examinations, devoting his spare time at his family ' s residence to studying. helping his father in visible speech demonstrations and lectures brought bell to susanna e. hull ' s private school for the deaf in south kensington, london. his first two pupils were deaf - mute girls who made remarkable progress under his tutelage. while his older brother seemed to achieve success on many fronts including opening his own elocution school, applying for a patent on an invention, and starting a family, bell continued as a teacher. however, in may 1870, melville died from complications due to tuberculosis, causing a family crisis. his father had also experienced a debilitating illness earlier in life and had been restored to health by a convalescence in newfoundland. bell ' s parents embarked upon a long - planned move when they realized that their remaining son was also sickly. acting decisively, alexander melville bell asked bell to arrange for the sale of all the family property, conclude all of his brother ' s affairs ( bell took over his last student, curing a pronounced lisp ), and join his father and mother in setting out for the " new world ". reluctantly, bell also had to conclude a relationship with marie eccleston, who,