intentionally sunk. after touchdown on hornet at 17 : 53 utc, the helicopter was lowered by the elevator into the hangar bay, where the astronauts walked the to the mobile quarantine facility ( mqf ), where they would begin the earth - based portion of their 21 days of quarantine. this practice would continue for two more apollo missions, apollo 12 and apollo 14, before the moon was proven to be barren of life, and the quarantine process dropped. nixon welcomed the astronauts back to earth. he told them : " [ a ] s a result of what you ' ve done, the world has never been closer together before. " after nixon departed, hornet was brought alongside the columbia, which was lifted aboard by the ship ' s crane, placed on a dolly and moved next to the mqf. it was then attached to the mqf with a flexible tunnel, allowing the lunar samples, film, data tapes and other items to be removed. hornet returned to pearl harbor, where the mqf was loaded onto a lockheed c - 141 starlifter and airlifted to the manned spacecraft center. the astronauts arrived at the lunar receiving laboratory at 10 : 00 utc on july 28. columbia was taken to ford island for deactivation, and its pyrotechnics made safe. it was then taken to hickham air force base, from whence it was flown to houston in a douglas c - 133 cargomaster, reaching the lunar receiving laboratory on july 30. in accordance with the extra - terrestrial exposure law, a set of regulations promulgated by nasa on july 16 to codify its quarantine protocol, the astronauts continued in quarantine. after three weeks in confinement ( first in the apollo spacecraft, then in their trailer on hornet, and finally in the lunar receiving laboratory ), the astronauts were given a clean bill of health. on august 10, 1969, the interagency committee on back contamination met in atlanta and lifted the quarantine on the astronauts, on those who had joined them in quarantine ( nasa physician william carpentier and mqf project engineer john hirasaki ), and on columbia itself. loose equipment from the spacecraft remained in isolation until the lunar samples were released for study. celebrations on august 13, the three astronauts rode in ticker - tape parades in their honor in new york and chicago, with an estimated six million attendees. on the same evening in los angeles there was an official state dinner to celebrate the flight, attended by members