, as is the case with fatty predatory fish, like salmon, by eating prey fish that have accumulated omega - 3 fatty acids from microalgae. to satisfy this requirement, more than 50 percent of the world fish oil production is fed to farmed salmon. farmed salmon consume more wild fish than they generate as a final product, although the efficiency of production is improving. to produce one kilograms of farmed salmon, products from several kilograms of wild fish are fed to them – this can be described as the " fish - in - fish - out " ( fifo ) ratio. in 1995, salmon had a fifo ratio of 7. 5 ( meaning 7. 5 kilograms of wild fish feed were required to produce one kilogram of salmon ) ; by 2006 the ratio had fallen to 4. 9. additionally, a growing share of fish oil and fishmeal come from residues ( byproducts of fish processing ), rather than dedicated whole fish. in 2012, 34 percent of fish oil and 28 percent of fishmeal came from residues. however, fishmeal and oil from residues instead of whole fish have a different composition with more ash and less protein, which may limit its potential use for aquaculture. as the salmon farming industry expands, it requires more wild forage fish for feed, at a time when seventy - five percent of the world ' s monitored fisheries are already near to or have exceeded their maximum sustainable yield. the industrial - scale extraction of wild forage fish for salmon farming then impacts the survivability of the wild predator fish who rely on them for food. an important step in reducing the impact of aquaculture on wild fish is shifting carnivorous species to plant - based feeds. salmon feeds, for example, have gone from containing only fishmeal and oil to containing 40 percent plant protein. the usda has also experimented with using grain - based feeds for farmed trout. when properly formulated ( and often mixed with fishmeal or oil ), plant - based feeds can provide proper nutrition and similar growth rates in carnivorous farmed fish. another impact aquaculture production can have on wild fish is the risk of fish escaping from coastal pens, where they can interbreed with their wild counterparts, diluting wild genetic stocks. escaped fish can become invasive, out - competing native species. animal welfare as with the farming of terrestrial animals, social attitudes influence the need for humane practices and regulations in farmed marine animals. under the guidelines advised by the farm animal welfare council good animal welfare means both fitness