more frequently during peak travel times. there are frequent long - distance bus services from andorra to barcelona and toulouse, plus a daily tour from the former city. bus services mostly are run by private companies, but some local ones are operated by the government. there are no airports for fixed - wing aircraft within andorra ' s borders but there are, however, heliports in la massana ( cami heliport ), arinsal and escaldes - engordany with commercial helicopter services and an airport located in the neighbouring spanish comarca of alt urgell, south of the andorran - spanish border. since july 2015, andorra – la seu d ' urgell airport has operated commercial flights to madrid and palma de mallorca, and is the main hub for andorra airlines. nearby airports located in spain and france provide access to international flights for the principality. the nearest airports are at perpignan, france ( from andorra ) and lleida, spain ( from andorra ). the largest nearby airports are at toulouse, france ( from andorra ) and barcelona, spain ( from andorra ). there are hourly bus services from both barcelona and toulouse airports to andorra. the nearest railway station is andorre - l ' hospitalet station east of andorra which is on the - gauge line from latour - de - carol ( ) southeast of andorra, to toulouse and on to paris by the french high - speed trains. this line is operated by the sncf. latour - de - carol has a scenic trainline to villefranche - de - conflent, as well as the sncf ' s gauge line connecting to perpignan, and the renfe ' s - gauge line to barcelona. there are also direct intercites de nuit trains between l ' hospitalet - pres - l ' andorre and paris on certain dates. media and telecommunications in andorra, mobile and fixed telephone and internet services are operated exclusively by the andorran national telecommunications company, som, also known as andorra telecom ( sta ). the same company also manages the technical infrastructure for national broadcasting of digital television and radio. in 2010 andorra became the first country to provide a direct optical fiber link to all homes ( ftth ) and businesses. the first commercial radio station to broadcast was radio andorra, which was active from 1939 to 1981. on 12 october 1989, the general council established radio and television as essential public services creating