with the state customs committee. the government supported customs committee in preparing its staff to deal with the new system by improving recruitment of local customs offices, providing with software and hardware upgrades for the system. azerbaijani government supports financially single window system. in the first phase, the government realized customs clearance system on the process of border crossing to country beginning from 1 january 2009. this system was free to all users. then it was expanded to baku and sumgayit in 2011. customs code of the republic of azerbaijan was amended based on the inclusion of the article on single window system which became operative on 1 january 2012. after this amendment, all of azerbaijan ' s 29 customs checkpoints started to implement new single window system. according to the presidential decree ( 11 november 2008 ), the " single window " principle started to be applied from 1 january 2009 on the inspection of goods and transportation at the border checkpoints. customs committee established a commission working on the implementation of " single window " principle in customs agencies on 18 november 2008 based on the presidential decree of 11 november 2008. technological scheme determining the sequence of issuance of " permit " certificates was approved by the customs committee on 22 december 2009. scheme provided customs officers to issue " permit " certificates at border checkpoints to vehicles, which perform customs, veterinary, photo - sanitary and sanitary quarantine control activities and international automobile transportation in accordance with legislation. the state migration service issues appropriate permits for foreigners and stateless persons coming to azerbaijan to live and work on legal grounds, simplifying the procedure of their registration at the place of residence, and ensuring transparency in these processes. the " single window " principle has been applied on migration management processes starting from 1 july 2009 according to the decree. business environment as of october 2014, azerbaijan holds the highest foreign investment per capita among the commonwealth of independent states ( cis ) countries. germany, for example, has invested approximately $ 760 million into the azerbaijani economy, and approximately 177 german companies operate within azerbaijan. since gaining its independence, companies have invested $ 174 billion into azerbaijan. foreign investment accounts for around half of that amount. in 2008, azerbaijan was cited as the top reformer by the world bank ' s doing business report : according to world bank ' s doing business report 2019, azerbaijan improved its position in the ease of doing business rank from 57 to 25, as well as ranked 4th among the top 10 improvers. implementing a record number of reforms mainly involving institutional changes have made it easier to do business in azerbaijan in 2017 – 2018 period, as a result time and cost