##ns. when amphitryon finally returned to thebes, alcmene told him that he had come the night before and slept with her ; he learned from tiresias what zeus had done. birth of heracles homer in homer ' s iliad, when alcmene was about to give birth to heracles, zeus announced to all the gods that on that day a child by zeus himself would be born and rule all those around him. hera, after requesting zeus to swear an oath to that effect, descended from olympus to argos and made the wife of sthenelus ( son of perseus ) give birth to eurystheus after only seven months, while at the same time preventing alcmene from delivering heracles. this resulted in the fulfillment of zeus ' s oath in that it was eurystheus rather than heracles. ovid according to ovid ' s metamorphoses, while in labour, alcmene was having great difficulty giving birth to such a large child. after seven days and nights of agony, alcmene stretched out her arms and called upon lucina, the goddess of childbirth ( the roman equivalent of eileithyia ). while lucina did go to alcmene, she had been previously instructed by juno ( hera ) to prevent the delivery. with her hands clasped and legs crossed, lucina muttered charms, thereby preventing alcmene from giving birth. alcmene writhed in pain, cursed the heavens, and came close to death. galanthis, a maid of alcmene who was nearby, observed lucina ' s behaviour and quickly deduced that it was juno ' s doing. to put an end to her mistress ' s suffering, she announced that alcmene had safely delivered her child, which surprised lucina so much that she immediately jumped up and unclenched her hands. as soon as lucina leapt up, alcmene was released from her spell, and gave birth to heracles. as punishment for deceiving lucina, galanthis was transformed into a weasel ; she continued to live with alcmene. pausanias in pausanias ' recounting, hera sent witches ( as they were called by the thebans ) to hinder alcmene ' s delivery of heracles. the witches were successful in preventing the birth until historis, daughter of tiresias, thought of a trick to deceive the witches. like galant