three and a half years. many participants in the original debates were no longer delegates, and some of the signers had only recently arrived. the articles of confederation and perpetual union were signed by a group of men who were never present in the congress at the same time. signers the signers and the states they represented were : connecticut roger sherman samuel huntington oliver wolcott titus hosmer andrew adams delaware thomas mckean john dickinson nicholas van dyke georgia john walton edward telfair edward langworthy maryland john hanson daniel carroll massachusetts bay john hancock samuel adams elbridge gerry francis dana james lovell samuel holten new hampshire josiah bartlett john wentworth jr. new jersey john witherspoon nathaniel scudder new york james duane francis lewis william duer gouverneur morris north carolina john penn cornelius harnett john williams pennsylvania robert morris daniel roberdeau jonathan bayard smith william clingan joseph reed rhode island and providence plantations william ellery henry marchant john collins south carolina henry laurens william henry drayton john mathews richard hutson thomas heyward jr. virginia richard henry lee john banister thomas adams john harvie francis lightfoot lee roger sherman ( connecticut ) was the only person to sign all four great state papers of the united states : the continental association, the united states declaration of independence, the articles of confederation and the united states constitution. robert morris ( pennsylvania ) signed three of the great state papers of the united states : the united states declaration of independence, the articles of confederation and the united states constitution. john dickinson ( delaware ), daniel carroll ( maryland ) and gouverneur morris ( new york ), along with sherman and robert morris, were the only five people to sign both the articles of confederation and the united states constitution ( gouverneur morris represented pennsylvania when signing the constitution ). parchment pages original parchment pages of the articles of confederation, national archives and records administration. revision and replacement in september 1786, delegates from five states met at what became known as the annapolis convention to discuss the need for reversing the protectionist interstate trade barriers that each state had erected. at its conclusion, delegates voted to invite all states to a larger convention to be held in philadelphia in 1787. the confederation congress later endorsed this convention " for the sole and express purpose of revising the articles of confederation ". although the states ' representatives to the constitutional convention in philadelphia were only authorized to amend the articles, delegates held secret, closed - door sessions and wrote a new constitution. the new frame of government gave much more power