##tidoglycan, found in some bacterial cell walls contains some d - amino acids. at physiological ph, typically around 7, free amino acids exist in a charged form, where the acidic carboxyl group ( - cooh ) loses a proton ( - coo− ) and the basic amine group ( - nh2 ) gains a proton ( - nh ). the entire molecule has a net neutral charge and is a zwitterion, with the exception of amino acids with basic or acidic side chains. aspartic acid, for example, possesses one protonated amine and two deprotonated carboxyl groups, for a net charge of −1 at physiological ph. fatty acids and fatty acid derivatives are another group of carboxylic acids that play a significant role in biology. these contain long hydrocarbon chains and a carboxylic acid group on one end. the cell membrane of nearly all organisms is primarily made up of a phospholipid bilayer, a micelle of hydrophobic fatty acid esters with polar, hydrophilic phosphate " head " groups. membranes contain additional components, some of which can participate in acid – base reactions. in humans and many other animals, hydrochloric acid is a part of the gastric acid secreted within the stomach to help hydrolyze proteins and polysaccharides, as well as converting the inactive pro - enzyme, pepsinogen into the enzyme, pepsin. some organisms produce acids for defense ; for example, ants produce formic acid. acid – base equilibrium plays a critical role in regulating mammalian breathing. oxygen gas ( o2 ) drives cellular respiration, the process by which animals release the chemical potential energy stored in food, producing carbon dioxide ( co2 ) as a byproduct. oxygen and carbon dioxide are exchanged in the lungs, and the body responds to changing energy demands by adjusting the rate of ventilation. for example, during periods of exertion the body rapidly breaks down stored carbohydrates and fat, releasing co2 into the blood stream. in aqueous solutions such as blood co2 exists in equilibrium with carbonic acid and bicarbonate ion. it is the decrease in ph that signals the brain to breathe faster and deeper, expelling the excess co2 and resupplying the cells with o2. cell membranes are generally impermeable to charged or large, polar molecules because of the lipophilic fatty acyl chains comprising their interior. many biologically