their spacesuits which delayed the sealing of the hatch. then, communications problems frustrated the astronauts and forced a hold in the simulated countdown. during this hold, an electrical fire began in the cabin and spread quickly in the high pressure, 100 % oxygen atmosphere. pressure rose high enough from the fire that the cabin inner wall burst, allowing the fire to erupt onto the pad area and frustrating attempts to rescue the crew. the astronauts were asphyxiated before the hatch could be opened. nasa immediately convened an accident review board, overseen by both houses of congress. while the determination of responsibility for the accident was complex, the review board concluded that " deficiencies existed in command module design, workmanship and quality control ". at the insistence of nasa administrator webb, north american removed harrison storms as command module program manager. webb also reassigned apollo spacecraft program office ( aspo ) manager joseph francis shea, replacing him with george low. to remedy the causes of the fire, changes were made in the block ii spacecraft and operational procedures, the most important of which were use of a nitrogen / oxygen mixture instead of pure oxygen before and during launch, and removal of flammable cabin and space suit materials. the block ii design already called for replacement of the block i plug - type hatch cover with a quick - release, outward opening door. nasa discontinued the crewed block i program, using the blocki spacecraft only for uncrewed saturnv flights. crew members would also exclusively wear modified, fire - resistant a7l block ii space suits, and would be designated by the block ii titles, regardless of whether a lm was present on the flight or not. uncrewed saturn v and lm tests on april 24, 1967, mueller published an official apollo mission numbering scheme, using sequential numbers for all flights, crewed or uncrewed. the sequence would start with apollo 4 to cover the first three uncrewed flights while retiring the apollo1 designation to honor the crew, per their widows ' wishes. in september 1967, mueller approved a sequence of mission types which had to be successfully accomplished in order to achieve the crewed lunar landing. each step had to be successfully accomplished before the next ones could be performed, and it was unknown how many tries of each mission would be necessary ; therefore letters were used instead of numbers. the a missions were uncrewed saturn v validation ; b was uncrewed lm validation using the saturn ib ; c was crewed csm earth orbit validation using the saturn ib ; d was the first crewed