1985 – 88, resulting in the gnu awk implementation written by paul rubin, jay fenlason, and richard stallman, released in 1988. gnu awk may be the most widely deployed version because it is included with gnu - based linux packages. gnu awk has been maintained solely by arnold robbins since 1994. brian kernighan ' s nawk ( new awk ) source was first released in 1993 unpublicized, and publicly since the late 1990s ; many bsd systems use it to avoid the gpl license. awk was preceded by sed ( 1974 ). both were designed for text processing. they share the line - oriented, data - driven paradigm, and are particularly suited to writing one - liner programs, due to the implicit main loop and current line variables. the power and terseness of early awk programs – notably the powerful regular expression handling and conciseness due to implicit variables, which facilitate one - liners – together with the limitations of awk at the time, were important inspirations for the perl language ( 1987 ). in the 1990s, perl became very popular, competing with awk in the niche of unix text - processing languages. structure of awk programs an awk program is a series of pattern action pairs, written as : condition { action } condition { action }... where condition is typically an expression and action is a series of commands. the input is split into records, where by default records are separated by newline characters so that the input is split into lines. the program tests each record against each of the conditions in turn, and executes the action for each expression that is true. either the condition or the action may be omitted. the condition defaults to matching every record. the default action is to print the record. this is the same pattern - action structure as sed. in addition to a simple awk expression, such as foo = = 1 or / ^ foo /, the condition can be begin or end causing the action to be executed before or after all records have been read, or pattern1, pattern2 which matches the range of records starting with a record that matches pattern1 up to and including the record that matches pattern2 before again trying to match against pattern1 on subsequent lines. in addition to normal arithmetic and logical operators, awk expressions include the tilde operator, ~, which matches a regular expression against a string. as handy syntactic sugar, / regexp / without using the tilde operator matches