young men casually competed against each other to see who could dive from the highest point into the sea below. eventually, locals began to ask for tips for those coming to see the men dive. today the divers are professionals, diving from heights of into an inlet that is only wide and deep, after praying first at a shrine to the virgin of guadalupe. on the evening before december 12, the feast day of this virgin, freestyle cliff divers jump into the sea to honor her. dives range from the simple to the complicated and end with the " ocean of fire " when the sea is lit with gasoline, making a circle of flames which the diver aims for. the spectacle can be seen from a public area which charges a small fee or from the hotel plaza las glorias / el mirador from its bar or restaurant terrace. there are a number of beaches in the acapulco bay and the immediate coastline. in the bay proper there are the la angosta ( in the quebrada ), caleta, caletilla, dominguillo, tlacopanocha, hornos, hornitos, honda, tamarindo, condesa, guitarron, icacos, playuela, playuelilla and playa del secreto. in the adjoining, smaller bay of puerto marques there is pichilingue, las brisas, and playa roqueta. facing open ocean just northwest of the bays is pie de la cuesta and southeast are playa revolcadero, playa aeromar, playa encantada and barra vieja. two lagoons are in the area, coyuca to the northwest of acapulco bay and tres palos to the southeast. both lagoons have mangroves and offer boat tours. tres palos also has sea turtle nesting areas which are protected. in addition to sunbathing, the beaches around the bay offer a number of services, such as boat rentals, boat tours, horseback riding, scuba diving and other aquatic sports. one popular cruise is from caletilla beach to roqueta island, which has places to snorkel, have lunch, and a lighthouse. there is also an underwater statue of the virgin of guadalupe here, created in 1958 by armando quesado in memory of a group of divers who died here. many of the scuba - diving tours come to this area as well, where there are sunken ships, sea mountains, and cave rock formations. another popular activity is deep -