he is thought to be an elderly man even in the early novels. in an autobiography, she admitted that she already imagined him to be an old man in 1920. at the time, however, she did not know that she would write works featuring him for decades to come. a brief passage in the big four provides original information about poirot ' s birth or at least childhood in or near the town of spa, belgium : " but we did not go into spa itself. we left the main road and wound into the leafy fastnesses of the hills, till we reached a little hamlet and an isolated white villa high on the hillside. " christie strongly implies that this " quiet retreat in the ardennes " near spa is the location of the poirot family home. an alternative tradition holds that poirot was born in the village of ellezelles ( province of hainaut, belgium ). a few memorials dedicated to hercule poirot can be seen in the centre of this village. there appears to be no reference to this in christie ' s writings, but the town of ellezelles cherishes a copy of poirot ' s birth certificate in a local memorial ' attesting ' poirot ' s birth, naming his father and mother as jules - louis poirot and godelieve poirot. christie wrote that poirot is a catholic by birth, but not much is described about his later religious convictions, except sporadic references to his " going to church " and occasional invocations of " le bon dieu ". christie provides little information regarding poirot ' s childhood, only mentioning in three act tragedy that he comes from a large family with little wealth, and has at least one younger sister. apart from french and english, poirot is also fluent in german. policeman gustave... was not a policeman. i have dealt with policemen all my life and i know. he could pass as a detective to an outsider but not to a man who was a policeman himself. — hercule poirot hercule poirot was active in the brussels police force by 1893. very little mention is made about this part of his life, but in " the nemean lion " ( 1939 ) poirot refers to a belgian case of his in which " a wealthy soap manufacturer... poisoned his wife in order to be free to marry his secretary ". as poirot was often misleading about his past to gain information, the truthfulness of that statement