argues that the " dhamma " missionaries mentioned in ashoka ' s inscriptions were probably not buddhist monks, as this " dhamma " was not same as " buddhism ". moreover, the lists of destinations of the missions and the dates of the missions mentioned in the inscriptions do not tally the ones mentioned in the buddhist legends. other scholars, such as erich frauwallner and richard gombrich, believe that the missions mentioned in the sri lankan tradition are historical. according to these scholars, a part of this story is corroborated by archaeological evidence : the vinaya nidana mentions names of five monks, who are said to have gone to the himalayan region ; three of these names have been found inscribed on relic caskets found at bhilsa ( near vidisha ). these caskets have been dated to the early 2nd century bce, and the inscription states that the monks are of the himalayan school. the missions may have set out from vidisha in central india, as the caskets were discovered there, and as mahinda is said to have stayed there for a month before setting out for sri lanka. according to gombrich, the mission may have included representatives of other religions, and thus, lamotte ' s objection about " dhamma " is not valid. the buddhist chroniclers may have decided not to mention these non - buddhists, so as not to sideline buddhism. frauwallner and gombrich also believe that ashoka was directly responsible for the missions, since only a resourceful ruler could have sponsored such activities. the sri lankan chronicles, which belong to the theravada school, exaggerate the role of the theravadin monk moggaliputta - tissa in order to glorify their sect. some historians argue that buddhism became a major religion because of ashoka ' s royal patronage. however, epigraphic evidence suggests that the spread of buddhism in north - western india and deccan region was less because of ashoka ' s missions, and more because of merchants, traders, landowners and the artisan guilds who supported buddhist establishments. violence after conversion according to the ashokavadana, ashoka resorted to violence even after converting to buddhism. for example : he slowly tortured chandagirika to death in the " hell " prison. he ordered a massacre of 18, 000 heretics for a misdeed of one. he launched a pogrom against the jains, announcing a bounty on the head of any here