described gandhi as " a role model for the generations to come ". the initial connection was established on 27 september 1931, when wilfrid israel took his indian guest v. a. sundaram to meet his friend einstein at his summer home in the town of caputh. sundaram was gandhi ' s disciple and special envoy, whom wilfrid israel met while visiting india and visiting the indian leader ' s home in 1925. during the visit, einstein wrote a short letter to gandhi that was delivered to him through his envoy, and gandhi responded quickly with his own letter. although in the end einstein and gandhi were unable to meet as they had hoped, the direct connection between them was established through wilfrid israel. relationship with zionism einstein was a figurehead leader in the establishment of the hebrew university of jerusalem, which opened in 1925. earlier, in 1921, he was asked by the biochemist and president of the world zionist organization, chaim weizmann, to help raise funds for the planned university. he made suggestions for the creation of an institute of agriculture, a chemical institute and an institute of microbiology in order to fight the various ongoing epidemics such as malaria, which he called an " evil " that was undermining a third of the country ' s development. he also promoted the establishment of an oriental studies institute, to include language courses given in both hebrew and arabic. einstein was not a nationalist and opposed the creation of an independent jewish state. he felt that the waves of arriving jews of the aliyah could live alongside existing arabs in palestine. the state of israel was established without his help in 1948 ; einstein was limited to a marginal role in the zionist movement. upon the death of israeli president weizmann in november 1952, prime minister david ben - gurion offered einstein the largely ceremonial position of president of israel at the urging of ezriel carlebach. the offer was presented by israel ' s ambassador in washington, abba eban, who explained that the offer " embodies the deepest respect which the jewish people can repose in any of its sons ". einstein wrote that he was " deeply moved ", but " at once saddened and ashamed " that he could not accept it. religious and philosophical views einstein expounded his spiritual outlook in a wide array of writings and interviews. he said he had sympathy for the impersonal pantheistic god of baruch spinoza ' s philosophy. he did not believe in a personal god who concerns himself with fates and actions of human beings,