. sorghum was domesticated in the sahel region of africa by 7, 000 years ago. cotton was domesticated in peru by 5, 600 years ago, and was independently domesticated in eurasia. in mesoamerica, wild teosinte was bred into maize by 6, 000 years ago. the horse was domesticated in the eurasian steppes around 3500 bc. scholars have offered multiple hypotheses to explain the historical origins of agriculture. studies of the transition from hunter - gatherer to agricultural societies indicate an initial period of intensification and increasing sedentism ; examples are the natufian culture in the levant, and the early chinese neolithic in china. then, wild stands that had previously been harvested started to be planted, and gradually came to be domesticated. civilizations in eurasia, the sumerians started to live in villages from about 8, 000 bc, relying on the tigris and euphrates rivers and a canal system for irrigation. ploughs appear in pictographs around 3, 000 bc ; seed - ploughs around 2, 300 bc. farmers grew wheat, barley, vegetables such as lentils and onions, and fruits including dates, grapes, and figs. ancient egyptian agriculture relied on the nile river and its seasonal flooding. farming started in the predynastic period at the end of the paleolithic, after 10, 000 bc. staple food crops were grains such as wheat and barley, alongside industrial crops such as flax and papyrus. in india, wheat, barley and jujube were domesticated by 9, 000 bc, soon followed by sheep and goats. cattle, sheep and goats were domesticated in mehrgarh culture by 8, 000 – 6, 000 bc. cotton was cultivated by the 5th – 4th millennium bc. archeological evidence indicates an animal - drawn plough from 2, 500 bc in the indus valley civilisation. in china, from the 5th century bc, there was a nationwide granary system and widespread silk farming. water - powered grain mills were in use by the 1st century bc, followed by irrigation. by the late 2nd century, heavy ploughs had been developed with iron ploughshares and mouldboards. these spread westwards across eurasia. asian rice was domesticated 8, 200 – 13, 500 years ago – depending on the molecular clock estimate that is used – on the pearl river in southern china with a single genetic origin from the wild rice oryza rufipogon. in greece