leisure facilities. the first project will concentrate on the reorganization and the development of the infrastructures of the railway station " aga " located in the downtown area. the ultramodern station intended to accommodate more than 80. 000 passengers per day, will become a centre of circulation in the heart of the grid system, surrounded by commercial offices and buildings and hotels intended for travellers in transit. a shopping centre and three high - rise office buildings rising with the top of the commercial zone will accompany the project. the second project will not relate to the bay of algiers and aims to revitalize the sea front. the development of the sea front will include marinas, channels, luxury hotels, offices, apartments of great standing, luxury stores and leisure amenities. a crescent - shaped peninsula will be set up on the open sea. the project of the bay of algiers will also comprise six small islands, of which four of round form, connected to each other by bridges and marinas and will include tourist and residential complexes. the third project will relate to restructuring an area of algiers, qualified by the originators of the project of " city of wellness ". el abbar indicated to the journalists that the complex would be " agreeable for all those which will want to combine tourism and well - being or tourism and relaxation ". the complex will include a university, a research center and a medical centre. it should also include a hospital complex, a care centre, a hotel zone, an urban centre and a thermal spa with villas and apartments. the university will include a medical school and a school for care male nurses which will be able to accommodate 500 students. the university campus will have the possibility of seeing setting up broad ranges of buildings of research laboratories and residences. another project relates to technological implantation of a campus in sidi abdellah, south - east from algiers. this site will include shopping centres, residential zones with high standard apartments and a golf course surrounded by villas and hotels. two other residential zones, including 1. 800 apartments and 40 high standard villas, will be built on the surrounding hills. the fifth project is that of the tourist complex colonel abbes, which will be located west from algiers. this complex will include several retail zones, meeting places, and residential zones composed of apartments and villas with views of the sea. there is another project under construction, by the name of algiers medina. the first step of the project is nearly complete. a hewlett - packard office for french - speaking countries in africa is in algiers. tourist installations some to