guddala tribe in kairouan. ibn ibrahim then inspired abdallah ibn yasin to organize for jihad and start the almoravid movement. moroccan literature flourished in the almoravid period. the political unification of morocco and al - andalus under the almoravid dynasty rapidly accelerated the cultural interchange between the two continents, beginning when yusuf ibn tashfin sent al - mu ' tamid ibn abbad, former poet king of the taifa of seville, into exile in tangier and ultimately aghmat. the historians ibn hayyan, al - bakri, ibn bassam, and al - fath ibn khaqan all lived in the almoravid period. ibn bassam authored, al - fath ibn khaqan authored qala ' idu l - ' iqyan, and al - bakri authored al - masalik wa ’ l - mamalik ( book of roads and kingdoms ). in the almoravid period two writers stand out : qadi ayyad and avempace. ayyad is known for having authored kitab al - shifaʾ bi taʾrif huquq al - mustafa. many of the seven saints of marrakesh were men of letters. the muwashshah was an important form of poetry and music in the almoravid period. great poets from the period are mentioned in anthologies such as, rawd al - qirtas, and mu ' jam as - sifr. the moroccan historian noted that there were 104 paper mills in fez under yusuf ibn tashfin in the 11th century. military organization abdallah ibn yasin imposed very strict disciplinary measures on his forces for every breach of his laws. the almoravids ' first military leader, yahya ibn umar al - lamtuni, gave them a good military organization. their main force was infantry, armed with javelins in the front ranks and pikes behind, which formed into a phalanx, and was supported by camelmen and horsemen on the flanks. they also had a flag carrier at the front who guided the forces behind him ; when the flag was upright, the combatants behind would stand and when it was turned down, they would sit. al - bakri reports that, while in combat, the almoravids did not pursue those who fled in front of them. their fighting was intense and they did not retreat when disadvantaged by an advancing opposing force ; they preferred death over defeat. these characteristics were possibly unusual at