beginning, e. g., ' the house is... '. stress word stress is not phonemically contrastive in standard arabic. it bears a strong relationship to vowel length. the basic rules for modern standard arabic are : a final vowel, long or short, may not be stressed. only one of the last three syllables may be stressed. given this restriction, the last heavy syllable, containing a long vowel or ending in a consonant, is stressed, if it is not the final syllable. if the final syllable is super heavy and closed ( of the form cvvc or cvcc ) it receives stress. if no syllable is heavy or super heavy, the first possible syllable ( i. e. third from end ) is stressed. as a special exception, in form vii and viii verb forms stress may not be on the first syllable, despite the above rules : hence ' he subscribed ' ( whether or not the final short vowel is pronounced ), ' he subscribes ' ( whether or not the final short vowel is pronounced ), ' he should subscribe ( juss. ) '. likewise form viii ' he bought ', ' he buys '. these rules may result in differently stressed syllables when final case endings are pronounced, vs. the normal situation where they are not pronounced, as in the above example of ' library ' in full pronunciation, but ' library ' in short pronunciation. the restriction on final long vowels does not apply to the spoken dialects, where original final long vowels have been shortened and secondary final long vowels have arisen from loss of original final - hu / hi. some dialects have different stress rules. in the egyptian arabic dialect a heavy syllable may not carry stress more than two syllables from the end of a word, hence ' school ', ' cairo '. this also affects the way that modern standard arabic is pronounced in egypt. in the arabic of sanaa, stress is often retracted : ' two houses ', ' their table ', ' desks ', ' sometimes ', ' their school '. in this dialect, only syllables with long vowels or diphthongs are considered heavy ; in a two - syllable word, the final syllable can be stressed only if the preceding syllable is light ; and in longer words, the final syllable cannot be stressed. levels of pronunciation the final short vowels ( e. g., the case endings - a - i - u and mood endings - u - a ) are often not pronounced in this language, despite forming part of the formal paradigm of nouns