durable computer for classroom use. however, in order to achieve its low price, the emate 300 did not have all the speed and features of the contemporary messagepad equivalent, the messagepad 2000. the emate was cancelled along with the rest of the newton products in 1998. it is the only newton device to use the arm710 microprocessor ( running at 25 mhz ), have an integrated keyboard, use newton os 2. 2 ( officially numbered 2. 1 ), and its batteries are officially irreplaceable, although several users replaced them with longer - lasting ones without any damage to the emate hardware whatsoever. prototypes many prototypes of additional newton devices were spotted. most notable was a newton tablet or " slate ", a large, flat screen that could be written on. others included a " kids newton " with side handgrips and buttons, " videopads " which would have incorporated a video camera and screen on their flip - top covers for two - way communications, the " mini 2000 " which would have been very similar to a palm pilot, and the newtonphone developed by siemens, which incorporated a handset and a keyboard. market reception fourteen months after sculley demoed it at the may 1992, chicago ces, the messagepad was first offered for sale on august 2, 1993, at the boston macworld expo. the hottest item at the show, it cost $ 900. 50, 000 messagepads were sold in the device ' s first three months on the market. the original apple messagepad and messagepad 100 were limited by the very short lifetime of their inadequate aaa batteries. later versions of newton os offered improved handwriting recognition, quite possibly a leading reason for the continued popularity of the devices among newton users. even given the age of the hardware and software, newtons still demand a sale price on the used market far greater than that of comparatively aged pdas produced by other companies. in 2006, cnet compared an apple messagepad 2000 to a samsung q1, and the newton was declared better. in 2009, cnet compared an apple messagepad 2000 to an iphone 3gs, and the newton was declared more innovative at its time of release. a chain of dedicated newton - only stores called newton source, independently run by stephen elms, existed from 1994 until 1998. locations included new york, los angeles, san francisco, chicago and boston. the westwood village, california, near ucla featured the trademark red and yellow light bulb newton logo in neon. the stores provided an inform