his mother. he began working as a general contractor, earning a reputation for being a hard - working, honest man, as well as having a working man ' s view on fiscal policy. mackenzie helped construct many courthouses and jails across southern ontario. a number of these still stand today, including the sandwich courthouse and jail now known as the mackenzie hall cultural centre in windsor, ontario, and the kent county courthouse and jail in chatham, ontario. he even bid, unsuccessfully, on the construction of the parliament buildings in ottawa in 1859. helen died in 1852, finally succumbing to the effects of excessive doses of mercury - based calomel used to treat a fever while in kingston. in 1853, he married jane sym ( 1825 – 93 ). early political involvement mackenzie involved himself in politics almost from the moment he arrived in canada. he fought passionately for equality and the elimination of all forms of class distinction. in 1851, he became the secretary for the reform party for lambton. after convincing him to run in kent / lambton, mackenzie campaigned relentlessly for george brown, owner of the reformist paper the globe in the 1851 election, helping brown to win his first seat in the legislative assembly. mackenzie and brown remained the closest of friends and colleagues for the rest of their lives. in 1852, mackenzie became editor of another reformist paper, the lambton shield. as an editor, mackenzie was perhaps a little too vocal, leading the paper to a lawsuit for libel against the local conservative candidate. because a key witness claimed cabinet confidence and would not testify, the paper lost the suit and was forced to fold due to financial hardship. after his brother, hope mackenzie, declined to run, alexander was petitioned to run and won his first seat in the legislative assembly as a supporter of george brown in 1861. when brown resigned from the great coalition in 1865 over reciprocity negotiations with the united states, mackenzie was invited to replace him as president of the council. wary of macdonald ' s motivations and true to his principles, mackenzie declined. he entered the house of commons of canada in 1867, representing the lambton, ontario, riding. no cohesive national liberal party of canada existed at the time and with brown not winning his seat, no official leader emerged. mackenzie did not believe he was the best qualified for the position, and although he resisted offers of the position, he nevertheless sat as the de facto leader of the official opposition. mackenzie served as a major in the 27th lambton battalion of infantry from 1866 to 1874,