come to the defense of the city and fernando ii of leon himself with his army. the almohads ended the siege and their retreat turned into a rout due to panic in their camp, with the almohad caliph being injured in the process ( according to one version, because of a crossbow bolt ) and dying on the way back to seville. afonso died shortly after on 6 december 1185. the portuguese revere him as a hero, both on account of his personal character and as the founder of their nation. there are mythical stories that it took ten men to carry his sword, and that afonso wanted to engage other monarchs in personal combat, but no one would dare accept his challenge. it is also told, despite his honourable character, that he had a temper. several chronicles give the example of a papal legate that brought a message from pope paschal ii refusing to acknowledge afonso ' s claim as king : either after committing or saying a small offense against him or after being simply read the letter, afonso almost killed, in his rage, the papal representative, taking several portucalense nobles and soldiers to physically restrain the young would - be king. scientific research in july 2006, the tomb of the king ( which is located in the santa cruz monastery in coimbra ) was to be opened for scientific purposes by researchers from the university of coimbra ( portugal ) and the university of granada ( spain ). the opening of the tomb provoked considerable concern among some sectors of portuguese society and portuguese state agency for architectural patrimony ( instituto portugues do patrimonio arquitectonico – ippar ) halted the opening, requesting more protocols from the scientific team because of the importance of the king in the nation ' s heart and public thought. descendants in 1146, afonso married mafalda, daughter of amadeus iii, count of savoy and mahaut of albon, both appearing together for the first time in may of that year confirming royal charters. they had the following issue : henry ( 5 march 1147 – 1155 ) named after his paternal grandfather, henry, count of portugal, he died when he was only eight years old. despite being just a child he represented his father at a council in toledo at the age of three ; urraca ( 1148 – 1211 ), married king ferdinand ii of leon and was the mother of king alfonso ix. the marriage was subsequently annulled in 1171 or 1172 and she retired in za