two most congenial to anglicans for centuries until the oxford movement ), each of which espouses belief in the real presence in one way or another, or memorialism, which has never been an option with anglicans. a famous anglican aphorism regarding christ ' s presence in the sacrament, commonly misattributed to queen elizabeth i, is first found in print in a poem by john donne : he was the word that spake it, he took the bread and brake it : and what that word did make it, i do believe and take it. an anglican position on the eucharistic sacrifice ( " sacrifice of the mass " ) was expressed in the response saepius officio of the archbishops of canterbury and york to pope leo xiii ' s papal encyclical apostolicae curae : viz. that the prayer book contained a strong sacrificial theology. later revisions of the prayer book influenced by the scottish canon of 1764 first adopted by the protestant episcopal church in 1789 made this assertion quite evident : " we do make and celebrate before thy divine majesty with these thy holy gifts, which we now offer unto thee, the memorial thy son has commanded us to make ", which is repeated in the 1929 english bcp and included in such words or others such as " present " or " show forth " in subsequent revisions. anglican and roman catholic representatives declared that they had " substantial agreement on the doctrine of the eucharist " in the windsor statement on eucharistic doctrine by the anglican - roman catholic international consultation ( 1971 ) and the elucidation of the arcic windsor statement ( 1979 ). the final response ( 1991 ) to these documents by the vatican made it plain that it did not consider the degree of agreement reached to be satisfactory. practices in anglicanism, there is a distinction between liturgy, which is the formal public and communal worship of the church, and personal prayer and devotion, which may be public or private. liturgy is regulated by the prayer books and consists of the holy eucharist ( some call it holy communion or mass ), the other six sacraments, and the divine office or liturgy of the hours. book of common prayer the book of common prayer ( bcp ) is the foundational prayer book of anglicanism. the original book of 1549 ( revised in 1552 ) was one of the instruments of the english reformation, replacing the various " uses " or rites in latin that had been used in different parts of the country with a single compact volume