##hrodite aided hippomenes, a noble youth who wished to marry atalanta, a maiden who was renowned throughout the land for her beauty, but who refused to marry any man unless he could outrun her in a footrace. atalanta was an exceedingly swift runner and she beheaded all of the men who lost to her. aphrodite gave hippomenes three golden apples from the garden of the hesperides and instructed him to toss them in front of atalanta as he raced her. hippomenes obeyed aphrodite ' s order and atalanta, seeing the beautiful, golden fruits, bent down to pick up each one, allowing hippomenes to outrun her. in the version of the story from ovid ' s metamorphoses, hippomenes forgets to repay aphrodite for her aid, so she causes the couple to become inflamed with lust while they are staying at the temple of cybele. the couple desecrate the temple by having sex in it, leading cybele to turn them into lions as punishment. the myth of pygmalion is first mentioned by the third - century bc greek writer philostephanus of cyrene, but is first recounted in detail in ovid ' s metamorphoses. according to ovid, pygmalion was an exceedingly handsome sculptor from the island of cyprus, who was so sickened by the immorality of women that he refused to marry. he fell madly and passionately in love with the ivory cult statue he was carving of aphrodite and longed to marry it. because pygmalion was extremely pious and devoted to aphrodite, the goddess brought the statue to life. pygmalion married the girl the statue became and they had a son named paphos, after whom the capital of cyprus received its name. pseudo - apollodorus later mentions " metharme, daughter of pygmalion, king of cyprus ". anger myths aphrodite generously rewarded those who honored her, but also punished those who disrespected her, often quite brutally. a myth described in apollonius of rhodes ' s argonautica and later summarized in the bibliotheca of pseudo - apollodorus tells how, when the women of the island of lemnos refused to sacrifice to aphrodite, the goddess cursed