the arts. as a patron of learning, he counted erasmus among his friends. however, albert ' s ideas about founding a catholic university in halle were not implemented. nonetheless he adorned halle cathedral and mainz cathedral in sumptuous fashion, and took as his motto the words ( latin for " i have loved, o lord, the beauty of thy house ", from psalm 25 : 8 ). matthias grunewald and lucas cranach the elder created magnificent paintings for the halle cathedral which was decorated from 1519 to 1525 with 16 passion altars with 140 pictures by cranach and his workshop, the largest single commission in german art history. grunewald contributed the famous wood painting saint erasmus and saint maurice. albert also ordered paintings from hans baldung grien and a cycle of 18 life - size statues of saints from peter schro in mainz, which can still be admired in halle cathedral today. in 1526 he donated the market fountain in mainz. in 1521, martin luther referred to the ever - growing collection of relics as the " idol of halle ". when albert left halle for good in 1541 and moved to his residence in aschaffenburg in the electoral state of mainz, he took with him the collection of relics, his private art collection and a large part of the works of art he had donated to the cathedral and other catholic churches that now became protestant. he sold parts of the treasure of relics in order to be able to settle claims of the cathedral chapters of magdeburg and halberstadt ; the sanctuaries are scattered today. he took his private paintings with him to his residence in johannisburg castle, where a large part was plundered and destroyed in 1552 during the second margrave war. he had the works of art brought from halle cathedral hung in the st. peter und alexander ' s church, where they survived all wars until the elector - archbishop carl theodor von dalberg had them brought to johannisburg castle in 1803. there they were evacuated in good time before the damaging fire caused by bombing in 1945. today they can be seen in the reconstructed castle in the staatsgalerie aschaffenburg, which was reopened in 2023 after several years of renovation. despite the losses caused by wars, looting and sales, the aschaffenburg collection is considered the largest cranach collection in europe. in addition to 17 altar wings, some of which consist of several panels, and individual paintings from the cranach workshop, 9 autographed works by the