vidible, a company that developed technology to help websites run video content from other publishers, and help video publishers sell their content to these websites. the deal, which was announced december 1, 2014, was reportedly worth roughly $ 50 million. on july 16, 2014, aol earned an emmy nomination for the aol original series the future starts here in the news and documentary category. this came days after aol earned its first primetime emmy award nomination and win for park bench with steve buscemi in the outstanding short form variety series. created and hosted by tiffany shlain, the series focused on humans ' relationship with technology and featured episodes such as " the future of our species, " " why we love robots " and " a case for optimism. " 2015 – 2021 : division of verizon on may 12, 2015, verizon announced plans to buy aol for $ 50 per share in a deal valued at $ 4. 4 billion. the transaction was completed on june 23. armstrong, who continued to lead the firm following regulatory approval, called the deal the logical next step for aol. " if you look forward five years, you ' re going to be in a space where there are going to be massive, global - scale networks, and there ' s no better partner for us to go forward with than verizon. " he said. " it ' s really not about selling the company today. it ' s about setting up for the next five to 10 years. " analyst david bank said he thought the deal made sense for verizon. the deal will broaden verizon ' s advertising sales platforms and increase its video production ability through websites such as huffpost, techcrunch, and engadget. however, craig moffett said it was unlikely the deal would make a big difference to verizon ' s bottom line. aol had about two million dial - up subscribers at the time of the buyout. the announcement caused aol ' s stock price to rise 17 %, while verizon ' s stock price dropped slightly. shortly before the verizon purchase, on april 14, 2015, aol launched one by aol, a digital marketing programmatic platform that unifies buying channels and audience management platforms to track and optimize campaigns over multiple screens. later that year, on september 15, aol expanded the product with one by aol : creative, which is geared towards creative and media agencies to similarly connect marketing and ad distribution efforts. on may 8