good knowledge of the genealogy of the arab tribes, their stories and their politics. a story is preserved that once when he was a child, his father took him to the kaaba, and asked him to pray before the idols. his father went away to attend to some other business, and abu bakr was left alone. addressing an idol, abu bakr said " o my god, i am in need of beautiful clothes ; bestow them on me ". the idol remained indifferent. then he addressed another idol, saying, " o god, give me some delicious food. see that i am so hungry ". the idol remained cold. that exhausted the patience of young abu bakr. he lifted a stone, and, addressing an idol, said, " here i am aiming a stone ; if you are a god protect yourself ". abu bakr hurled the stone at the idol and left the kaaba. regardless, it recorded that prior to converting to islam, abu bakr practiced as a hanif and never worshipped idols. acceptance of islam on his return from a business trip in yemen, friends informed him that in his absence, muhammad had declared himself a messenger of god. the historian al - tabari, in his tarikh al - tabari, quotes from muhammad ibn sa ' d ibn abi waqqas, who said : some sunni and all the shi ' a believe that the second person to publicly accept muhammed as the messenger of god was ali ibn abi talib, the first being muhammad ' s wife khadija. ibn kathir, in his al bidaya wal nihayah, disregards this. he stated that the first woman to embrace islam was khadijah. zayd ibn harithah was the first freed slave to embrace islam. ali ibn abi talib was the first child to embrace islam, for he has not even reached the age of puberty at that time, while abu bakr was the first free man to embrace islam. subsequent life in mecca his wife qutaylah bint abd - al - uzza did not accept islam and he divorced her. his other wife, um ruman, became a muslim. all his children accepted islam except abd al - rahman, from whom abu bakr disassociated himself. his conversion also brought many people to islam. he persuaded his intimate friends to convert, and presented islam to other friends in such a way that many of them also accepted the faith. those who converted to islam at the insistence of