a claim. antarctic treaty secretariat the antarctic treaty secretariat was established in buenos aires, argentina in september 2004 by the antarctic treaty consultative meeting ( atcm ). jan huber ( the netherlands ) served as the first executive secretary for five years until 31 august 2009. he was succeeded on 1 september 2009, by manfred reinke ( germany ). reinke was succeeded by albert lluberas ( uruguay ), who was elected in june 2017 at the 40th antarctic consultative treaty meeting in beijing, china. the tasks of the antarctic treaty secretariat can be divided into the following areas : supporting the annual antarctic treaty consultative meeting ( atcm ) and the meeting of the committee for environmental protection ( cep ). facilitating the exchange of information between the parties required in the treaty and the environment protocol. collecting, storing, arranging and publishing the documents of the atcm. providing and disseminating public information about the antarctic treaty system and antarctic activities. legal system antarctica currently has no permanent population and therefore it has no citizenship nor government. personnel present on antarctica at any time are always citizens or nationals of some sovereignty outside antarctica, as there is no antarctic sovereignty. the majority of antarctica is claimed by one or more countries, but most countries do not explicitly recognize those claims. the area on the mainland between 90 degrees west and 150 degrees west is the only major land on earth not claimed by any country. until 2015 the interior of the norwegian sector, the extent of which had never been officially defined, was considered to be unclaimed. that year, norway formally laid claim to the area between its queen maud land and the south pole. governments that are party to the antarctic treaty and its protocol on environmental protection implement the articles of these agreements, and decisions taken under them, through national laws. these laws generally apply only to their own citizens, wherever they are in antarctica, and serve to enforce the consensus decisions of the consultative parties : about which activities are acceptable, which areas require permits to enter, what processes of environmental impact assessment must precede activities, and so on. the antarctic treaty is often considered to represent an example of the common heritage of mankind principle. australia since the designation of the australian antarctic territory pre - dated the signing of the antarctic treaty, australian laws that relate to antarctica date from more than two decades before the antarctic treaty era. in terms of criminal law, the laws that apply to the jervis bay territory ( which follows the laws of the australian capital territory ) apply to the australian antarctic territory. key australian legislation applying antarctic treaty system decisions include the antarctic treaty act