responsibilities, his nicene theology and his dealings with the arians in his episcopate, his pastoral care, his commitment to community, and his personal asceticism, have mitigated this view. all of ambrose ' writings are works of advocacy of his religion, and even his political views and actions were closely related to his religion. he was rarely, if ever, concerned about simply recording what had happened ; he did not write to reveal his inner thoughts and struggles ; he wrote to advocate for his god. boniface ramsey writes that it is difficult " not to posit a deep spirituality in a man " who wrote on the mystical meanings of the song of songs and wrote many extraordinary hymns. in spite of an abiding spirituality, ambrose had a generally straightforward manner, and a practical rather than a speculative tendency in his thinking. de officiis is a utilitarian guide for his clergy in their daily ministry in the milanese church rather than " an intellectual tour de force ". christian faith in the third century developed the monastic life - style which subsequently spread into the rest of roman society in a general practice of virginity, voluntary poverty and self - denial for religious reasons. this life - style was embraced by many new converts, including ambrose, even though they did not become actual monks. the bishops of this era had heavy administrative responsibilities, and ambrose was also sometimes occupied with imperial affairs, but he still fulfilled his primary responsibility to care for the well - being of his flock. he preached and celebrated the eucharist multiple times a week, sometimes daily, dealt directly with the needs of the poor, as well as widows and orphans, " virgins " ( nuns ), and his own clergy. he replied to letters personally, practiced hospitality, and made himself available to the people. ambrose had the ability to maintain good relationships with all kinds of people. local church practices varied quite a bit from place to place at this time, and as the bishop, ambrose could have required that everyone adapt to his way of doing things. it was his place to keep the churches as united as possible in both ritual and belief. instead, he respected local customs, adapting himself to whatever practices prevailed, instructing his mother to do the same. as bishop, ambrose undertook many different labors in an effort to unite people and " provide some stability during a period of religious, political, military, and social upheavals and transformations ". brown says ambrose " had the makings of a faction fighter ". while he got along well