hebrew and other languages. although only one commentary on alhazen ' s optics has survived the islamic middle ages, geoffrey chaucer mentions the work in the canterbury tales : " they spoke of alhazen and vitello, and aristotle, who wrote, in their lives, on strange mirrors and optical instruments. " the impact crater alhazen on the moon is named in his honour, as was the asteroid 59239 alhazen. in honour of alhazen, the aga khan university ( pakistan ) named its ophthalmology endowed chair as " the ibn - e - haitham associate professor and chief of ophthalmology ". alhazen, by the name ibn al - haytham, is featured on the obverse of the iraqi 10, 000 - dinar banknote issued in 2003, and on 10 - dinar notes from 1982. the 2015 international year of light celebrated the 1000th anniversary of the works on optics by ibn al - haytham. commemorations in 2014, the " hiding in the light " episode of cosmos : a spacetime odyssey, presented by neil degrasse tyson, focused on the accomplishments of ibn al - haytham. he was voiced by alfred molina in the episode. over forty years previously, jacob bronowski presented alhazen ' s work in a similar television documentary ( and the corresponding book ), the ascent of man. in episode 5 ( the music of the spheres ), bronowski remarked that in his view, alhazen was " the one really original scientific mind that arab culture produced ", whose theory of optics was not improved on till the time of newton and leibniz. h. j. j. winter, a british historian of science, summing up the importance of ibn al - haytham in the history of physics wrote : after the death of archimedes no really great physicist appeared until ibn al - haytham. if, therefore, we confine our interest only to the history of physics, there is a long period of over twelve hundred years during which the golden age of greece gave way to the era of muslim scholasticism, and the experimental spirit of the noblest physicist of antiquity lived again in the arab scholar from basra. unesco declared 2015 the international year of light and its director - general irina bokova dubbed ibn al - haytham ' the father of optics '. amongst others, this was to celebrate ibn al - haytham ' s achievements in optics, mathematics and astronomy. an international campaign, created by the