amati (, ) is the last name of a family of italian violin makers who lived at cremona from about 1538 to 1740. their importance is considered equal to those of the bergonzi, guarneri, and stradivari families. today, violins created by nicolo amati are valued at around $ 600, 000. because of their age and rarity, amati instruments are mostly kept in museum or private collections and are seldom played in public. family members andrea amati andrea amati ( 20 december 1577 ) designed and created the violin, viola and cello known as the " violin family ". based in cremona, italy, he standardized the basic form, shape, size, materials and method of construction. makers from nearby brescia experimented, such as gasparo da salo, micheli, zanetto and pellegrino, but it was andrea amati who gave the modern violin family their definitive profile. a claim that andrea amati received the first order for a violin from lorenzo de ' medici in 1555 is invalid as lorenzo de ' medici died in 1492. a number of andrea amati ' s instruments survived for some time, dating between 1538 ( amati made the first cello called " the king " in 1538 ) and 1574. the largest number of these are from 1560, a set for an entire orchestra of 38 ordered by catherine de medicis the regent queen of france and bore hand painted royal french decorations in gold including the motto and coat of arms of her son charles ix of france. of these 38 instruments ordered, amati created violins of two sizes, violas of two sizes and large - sized cellos. they were in use until the french revolution of 1789 and only 14 of these instruments survived. his work is marked by selection of the finest materials, great elegance in execution, soft clear amber, soft translucent varnish, and an in depth use of acoustic and geometrical principles in design. antonio and girolamo amati andrea amati was succeeded by his sons antonio amati ( – 1607 ) and girolamo amati ( – 1630 ). " the brothers amati ", as they were known, implemented far - reaching innovations in design, including the perfection of the shape of the f - holes. they are also thought to have pioneered the modern alto format of viola, in contrast to older tenor violas, but the widespread belief that they were the first ones to do so nicolo amati nicolo amati (