techniques ( for details see also list of rivers by length ). in july 2008, the brazilian institute for space research ( inpe ) published a news article on their webpage, claiming that the amazon river was longer than the nile. the amazon ' s length was calculated as, taking the apacheta creek as its source. using the same techniques, the length of the nile was calculated as, which is longer than previous estimates but still shorter than the amazon. the results were reached by measuring the amazon downstream to the beginning of the tidal estuary of canal do sul and then, after a sharp turn back, following tidal canals surrounding the isle of marajo and finally including the marine waters of the rio para bay in its entire length. according to an earlier article on the webpage of the national geographic, the amazon ' s length was calculated as by a brazilian scientist. in june 2007, guido gelli, director of science at the brazilian institute of geography and statistics ( ibge ), told london ' s telegraph newspaper that it could be considered that the amazon was the longest river in the world. however, according to the above sources, none of the two results was published, and questions were raised about the researchers ' methodology. in 2009, a peer - reviewed article, was published, concluding that the nile is longer than the amazon by stating a length of for the nile and for the amazon, measured by using a combination of satellite image analysis and field investigations to the source regions. according to the encyclopædia britannica, the final length of the amazon remains open to interpretation and continued debate. watershed the amazon basin, the largest in the world, covers about 40 % of south america, an area of approximately. it drains from west to east, from iquitos in peru, across brazil to the atlantic. it gathers its waters from 5 degrees north latitude to 20 degrees south latitude. its most remote sources are found on the inter - andean plateau, just a short distance from the pacific ocean. the amazon river and its tributaries are characterised by extensive forested areas that become flooded every rainy season. every year, the river rises more than, flooding the surrounding forests, known as varzea ( " flooded forests " ). the amazon ' s flooded forests are the most extensive example of this habitat type in the world. in an average dry season, of land are water - covered, while in the wet season, the flooded area of the amazon basin rises to. the quantity of water released by the amazon to the atlantic ocean is enormous