vol 1. science. london : duckworth 14 – 34. ] reeve, c. d. c. ( 2000 ). substantial knowledge : aristotle ' s metaphysics. hackett. scaltsas, t. ( 1994 ). substances and universals in aristotle ' s metaphysics. cornell university press. strauss, leo ( 1964 ). " on aristotle ' s politics ", in the city and man, rand mcnally. external links at the internet encyclopedia of philosophy : at the internet classics archive from the stanford encyclopedia of philosophy : collections of works at massachusetts institute of technology perseus project at tufts university at the university of adelaide p. remacle the 11 - volume 1837 bekker edition of aristotle ' s works in greek ( pdfdjvu ) works of aristoteles at the national library of portugal 384 bc births 322 bc deaths 4th - century bc mathematicians 4th - century bc philosophers 4th - century bc greek writers acting theorists ancient greek biologists ancient greek epistemologists ancient greek ethicists ancient greek logicians ancient greek mathematicians ancient greek metaphysicians ancient greek philosophers of language ancient greek philosophers of mind ancient greek physicists ancient greek political philosophers ancient greek political refugees ancient greek philosophers of art ancient literary critics ancient stagirites aphorists aristotelian philosophers attic greek writers ancient greek cosmologists greek male writers greek geologists greek meteorologists humor researchers irony theorists metic philosophers in classical athens natural law ethicists natural philosophers ontologists peripatetic philosophers philosophers and tutors of alexander the great philosophers of ancient chalcidice philosophers of culture philosophers of education philosophers of history philosophers of law philosophers of literature philosophers of logic philosophers of love philosophers of psychology philosophers of science philosophers of time philosophers of sexuality philosophers of technology philosophical logic philosophical theists philosophy academics philosophy writers rhetoric theorists social philosophers students of plato trope theorists virtue ethicists zoologists