century ad. poet – priestess enheduanna sumerian literature continued in rich development during the akkadian period. enheduanna, the " wife ( sumerian dam = high priestess ) of nanna [ the sumerian moon god ] and daughter of sargon " of the temple of sin at ur, who lived – 2250 bc, is the first poet in history whose name is known. her known works include hymns to the goddess inanna, the exaltation of inanna and in - nin sa - gur - ra. a third work, the temple hymns, a collection of specific hymns, addresses the sacred temples and their occupants, the deity to whom they were consecrated. the works of this poet are significant, because although they start out using the third person, they shift to the first person voice of the poet herself, and they mark a significant development in the use of cuneiform. as poet, princess, and priestess, she was a person who, according to william w. hallo, " set standards in all three of her roles for many succeeding centuries " in the exultation of inanna, the kings of akkad were legendary among later mesopotamian civilizations, with sargon understood as the prototype of a strong and wise leader, and his grandson naram - sin considered the wicked and impious leader ( unheilsherrscher in the analysis of hans gustav guterbock ) who brought ruin upon his kingdom. technology a tablet from the periods reads, " ( from the earliest days ) no - one had made a statue of lead, ( but ) rimush king of kish, had a statue of himself made of lead. it stood before enlil ; and it recited his ( rimush ' s ) virtues to the idu of the gods ". the copper bassetki statue, cast with the lost wax method, testifies to the high level of skill that craftsmen achieved during the akkadian period. see also list of cities of the ancient near east list of mesopotamian deities history of mesopotamia list of mesopotamian dynasties notes bibliography liverani, mario, ed. ( 1993 ). akkad : the first world empire : structure, ideology traditions. padova : sargon srl. oates, joan ( 2004 ). " archaeology in mesopotamia : digging deeper at tell brak ". 2004 albert reckitt archaeological lecture. in proceedings of the british academy : 2004 lectures ; oxford university press, 2005.. further reading gough, m. a