, 2002, armenia transferred control of 5 state enterprises to russia in an assets - for - debts transaction which settled $ 100 million of armenian state debts to russia. the document was signed for russia by prime minister mikhail kasyanov and industry minister ilya klebanov, while prime minister andranik markarian and national security council secretary serge sarkisian signed for armenia. the five enterprises which passed to 100 percent russian state ownership are : armenia ' s largest thermal gas - burning power plant, which is in the town of hrazdan " mars " — electronics and robotics plant in yerevan, a soviet - era flagship for both civilian and military production three research - and - production enterprises — for mathematical machines, for the study of materials, and for automated control equipment — these being soviet - era military - industrial plants in january 2003, the armenian government and united company rusal signed an investment cooperation agreement, under which united company rusal ( which already owned a 76 % stake ) acquired the armenian government ' s remaining 26 % share of rusal armenal aluminum foil mill, giving rusal 100 % ownership of rusal armenal. on november 1, 2006, the armenian government handed de facto control of the iran - armenia gas pipeline to russian company gazprom and increased gazprom ' s stake in the russian - armenian company armrosgazprom from 45 % to 58 % by approving an additional issue of shares worth $ 119 million. this left the armenian government with a 32 % stake in armrosgazprom. the transaction will also help finance armrosgazprom ' s acquisition of the hrazdan electricity generating plant ’ s fifth power bloc ( hrazdan - 5 ), the leading unit in the country. in october 2008 the russian bank gazprombank, the banking arm of gazprom, acquired 100 percent of armenian bank areximbank after previously buying 80 percent of said bank in november 2007 and 94. 15 percent in july of the same year. in december 2017 government transferred natural gas distribution networks in cities meghri and agarak to gazprom armenia for cost - free use. construction of these was funded by foreign aid and costed about 1. 3 billion amd. non - transparent deals critics of the robert kocharyan government ( in office until 2008 ) say that the armenian administration never considered alternative ways of settling the russian debts. according to economist eduard aghajanov, armenia could have repaid them with low - interest