story has generated little interest from the film industry. ronald lewis portrayed aeneas in helen of troy, directed by robert wise, as a supporting character, who is a member of the trojan royal family, and a close and loyal friend to paris, and escapes at the end of the film. portrayed by steve reeves, he was the main character in the 1961 sword and sandal film guerra di troia ( the trojan war ). reeves reprised the role the following year in the film the avenger, about aeneas ' s arrival in latium and his conflicts with local tribes as he tries to settle his fellow trojan refugees there. giulio brogi, portrayed as aeneas in the 1971 italian tv miniseries series called eneide, which gives the whole story of the aeneid, from aeneas escape from to troy, to his meeting of dido, his arrival in italy, and his duel with turnus. the most recent cinematic portrayal of aeneas was in the film troy, in which he appears as a youth charged by paris to protect the trojan refugees, and to continue the ideals of the city and its people. paris gives aeneas priam ' s sword, in order to give legitimacy and continuity to the royal line of troy – and lay the foundations of roman culture. in this film, he is not a member of the royal family and does not appear to fight in the war. in the role - playing game vampire : the requiem by white wolf game studios, aeneas figures as one of the mythical founders of the ventrue clan. in the action game warriors : legends of troy, aeneas is a playable character. the game ends with him and the aeneans fleeing troy ' s destruction and, spurned by the words of a prophetess thought crazed, goes to a new country ( italy ) where he will start an empire greater than greece and troy combined that shall rule the world for 1000 years, never to be outdone in the tale of men ( the roman empire ). in the 2018 tv miniseries troy : fall of a city, aeneas is portrayed by alfred enoch. he also featured as an epic fighter of the dardania faction in the total war saga : troy in 2020. depictions in art scenes depicting aeneas, especially from the aeneid, have been the focus of study for centuries. they have been the frequent subject of art and literature since their debut in the 1st century. villa valmarana the artist giovanni battista tiepolo was commissioned by gaetano valmarana in 1757