in 1970s mexico city, based on the life of his family ' s longtime maid, liboria rodriguez. the project was produced by cuaron, gabriela rodriguez and nicolas celis and starred yalitza aparicio and marina de tavira both of whom received oscar nominations. the film debuted at the 75th venice international film festival, where it won the golden lion, and was distributed to select mexican and american theaters before its online release on netflix. roma was highly acclaimed upon release ; among its accolades are two golden globes ( golden globe award for best foreign language film and best director for cuaron ) and three academy awards ( best director, best foreign language film, and best cinematography for cuaron ) out of a leading ten nominations. in 2019, cuaron signed an overall tv deal at apple. his first series for apple will be the psychological thriller disclaimer, which is set to star cate blanchett and kevin kline. style cuaron often uses long takes and moving cameras to emulate a documentary film style. personal life cuaron is a vegetarian and has been living in london since 2000. cuaron ' s first marriage was to mariana elizondo with whom he has a son, jonas cuaron, born in 1981. jonas is also a film director, known for year of the nail and desierto. alfonso ' s second marriage, from 2001 to 2008 was to italian actress and freelance journalist annalisa bugliani, with whom he has two children. he has publicly shown his fascination for the esperanto language and his support for the esperanto movement. he called his production company esperanto filmoj. filmography awards and nominations see also esperanto filmoj cha cha cha films cinema of mexico list of academy award records references external links alfonso cuaron : a life in pictures, bafta webcast, 27 july 2007 1961 births living people best cinematographer academy award winners best cinematography bafta award winners best directing academy award winners best director aacta international award winners best director bafta award winners best director golden globe winners best film editing academy award winners directors guild of america award winners directors of best foreign language film academy award winners directors of golden lion winners english - language film directors fantasy film directors filmmakers who won the best film bafta award filmmakers who won the best foreign language film bafta award film directors from mexico city hugo award - winning writers mexican cinematographers mexican esperantists mexican expatriates in the united kingdom mexican film producers mexican filmmakers mexican people of spanish descent mexican screenwriter