show pictured a minimalist caricature of his profile ( he drew it himself ; it is composed of only nine strokes ), which his real silhouette then filled. the series theme tune was funeral march of a marionette by the french composer charles gounod ( 1818 – 1893 ). his introductions always included some sort of wry humour, such as the description of a recent multi - person execution hampered by having only one electric chair, while two are shown with a sign " two chairs — no waiting! " he directed 18 episodes of the series, which aired from 1955 to 1965. it became the alfred hitchcock hour in 1962, and nbc broadcast the final episode on 10 may 1965. in the 1980s, a new version of alfred hitchcock presents was produced for television, making use of hitchcock ' s original introductions in a colourised form. hitchcock ' s success in television spawned a set of short - story collections in his name ; these included alfred hitchcock ' s anthology, stories they wouldn ' t let me do on tv, and tales my mother never told me. in 1956, hsd publications also licensed the director ' s name to create alfred hitchcock ' s mystery magazine, a monthly digest specialising in crime and detective fiction. hitchcock ' s television series were very profitable, and his foreign - language versions of books were bringing revenues of up to $ 100, 000 a year ( ). from to catch a thief to vertigo in 1955, hitchcock became a united states citizen. in the same year, his third grace kelly film, to catch a thief, was released ; it is set in the french riviera, and stars kelly and cary grant. grant plays retired thief john robie, who becomes the prime suspect for a spate of robberies in the riviera. a thrill - seeking american heiress played by kelly surmises his true identity and tries to seduce him. " despite the obvious age disparity between grant and kelly and a lightweight plot, the witty script ( loaded with double entendres ) and the good - natured acting proved a commercial success. " it was hitchcock ' s last film with kelly ; she married prince rainier of monaco in 1956, and ended her film career afterward. hitchcock then remade his own 1934 film the man who knew too much in 1956. this time, the film starred james stewart and doris day, who sang the theme song " que sera, sera ", which won the academy award for best original song and became a big hit. they play a couple whose son is kidnapped to prevent them from