medium. recalling his earlier edgar allan poe material, woolfson saw a way to combine his and parsons ' s talents. parsons produced and engineered songs written and composed by the two, and the first alan parsons project was begun. the project ' s first album, tales of mystery and imagination ( 1976 ), released by 20th century fox records and including major contributions by all members of pilot and ambrosia, was a success, reaching the top 40 in the us billboard 200 chart. the song " the raven " featured lead vocals by the actor leonard whiting. according to the 2007 re - mastered album liner notes, this was the first rock song to use a vocoder, with alan parsons speaking lyrics through it, although others such as bruce haack pioneered this field in the previous decade. 1977 – 1990 : mainstream success and final releases arista records then signed the alan parsons project for further albums. through the late 1970s and early 1980s, the project ' s popularity continued to grow. however, the project was always more popular in north america, ibero - america, and continental europe than in parsons ' home country, never achieving a uk top 40 single or top 20 album. the singles " i wouldn ' t want to be like you ", " games people play ", " damned if i do ", " time " ( the first single to feature woolfson ' s lead vocal ) and " eye in the sky " had a notable impact on the billboard hot 100. " don ' t answer me " became the project ' s last successful single in the united states ; it reached the top 15 on the american charts in 1984. after those successes, however, the project began to fade from view. there were fewer hit singles, and declining album sales. 1987 ' s gaudi was the project ' s final release, though it had planned to record an album called freudiana ( 1990 ) next. the musical freudiana even though the studio version of freudiana was produced by parsons ( and featured the regular project session musicians, making it an ' unofficial ' project album ), it was primarily woolfson ' s idea to turn it into a musical. while parsons pursued his own solo career and took many session players of the project on the road for the first time in a successful worldwide tour, woolfson went on to produce musical plays influenced by the project ' s music. freudiana, gaudi, and gambler were three musicals that included some project songs like " eye in the sky ", " time ", " inside looking out "