degradation, sedimentation, navigation and flood control caused by the three gorges dam in the yangtze river, scientists are worried that constructing more dams in the amazon will harm its biodiversity in the same way by " blocking fish - spawning runs, reducing the flows of vital oil nutrients and clearing forests ". damming the amazon river could potentially bring about the " end of free flowing rivers " and contribute to an " ecosystem collapse " that will cause major social and environmental problems. course origins the most distant source of the amazon was thought to be in the apurimac river drainage for nearly a century. such studies continued to be published even recently, such as in 1996, 2001, 2007, and 2008, where various authors identified the snowcapped nevado mismi peak, located roughly west of lake titicaca and southeast of lima, as the most distant source of the river. from that point, quebrada carhuasanta emerges from nevado mismi, joins quebrada apacheta and soon forms rio lloqueta which becomes rio hornillos and eventually joins the rio apurimac. a 2014 study by americans james contos and nicolas tripcevich in area, a peer - reviewed journal of the royal geographical society, however, identifies the most distant source of the amazon as actually being in the rio mantaro drainage. a variety of methods were used to compare the lengths of the mantaro river vs. the apurimac river from their most distant source points to their confluence, showing the longer length of the mantaro. then distances from lago junin to several potential source points in the uppermost mantaro river were measured, which enabled them to determine that the cordillera rumi cruz was the most distant source of water in the mantaro basin ( and therefore in the entire amazon basin ). the most accurate measurement method was direct gps measurement obtained by kayak descent of each of the rivers from their source points to their confluence ( performed by contos ). obtaining these measurements was difficult given the class iv – v nature of each of these rivers, especially in their lower " abyss " sections. ultimately, they determined that the most distant point in the mantaro drainage is nearly 80 km farther upstream compared to mt. mismi in the apurimac drainage, and thus the maximal length of the amazon river is about 80 km longer than previously thought. contos continued downstream to the ocean and finished the first complete descent of the amazon river from its newly identified source ( finishing november 2012 ), a journey repeated