south american. amaranthus includes three recognised subgenera and 75 species, although species numbers are questionable due to hybridisation and species concepts. infrageneric classification focuses on inflorescence, flower characters and whether a species is monoecious / dioecious, as in the sauer ( 1955 ) suggested classification. bracteole morphology present on the stem is used for taxonomic classification of amaranth. wild species have longer bracteoles compared to cultivated species. a modified infrageneric classification of amaranthus includes three subgenera : acnida, amaranthus, and albersia, with the taxonomy further differentiated by sections within each of the subgenera. there is near certainty that a. hypochondriacus is the common ancestor to the cultivated grain species, however the later series of domestication to follow remains unclear. there has been opposing hypotheses of a single as opposed to multiple domestication events of the three grain species. there is evidence of phylogenetic and geographical support for clear groupings that indicate separate domestication events in south america and central america. a. hybridus may derive from south america, whereas a. caudatus, a. hypochondriacus, and a. quentiensis are native to central and north america. species species include : amaranthus acanthochiton – greenstripe amaranthus acutilobus – a synonym of amaranthus viridis amaranthus albus – white pigweed, tumble pigweed amaranthus anderssonii amaranthus arenicola – sandhill amaranth amaranthus australis – southern amaranth amaranthus bigelovii – bigelow ' s amaranth amaranthus blitoides – mat amaranth, prostrate amaranth, prostrate pigweed amaranthus blitum – purple amaranth amaranthus brownii – brown ' s amaranth amaranthus californicus – california amaranth, california pigweed amaranthus cannabinus – tidal - marsh amaranth amaranthus caudatus – love - lies - bleeding, pendant amaranth, tassel flower, quilete amaranthus chihuahuensis – chihuahuan amaranth amaranthus crassipes – spreading amaranth amaranthus crispus – crispleaf amaranth amaranthus cruentus – purple amaranth, red amaranth, mexican grain