spelling " labor " in 1902, " labour " in 1905 and 1908, and then " labor " from 1912 onwards. in 1908, james catts put forward a motion at the federal conference that " the name of the party be the australian labour party ", which was carried by 22 votes to 2. a separate motion recommending state branches adopt the name was defeated. there was no uniformity of party names until 1918 when the federal party resolved that state branches should adopt the name " australian labor party ", now spelt without a u. each state branch had previously used a different name, due to their different origins. although the alp officially adopted the spelling without a u, it took decades for the official spelling to achieve widespread acceptance. according to mcmullin, " the way the spelling of ' labor party ' was consolidated had more to do with the chap who ended up being in charge of printing the federal conference report than any other reason ". some sources have attributed the official choice of " labor " to influence from king o ' malley, who was born in the united states and was reputedly an advocate of spelling reform ; the spelling without a u is the standard form in american english. it has been suggested that the adoption of the spelling without a u " signified one of the alp ' s earliest attempts at modernisation ", and served the purpose of differentiating the party from the australian labour movement as a whole and distinguishing it from other british empire labour parties. the decision to include the word " australian " in the party ' s name, rather than just " labour party " as in the united kingdom, has been attributed to " the greater importance of nationalism for the founders of the colonial parties ". history the australian labor party has its origins in the labour parties founded in the 1890s in the australian colonies prior to federation. labor tradition ascribes the founding of queensland labour to a meeting of striking pastoral workers under a ghost gum tree ( the " tree of knowledge " ) in barcaldine, queensland in 1891. the 1891 shearers ' strike is credited as being one of the factors for the formation of the australian labor party. on 9 september 1892 the manifesto of the queensland labour party was read out under the well known tree of knowledge at barcaldine following the great shearers ' strike. the state library of queensland now holds the manifesto ; in 2008 the historic document was added to unesco ' s memory of the world australian register and, in 2009, the document was added to unesco ' s memory of the world international