of the head. the dermis is covered with separate dermal placoid scales. they have a cloaca into which the urinary and genital passages open, but not a swim bladder. cartilaginous fish produce a small number of large, yolky eggs. some species are ovoviviparous and the young develop internally but others are oviparous and the larvae develop externally in egg cases. the bony fish lineage shows more derived anatomical traits, often with major evolutionary changes from the features of ancient fish. they have a bony skeleton, are generally laterally flattened, have five pairs of gills protected by an operculum, and a mouth at or near the tip of the snout. the dermis is covered with overlapping scales. bony fish have a swim bladder which helps them maintain a constant depth in the water column, but not a cloaca. they mostly spawn a large number of small eggs with little yolk which they broadcast into the water column. amphibian anatomy amphibians are a class of animals comprising frogs, salamanders and caecilians. they are tetrapods, but the caecilians and a few species of salamander have either no limbs or their limbs are much reduced in size. their main bones are hollow and lightweight and are fully ossified and the vertebrae interlock with each other and have articular processes. their ribs are usually short and may be fused to the vertebrae. their skulls are mostly broad and short, and are often incompletely ossified. their skin contains little keratin and lacks scales, but contains many mucous glands and in some species, poison glands. the hearts of amphibians have three chambers, two atria and one ventricle. they have a urinary bladder and nitrogenous waste products are excreted primarily as urea. amphibians breathe by means of buccal pumping, a pump action in which air is first drawn into the buccopharyngeal region through the nostrils. these are then closed and the air is forced into the lungs by contraction of the throat. they supplement this with gas exchange through the skin which needs to be kept moist. in frogs the pelvic girdle is robust and the hind legs are much longer and stronger than the forelimbs. the feet have four or five digits and the toes are often webbed for swimming or have suction pads for climbing. frogs have large eyes and no tail. salamanders resemble