in its development, ascii was intended to be just one of several national variants of an international character code standard. other international standards bodies have ratified character encodings such as iso 646 ( 1967 ) that are identical or nearly identical to ascii, with extensions for characters outside the english alphabet and symbols used outside the united states, such as the symbol for the united kingdom ' s pound sterling ( £ ) ; e. g. with code page 1104. almost every country needed an adapted version of ascii, since ascii suited the needs of only the us and a few other countries. for example, canada had its own version that supported french characters. many other countries developed variants of ascii to include non - english letters ( e. g. e, n, ß, ł ), currency symbols ( e. g. £, ¥ ), etc. see also yuscii ( yugoslavia ). it would share most characters in common, but assign other locally useful characters to several code points reserved for " national use ". however, the four years that elapsed between the publication of ascii - 1963 and iso ' s first acceptance of an international recommendation during 1967 caused ascii ' s choices for the national use characters to seem to be de facto standards for the world, causing confusion and incompatibility once other countries did begin to make their own assignments to these code points. iso / iec 646, like ascii, is a 7 - bit character set. it does not make any additional codes available, so the same code points encoded different characters in different countries. escape codes were defined to indicate which national variant applied to a piece of text, but they were rarely used, so it was often impossible to know what variant to work with and, therefore, which character a code represented, and in general, text - processing systems could cope with only one variant anyway. because the bracket and brace characters of ascii were assigned to " national use " code points that were used for accented letters in other national variants of iso / iec 646, a german, french, or swedish, etc. programmer using their national variant of iso / iec 646, rather than ascii, had to write, and thus read, something such as a aaiu = ' on ' ; u instead of { a [ i ] = ' \ n ' ; } c trigraphs were created to solve this problem for ansi c, although their late introduction and inconsistent implementation in compilers limited