local star system, i. e. solar system. the phrase (, " spaceman " ) is often used in hong kong and taiwan. the term taikonaut is used by some english - language news media organizations for professional space travelers from china. the word has featured in the longman and oxford english dictionaries, and the term became more common in 2003 when china sent its first astronaut yang liwei into space aboard the shenzhou 5 spacecraft. this is the term used by xinhua news agency in the english version of the chinese people ' s daily since the advent of the chinese space program. the origin of the term is unclear ; as early as may 1998, chiew lee yih ( ) from malaysia, used it in newsgroups. parastronaut for its 2022 astronaut group, the european space agency envisioned recruiting an astronaut with a physical disability, a category they called " parastronauts ", with the intention but not guarantee of spaceflight. the categories of disability considered for the program were individuals with lower limb deficiency ( either through amputation or congenital ), leg length difference, or a short stature ( less than ). on 23 november 2022, john mcfall was selected to be the first esa parastronaut. other terms with the rise of space tourism, nasa and the russian federal space agency agreed to use the term " spaceflight participant " to distinguish those space travelers from professional astronauts on missions coordinated by those two agencies. while no nation other than russia ( and previously the soviet union ), the united states, and china have launched a crewed spacecraft, several other nations have sent people into space in cooperation with one of these countries, e. g. the soviet - led interkosmos program. inspired partly by these missions, other synonyms for astronaut have entered occasional english usage. for example, the term spationaut ( ) is sometimes used to describe french space travelers, from the latin word for " space " ; the malay term ( deriving from angkasa meaning ' space ' ) was used to describe participants in the angkasawan program ( note its similarity with the indonesian term antariksawan ). plans of the indian space research organisation to launch its crewed gaganyaan spacecraft have spurred at times public discussion if another term than astronaut should be used for the crew members, suggesting vyomanaut ( from the sanskrit word meaning ' sky ' or ' space ' ) or gagannaut ( from the sanskrit word for ' sky ' ). in finland