subshell ". quantum numbers because of the quantum mechanical nature of the electrons around a nucleus, atomic orbitals can be uniquely defined by a set of integers known as quantum numbers. these quantum numbers occur only in certain combinations of values, and their physical interpretation changes depending on whether real or complex versions of the atomic orbitals are employed. complex orbitals in physics, the most common orbital descriptions are based on the solutions to the hydrogen atom, where orbitals are given by the product between a radial function and a pure spherical harmonic. the quantum numbers, together with the rules governing their possible values, are as follows : the principal quantum number describes the energy of the electron and is always a positive integer. in fact, it can be any positive integer, but for reasons discussed below, large numbers are seldom encountered. each atom has, in general, many orbitals associated with each value of n ; these orbitals together are sometimes called electron shells. the azimuthal quantum number describes the orbital angular momentum of each electron and is a non - negative integer. within a shell where is some integer, ranges across all ( integer ) values satisfying the relation. for instance, the shell has only orbitals with, and the shell has only orbitals with, and. the set of orbitals associated with a particular value of are sometimes collectively called a subshell. the magnetic quantum number,, describes the magnetic moment of an electron in an arbitrary direction, and is also always an integer. within a subshell where is some integer, ranges thus :. the above results may be summarized in the following table. each cell represents a subshell, and lists the values of available in that subshell. empty cells represent subshells that do not exist. subshells are usually identified by their - and - values. is represented by its numerical value, but is represented by a letter as follows : 0 is represented by ' s ', 1 by ' p ', 2 by ' d ', 3 by ' f ', and 4 by ' g '. for instance, one may speak of the subshell with and as a ' 2s subshell '. each electron also has a spin quantum number, s, which describes the spin of each electron ( spin up or spin down ). the number s can be + or −. the pauli exclusion principle states that no two electrons in an atom can have the same values of all four quantum numbers. if there are two electrons in an orbital with given values