ramirez ( with whom cuaron was linked between 1989 and 1993 ) was a big hit in mexico. after this success, director sydney pollack hired cuaron to direct an episode of fallen angels, a series of neo - noir stories produced for the showtime premium cable network in 1993 ; other directors who worked on the series included steven soderbergh, jonathan kaplan, peter bogdanovich, and tom hanks. in 1995, cuaron released his first feature film produced in the united states, a little princess, an adaptation of frances hodgson burnett ' s classic novel. cuaron ' s next feature was also a literary adaptation, a modernized version of charles dickens ' s great expectations starring ethan hawke, gwyneth paltrow, and robert de niro. 2000s : international success in 2001, cuaron found himself returning to mexico with a spanish - speaking cast to film y tu mama tambien, starring gael garcia bernal, diego luna and maribel verdu. it was a provocative and controversial road comedy about two sexually obsessed teenagers who take an extended road trip with an attractive married woman who is much older than them. the film ' s open portrayal of sexuality and frequent rude humor, as well as the politically and socially relevant asides, made the film an international hit and a major success with critics. cuaron shared an academy award nomination for best original screenplay with co - writer and brother carlos cuaron. in 2004, cuaron directed the third film in the successful harry potter series, harry potter and the prisoner of azkaban. cuaron faced criticism at the time from some harry potter fans for his approach to the film, notably its tendency to take more creative liberties with the source material than its predecessors. however, author j. k. rowling, who had seen and loved cuaron ' s film y tu mama tambien, said that it was her personal favorite from the series so far. critically, the film was also better received than the first two installments, with some critics remarking its new tone and for being the first harry potter film to truly capture the essence of the novels. it has been subsequently rated by audience polls and critics as the best of the movie franchise series. in 2006, cuaron ' s feature children of men, an adaptation of the p. d. james novel starring clive owen, julianne moore, and michael caine, received wide critical acclaim including three academy award nominations. cuaron himself received two nominations for his work on