the piston ) ; and the uncompressed gas is at approximately room temperature and pressure ( a warm room temperature of ~ 27 °c, or 300 k, and a pressure of 1 bar = 100 kpa, i. e. typical sea - level atmospheric pressure ). so the adiabatic constant for this example is about 6. 31 pa m4. 2. the gas is now compressed to a 0. 1 l ( 0. 0001 m3 ) volume, which we assume happens quickly enough that no heat enters or leaves the gas through the walls. the adiabatic constant remains the same, but with the resulting pressure unknown we can now solve for the final pressure or 25. 1 bar. this pressure increase is more than a simple 10 : 1 compression ratio would indicate ; this is because the gas is not only compressed, but the work done to compress the gas also increases its internal energy, which manifests itself by a rise in the gas temperature and an additional rise in pressure above what would result from a simplistic calculation of 10 times the original pressure. we can solve for the temperature of the compressed gas in the engine cylinder as well, using the ideal gas law, pv = nrt ( n is amount of gas in moles and r the gas constant for that gas ). our initial conditions being 100 kpa of pressure, 1 l volume, and 300 k of temperature, our experimental constant ( nr ) is : we know the compressed gas has = 0. 1 l and =, so we can solve for temperature : that is a final temperature of 753 k, or 479 °c, or 896 °f, well above the ignition point of many fuels. this is why a high - compression engine requires fuels specially formulated to not self - ignite ( which would cause engine knocking when operated under these conditions of temperature and pressure ), or that a supercharger with an intercooler to provide a pressure boost but with a lower temperature rise would be advantageous. a diesel engine operates under even more extreme conditions, with compression ratios of 16 : 1 or more being typical, in order to provide a very high gas pressure, which ensures immediate ignition of the injected fuel. adiabatic free expansion of a gas for an adiabatic free expansion of an ideal gas, the gas is contained in an insulated container and then allowed to expand in a vacuum. because there is no external pressure for the gas to expand against, the work done by or on the system is zero. since this process does not involve