amino acids are organic compounds that contain both amino and carboxylic acid functional groups. although over 500 amino acids exist in nature, by far the most important are the 22 α - amino acids incorporated into proteins. only these 22 appear in the genetic code of all life. amino acids can be classified according to the locations of the core structural functional groups, as alpha - ( α - ), beta - ( β - ), gamma - ( γ - ) or delta - ( δ - ) amino acids ; other categories relate to polarity, ionization, and side chain group type ( aliphatic, acyclic, aromatic, containing hydroxyl or sulfur, etc. ). in the form of proteins, amino acid residues form the second - largest component ( water being the largest ) of human muscles and other tissues. beyond their role as residues in proteins, amino acids participate in a number of processes such as neurotransmitter transport and biosynthesis. it is thought that they played a key role in enabling life on earth and its emergence. amino acids are formally named by the iupac - iubmb joint commission on biochemical nomenclature in terms of the fictitious " neutral " structure shown in the illustration. for example, the systematic name of alanine is 2 - aminopropanoic acid, based on the formula. the commission justified this approach as follows : the systematic names and formulas given refer to hypothetical forms in which amino groups are unprotonated and carboxyl groups are undissociated. this convention is useful to avoid various nomenclatural problems but should not be taken to imply that these structures represent an appreciable fraction of the amino - acid molecules. history the first few amino acids were discovered in the early 1800s. in 1806, french chemists louis - nicolas vauquelin and pierre jean robiquet isolated a compound from asparagus that was subsequently named asparagine, the first amino acid to be discovered. cystine was discovered in 1810, although its monomer, cysteine, remained undiscovered until 1884. glycine and leucine were discovered in 1820. the last of the 20 common amino acids to be discovered was threonine in 1935 by william cumming rose, who also determined the essential amino acids and established the minimum daily requirements of all amino acids for optimal growth. the unity of the chemical category was recognized by wurtz in 1865, but he gave no particular name to it. the