reformation into collegiate foundations. of these the most noteworthy is loccum abbey in hanover, founded as a cistercian house in 1163 by count wilbrand of hallermund, and reformed in 1593. the abbot of loccum, who still carries a pastoral staff, takes precedence over all the clergy of hanover, and was ex officio a member of the consistory of the kingdom. the governing body of the abbey consists of the abbot, prior and the " convent ", or community, of stiftsherren ( canons ). in the church of england, the bishop of norwich, by royal decree given by henry viii, also holds the honorary title of " abbot of st. benet. " this title hails back to england ' s separation from the see of rome, when king henry, as supreme head of the newly independent church, took over all of the monasteries, mainly for their possessions, except for st. benet, which he spared because the abbot and his monks possessed no wealth, and lived like simple beggars, deposing the incumbent bishop of norwich and seating the abbot in his place, thus the dual title still held to this day. additionally, at the enthronement of the archbishop of canterbury, there is a threefold enthronement, once in the throne the chancel as the diocesan bishop of canterbury, once in the chair of st. augustine as the primate of all england, and then once in the chapter - house as titular abbot of canterbury. there are several benedictine abbeys throughout the anglican communion. most of them have mitred abbots. abbots in art and literature " the abbot " is one of the archetypes traditionally illustrated in scenes of danse macabre. the lives of numerous abbots make up a significant contribution to christian hagiography, one of the most well - known being the life of st. benedict of nursia by st. gregory the great. during the years 1106 – 1107 ad, daniel, a russian orthodox abbot, made a pilgrimage to the holy land and recorded his experiences. his diary was much - read throughout russia, and at least seventy - five manuscript copies survive. saint joseph, abbot of volokolamsk, russia ( 1439 – 1515 ), wrote a number of influential works against heresy, and about monastic and liturgical discipline, and christian philanthropy. in the tales of redwall series, the creatures of redwall are led by an abbot or abbess. these " abbots " are appointed by