of taylor ' s scientific memoirs under the initialism aal. ada lovelace ' s notes were labelled alphabetically from a to g. in note g, she describes an algorithm for the analytical engine to compute bernoulli numbers. it is considered to be the first published algorithm ever specifically tailored for implementation on a computer, and ada lovelace has often been cited as the first computer programmer for this reason. the engine was never completed and so her program was never tested. in 1953, more than a century after her death, ada lovelace ' s notes on babbage ' s analytical engine were republished as an appendix to b. v. bowden ' s faster than thought : a symposium on digital computing machines. the engine has now been recognised as an early model for a computer and her notes as a description of a computer and software. insight into potential of computing devices in her notes, ada lovelace emphasised the difference between the analytical engine and previous calculating machines, particularly its ability to be programmed to solve problems of any complexity. she realised the potential of the device extended far beyond mere number crunching. in her notes, she wrote : this analysis was an important development from previous ideas about the capabilities of computing devices and anticipated the implications of modern computing one hundred years before they were realised. walter isaacson ascribes ada ' s insight regarding the application of computing to any process based on logical symbols to an observation about textiles : " when she saw some mechanical looms that used punchcards to direct the weaving of beautiful patterns, it reminded her of how babbage ' s engine used punched cards to make calculations. " this insight is seen as significant by writers such as betty toole and benjamin woolley, as well as the programmer john graham - cumming, whose project plan 28 has the aim of constructing the first complete analytical engine. according to the historian of computing and babbage specialist doron swade : ada saw something that babbage in some sense failed to see. in babbage ' s world his engines were bound by number... what lovelace saw... was that number could represent entities other than quantity. so once you had a machine for manipulating numbers, if those numbers represented other things, letters, musical notes, then the machine could manipulate symbols of which number was one instance, according to rules. it is this fundamental transition from a machine which is a number cruncher to a machine for manipulating symbols according to rules that is the fundamental transition from calculation to computation — to general - purpose