##s used for benchmark testing, such as imagenet. specialized hardware and software in the late 2010s, graphics processing units ( gpus ) that were increasingly designed with ai - specific enhancements and used with specialized tensorflow software, had replaced previously used central processing unit ( cpus ) as the dominant means for large - scale ( commercial and academic ) machine learning models ' training. historically, specialized languages, such as lisp, prolog, and others, had been used. applications ai and machine learning technology is used in most of the essential applications of the 2020s, including : search engines ( such as google search ), targeting online advertisements, recommendation systems ( offered by netflix, youtube or amazon ), driving internet traffic, targeted advertising ( adsense, facebook ), virtual assistants ( such as siri or alexa ), autonomous vehicles ( including drones, adas and self - driving cars ), automatic language translation ( microsoft translator, google translate ), facial recognition ( apple ' s face id or microsoft ' s deepface and google ' s facenet ) and image labeling ( used by facebook, apple ' s iphoto and tiktok ). there are also thousands of successful ai applications used to solve specific problems for specific industries or institutions. in a 2017 survey, one in five companies reported they had incorporated " ai " in some offerings or processes. a few examples are energy storage, medical diagnosis, military logistics, applications that predict the result of judicial decisions, foreign policy, or supply chain management. game playing programs have been used since the 1950s to demonstrate and test ai ' s most advanced techniques. deep blue became the first computer chess - playing system to beat a reigning world chess champion, garry kasparov, on 11 may 1997. in 2011, in a jeopardy! quiz show exhibition match, ibm ' s question answering system, watson, defeated the two greatest jeopardy! champions, brad rutter and ken jennings, by a significant margin. in march 2016, alphago won 4 out of 5 games of go in a match with go champion lee sedol, becoming the first computer go - playing system to beat a professional go player without handicaps. then it defeated ke jie in 2017, who at the time continuously held the world no. 1 ranking for two years. other programs handle imperfect - information games ; such as for poker at a superhuman level, pluribus and cepheus. deepmind in the 2010s developed a " generalized artificial intelligence " that could learn many diverse atari games on its own. in the early 2020