guests. they were allowed to have family members bring in their own food and were on good terms with the guards from whom they learned the latest news. anna was highly successful in three important aspects of the revolt : she bought time for her sons to steal imperial horses from the stables and escape the city ; she distracted the emperor, giving her sons time to gather and arm their troops ; and she gave a false sense of security to botaneiates that there was no real treasonous plot against him. after bribing the western troops guarding the city, isaac and alexios komnenos entered the capital victoriously on 1 april 1081. during this time, alexios was rumored to be the lover of empress maria, the daughter of king bagrat iv of georgia, who had been successively married to michael vii doukas and his successor nikephoros iii botaneiates, and who was renowned for her beauty. alexios arranged for maria to stay on the palace grounds, and it was thought that he was considering marrying her. however, his mother consolidated the doukas family connection by arranging the emperor ' s marriage to irene doukaina, granddaughter of the caesar john doukas, the uncle of michael vii, who would not have supported alexios otherwise. as a measure intended to keep the support of the doukai, alexios restored constantine doukas, the young son of michael vii and maria, as co - emperor and a little later betrothed him to his own first - born daughter anna, who moved into the mangana palace with her fiance and his mother. this situation changed drastically, however, when alexios ' first son john ii komnenos was born in 1087 : anna ' s engagement to constantine was dissolved, and she was moved to the main palace to live with her mother and grandmother. alexios became estranged from maria, who was stripped of her imperial title and retired to a monastery, and constantine doukas was deprived of his status as co - emperor. nevertheless, he remained on good terms with the imperial family and succumbed to his weak constitution soon afterwards. wars against the normans, pechenegs, and tzachas the thirty - seven year reign of alexios was full of struggle. at the outset he faced the formidable attack of the normans, led by robert guiscard and his son bohemund, who took dyrrhachium and corfu and laid siege to larissa in thessaly ( see battle of d