, economic, and public policy. his works and ideas have been subject to various criticisms, usually with the same argumentation used against futurology : that foreseeing the future is nigh impossible. techno music pioneer juan atkins cites toffler ' s phrase " techno rebels " in the third wave as inspiring him to use the word " techno " to describe the musical style he helped to create musician curtis mayfield released a disco song called " future shock, " later covered in an electro version by herbie hancock. science fiction author john brunner wrote " the shockwave rider, " from the concept of " future shock. " the nightclub toffler, in rotterdam, is named after him. in the song " victoria " by the exponents, the protagonist ' s daily routine and cultural interests are described : " she ' s up in time to watch the soap operas, reads cosmopolitan and alvin toffler ". critical assessment accenture, the management consultancy firm, identified toffler in 2002 as being among the most influential voices in business leaders, along with bill gates and peter drucker. toffler has also been described in a financial times interview as the " world ' s most famous futurologist ". in 2006, the people ' s daily classed him among the 50 foreigners who shaped modern china, which one u. s. newspaper notes made him a " guru of sorts to world statesmen. " chinese premier and general secretary zhao ziyang was greatly influenced by toffler. he convened conferences to discuss the third wave in the early 1980s, and in 1985 the book was the no. 2 best seller in china. author mark satin characterizes toffler as an important early influence on radical centrist political thought. newt gingrich became close to the tofflers in the 1970s and said the third wave had immensely influenced his own thinking and was " one of the great seminal works of our time. " selected awards toffler has received several prestigious prizes and awards, including the mckinsey foundation book award for contributions to management literature, officier de l ' ordre des arts et lettres, and appointments, including fellow of the american association for the advancement of science and the international institute for strategic studies. in 2006, alvin and heidi toffler were recipients of brown university ' s independent award. personal life toffler was married to heidi toffler ( born adelaide elizabeth farrell ), also a writer and futurist. they lived in the bel air section of los