. the roman people built roads along the alpine mountain passes, which continued to be used through the medieval period. roman road markers can still be found on the alpine mountain passes. during the gallic wars in 58 bc julius caesar defeated the helvetii. the rhaetian continued to resist but their territory was eventually conquered when the romans crossed the danube valley and defeated the brigantes. the romans built settlements in the alps. in towns such as aosta, martigny, lausanne, and partenkirchen remains of villas, arenas, and temples have been discovered. christianity, feudalism, and napoleonic wars christianity was established in the alps by the roman people. monasteries and churches were constructed, even at high alpine altitudes. the franks expanded their carolingian empire, while the baiuvarii introduced feudalism in the eastern alps. the construction of castles in the alps supported the growing number of dukedoms and kingdoms. castello del buonconsiglio in trento, still has intricate frescoes, and excellent examples of gothic art. the chateau de chillon is preserved as an example of medieval architecture. there are several important alpine saints and one such one is saint maurice. much of the medieval period was a time of power struggles between competing dynasties such as the house of savoy, the visconti of milan, and the house of habsburg. the great st bernard hospice, built in the 9th or 10th centuries, at the summit of the great saint bernard pass was a shelter for humans and destination for pilgrims. in 1291, to protect themselves from incursions by the house of habsburg, four alpine cantons drew up the federal charter of 1291, which is considered to be a declaration of independence from neighboring kingdoms. after a series of battles fought in the 13th, 14th, and 15th centuries, more cantons joined the confederacy and by the 16th century, switzerland was established as a sovereign state. in the alps, the war of the spanish succession fallout resulted in a 1713 treaty, part of the peace of utrecht, which relocated the western alps border along the watersheds. historically, the alps were used to determine the borders of political and administrative gangs, but the peace of utrecht was the first significant body of treaty that considered geographical conditions. the alps were carved up and borders were agreed, so that enclaves in the alps could be eliminated. during the napoleonic wars in the late 18th century and early 19th century, napoleon annexed territory formerly controlled by the house of habsburg, and the house of savoy. in 1798, the helvet