agrarianism is a social and political philosophy that has promoted subsistence agriculture, family farming, widespread property ownership, and political decentralization. adherents of agrarianism tend to value traditional bonds of local community over urban modernity. agrarian political parties sometimes aim to support the rights and sustainability of small farmers and poor peasants against the wealthy in society. philosophy some scholars suggest that agrarianism values rural society as superior to urban society and the independent farmer as superior to the paid worker, and sees farming as a way of life that can shape the ideal social values. it stresses the superiority of a simpler rural life as opposed to the complexity of city life. for example, m. thomas inge defines agrarianism by the following basic tenets : farming is the sole occupation that offers total independence and self - sufficiency. urban life, capitalism, and technology destroy independence and dignity and foster vice and weakness. the agricultural community, with its fellowship of labor and co - operation, is the model society. the farmer has a solid, stable position in the world order. they have " a sense of identity, a sense of historical and religious tradition, a feeling of belonging to a concrete family, place, and region, which are psychologically and culturally beneficial. " the harmony of their life checks the encroachments of a fragmented, alienated modern society. cultivation of the soil " has within it a positive spiritual good " and from it the cultivator acquires the virtues of " honor, manliness, self - reliance, courage, moral integrity, and hospitality. " they result from a direct contact with nature and, through nature, a closer relationship to god. the agrarian is blessed in that they follow the example of god in creating order out of chaos. history the philosophical roots of agrarianism include european and chinese philosophers. the chinese school of agriculturalism ( 家 / 家 ) was a philosophy that advocated peasant utopian communalism and egalitarianism. in societies influenced by confucianism, the farmer was considered an esteemed productive member of society, but merchants who made money were looked down upon. that influenced european intellectuals like francois quesnay, an avid confucianist and advocate of china ' s agrarian policies, in forming the french agrarian philosophy of physiocracy. the physiocrats, along with the ideas of john locke and the romantic era, formed the basis of modern european and american agrarianism. types of agrarianism physiocracy jeffersonian democracy the united states president thomas jefferson was an