countless other achievements, aristotle was the founder of formal logic, pioneered the study of zoology, and left every future scientist and philosopher in his debt through his contributions to the scientific method. taneli kukkonen, observes that his achievement in founding two sciences is unmatched, and his reach in influencing " every branch of intellectual enterprise " including western ethical and political theory, theology, rhetoric, and literary analysis is equally long. as a result, kukkonen argues, any analysis of reality today " will almost certainly carry aristotelian overtones... evidence of an exceptionally forceful mind. " jonathan barnes wrote that " an account of aristotle ' s intellectual afterlife would be little less than a history of european thought ". aristotle has been called the father of logic, biology, political science, zoology, embryology, natural law, scientific method, rhetoric, psychology, realism, criticism, individualism, teleology, and meteorology. what follows is an overview of the transmission and influence of his texts and ideas into the modern era. his successor, theophrastus aristotle ' s pupil and successor, theophrastus, wrote the history of plants, a pioneering work in botany. some of his technical terms remain in use, such as carpel from carpos, fruit, and pericarp, from pericarpion, seed chamber. theophrastus was much less concerned with formal causes than aristotle was, instead pragmatically describing how plants functioned. later greek philosophy the immediate influence of aristotle ' s work was felt as the lyceum grew into the peripatetic school. aristotle ' s students included aristoxenus, dicaearchus, demetrius of phalerum, eudemos of rhodes, harpalus, hephaestion, mnason of phocis, nicomachus, and theophrastus. aristotle ' s influence over alexander the great is seen in the latter ' s bringing with him on his expedition a host of zoologists, botanists, and researchers. he had also learned a great deal about persian customs and traditions from his teacher. although his respect for aristotle was diminished as his travels made it clear that much of aristotle ' s geography was clearly wrong, when the old philosopher released his works to the public, alexander complained " thou hast not done well to publish thy acroamatic doctrines ; for in what shall i surpass other men if those doctrines wherein i have been trained are to be all men ' s common property? " hellenistic