, and said ; " i shall give this book to whichever one of you can learn it the fastest. " after excitedly asking, " will you really give this book to the one of us who can understand it the soonest and recite it to you? " alfred then took it to his teacher, learned it, and recited it back to his mother. alfred is noted as carrying around a small book, probably a medieval version of a small pocket notebook, that contained psalms and many prayers that he often collected. asser writes : these " he collected in a single book, as i have seen for myself ; amid all the affairs of the present life he took it around with him everywhere for the sake of prayer, and was inseparable from it. " an excellent hunter in every branch of the sport, alfred is remembered as an enthusiastic huntsman against whom nobody ' s skills could compare. he was the youngest of his brothers, and he was probably the most open - minded. he was an early advocate for education. his desire for learning could have come from his early love of english poetry and inability to read or physically record it until later in life. asser writes that alfred " could not satisfy his craving for what he desired the most, namely the liberal arts ; for, as he used to say, there were no good scholars in the entire kingdom of the west saxons at that time ". family in 868, alfred married ealhswith, daughter of a mercian nobleman, æthelred mucel, ealdorman of the gaini. the gaini were probably one of the tribal groups of the mercians. ealhswith ' s mother, eadburh, was a member of the mercian royal family. they had five or six children together, including edward the elder who succeeded his father as king ; æthelflæd who became lady of the mercians ; and ælfthryth who married baldwin ii, count of flanders. alfred ' s mother was osburga, daughter of oslac of the isle of wight, chief butler of england. asser, in his vita ælfredi asserts that this shows his lineage from the jutes of the isle of wight. osferth was described as a relative in king alfred ' s will and he attested charters in a high position until 934. a charter of king edward ' s reign described him as the king ' s brother – mistakenly according to keynes and lapidge, but in the view of