##on ' s tower. as soon as ptolemy learned of alexander ' s scheme, he was determined to kill him. ptolemy put ptolemais under siege, but left his generals to attack the city, while he continued to pursue alexander. ptolemy ' s pursuit caused much destruction in the galilee region. here he captured asochis on the sabbath, taking ten thousand people as prisoners. ptolemy also initiated an unsuccessful attack on sepphoris. battle of asophon ptolemy and alexander engaged in battle at asophon near the jordan river. estimated to have fifty to eighty thousand soldiers, alexander ' s army consisted of both jews and pagans. at the head of his armed forces were his elite pagan mercenaries ; they were specialised in greek - style phalanx. one of ptolemy ' s commanders, philostephanus, commenced the first attack by crossing the river that divided both forces. the hasmoneans had the advantage, however, philostephanus held back a certain amount of his forces whom he sent to recover lost ground. perceiving them as vast reinforcements, alexander ' s army fled. some of his retreating forces tried to push back, but quickly dispersed as ptolemy ' s forces pursued alexander ' s fleeing army ; thirty to fifty thousand hasmonean soldiers died. ptolemy ' s forces at ptolemais also succeeded in capturing the city. he then continued to conquer much of the hasmonean kingdom, occupying the entirety of northern judea, the coast, and territories east of the jordan river. while doing so, he pillaged villages and ordered his soldiers to cannibalise women and children to create psychological fear towards his enemies. at the time, salome alexandra was notified of cleopatra ' s approachment to judea. intervention of cleopatra iii realising that her son had amassed a formidable force in judea, cleopatra appointed jewish generals ananias and chelkias to command her forces. she too also went with a fleet towards judea. when cleopatra arrived at ptolemais, the people refused her entry, so she besieged the city. ptolemy, believing syria was defenseless, withdrew to cyprus after his miscalculation. while in pursuit of ptolemy, chelkias died in coele - syria. the war abruptly came to an end with ptolemy fleeing to cyprus. alexander then approached cleopatra. bowing before her, he requested to retain his rule. cleopatra was urged by her subordinates to annex judea. however, ananias demanded she consider the residential egyptian jews who were the main support