##ia may show dysplasia, the potential for malignant transformation is unknown. ironically, elements within the complementary and alternative medicine industry promote the use of sanguinaria as a therapy for cancer. sodium bicarbonate ( baking soda ) sodium bicarbonate is sometimes combined with salt to make a simple homemade mouthwash, indicated for any of the reasons that a saltwater mouthwash might be used. pre - mixed mouthwashes of 1 % sodium bicarbonate and 1. 5 % sodium chloride in aqueous solution are marketed, although pharmacists will easily be able to produce such a formulation from the base ingredients when required. sodium bicarbonate mouthwash is sometimes used to remove viscous saliva and to aid visualization of the oral tissues during examination of the mouth. sodium chloride ( salt ) saline has a mechanical cleansing action and an antiseptic action, as it is a hypertonic solution in relation to bacteria, which undergo lysis. the heat of the solution produces a therapeutic increase in blood flow ( hyperemia ) to the surgical site, promoting healing. hot saltwater mouthwashes also encourage the draining of pus from dental abscesses. in contrast, if heat is applied on the side of the face ( e. g., hot water bottle ) rather than inside the mouth, it may cause a dental abscess to drain extra - orally, which is later associated with an area of fibrosis on the face ( see cutaneous sinus of dental origin ). saltwater mouthwashes are also routinely used after oral surgery, to keep food debris out of healing wounds and to prevent infection. some oral surgeons consider saltwater mouthwashes the mainstay of wound cleanliness after surgery. in dental extractions, hot saltwater mouthbaths should start about 24 hours after a dental extraction. the term mouth bath implies that the liquid is passively held in the mouth, rather than vigorously swilled around ( which could dislodge a blood clot ). once the blood clot has stabilized, the mouthwash can be used more vigorously. these mouthwashes tend to be advised for use about 6 times per day, especially after meals ( to remove food from the socket ). sodium lauryl sulfate ( foaming agent ) sodium lauryl sulfate ( sls ) is used as a foaming agent in many oral hygiene products, including many mouthwashes. some may suggest that it is probably advisable to use mouthwash at least an hour after brushing with tooth