prussian fund that helped soldiers who became invalids while fighting rebellion in 1848 or the families of soldiers who died in battle. as young hegelians were advocating change and progress, schopenhauer claimed that misery is natural for humans and that, even if some utopian society were established, people would still fight each other out of boredom, or would starve due to overpopulation. in 1851, schopenhauer published parerga and paralipomena, which contains essays that are supplementary to his main work. it was his first successful, widely read book, partly due to the work of his disciples who wrote praising reviews. the essays that proved most popular were the ones that actually did not contain the basic philosophical ideas of his system. many academic philosophers considered him a great stylist and cultural critic but did not take his philosophy seriously. his early critics liked to point out similarities of his ideas to those fichte and schelling, or to claim that there were numerous contradictions in his philosophy. both criticisms enraged schopenhauer. he was becoming less interested in intellectual fights, but encouraged his disciples to do so. his private notes and correspondence show that he acknowledged some of the criticisms regarding contradictions, inconsistencies, and vagueness in his philosophy, but claimed that he was not concerned about harmony and agreement in his propositions and that some of his ideas should not be taken literally but instead as metaphors. academic philosophers were also starting to notice his work. in 1856, the university of leipzig sponsored an essay contest about schopenhauer ' s philosophy, which was won by rudolf seydel ' s very critical essay. schopenhauer ' s friend jules lunteschutz made the first of his four portraits of him — which schopenhauer did not particularly like — which was soon sold to a wealthy landowner, carl ferdinand wiesike, who built a house to display it. schopenhauer seemed flattered and amused by this, and would claim that it was his first chapel. as his fame increased, copies of paintings and photographs of him were being sold and admirers were visiting the places where he had lived and written his works. people visited frankfurt ' s englischer hof to observe him dining. admirers gave him gifts and asked for autographs. he complained that he still felt isolated due to his not very social nature and the fact that many of his good friends had already died from old age. he remained healthy in his own old age, which he attributed