##veh and calah ( the same is the great city ). " nimrod ' s historical identity is unknown or debated, but nimrod has been identified as sargon of akkad by some, and others have compared him with the legendary gilgamesh, king of uruk ( erech ). sargon of akkad defeated and captured lugal - zage - si in the battle of uruk and conquered his empire. the earliest records in the akkadian language date to the time of sargon. sargon was claimed to be the son of la ' ibum or itti - bel, a humble gardener, and possibly a hierodule, or priestess to ishtar or inanna. one legend related to sargon in neo - assyrian times says that later claims made on behalf of sargon were that his mother was an " entu " priestess ( high priestess ). the claims might have been made to ensure a pedigree of nobility, since only a highly placed family could achieve such a position. originally a cupbearer ( rabshakeh ) to a king of kish with a semitic name, ur - zababa, sargon thus became a gardener, responsible for the task of clearing out irrigation canals. the royal cupbearer at this time was in fact a prominent political position, close to the king and with various high level responsibilities not suggested by the title of the position itself. this gave him access to a disciplined corps of workers, who also may have served as his first soldiers. displacing ur - zababa, sargon was crowned king, and he entered upon a career of foreign conquest. four times he invaded syria and canaan, and he spent three years thoroughly subduing the countries of " the west " to unite them with mesopotamia " into a single empire ". however, sargon took this process further, conquering many of the surrounding regions to create an empire that reached westward as far as the mediterranean sea and perhaps cyprus ( kaptara ) ; northward as far as the mountains ( a later hittite text asserts he fought the hattian king nurdaggal of burushanda, well into anatolia ) ; eastward over elam ; and as far south as magan ( oman ) — a region over which he reigned for purportedly 56 years, though only four " year - names " survive. he consolidated his dominion over his territories by replacing the earlier opposing rulers with noble citizens of akkad,