( v ) ] and arsenite [ ; as ( iii ) ] ". legal limits, food, and drink in the united states since 2006, the maximum concentration in drinking water allowed by the environmental protection agency ( epa ) is 10 ppb and the fda set the same standard in 2005 for bottled water. the department of environmental protection for new jersey set a drinking water limit of 5 ppb in 2006. the idlh ( immediately dangerous to life and health ) value for arsenic metal and inorganic arsenic compounds is 5 mg / m3 ( 5 ppb ). the occupational safety and health administration has set the permissible exposure limit ( pel ) to a time - weighted average ( twa ) of 0. 01 mg / m3 ( 0. 01 ppb ), and the national institute for occupational safety and health ( niosh ) has set the recommended exposure limit ( rel ) to a 15 - minute constant exposure of 0. 002 mg / m3 ( 0. 002 ppb ). the pel for organic arsenic compounds is a twa of 0. 5 mg / m3. ( 0. 5 ppb ). in 2008, based on its ongoing testing of a wide variety of american foods for toxic chemicals, the u. s. food and drug administration set the " level of concern " for inorganic arsenic in apple and pear juices at 23 ppb, based on non - carcinogenic effects, and began blocking importation of products in excess of this level ; it also required recalls for non - conforming domestic products. in 2011, the national dr. oz television show broadcast a program highlighting tests performed by an independent lab hired by the producers. though the methodology was disputed ( it did not distinguish between organic and inorganic arsenic ) the tests showed levels of arsenic up to 36 ppb. in response, the fda tested the worst brand from the dr. oz show and found much lower levels. ongoing testing found 95 % of the apple juice samples were below the level of concern. later testing by consumer reports showed inorganic arsenic at levels slightly above 10 ppb, and the organization urged parents to reduce consumption. in july 2013, on consideration of consumption by children, chronic exposure, and carcinogenic effect, the fda established an " action level " of 10 ppb for apple juice, the same as the drinking water standard. concern about arsenic in rice in bangladesh was raised in 2002, but at the time only australia had a legal limit for food ( one milligram per kilogram ). concern was raised about people