— usually through radioactive decay. the nucleus can also be modified through bombardment by high energy subatomic particles or photons. if this modifies the number of protons in a nucleus, the atom changes to a different chemical element. if the mass of the nucleus following a fusion reaction is less than the sum of the masses of the separate particles, then the difference between these two values can be emitted as a type of usable energy ( such as a gamma ray, or the kinetic energy of a beta particle ), as described by albert einstein ' s mass – energy equivalence formula, e = mc2, where m is the mass loss and c is the speed of light. this deficit is part of the binding energy of the new nucleus, and it is the non - recoverable loss of the energy that causes the fused particles to remain together in a state that requires this energy to separate. the fusion of two nuclei that create larger nuclei with lower atomic numbers than iron and nickel — a total nucleon number of about 60 — is usually an exothermic process that releases more energy than is required to bring them together. it is this energy - releasing process that makes nuclear fusion in stars a self - sustaining reaction. for heavier nuclei, the binding energy per nucleon begins to decrease. that means that a fusion process producing a nucleus that has an atomic number higher than about 26, and a mass number higher than about 60, is an endothermic process. thus, more massive nuclei cannot undergo an energy - producing fusion reaction that can sustain the hydrostatic equilibrium of a star. electron cloud the electrons in an atom are attracted to the protons in the nucleus by the electromagnetic force. this force binds the electrons inside an electrostatic potential well surrounding the smaller nucleus, which means that an external source of energy is needed for the electron to escape. the closer an electron is to the nucleus, the greater the attractive force. hence electrons bound near the center of the potential well require more energy to escape than those at greater separations. electrons, like other particles, have properties of both a particle and a wave. the electron cloud is a region inside the potential well where each electron forms a type of three - dimensional standing wave — a wave form that does not move relative to the nucleus. this behavior is defined by an atomic orbital, a mathematical function that characterises the probability that an electron appears to be at a particular location when its position is measured. only a discrete ( or quantized ) set of these orbitals exist around the nucleus,