, the double - headed minoan axe. athena leaped from zeus ' s head, fully grown and armed. the " first homeric hymn to athena " states in lines 9 – 16 that the gods were awestruck by athena ' s appearance and even helios, the god of the sun, stopped his chariot in the sky. pindar, in his " seventh olympian ode ", states that she " cried aloud with a mighty shout " and that " the sky and mother earth shuddered before her. " hesiod states that hera was so annoyed at zeus for having given birth to a child on his own that she conceived and bore hephaestus by herself, but in imagines 2. 27 ( trans. fairbanks ), the third - century ad greek rhetorician philostratus the elder writes that hera " rejoices " at athena ' s birth " as though athena were her daughter also. " the second - century ad christian apologist justin martyr takes issue with those pagans who erect at springs images of kore, whom he interprets as athena : " they said that athena was the daughter of zeus not from intercourse, but when the god had in mind the making of a world through a word ( logos ) his first thought was athena. " according to a version of the story in a scholium on the iliad ( found nowhere else ), when zeus swallowed metis, she was pregnant with athena by the cyclops brontes. the etymologicum magnum instead deems athena the daughter of the daktyl itonos. fragments attributed by the christian eusebius of caesarea to the semi - legendary phoenician historian sanchuniathon, which eusebius thought had been written before the trojan war, make athena instead the daughter of cronus, a king of byblos who visited " the inhabitable world " and bequeathed attica to athena. lady of athens in homer ' s iliad, athena, as a war goddess, inspired and fought alongside the greek heroes ; her aid was synonymous with military prowess. also in the iliad, zeus, the chief god, specifically assigned the sphere of war to ares, the god of war, and athena. athena ' s moral and military superiority to ares derived in part from the fact that she represented the intellectual and civilized side of war and the virtues of justice and skill, whereas ares represented mere blood lust. her superiority also derived in part from the vastly greater variety and importance of her functions and the patriotism