turned away from the factory after asking for the return of a script she had given to warhol. the script had apparently been misplaced. amaya received only minor injuries and was released from the hospital later the same day. warhol was seriously wounded by the attack and barely survived. he had physical effects for the rest of his life, including being required to wear a surgical corset. the shooting had a profound effect on warhol ' s life and art. solanas was arrested the day after the assault, after turning herself in to police. by way of explanation, she said that warhol " had too much control over my life ". she was subsequently diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia and eventually sentenced to three years under the control of the department of corrections. after the shooting, the factory scene heavily increased its security, and for many the " factory 60s " ended ( " the superstars from the old factory days didn ' t come around to the new factory much " ). warhol had this to say about the attack : in 1969, warhol and british journalist john wilcock founded interview magazine. 1970s in 1970, screens and film matrixes that had been used to produce original warhol works in the 1960s were taken to europe for the production of warhol screenprints under the name " sunday b morning ". warhol signed and numbered one edition of 250 before subsequent unauthorized unsigned versions were produced. the unauthorized works were the result of a falling out between warhol and some of his new york city studio employees who went to brussels where they produced work stamped with " sunday b morning " and " add your own signature here ". since the works began as a collaboration, warhol facilitated exact duplication by providing the photo negatives and precise color codes. some of the unauthorized productions bore the markings " this is not by me, andy warhol ". the most famous unauthorized reproductions are 1967 marilyn monroe portfolio screenprints. these " sunday b morning " marilyn monroe prints were among those still under production as of 2013. art galleries and dealers also market sunday b morning reprint versions of several other screenprint works including flowers, campbell ' s soup i, campbell ' s soup cans ii, gold marilyn monroe, mao and dollare bill prints. although the original sunday b morning versions had black stamps on the back, by the 1980s they switched to blue. warhol had a retrospective exhibition at the whitney museum of american art in 1971. his famous portrait of chinese communist leader mao zedong was created in 1973. in 1975, he published the