both patriots and loyalists. after congress rejected the carlisle peace commission in 1778 and westminster turned to " hard war " during clinton ' s command, neutral colonists in the carolinas often allied with the patriots whenever brutal combat broke out between tories and whigs. conversely, loyalists gained support when patriots intimidated suspected tories by destroying property or tarring and feathering. a loyalist militia unit — the british legion — provided some of the best troops in british service ; it received a commission in the british army. it was a mixed regiment of 250 dragoons and 200 infantry supported by batteries of flying artillery. it was commanded by banastre tarleton and gained a fearsome reputation in the colonies for " brutality and needless slaughter ". in may 1779 the british legion was one of five regiments that formed the american establishment. women women played various roles during the revolutionary war ; they often accompanied their husbands when permitted to do so. for example, throughout the war martha washington was known to visit and provide aid to her husband george at various american camps, and frederika charlotte riedesel documented the saratoga campaign. women often accompanied armies as camp followers to sell goods and perform necessary tasks in hospitals and camps. they were a necessary part of eighteenth - century armies, and numbered in the thousands during the war. women also assumed military roles : aside from military tasks like treating the wounded or setting up camp, some dressed as men to directly support combat, fight, or act as spies on both sides of the revolutionary war. anna maria lane joined her husband in the army and wore men ' s clothes by the time the battle of germantown happened. the virginia general assembly later cited her bravery : she fought while dressed as a man and " performed extraordinary military services, and received a severe wound at the battle of germantown... with the courage of a soldier ". on april 26, 1777, sybil ludington is said to have ridden to alert militia forces of putnam county, new york, and danbury, connecticut, to warn them of the british ' s approach ; she has been called the " female paul revere ". a report in the new england quarterly says there is little evidence backing the story, and whether the ride occurred is questioned. a few others disguised themselves as men. deborah sampson fought until her gender was discovered and discharged as a result ; sally st. clair was killed in action during the war. african americans when war began, the population of the thirteen colonies included an estimated 500, 000 slaves, predominantly used as labor on southern plantations. in