eggs in water and have aquatic larvae that undergo metamorphosis to become terrestrial adults. amphibians breathe by means of a pump action in which air is first drawn into the buccopharyngeal region through the nostrils. these are then closed and the air is forced into the lungs by contraction of the throat. they supplement this with gas exchange through the skin. anura the order anura ( from the ancient greek a ( n ) - meaning " without " and oura meaning " tail " ) comprises the frogs and toads. they usually have long hind limbs that fold underneath them, shorter forelimbs, webbed toes with no claws, no tails, large eyes and glandular moist skin. members of this order with smooth skins are commonly referred to as frogs, while those with warty skins are known as toads. the difference is not a formal one taxonomically and there are numerous exceptions to this rule. members of the family bufonidae are known as the " true toads ". frogs range in size from the goliath frog ( conraua goliath ) of west africa to the paedophryne amauensis, first described in papua new guinea in 2012, which is also the smallest known vertebrate. although most species are associated with water and damp habitats, some are specialised to live in trees or in deserts. they are found worldwide except for polar areas. anura is divided into three suborders that are broadly accepted by the scientific community, but the relationships between some families remain unclear. future molecular studies should provide further insights into their evolutionary relationships. the suborder archaeobatrachia contains four families of primitive frogs. these are ascaphidae, bombinatoridae, discoglossidae and leiopelmatidae which have few derived features and are probably paraphyletic with regard to other frog lineages. the six families in the more evolutionarily advanced suborder mesobatrachia are the fossorial megophryidae, pelobatidae, pelodytidae, scaphiopodidae and rhinophrynidae and the obligatorily aquatic pipidae. these have certain characteristics that are intermediate between the two other suborders. neobatrachia is by far the largest suborder and includes the remaining families of modern frogs, including most common species. ninety - six percent of the over 5, 000 extant species of frog are neobatrachians. caudata the order ca