an amine functional group is deduced by a combination of techniques, including mass spectrometry as well as nmr and ir spectroscopies. 1h nmr signals for amines disappear upon treatment of the sample with d2o. in their infrared spectrum primary amines exhibit two n - h bands, whereas secondary amines exhibit only one. structure alkyl amines alkyl amines characteristically feature tetrahedral nitrogen centers. c - n - c and c - n - h angles approach the idealized angle of 109°. c - n distances are slightly shorter than c - c distances. the energy barrier for the nitrogen inversion of the stereocenter is about 7 kcal / mol for a trialkylamine. the interconversion has been compared to the inversion of an open umbrella into a strong wind. amines of the type nhrr ' and nrr ′ r ″ are chiral : the nitrogen center bears four substituents counting the lone pair. because of the low barrier to inversion, amines of the type nhrr ' cannot be obtained in optical purity. for chiral tertiary amines, nrr ′ r ″ can only be resolved when the r, r ', and r ″ groups are constrained in cyclic structures such as n - substituted aziridines ( quaternary ammonium salts are resolvable ). aromatic amines in aromatic amines ( " anilines " ), nitrogen is often nearly planar owing to conjugation of the lone pair with the aryl substituent. the c - n distance is correspondingly shorter. in aniline, the c - n distance is the same as the c - c distances. basicity like ammonia, amines are bases. compared to alkali metal hydroxides, amines are weaker ( see table for examples of conjugate acid ka values ). the basicity of amines depends on : the electronic properties of the substituents ( alkyl groups enhance the basicity, aryl groups diminish it ). the degree of solvation of the protonated amine, which includes steric hindrance by the groups on nitrogen. electronic effects owing to inductive effects, the basicity of an amine might be expected to increase with the number of alkyl groups on the amine. correlations are complicated owing to the effects of solvation which are opposite the trends for inductive effects. solvation effects also dominate the basic