a violent hatred of the jews and it is equally certain that his animosity... did have a considerable impact on public opinion in france. " thirty of the 118 articles in voltaire ' s dictionnaire philosophique concerned jews and described them in consistently negative ways. louis de bonald and the catholic counter - revolution the counter - revolutionary catholic royalist louis de bonald stands out among the earliest figures to explicitly call for the reversal of jewish emancipation in the wake of the french revolution. bonald ' s attacks on the jews are likely to have influenced napoleon ' s decision to limit the civil rights of alsatian jews. bonald ' s article sur les juifs ( 1806 ) was one of the most venomous screeds of its era and furnished a paradigm which combined anti - liberalism, a defense of a rural society, traditional christian antisemitism, and the identification of jews with bankers and finance capital, which would in turn influence many subsequent right - wing reactionaries such as roger gougenot des mousseaux, charles maurras, and edouard drumont, nationalists such as maurice barres and paolo orano, and antisemitic socialists such as alphonse toussenel. bonald furthermore declared that the jews were an " alien " people, a " state within a state ", and should be forced to wear a distinctive mark to more easily identify and discriminate against them. under the french second empire, the popular counter - revolutionary catholic journalist louis veuillot propagated bonald ' s arguments against the jewish " financial aristocracy " along with vicious attacks against the talmud and the jews as a " deicidal people " driven by hatred to " enslave " christians. between 1882 and 1886 alone, french priests published twenty antisemitic books blaming france ' s ills on the jews and urging the government to consign them back to the ghettos, expel them, or hang them from the gallows. gougenot des mousseaux ' s le juif, le judaisme et la judaisation des peuples chretiens ( 1869 ) has been called a " bible of modern antisemitism " and was translated into german by nazi ideologue alfred rosenberg. imperial russia thousands of jews were slaughtered by cossack haidamaks in the 1768 massacre of uman in the kingdom of poland. in 1772, the empress of russia catherine ii forced the jews into the pale of settlement – which was located primarily in present