block ii spacesuit was revised for the extended missions to allow greater flexibility and visibility for driving the lrv. the success of the first two landings allowed the remaining missions to be crewed with a single veteran as commander, with two rookies. apollo 13 launched lovell, jack swigert, and fred haise in april 1970, headed for the fra mauro formation. but two days out, a liquid oxygen tank exploded, disabling the service module and forcing the crew to use the lm as a " lifeboat " to return to earth. another nasa review board was convened to determine the cause, which turned out to be a combination of damage of the tank in the factory, and a subcontractor not making a tank component according to updated design specifications. apollo was grounded again, for the remainder of 1970 while the oxygen tank was redesigned and an extra one was added. mission cutbacks about the time of the first landing in 1969, it was decided to use an existing saturn v to launch the skylab orbital laboratory pre - built on the ground, replacing the original plan to construct it in orbit from several saturn ib launches ; this eliminated apollo 20. nasa ' s yearly budget also began to shrink in light of the successful landing, and nasa also had to make funds available for the development of the upcoming space shuttle. by 1971, the decision was made to also cancel missions 18 and 19. the two unused saturn vs became museum exhibits at the john f. kennedy space center on merritt island, florida, george c. marshall space center in huntsville, alabama, michoud assembly facility in new orleans, louisiana, and lyndon b. johnson space center in houston, texas. the cutbacks forced mission planners to reassess the original planned landing sites in order to achieve the most effective geological sample and data collection from the remaining four missions. apollo 15 had been planned to be the last of the h series missions, but since there would be only two subsequent missions left, it was changed to the first of three j missions. apollo 13 ' s fra mauro mission was reassigned to apollo 14, commanded in february 1971 by mercury veteran alan shepard, with stuart roosa and edgar mitchell. this time the mission was successful. shepard and mitchell spent 33 hours and 31 minutes on the surface, and completed two evas totalling 9hours 24 minutes, which was a record for the longest eva by a lunar crew at the time. in august 1971, just after conclusion of the apollo 15 mission, president richard nixon proposed canceling the two