##ter. the name may be derived further from ancient egyptian, which refers to vessels of the egyptian goddess bast. she was represented as a lioness and frequently depicted as such in figures placed atop these alabaster vessels. ancient roman authors pliny the elder and ptolemy wrote that the stone used for ointment jars called alabastra came from a region of egypt known as alabastron or alabastrites. properties and usability the purest alabaster is a snow - white material of fine uniform grain, but it often is associated with an oxide of iron, which produces brown clouding and veining in the stone. the coarser varieties of gypsum alabaster are converted by calcination into plaster of paris, and are sometimes known as " plaster stone ". the softness of alabaster enables it to be carved readily into elaborate forms, but its solubility in water renders it unsuitable for outdoor work. if alabaster with a smooth, polished surface is washed with dishwashing liquid, it will become rough, dull and whiter, losing most of its translucency and lustre. the finer kinds of alabaster are employed largely as an ornamental stone, especially for ecclesiastical decoration and for the rails of staircases and halls. modern processing working techniques alabaster is mined and then sold in blocks to alabaster workshops. there they are cut to the needed size ( " squaring " ), and then are processed in different techniques : turned on a lathe for round shapes, carved into three - dimensional sculptures, chiselled to produce low relief figures or decoration ; and then given an elaborate finish that reveals its transparency, colour, and texture. marble imitation in order to diminish the translucency of the alabaster and to produce an opacity suggestive of true marble, the statues are immersed in a bath of water and heated gradually — nearly to the boiling point — an operation requiring great care, because if the temperature is not regulated carefully, the stone acquires a dead - white, chalky appearance. the effect of heating appears to be a partial dehydration of the gypsum. if properly treated, it very closely resembles true marble and is known as " marmo di castellina ". dyeing alabaster is a porous stone and can be " dyed " into any colour or shade, a technique used for centuries. for this the stone needs to be fully immersed in various pigmentary solutions and heated