novelist chinua achebe in his essay on joseph conrad ' s novel heart of darkness : " in a comment which has often been quoted schweitzer says : ' the african is indeed my brother but my junior brother. ' and so he proceeded to build a hospital appropriate to the needs of junior brothers with standards of hygiene reminiscent of medical practice in the days before the germ theory of disease came into being. " schweitzer ' s biographer edgar berman, who was a volunteer surgeon at lambarene for several months and had extended conversations with schweitzer, has a different perspective. schweitzer felt that patients were better off, and the hospital functioned better given the severe lack of funding, if patients ' families lived on the hospital grounds during treatment. surgical survival rates were, berman asserts, as high as in many fully - equipped western hospitals. the volume of patients needing care, the difficulty of obtaining materials and supplies, and the scarcity of trained medical staff willing to work long hours in the remote setting for almost no pay all argued for a spartan setting with an emphasis on high medical standards nevertheless. schweitzer ' s views colonialism schweitzer considered his work as a medical missionary in africa to be his response to jesus ' call to become " fishers of men ". schweitzer was one of colonialism ' s harshest critics. in a sermon that he preached on 6 january 1905, before he had told anyone of his plans to dedicate the rest of his life to work as a physician in africa, he said : paternalism schweitzer was nonetheless still sometimes accused of being paternalistic in his attitude towards africans. for instance, he thought that gabonese independence came too early, without adequate education or accommodation to local circumstances. edgar berman quotes schweitzer as having said in 1960, " no society can go from the primeval directly to an industrial state without losing the leavening that time and an agricultural period allow. " schweitzer believed dignity and respect must be extended to blacks, while also sometimes characterizing them as children. he summarized his views on european - african relations by saying " with regard to the negroes, then, i have coined the formula : ' i am your brother, it is true, but your elder brother. ' " chinua achebe has criticized him for this characterization, though achebe acknowledges that schweitzer ' s use of the word " brother " at all was, for a european of the early 20th century, an