##x bull of 1455 ( also by nicholas v ). these papal bulls came to be seen by some as a justification for the subsequent era of slave trade and european colonialism. castile when the campaigns in africa were over, afonso v found new grounds for battle in neighboring castile. on 11 december 1474 king henry iv of castile died without a male heir, leaving just one daughter, joanna. however, her paternity was questioned ; it was rumored that his wife, queen joan of portugal ( afonso ' s sister ) had an affair with a nobleman named beltran de la cueva. the death of henry ignited a war of succession with one faction supporting joanna and the other supporting isabella, henry ' s half - sister. afonso v was persuaded to intervene on behalf of joanna, his niece. he betrothed himself to her, proclaimed himself king of castile and led troops into the kingdom. because of their close blood - relationship, a formal marriage had to wait for papal dispensation. on 12 may 1475 afonso entered castile with an army of 5, 600 cavalry and 14, 000 foot soldiers. in march 1476, after several skirmishes and much maneuvering, the 8, 000 men of afonso and prince joao, faced a castilian force of similar size in the battle of toro. the castilians were led by isabella ' s husband, prince ferdinand ii of aragon, cardinal mendoza and the duke of alba. the fight was fierce and confusing but the result was a stalemate : while the forces of cardinal mendoza and the duke of alba won over their opponents led by the portuguese king – who left the battlefield to take refuge in castronuno, the troops commanded by prince joao defeated and persecuted the troops of the castilian right wing, recovered the portuguese royal standard, remaining ordered in the battlefield where they collected the fugitives of afonso. both sides claimed victory but afonso ' s prospects for obtaining the castilian crown were severely damaged. after the battle, afonso sailed to france hoping to obtain the assistance of king louis xi in his fight against castile. but finding himself deceived by the french monarch, he returned to portugal in 1477. disillusioned, he abdicated for a few days in november 1477 in favor of his son john ii, then after returning to the throne, he retired to a monastery in sintra, where he died in 1481. marriages and descendants afonso married firstly, in 144