to frogs and salamanders, is the columella - operculum complex adjoining the auditory capsule which is involved in the transmission of both airborne and seismic signals. the ears of salamanders and caecilians are less highly developed than those of frogs as they do not normally communicate with each other through the medium of sound. the eyes of tadpoles lack lids, but at metamorphosis, the cornea becomes more dome - shaped, the lens becomes flatter, and eyelids and associated glands and ducts develop. the adult eyes are an improvement on invertebrate eyes and were a first step in the development of more advanced vertebrate eyes. they allow colour vision and depth of focus. in the retinas are green rods, which are receptive to a wide range of wavelengths. digestive and excretory systems many amphibians catch their prey by flicking out an elongated tongue with a sticky tip and drawing it back into the mouth before seizing the item with their jaws. some use inertial feeding to help them swallow the prey, repeatedly thrusting their head forward sharply causing the food to move backwards in their mouth by inertia. most amphibians swallow their prey whole without much chewing so they possess voluminous stomachs. the short oesophagus is lined with cilia that help to move the food to the stomach and mucus produced by glands in the mouth and pharynx eases its passage. the enzyme chitinase produced in the stomach helps digest the chitinous cuticle of arthropod prey. amphibians possess a pancreas, liver and gall bladder. the liver is usually large with two lobes. its size is determined by its function as a glycogen and fat storage unit, and may change with the seasons as these reserves are built or used up. adipose tissue is another important means of storing energy and this occurs in the abdomen ( in internal structures called fat bodies ), under the skin and, in some salamanders, in the tail. there are two kidneys located dorsally, near the roof of the body cavity. their job is to filter the blood of metabolic waste and transport the urine via ureters to the urinary bladder where it is stored before being passed out periodically through the cloacal vent. larvae and most aquatic adult amphibians excrete the nitrogen as ammonia in large quantities of dilute urine, while terrestrial species, with a greater need to conserve water, excre