. the block i crew positions were titled command pilot, senior pilot, and pilot. the senior pilot would assume navigation duties, while the pilot would function as a systems engineer. the astronauts would wear a modified version of the gemini spacesuit. after an uncrewed lm test flight as - 206, a crew would fly the first block ii csm and lm in a dual mission known as as - 207 / 208, or as - 278 ( each spacecraft would be launched on a separate saturn ib ). the block ii crew positions were titled commander, command module pilot, and lunar module pilot. the astronauts would begin wearing a new apollo a6l spacesuit, designed to accommodate lunar extravehicular activity ( eva ). the traditional visor helmet was replaced with a clear " fishbowl " type for greater visibility, and the lunar surface eva suit would include a water - cooled undergarment. deke slayton, the grounded mercury astronaut who became director of flight crew operations for the gemini and apollo programs, selected the first apollo crew in january 1966, with grissom as command pilot, white as senior pilot, and rookie donn f. eisele as pilot. but eisele dislocated his shoulder twice aboard the kc135 weightlessness training aircraft, and had to undergo surgery on january 27. slayton replaced him with chaffee. nasa announced the final crew selection for as - 204 on march 21, 1966, with the backup crew consisting of gemini veterans james mcdivitt and david scott, with rookie russell l. " rusty " schweickart. mercury / gemini veteran wally schirra, eisele, and rookie walter cunningham were announced on september 29 as the prime crew for as - 205. in december 1966, the as - 205 mission was canceled, since the validation of the csm would be accomplished on the 14 - day first flight, and as - 205 would have been devoted to space experiments and contribute no new engineering knowledge about the spacecraft. its saturn ib was allocated to the dual mission, now redesignated as - 205 / 208 or as - 258, planned for august 1967. mcdivitt, scott and schweickart were promoted to the prime as - 258 crew, and schirra, eisele and cunningham were reassigned as the apollo1 backup crew. program delays the spacecraft for the as - 202 and as - 204 missions were delivered by north american aviation to the kennedy space center with long lists of equipment problems which had to be corrected before