##ffs and general goods imported from elsewhere. employment is primarily in government and industries such as natural resource extraction, shipping, and transportation. military bases are a significant component of the economy in the fairbanks north star, anchorage and kodiak island boroughs, as well as kodiak. federal subsidies are also an important part of the economy, allowing the state to keep taxes low. its industrial outputs are crude petroleum, natural gas, coal, gold, precious metals, zinc and other mining, seafood processing, timber and wood products. there is also a growing service and tourism sector. tourists have contributed to the economy by supporting local lodging. energy alaska has vast energy resources, although its oil reserves have been largely depleted. major oil and gas reserves were found in the alaska north slope ( ans ) and cook inlet basins, but according to the energy information administration, by february 2014 alaska had fallen to fourth place in the nation in crude oil production after texas, north dakota, and california. prudhoe bay on alaska ' s north slope is still the second highest - yielding oil field in the united states, typically producing about, although by early 2014 north dakota ' s bakken formation was producing over. prudhoe bay was the largest conventional oil field ever discovered in north america, but was much smaller than canada ' s enormous athabasca oil sands field, which by 2014 was producing about of unconventional oil, and had hundreds of years of producible reserves at that rate. the trans - alaska pipeline can transport and pump up to of crude oil per day, more than any other crude oil pipeline in the united states. additionally, substantial coal deposits are found in alaska ' s bituminous, sub - bituminous, and lignite coal basins. the united states geological survey estimates that there are of undiscovered, technically recoverable gas from natural gas hydrates on the alaskan north slope. alaska also offers some of the highest hydroelectric power potential in the country from its numerous rivers. large swaths of the alaskan coastline offer wind and geothermal energy potential as well. alaska ' s economy depends heavily on increasingly expensive diesel fuel for heating, transportation, electric power and light. although wind and hydroelectric power are abundant and underdeveloped, proposals for statewide energy systems ( e. g. with special low - cost electric interties ) were judged uneconomical ( at the time of the report, 2001 ) due to low ( less than 50¢ / gal ) fuel prices, long distances and low population. the cost