→ ( the two - photon annihilation of an electron - positron pair ) are an example. the single - photon annihilation of an electron - positron pair, + →, cannot occur in free space because it is impossible to conserve energy and momentum together in this process. however, in the coulomb field of a nucleus the translational invariance is broken and single - photon annihilation may occur. the reverse reaction ( in free space, without an atomic nucleus ) is also impossible for this reason. in quantum field theory, this process is allowed only as an intermediate quantum state for times short enough that the violation of energy conservation can be accommodated by the uncertainty principle. this opens the way for virtual pair production or annihilation in which a one particle quantum state may fluctuate into a two particle state and back. these processes are important in the vacuum state and renormalization of a quantum field theory. it also opens the way for neutral particle mixing through processes such as the one pictured here, which is a complicated example of mass renormalization. properties quantum states of a particle and an antiparticle are interchanged by the combined application of charge conjugation, parity and time reversal. and are linear, unitary operators, is antilinear and antiunitary,. if denotes the quantum state of a particle with momentum and spin whose component in the z - direction is, then one has where denotes the charge conjugate state, that is, the antiparticle. in particular a massive particle and its antiparticle transform under the same irreducible representation of the poincare group which means the antiparticle has the same mass and the same spin. if, and can be defined separately on the particles and antiparticles, then where the proportionality sign indicates that there might be a phase on the right hand side. as anticommutes with the charges,, particle and antiparticle have opposite electric charges q and - q. quantum field theory this section draws upon the ideas, language and notation of canonical quantization of a quantum field theory. one may try to quantize an electron field without mixing the annihilation and creation operators by writing where we use the symbol k to denote the quantum numbers p and σ of the previous section and the sign of the energy, e ( k ), and ak denotes the corresponding annihilation operators. of course, since we are dealing with fermions, we have to have