. this contradicts the view, dominant for decades, that transjordan was either destroyed by nebuchadnezzar ii, or suffered a rapid decline following judah ' s destruction by that king. newer evidence suggests that ammon enjoyed continuity from the neo - babylonian to the persian period of 550 to 330 bc. in accounts in the first book of maccabees, the ammonites and their neighboring tribes are noted for having resisted the revival of jewish power under judas maccabaeus in the period 167 to 160 bc. the dynast hyrcanus founded qasr al abd, and was a descendant of the seleucid tobiad dynasty of tobiah, whom nehemiah mentions in the 5th century bc as an ammonite ( ii. 19 ) from the east - jordanian district. by the roman conquest of the levant by pompey in 63 bce, ammon lost its distinct identity through assimilation. however, the last notice of the ammonites occurs in justin martyr ' s dialogue with trypho ( § 119 ), in the second century ce ; justin affirms that they were still a numerous people. biblical account the first mention of the ammonites in the hebrew bible is in. it is stated there that they descended from ben - ammi, a son of lot with his younger daughter who plotted with her sister to intoxicate lot and, in his inebriated state, have intercourse with him to become pregnant. ben - ammi literally means " son of my people ". after the destruction of sodom and gomorrah, lot ' s daughters ' plot resulted in them conceiving and giving birth to ammon and his half - brother, moab. this narrative has traditionally been considered literal fact, but is now generally interpreted as recording a gross popular irony by which the israelites expressed their loathing of the morality of the moabites and ammonites. it has been doubted, however, whether the israelites would have directed such irony to lot himself, particularly because incest was not explicitly forbidden or stigmatized until the book of leviticus, i. e. centuries after the time of abraham and lot. the ammonites settled to the east of the jordan, invading the rephaim lands east of jordan, between the jabbok and arnon, dispossessing them and dwelling in their place. their territory originally comprising all from the jordan to the wilderness, and from the river jabbok south to