274 km / h ( 4, 520 mph ) on 3 october 1967. the fastest manned, air - breathing powered airplane is the lockheed sr - 71 blackbird, a u. s. reconnaissance jet fixed - wing aircraft, having reached on 28 july 1976. propulsion unpowered aircraft gliders are heavier - than - air aircraft that do not employ propulsion once airborne. take - off may be by launching forward and downward from a high location, or by pulling into the air on a tow - line, either by a ground - based winch or vehicle, or by a powered " tug " aircraft. for a glider to maintain its forward air speed and lift, it must descend in relation to the air ( but not necessarily in relation to the ground ). many gliders can " soar ", i. e., gain height from updrafts such as thermal currents. the first practical, controllable example was designed and built by the british scientist and pioneer george cayley, whom many recognise as the first aeronautical engineer. common examples of gliders are sailplanes, hang gliders and paragliders. balloons drift with the wind, though normally the pilot can control the altitude, either by heating the air or by releasing ballast, giving some directional control ( since the wind direction changes with altitude ). a wing - shaped hybrid balloon can glide directionally when rising or falling ; but a spherically shaped balloon does not have such directional control. kites are aircraft that are tethered to the ground or other object ( fixed or mobile ) that maintains tension in the tether or kite line ; they rely on virtual or real wind blowing over and under them to generate lift and drag. kytoons are balloon - kite hybrids that are shaped and tethered to obtain kiting deflections, and can be lighter - than - air, neutrally buoyant, or heavier - than - air. powered aircraft powered aircraft have one or more onboard sources of mechanical power, typically aircraft engines although rubber and manpower have also been used. most aircraft engines are either lightweight reciprocating engines or gas turbines. engine fuel is stored in tanks, usually in the wings but larger aircraft also have additional fuel tanks in the fuselage. propeller aircraft propeller aircraft use one or more propellers ( airscrews ) to create thrust in a forward direction. the propeller is usually mounted in front of the power source in tractor configuration but can be mounted behind in pusher configuration. variations of propeller layout include contra - rotating propellers and ducted fans. many