##es v. boris chrubasik is sceptical, noting that there is little subsequent evidence for attalid involvement with alexander. however, selene psoma has proposed that a large set of coins minted in a number of cities under attalid control in this period was produced by attalus ii in order to fund alexander ' s bid for the kingship. alexander and his sister were maintained in cilicia by heracleides, a former minister of antiochus iv and brother of timarchus, an usurper in media who had been executed by the reigning king demetrius i soter. in 153 bc, heracleides brought alexander and his sister to rome, where he presented alexander to the roman senate, which recognised him as the legitimate seleucid king and agreed to support him in his bid to take the throne. polybius mentions that attalus ii and demetrius i also met with the senate at this time but does not state how this was connected to the recognition of alexander - if at all. war with demetrius i ( 152 – 150 bc ) after recruiting mercenaries, alexander and heracleides departed to ephesus. from there, they invaded phoenicia by sea, seizing ptolemais akko. numismatic evidence shows that alexander had also gained control of seleucia pieria, byblos, beirut, tyre by 151 bc. on this coinage, alexander heavily advertised his ( claimed ) connection to antiochus iv, depicting zeus nicephorus on his coinage as antiochus had done. he also assumed the title of theopator ( ' divinely fathered ' ), which recalled antiochus ' epithet theos epiphanes ( ' god manifest ' ). the coinage also presented alexander balas in the guise of alexander the great, with pronounced facial features and long flowing hair. this was intended to emphasise his military prowess to his soldiers. alexander and demetrius i competed with another to win over jonathan apphus, the leader of the ascendant faction in judaea. jonathan was won over to alexander ' s side by the grant of a high position in the seleucid court and the high priesthood in jerusalem. reinforced by jonathan ' s hardened soldiers, alexander fought a decisive battle with demetrius in july 150 bc, in which demetrius was killed. by autumn, alexander ' s kingship was recognised throughout the seleucid realm. reign ( 150 – 147 bc ) alexander gained control of antioch at this time and his chancellor, ammon