islands, and had occupied them since, reneging on the 1919 venizelos – tittoni agreement to cede them to greece. the greco - italian war took place from october 1940 to april 1941 as part of the balkans campaign of world war ii. the italian war aim was to establish a greek puppet state, which would permit the italian annexation of the sporades and the cyclades islands in the aegean sea, to be administered as a part of the italian aegean islands. the german invasion resulted in the axis occupation of greece. the german troops evacuated athens on 12 october 1944, and by the end of the month, they had withdrawn from mainland greece. greece was then liberated by allied troops. economy and politics many of the islands in the aegean have safe harbours and bays. in ancient times, navigation through the sea was easier than travelling across the rough terrain of the greek mainland, and to some extent, the coastal areas of anatolia. many of the islands are volcanic, and marble and iron are mined on other islands. the larger islands have some fertile valleys and plains. of the main islands in the aegean sea, two belong to turkey – bozcaada ( tenedos ) and gokceada ( imbros ) ; the rest belong to greece. between the two countries, there are political disputes over several aspects of political control over the aegean space, including the size of territorial waters, air control and the delimitation of economic rights to the continental shelf. these issues are known as the aegean dispute. transport multiple ports are located along the greek and turkish coasts of the aegean sea. the port of piraeus in athens is the chief port in greece, the largest passenger port in europe and the third largest in the world, servicing about 20 million passengers annually. with a throughput of 1. 4 million teus, piraeus is placed among the top ten ports in container traffic in europe and the top container port in the eastern mediterranean. piraeus is also the commercial hub of greek shipping. piraeus bi - annually acts as the focus for a major shipping convention, known as posidonia, which attracts maritime industry professionals from all over the world. piraeus is currently greece ' s third - busiest port in terms of tons of goods transported, behind aghioi theodoroi and thessaloniki. the central port serves ferry routes to almost every island in the eastern portion of greece, the island of crete, the cyclades, the dodecanese, and much of the northern and