same type, as compared with the lowest ( or fundamental ) mode of the wave. as with s orbitals, this phenomenon provides p, d, f, and g orbitals at the next higher possible value of ( for example, 3p orbitals vs. the fundamental 2p ), an additional node in each lobe. still higher values of further increase the number of radial nodes, for each type of orbital. the shapes of atomic orbitals in one - electron atom are related to 3 - dimensional spherical harmonics. these shapes are not unique, and any linear combination is valid, like a transformation to cubic harmonics, in fact it is possible to generate sets where all the d ' s are the same shape, just like the and are the same shape. although individual orbitals are most often shown independent of each other, the orbitals coexist around the nucleus at the same time. also, in 1927, albrecht unsold proved that if one sums the electron density of all orbitals of a particular azimuthal quantum number of the same shell ( e. g., all three 2p orbitals, or all five 3d orbitals ) where each orbital is occupied by an electron or each is occupied by an electron pair, then all angular dependence disappears ; that is, the resulting total density of all the atomic orbitals in that subshell ( those with the same ) is spherical. this is known as unsold ' s theorem. orbitals table this table shows the real hydrogen - like wave functions for all atomic orbitals up to 7s, and therefore covers the occupied orbitals in the ground state of all elements in the periodic table up to radium and some beyond. " ψ " graphs are shown with − and + wave function phases shown in two different colors ( arbitrarily red and blue ). the orbital is the same as the orbital, but the and are formed by taking linear combinations of the and orbitals ( which is why they are listed under the label ). also, the and are not the same shape as the, since they are pure spherical harmonics. * no elements with 6f, 7d or 7f electrons have been discovered yet. † elements with 7p electrons have been discovered, but their electronic configurations are only predicted. ‡ for the elements whose highest occupied orbital is a 6d orbital, only some electronic configurations have been confirmed. ( ds, rg and cn are still missing ). these are the real - valued orbitals commonly used in chemistry. only