the strongest ". another theory is that his successors wilfully or erroneously misheard " toi krateroi " — " to craterus ", the general leading his macedonian troops home and newly entrusted with the regency of macedonia. arrian and plutarch claimed that alexander was speechless by this point, implying that this was an apocryphal story. diodorus, curtius and justin offered the more plausible story that alexander passed his signet ring to perdiccas, a bodyguard and leader of the companion cavalry, in front of witnesses, thereby nominating him. perdiccas initially did not claim power, instead suggesting that roxane ' s baby would be king, if male, with himself, craterus, leonnatus, and antipater as guardians. however, the infantry, under the command of meleager, rejected this arrangement since they had been excluded from the discussion. instead, they supported alexander ' s half - brother philip arrhidaeus. eventually, the two sides reconciled, and after the birth of alexander iv, he and philip iii were appointed joint kings, albeit in name only. dissension and rivalry soon affected the macedonians, however. the satrapies handed out by perdiccas at the partition of babylon became power bases each general used to bid for power. after the assassination of perdiccas in 321 bc, macedonian unity collapsed, and 40 years of war between " the successors " ( diadochi ) ensued before the hellenistic world settled into three stable power blocs : ptolemaic egypt, seleucid syria and east, and antigonid macedonia. in the process, both alexander iv and philip iii were murdered. last plans diodorus stated that alexander had given detailed written instructions to craterus some time before his death, which are known as alexander ' s " last plans ". craterus started to carry out alexander ' s commands, but the successors chose not to further implement them, on the grounds they were impractical and extravagant. furthermore, perdiccas had read the notebooks containing alexander ' s last plans to the macedonian troops in babylon, who voted not to carry them out. according to diodorus, alexander ' s last plans called for military expansion into the southern and western mediterranean, monumental constructions, and the intermixing of eastern and western populations. it included : construction of 1, 000 ships larger than triremes, along with harbours and a road running along the african coast all the way to the pillars of hercules