23. 7 % in the market ' s first year. in 2004, the privatisation was deemed to be a failure with consumers paying 60 % more for their power and with the state government estimated to lose $ 3 billion in power generation net income in the first ten years of privatisation. in 2012, the industry came under scrutiny for allegedly reducing supply by shutting down generators during periods of peak demand to force prices up. increased media attention also revealed that in 2009 the state government had approved a 46 % increase in retail prices to cover expected increases in the costs of generation while generation costs had in fact fallen 35 % by 2012. south australia has the highest retail price for electricity in the country. privatisation led to competition from a variety of companies who now separately provide for the generation, transmission, distribution and retail sales of gas and electricity. electricity generation comes from a range of technologies and operators. electranet operates the high - voltage electricity transmission network. sa power networks distributes electricity to end users. the largest electricity and gas retailing companies are also the largest generating companies. the largest fossil fuel power stations are the torrens island power station gas - fired plant operated by agl energy and the pelican point power station operated by engie. south australia also has wind and solar power and connections to the national grid. gas is supplied from the moomba gas processing plant in the cooper basin via the moomba adelaide pipeline system and the seagas pipeline from victoria. in 2011, south australia generated 18 % of its electricity from wind power, and had 51 % of the installed capacity of wind generators in australia. due to almost universal blackouts within the city during september 2016, the state worked with tesla to produce the world ' s largest electricity battery at hornsdale power reserve which has increased that state ' s electrical security to the extent in which large blackouts are no longer an event. water the provision of water services is by the government - owned sa water. adelaide ' s water is supplied from its seven reservoirs : mount bold, happy valley, myponga, millbrook, hope valley, little para and south para. the yield from these reservoir catchments can be as little as 10 % of the city ' s requirements ( 90gl per annum ) in drought years and about 60 % in average years. the remaining demand is met by the pumping of water from the river murray. a sea - water desalination plant capable of supplying 100gl per annum was built during the 2001 – 2009 drought ; however, it operated at about 8