world war ii poirot is less active during the cases that take place at the end of his career. beginning with three act tragedy ( 1934 ), christie had perfected during the inter - war years a subgenre of poirot novel in which the detective himself spent much of the first third of the novel on the periphery of events. in novels such as taken at the flood, after the funeral, and hickory dickory dock, he is even less in evidence, frequently passing the duties of main interviewing detective to a subsidiary character. in cat among the pigeons, poirot ' s entrance is so late as to be almost an afterthought. whether this was a reflection of his age or of christie ' s distaste for him, is impossible to assess. crooked house ( 1949 ) and ordeal by innocence ( 1957 ), which could easily have been poirot novels, represent a logical endpoint of the general diminution of his presence in such works. towards the end of his career, it becomes clear that poirot ' s retirement is no longer a convenient fiction. he assumes a genuinely inactive lifestyle during which he concerns himself with studying famous unsolved cases of the past and reading detective novels. he even writes a book about mystery fiction in which he deals sternly with edgar allan poe and wilkie collins. in the absence of a more appropriate puzzle, he solves such inconsequential domestic riddles as the presence of three pieces of orange peel in his umbrella stand. poirot ( and, it is reasonable to suppose, his creator ) becomes increasingly bemused by the vulgarism of the up - and - coming generation ' s young people. in hickory dickory dock, he investigates the strange goings - on in a student hostel, while in third girl ( 1966 ) he is forced into contact with the smart set of chelsea youths. in the growing drug and pop culture of the sixties, he proves himself once again but has become heavily reliant on other investigators ( especially the private investigator, mr. goby ) who provide him with the clues that he can no longer gather for himself. notably, during this time his physical characteristics also change dramatically, and by the time arthur hastings meets poirot again in curtain, he looks very different from his previous appearances, having become thin with age and with obviously dyed hair. death on the itv television series, poirot died in october 1949 from complications of a heart condition at the end of curtain : poirot ' s