yokohama ; two additional locations have since been launched in japan. a large collection of archive material, including scanned screenplays, photos and news articles, has been made available through the akira kurosawa digital archive, a japanese proprietary website maintained by ryukoku university digital archives research center in collaboration with kurosawa production. anaheim university akira kurosawa school of film anaheim university in collaboration with kurosawa production and the kurosawa family established the anaheim university akira kurosawa school of film in spring 2009. the anaheim university akira kurosawa school of film offers an online master of fine arts ( mfa ) in digital filmmaking supported by many of the world ' s greatest filmmakers. kurosawa restaurant group kurosawa was known to be a connoisseur of japanese cuisine and as such, the kurosawa family foundation established the kurosawa restaurant group after his passing in 1999, opening four restaurants in the tokyo area bearing the family name. nagatacho kurosawa specializing in shabu - shabu, teppanyaki kurosawa in tsukiji specializing in teppanyaki, keyaki kurosawa in nishi - azabu specializing in soba, and udon kurosawa specializing in udon in roppongi. all four locations were designed to evoke the meiji era machiya of kurosawa ' s youth and feature memorabilia of kurosawa ' s career. as of 2023, only the tsukiji location is currently still operating. a number of entrepreneurs around the world have also opened restaurants and businesses in honor of kurosawa without any connection to akira or the estate. awards and honors two film awards have also been named in kurosawa ' s honor. the akira kurosawa award for lifetime achievement in film directing is awarded during the san francisco international film festival, while the akira kurosawa award is given during the tokyo international film festival. kurosawa has also been given a number of state honors, including being named as an officer of the french legion d ' honneur in 1984, a knight grand cross of the order of merit of the italian republic in 1986, and was the first filmmaker to receive the order of culture from his native japan in 1985. posthumously, he was recognized with the junior third court rank, which would be the modern equivalent of a noble title under the kazoku aristocracy. documentaries a significant number of short and full - length documentaries concerning the life and work of kurosawa were made both during his artistic heyday and after his death