##ombino, count of holy roman empire. the d ' appiano d ' aragona family receive, in 1509 the title of prince of holy roman empire. alfonso was the object of diplomatic contacts from the empire of ethiopia. in 1428, he received a letter from yeshaq i of ethiopia, borne by two dignitaries, which proposed an alliance against the muslims and would be sealed by a dual marriage that would require alfonso ' s brother peter to bring a group of artisans to ethiopia where he would marry yeshaq ' s daughter. in return, alfonso sent a party of 13 craftsmen, all of whom perished on the way to ethiopia. he later sent a letter to yeshaq ' s successor zara yaqob in 1450, in which he wrote that he would be happy to send artisans to ethiopia if their safe arrival could be guaranteed, but it probably never reached zara yaqob. struggle for naples in 1421 the childless queen joanna ii of naples adopted and named him as heir to the kingdom of naples, and alfonso went to naples. here he hired the condottiero braccio da montone with the task of reducing the resistance of his rival claimant, louis iii of anjou, and his forces led by muzio attendolo sforza. with pope martin v supporting sforza, alfonso switched his religious allegiance to the aragonese antipope benedict xiii. when sforza abandoned louis ' cause, alfonso seemed to have all his problems solved ; however, his relationship with joanna suddenly worsened, and in may 1423 he had her lover, gianni caracciolo, a powerful figure in the neapolitan court, arrested. after an attempt to arrest the queen herself had failed, joan called on sforza who defeated the aragonese militias near castel capuano in naples. alfonso fled to castel nuovo, but the help of a fleet of 22 galleys led by giovanni da cardona improved his situation. sforza and joanna ransomed caracciolo and retreated to the fortress of aversa. here she repudiated her earlier adoption of alfonso and, with the backing of martin v, named louis iii as her heir instead. the duke of milan, filippo maria visconti, joined the anti - aragonese coalition. alfonso requested support from braccio da montone, who was besieging joanna ' s troops in l ' aquila, but had to set sail for spain, where a war had broken out between his brothers and the kingdom