details see herbert bruderer, konrad zuse und die schweiz ). in 1948, turing was appointed reader in the mathematics department at the victoria university of manchester. a year later, he became deputy director of the computing machine laboratory, where he worked on software for one of the earliest stored - program computers — the manchester mark 1. turing wrote the first version of the programmer ' s manual for this machine, and was recruited by ferranti as a consultant in the development of their commercialised machine, the ferranti mark 1. he continued to be paid consultancy fees by ferranti until his death. during this time, he continued to do more abstract work in mathematics, and in " computing machinery and intelligence " ( mind, october 1950 ), turing addressed the problem of artificial intelligence, and proposed an experiment that became known as the turing test, an attempt to define a standard for a machine to be called " intelligent ". the idea was that a computer could be said to " think " if a human interrogator could not tell it apart, through conversation, from a human being. in the paper, turing suggested that rather than building a program to simulate the adult mind, it would be better to produce a simpler one to simulate a child ' s mind and then to subject it to a course of education. a reversed form of the turing test is widely used on the internet ; the captcha test is intended to determine whether the user is a human or a computer. in 1948, turing, working with his former undergraduate colleague, d. g. champernowne, began writing a chess program for a computer that did not yet exist. by 1950, the program was completed and dubbed the turochamp. in 1952, he tried to implement it on a ferranti mark 1, but lacking enough power, the computer was unable to execute the program. instead, turing " ran " the program by flipping through the pages of the algorithm and carrying out its instructions on a chessboard, taking about half an hour per move. the game was recorded. according to garry kasparov, turing ' s program " played a recognizable game of chess ". the program lost to turing ' s colleague alick glennie, although it is said that it won a game against champernowne ' s wife, isabel. his turing test was a significant, characteristically provocative, and lasting contribution to the debate regarding artificial intelligence, which continues after more than half a century. pattern formation and mathematical biology when turing was 39