, in the whole world there is no study so beneficial and so elevating as that of the upanishads. it has been the solace of my life, it will be the solace of my death. as the relationship with his mother fell to a new low, in may 1814 he left weimar and moved to dresden. he continued his philosophical studies, enjoyed the cultural life, socialized with intellectuals and engaged in sexual affairs. his friends in dresden were johann gottlob von quandt, friedrich laun, karl christian friedrich krause and ludwig sigismund ruhl, a young painter who made a romanticized portrait of him in which he improved some of schopenhauer ' s unattractive physical features. his criticisms of local artists occasionally caused public quarrels when he ran into them in public. schopenhauer ' s main occupation during his stay in dresden was his seminal philosophical work, the world as will and representation, which he started writing in 1814 and finished in 1818. he was recommended to the publisher friedrich arnold brockhaus by baron ferdinand von biedenfeld, an acquaintance of his mother. although brockhaus accepted his manuscript, schopenhauer made a poor impression because of his quarrelsome and fussy attitude, as well as very poor sales of the book after it was published in december 1818. in september 1818, while waiting for his book to be published and conveniently escaping an affair with a maid that caused an unwanted pregnancy, schopenhauer left dresden for a year - long vacation in italy. he visited venice, bologna, florence, naples and milan, travelling alone or accompanied by mostly english tourists he met. he spent the winter months in rome, where he accidentally met his acquaintance karl witte and engaged in numerous quarrels with german tourists in the caffe greco, among them johann friedrich bohmer, who also mentioned his insulting remarks and unpleasant character. he enjoyed art, architecture, and ancient ruins, attended plays and operas, and continued his philosophical contemplation and love affairs. one of his affairs supposedly became serious, and for a while he contemplated marriage to a rich italian noblewoman — but, despite his mentioning this several times, no details are known and it may have been schopenhauer exaggerating. he corresponded regularly with his sister adele and became close to her as her relationship with johanna and gerstenbergk also deteriorated. she informed him about their financial troubles as the banking house of a. l. muhl in danzig — in which her mother invested their whole