contain information of interest to the historical student. further evidence for the collaborative and exchange culture in english historical writing in the first half of the twelfth century is provided. the sharing of texts and mutual borrowing that existed between centres of benedictine historical writing at the time has long been recognised - described recently by some scholars as akin to ‘ historical workshops ’ [ 17 ] and alfred ’ s use of texts from worcester, durham and lincoln at various stages of their elaboration and transmission is evidence for continuity in this collaborative culture in english historical writing c. 1150. the handling of geoffrey of monmouth ’ s pseudo - history in the history provides important evidence for its very earliest reception. the author is openly critical of geoffrey ’ s account on occasion. [ 18 ] despite the promise to include only matter which did not exceed the ‘ bounds of credibility ’, through the omission of important galfridian material and by the frequent collation of geoffrey ’ s version of events with that of standard historical authority ( orosius, eutropius, bede ), it is clear that doubts about the veracity of all he was reporting were harboured. it is of interest that, after william of newburgh ’ s more forensic and vigorous attack on the hrb in his historia rerum anglicarum ( c. 1195 ), this early questioning reception appears to have all but vanished in insular historical writing. use of henry of huntingdon ’ s historia anglorum ( ha ) provides additional evidence for that work ’ s important influence in twelfth century english historical writing. the ha appears to have served alfred as a model, used to help plan his own compilation. this is evident in the textual borrowings, thematic structure, language, and absorption of henry ’ s historical ideas which alfred served to recycle. alfred ’ s introductory description of britain, which later was extensively quarried by ranulf higden in the opening book of his polychronicon, - the mappa mundi ( map of the world ) - was for its greater part taken from the descriptive survey with which henry opens the ha. borrowings from the chronicle of john of worcester play an important part in the making of the compilation. the drawn genealogical trees and dynastic accounts of the heptarchic anglo - saxon kingdoms, located in the preliminary section of the worcester chronicle, help shape alfred ’ s understanding of the anglo - saxon past. chapter eight of the history, which narrates the ‘ monarchy of england ’, begins with the rule of king æthels