deterministic or non - deterministic deterministic algorithms solve the problem with exact decision at every step of the algorithm whereas non - deterministic algorithms solve problems via guessing although typical guesses are made more accurate through the use of heuristics. exact or approximate while many algorithms reach an exact solution, approximation algorithms seek an approximation that is closer to the true solution. the approximation can be reached by either using a deterministic or a random strategy. such algorithms have practical value for many hard problems. one of the examples of an approximate algorithm is the knapsack problem, where there is a set of given items. its goal is to pack the knapsack to get the maximum total value. each item has some weight and some value. total weight that can be carried is no more than some fixed number x. so, the solution must consider weights of items as well as their value. quantum algorithm they run on a realistic model of quantum computation. the term is usually used for those algorithms which seem inherently quantum, or use some essential feature of quantum computing such as quantum superposition or quantum entanglement. by design paradigm another way of classifying algorithms is by their design methodology or paradigm. there is a certain number of paradigms, each different from the other. furthermore, each of these categories includes many different types of algorithms. some common paradigms are : brute - force or exhaustive search brute force is a method of problem - solving that involves systematically trying every possible option until the optimal solution is found. this approach can be very time consuming, as it requires going through every possible combination of variables. however, it is often used when other methods are not available or too complex. brute force can be used to solve a variety of problems, including finding the shortest path between two points and cracking passwords. divide and conquer a divide - and - conquer algorithm repeatedly reduces an instance of a problem to one or more smaller instances of the same problem ( usually recursively ) until the instances are small enough to solve easily. one such example of divide and conquer is merge sorting. sorting can be done on each segment of data after dividing data into segments and sorting of entire data can be obtained in the conquer phase by merging the segments. a simpler variant of divide and conquer is called a decrease - and - conquer algorithm, which solves an identical subproblem and uses the solution of this subproblem to solve the bigger problem. divide and conquer divides the problem into multiple subproblems and so the conquer stage