men holding griffins, repeating across the whole fabric. the chasuble from saint - sernin is likewise decorated with figural images, in this case a pair of peacocks repeating in horizontal bands, with vegetal stems separating each pair and small kufic inscriptions running along the bottom. the decorative theme of having a regular grid of roundels containing images of animals and figures, with more abstract motifs filling the spaces in between, has origins traced as far back as persian sasanian textiles. in subsequent periods, starting with the almohads, these roundels with figurative imagery are progressively replaced with more abstract roundels, while epigraphic decoration becomes more prominent than before. calligraphy and manuscript illumination in early islamic manuscripts, kufic was the main script used for religious texts. western or maghrebi kufic evolved from the standard ( or eastern ) kufic style and was marked by the transformation of the low swooping sections of letters from rectangular forms to long semi - circular forms. it is found in 10th century qurans before the almoravid period. almoravid kufic is the variety of maghrebi kufic script that was used as an official display script during the almoravid period. eventually, maghrebi kufic gave rise to a distinctive cursive script known as " maghrebi ", the only cursive script of arabic derived from kufic, which was fully formed by the early 12th century under the almoravids. this style was commonly used in qurans and other religious works from this period onward, but it was rarely ever used in architectural inscriptions. one version of this script during this early period is the andalusi script, which was associated with al - andalus. it was usually finer and denser, and while the loops of letters below the line are semi - circular, the extensions of letters above the line continue to use straight lines that recall its kufic origins. another version of the script is rounder and larger, and is more associated with the maghreb, although it is nonetheless found in andalusi volumes too. the oldest known illuminated quran from the western islamic world ( i. e. the maghreb and al - andalus ) dates from 1090, towards the end of the first taifas period and the beginning of the almoravid domination in al - andalus. it was produced either in the maghreb or al - andalus and is now kept