men ' and androleteirai ( ) ' destroyers of men, murderesses '. amazons are called antianeirai ( ) ' equivalent to men ' and aeschylus used styganor ( ) ' those who loathe all men '. in his work prometheus bound and in the suppliants, aeschylus called the amazons "... τας ανανδρους κρεοβορους αμαζονας " ' the unwed, flesh - devouring amazons '. in the hippolytus tragedy, phaedra calls hippolytus, ' the son of the horse - loving amazon ' ( ). in his dionysiaca, nonnus calls the amazons of dionysus androphonus ( ) ' men slaying '. herodotus stated that in the scythian language, the amazons were called oiorpata, which he explained as being from oior ' man ' and pata ' to slay '. historiography the ancient greeks never had any doubts that the amazons were, or had been, real. not the only people enchanted by warlike women of nomadic cultures, such exciting tales also come from ancient egypt, persia, india, and china. greek heroes of old had encounters with the queens of their martial society and fought them. however, their original home was not exactly known, thought to be in the obscure lands beyond the civilized world. as a result, for centuries scholars believed the amazons to be purely imaginary, although there were various proposals for a historical nucleus of the amazons in greek historiography. some authors preferred comparisons to cultures of asia minor or even minoan crete. the most obvious historical candidates are lycia and scythia and sarmatia in line with the account by herodotus. in his histories ( 5th century bc ) herodotus claims that the sauromatae ( predecessors of the sarmatians ), who ruled the lands between the caspian sea and the black sea, arose from a union of scythians and amazons. herodotus also observed rather unusual customs among the lycians of southwest asia minor. the lycians obviously followed matrilineal rules of descent, virtue, and status. they named themselves along their maternal family line and a child ' s status was determined by the mother ' s reputation. this remarkably high