human condition was central to his concerns, and segal used the old testament as a source for his imagery. this sculpture depicts the dilemma faced by abraham when sarah demanded that he expel hagar and ishmael. in the sculpture, the father ' s tenderness, sarah ' s rage, and hagar ' s resigned acceptance portray a range of human emotions. the sculpture was donated to the miami art museum after the artist ' s death in 2000. christian iconography usually abraham can be identified by the context of the image the meeting with melchizedek, the three visitors, or the sacrifice of isaac. in solo portraits a sword or knife may be used as his attribute, as in this statue by gian maria morlaiter or this painting by lorenzo monaco. he always wears a gray or white beard. as early as the beginning of the 3rd century, christian art followed christian typology in making the sacrifice of isaac a foreshadowing of christ ' s sacrifice on the cross and its memorial in the sacrifice of the mass. see for example this 11th - century christian altar engraved with abraham ' s and other sacrifices taken to prefigure that of christ in the eucharist. some early christian writers interpreted the three visitors as the triune god. thus in santa maria maggiore, rome, a 5th - century mosaic portrays only the visitors against a gold ground and puts semitransparent copies of them in the " heavenly " space above the scene. in eastern orthodox art, the visit is the chief means by which the trinity is pictured ( example ). some images do not include abraham and sarah, like andrei rublev ' s trinity, which shows only the three visitors as beardless youths at a table. literature fear and trembling ( original danish title : frygt og bæven ) is an influential philosophical work by søren kierkegaard, published in 1843 under the pseudonym johannes de silentio ( john the silent ). kierkegaard wanted to understand the anxiety that must have been present in abraham when god asked him to sacrifice his son. w. g. hardy ' s novel father abraham ( 1935 ) tells the fictionalized life story of abraham. in her short story collection sarah and after, lynne reid banks tells the story of abraham and sarah, with an emphasis on sarah ' s view of events. music in 1681, marc - antoine charpentier released a dramatic motet ( oratorio ), sacrificim abrahae h. 402 – 402 a –