singers who had worked with the songwriters through the years ) showcasing not only their abba years, but hits both before and after abba. the concert was a success, and was ultimately released on cd. it later toured scandinavia and even went to beijing in the people ' s republic of china for two concerts. in 2000 abba were reported to have turned down an offer of approximately one billion us dollars to do a reunion tour consisting of 100 concerts. for the semi - final of the eurovision song contest 2004, staged in istanbul 30 years after abba had won the contest in brighton, all four members made cameo appearances in a special comedy video made for the interval act, titled our last video ever. other well - known stars such as rik mayall, cher and iron maiden ' s eddie also made appearances in the video. it was not included in the official dvd release of the 2004 eurovision contest, but was issued as a separate dvd release, retitled the last video at the request of the former abba members. the video was made using puppet models of the members of the band. the video has surpassed 13 million views on youtube as of november 2020. in 2005, all four members of abba appeared at the stockholm premiere of the musical mamma mia!. on 22 october 2005, at the 50th anniversary celebration of the eurovision song contest, " waterloo " was chosen as the best song in the competition ' s history. in the same month, american singer madonna released the single " hung up ", which contains a sample of the keyboard melody from abba ' s 1979 song " gimme! gimme! gimme! ( a man after midnight ) " ; the song was a smash hit, peaking at number one in at least 50 countries. on 4 july 2008, all four abba members were reunited at the swedish premiere of the film mamma mia!. it was only the second time all of them had appeared together in public since 1986. during the appearance, they re - emphasised that they intended never to officially reunite, citing the opinion of robert plant that the re - formed led zeppelin was more like a cover band of itself than the original band. ulvaeus stated that he wanted the band to be remembered as they were during the peak years of their success. gold returned to number - one in the uk album charts for the fifth time on 3 august 2008. on 14 august 2008, the mamma mia! the movie film soundtrack went to number - one on the us billboard charts, abba ' s first us chart