48 educational institutions in 13 countries had some curriculum in anthropology. none of the 75 faculty members were under a department named anthropology. 20th and 21st centuries anthropology studies as a specialized field of academic study, however much developed through the end of the 19th century, then rapidly expanded beginning in the early 20th century to the point where many of the world ' s higher educational institutions typically included anthropology departments, with many thousands having come into existence. anthropology has diversified from a few major subdivisions to dozens more. practical anthropology, the use of anthropological knowledge and technique to solve specific problems, has arrived ; for example, the presence of buried victims might stimulate the use of a forensic archaeologist to recreate the final scene. the organization has reached a global level. for example, the world council of anthropological associations ( wcaa ), " a network of national, regional and international associations that aims to promote worldwide communication and cooperation in anthropology ", currently contains members from about three dozen nations. since the work of franz boas and bronisław malinowski in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, social anthropology in great britain and cultural anthropology in the us have been distinguished from other social sciences by their emphasis on cross - cultural comparisons, long - term in - depth examination of context, and the importance they place on participant - observation or experiential immersion in the area of research. cultural anthropology, in particular, has emphasized cultural relativism, holism, and the use of findings to frame cultural critiques. this has been particularly prominent in the united states, from boas ' arguments against 19th - century racial ideology, through margaret mead ' s advocacy for gender equality and sexual liberation, to current criticisms of post - colonial oppression and promotion of multiculturalism. ethnography is one of its primary research designs as well as the text that is generated from anthropological fieldwork. in great britain and the commonwealth countries, the british tradition of social anthropology tends to dominate. in the united states, anthropology has traditionally been divided into the four field approach developed by franz boas in the early 20th century : biological or physical anthropology ; social, cultural, or sociocultural anthropology ; and archaeological anthropology ; plus linguistic anthropology. these fields frequently overlap but tend to use different methodologies and techniques. european countries with overseas colonies tended to practice more ethnology ( a term coined and defined by adam f. kollar in 1783 ). it is sometimes referred to as sociocultural anthropology in the parts of the world that were influenced by the european tradition. fields anthropology is a global discipline involving humanities, social