##8 ). it was then recaptured by the byzantine emperor heraclius ( 629 – 639 ), and was finally captured by muslim rashidun army in 639 – 641, ending byzantine rule. government and economy administration and commerce the pharaoh was the absolute monarch of the country and, at least in theory, wielded complete control of the land and its resources. the king was the supreme military commander and head of the government, who relied on a bureaucracy of officials to manage his affairs. in charge of the administration was his second in command, the vizier, who acted as the king ' s representative and coordinated land surveys, the treasury, building projects, the legal system, and the archives. at a regional level, the country was divided into as many as 42 administrative regions called nomes each governed by a nomarch, who was accountable to the vizier for his jurisdiction. the temples formed the backbone of the economy. not only were they places of worship, but were also responsible for collecting and storing the kingdom ' s wealth in a system of granaries and treasuries administered by overseers, who redistributed grain and goods. much of the economy was centrally organized and strictly controlled. although the ancient egyptians did not use coinage until the late period, they did use a type of money - barter system, with standard sacks of grain and the deben, a weight of roughly of copper or silver, forming a common denominator. workers were paid in grain ; a simple laborer might earn sacks ( 200 kg or 400 lb ) of grain per month, while a foreman might earn sacks ( 250 kg or 550 lb ). prices were fixed across the country and recorded in lists to facilitate trading ; for example a shirt cost five copper deben, while a cow cost 140deben. grain could be traded for other goods, according to the fixed price list. during the fifth centurybc coined money was introduced into egypt from abroad. at first the coins were used as standardized pieces of precious metal rather than true money, but in the following centuries international traders came to rely on coinage. social status egyptian society was highly stratified, and social status was expressly displayed. farmers made up the bulk of the population, but agricultural produce was owned directly by the state, temple, or noble family that owned the land. farmers were also subject to a labor tax and were required to work on irrigation or construction projects in a corvee system. artists and craftsmen were of higher status than farmers,