was represented in the aethiopis as living after his death in the island of leuke at the mouth of the river danube. another version of achilles ' death is that he fell deeply in love with one of the trojan princesses, polyxena. achilles asks priam for polyxena ' s hand in marriage. priam is willing because it would mean the end of the war and an alliance with the world ' s greatest warrior. but while priam is overseeing the private marriage of polyxena and achilles, paris, who would have to give up helen if achilles married his sister, hides in the bushes and shoots achilles with a divine arrow, killing him. according to some accounts, he had married medea in life, so that after both their deaths they were united in the elysian fields of hades – as hera promised thetis in apollonius ' argonautica ( 3rd century bc ). fate of achilles ' armour achilles ' armour was the object of a feud between odysseus and telamonian ajax ( ajax the greater ). they competed for it by giving speeches on why they were the bravest after achilles to their trojan prisoners, who, after considering both men ' s presentations, decided odysseus was more deserving of the armour. furious, ajax cursed odysseus, which earned him the ire of athena, who temporarily made ajax so mad with grief and anguish that he began killing sheep, thinking them his comrades. after a while, when athena lifted his madness and ajax realized that he had actually been killing sheep, he was so ashamed that he committed suicide. odysseus eventually gave the armour to neoptolemus, the son of achilles. when odysseus encounters the shade of ajax much later in the house of hades ( odyssey 11. 543 – 566 ), ajax is still so angry about the outcome of the competition that he refuses to speak to odysseus. the armour they fought for was made by hephaestus and thus much stronger and more beautiful than any armour a mortal could craft. thetis had the gear made for achilles because his first set was worn by patroclus when he went to battle and taken by hector when he killed patroclus. the shield of achilles was also made by the fire god. his legendary spear was given to him by his mentor chiron before he participated in the trojan war. it was called the pelian spear, which allegedly no other man could wield. a relic claimed