kimmel acknowledged how long the ceremony had become, by announcing that he would give a brand - new jet ski to whoever gave the shortest speech of the night ( a reward won by mark bridges when accepting his best costume design award for phantom thread. the wall street journal analyzed the average minutes spent across the 2014 – 2018 telecasts as follows : 14 on song performances ; 25 on the hosts ' speeches ; 38 on prerecorded clips ; and 78 on the awards themselves, broken into 24 on the introduction and announcement, 24 on winners walking to the stage, and 30 on their acceptance speeches. although still dominant in ratings, the viewership of the academy awards has steadily dropped ; the 88th academy awards were the lowest - rated in the past eight years ( although with increases in male and 18 – 49 viewership ), while the show itself also faced mixed reception. following the show, variety reported that abc was, in negotiating an extension to its contract to broadcast the oscars, seeking to have more creative control over the broadcast itself. currently and nominally, ampas is responsible for most aspects of the telecast, including the choice of production staff and hosting, although abc is allowed to have some input on their decisions. in august 2016, ampas extended its contract with abc through 2028 : the contract neither contains any notable changes nor gives abc any further creative control over the telecast. tv ratings historically, the telecast ' s viewership is higher when box - office hits are favored to win the best picture award. more than 57. 25 million viewers tuned to the telecast for the 70th academy awards in 1998, the year of titanic, which generated a box office haul during its initial 1997 – 98 run of us $ 600. 8 million in the us, a box office record that would remain unsurpassed for years. the 76th academy awards ceremony, in which the lord of the rings : the return of the king ( pre - telecast box office earnings of us $ 368 million ) received 11 awards including best picture, drew 43. 56 million viewers. the most watched ceremony based on nielsen ratings to date, however, was the 42nd academy awards ( best picture midnight cowboy ) which drew a 43. 4 % household rating on april 7, 1970. hoping to reinvigorate the pre - show and ratings, the 2023 oscars organizers hired members of the met gala creative team by contrast, ceremonies honoring films that have not performed well at the box office tend to show weaker ratings, despite how much critical acclaim those films have received. the 78