his first svensktoppen entry, " sagan om lilla sofie " ( " the tale of little sophie " ) in 1968. bjorn ulvaeus ( born 25 april 1945 in gothenburg, sweden ) also began his musical career at the age of 18 ( as a singer and guitarist ), when he fronted the hootenanny singers, a popular swedish folk – skiffle group. ulvaeus started writing english - language songs for his group and even had a brief solo career alongside. the hootenanny singers and the hep stars sometimes crossed paths while touring. in june 1966, ulvaeus and andersson decided to write a song together. their first attempt was " isn ' t it easy to say ", a song that was later recorded by the hep stars. stig anderson was the manager of the hootenanny singers and founder of the polar music label. he saw potential in the collaboration, and encouraged them to write more. the two also began playing occasionally with the other ' s bands on stage and on record, although it was not until 1969 that the pair wrote and produced some of their first real hits together : " ljuva sextital " ( " sweet sixties " ), recorded by brita borg, and the hep stars ' 1969 hit " speleman " ( " fiddler " ). andersson wrote and submitted the song " hej, clown " for melodifestivalen 1969, the national festival to select the swedish entry to the eurovision song contest. the song tied for first place, but re - voting relegated andersson ' s song to second place. on that occasion andersson briefly met his future spouse, singer anni - frid lyngstad, who also participated in the contest. a month later, the two had become a couple. as their respective bands began to break up during 1969, andersson and ulvaeus teamed up and recorded their first album together in 1970, called lycka ( " happiness " ), which included original songs sung by both men. their partners were often present in the recording studio, and sometimes added backing vocals ; faltskog even co - wrote a song with the two. ulvaeus still occasionally recorded and performed with the hootenanny singers until the middle of 1974, and andersson took part in producing their records. anni - frid " frida " lyngstad ( born 15 november 1945 in bjørkasen in ballangen, norway ) sang from the age of 13 with various