the samaritan hebrew script is directly descended from proto - hebrew / phoenician script, which was in turn the ancestor of the aramaic alphabet. the aramaic alphabet was also an ancestor to the nabataean alphabet, which in turn had the arabic alphabet as a descendant. history the earliest inscriptions in the aramaic language use the phoenician alphabet. over time, the alphabet developed into the aramaic alphabet by the 8th century bc. it was used to write the aramaic languages spoken by ancient aramean pre - christian tribes throughout the fertile crescent. it was also adopted by other peoples as their own alphabet when empires and their subjects underwent linguistic aramaization during a language shift for governing purposes — a precursor to arabization centuries later — including among assyrians who permanently replaced their akkadian language and its cuneiform script with aramaic and its script, and among jews ( but not samaritans ), who adopted the aramaic language as their vernacular and started using the aramaic alphabet even for writing hebrew, displacing the former paleo - hebrew alphabet. ( the modern hebrew alphabet derives from the aramaic alphabet, in contrast to the modern samaritan alphabet, which derives from paleo - hebrew ). achaemenid empire ( the first persian empire ) around 500 bc, following the achaemenid conquest of mesopotamia under darius i, old aramaic was adopted by the persians as the " vehicle for written communication between the different regions of the vast persian empire with its different peoples and languages. the use of a single official language, which modern scholarship has dubbed as official aramaic, imperial aramaic or achaemenid aramaic, can be assumed to have greatly contributed to the astonishing success of the achaemenid persians in holding their far - flung empire together for as long as they did. " imperial aramaic was highly standardised ; its orthography was based more on historical roots than any spoken dialect and was influenced by old persian. the aramaic glyph forms of the period are often divided into two main styles, the " lapidary " form, usually inscribed on hard surfaces like stone monuments, and a cursive form whose lapidary form tended to be more conservative by remaining more visually similar to phoenician and early aramaic. both were in use through the achaemenid persian period, but the cursive form steadily gained ground over the lapidary, which had largely disappeared by the 3rd century bc. for centuries after the fall of the achaemenid empire in 331 bc, imperial aramaic