the world. a rational agent has goals or preferences and takes actions to make them happen. in automated planning, the agent has a specific goal. in automated decision making, the agent has preferences – there are some situations it would prefer to be in, and some situations it is trying to avoid. the decision making agent assigns a number to each situation ( called the " utility " ) that measures how much the agent prefers it. for each possible action, it can calculate the " expected utility " : the utility of all possible outcomes of the action, weighted by the probability that the outcome will occur. it can then choose the action with the maximum expected utility. in classical planning, the agent knows exactly what the effect of any action will be. in most real - world problems, however, the agent may not be certain about the situation they are in ( it is " unknown " or " unobservable " ) and it may not know for certain what will happen after each possible action ( it is not " deterministic " ). it must choose an action by making a probabilistic guess and then reassess the situation to see if the action worked. in some problems, the agent ' s preferences may be uncertain, especially if there are other agents or humans involved. these can be learned ( e. g., with inverse reinforcement learning ) or the agent can seek information to improve its preferences. information value theory can be used to weigh the value of exploratory or experimental actions. the space of possible future actions and situations is typically intractably large, so the agents must take actions and evaluate situations while being uncertain what the outcome will be. a markov decision process has a transition model that describes the probability that a particular action will change the state in a particular way, and a reward function that supplies the utility of each state and the cost of each action. a policy associates a decision with each possible state. the policy could be calculated ( e. g. by iteration ), be heuristic, or it can be learned. game theory describes rational behavior of multiple interacting agents, and is used in ai programs that make decisions that involve other agents. learning machine learning is the study of programs that can improve their performance on a given task automatically. it has been a part of ai from the beginning. there are several kinds of machine learning. unsupervised learning analyzes a stream of data and finds patterns and makes predictions without any other guidance. supervised learning requires a human to label the input data first,