can be seen as standing wave interference patterns between the two counter rotating, ring resonant traveling wave and modes ; the projection of the orbital onto the xy plane has a resonant wavelength around the circumference. although rarely shown, the traveling wave solutions can be seen as rotating banded tori ; the bands represent phase information. for each there are two standing wave solutions and. if, the orbital is vertical, counter rotating information is unknown, and the orbital is z - axis symmetric. if there are no counter rotating modes. there are only radial modes and the shape is spherically symmetric. for any given, the smaller is, the more radial nodes there are. for any given, the smaller is, the fewer radial nodes there are ( zero for whichever first has that orbital ). loosely speaking, is energy, is analogous to eccentricity, and is orientation. in the classical case, a ring resonant traveling wave, for example in a circular transmission line, unless actively forced, spontaneously decays into a ring resonant standing wave because reflections build up over time at even the smallest imperfection or discontinuity. in general, determines size and energy of the orbital for a given nucleus ; as increases, the size of the orbital increases. the higher nuclear charge of heavier elements causes their orbitals to contract by comparison to lighter ones, so that the size of the atom remains very roughly constant, even as the number of electrons increases. also in general terms, determines an orbital ' s shape, and its orientation. however, since some orbitals are described by equations in complex numbers, the shape sometimes depends on also. together, the whole set of orbitals for a given and fill space as symmetrically as possible, though with increasingly complex sets of lobes and nodes. the single s orbitals ( ) are shaped like spheres. for it is roughly a solid ball ( densest at center and fades outward exponentially ), but for, each single s orbital is made of spherically symmetric surfaces which are nested shells ( i. e., the " wave - structure " is radial, following a sinusoidal radial component as well ). see illustration of a cross - section of these nested shells, at right. the s orbitals for all numbers are the only orbitals with an anti - node ( a region of high wave function density ) at the center of the nucleus. all other orbitals ( p, d, f, etc. ) have angular momentum, and thus avoid the nucleus ( having a