well, including judaism, islam, hinduism, buddhism, sikhism, the bahaʼi faith, and unitarian universalism. jews have been present in what is now alabama since 1763, during the colonial era of mobile, when sephardic jews immigrated from london. the oldest jewish congregation in the state is congregation sha ' arai shomayim in mobile. it was formally recognized by the state legislature on january 25, 1844. later immigrants in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries tended to be ashkenazi jews from eastern europe. jewish denominations in the state include two orthodox, four conservative, ten reform, and one humanistic synagogue. muslims have been increasing in alabama, with 31 mosques built by 2011, many by african - american converts. several hindu temples and cultural centers in the state have been founded by indian immigrants and their descendants, the best - known being the shri swaminarayan mandir in birmingham, the hindu temple and cultural center of birmingham in pelham, the hindu cultural center of north alabama in capshaw, and the hindu mandir and cultural center in tuscaloosa. there are six dharma centers and organizations for theravada buddhists. most monastic buddhist temples are concentrated in southern mobile county, near bayou la batre. this area has attracted an influx of refugees from cambodia, laos, and vietnam during the 1970s and thereafter. the four temples within a ten - mile radius of bayou la batre, include chua chanh giac, wat buddharaksa, and wat lao phoutthavihan. the first community of adherents of the bahaʼi faith in alabama was founded in 1896 by paul k. dealy, who moved from chicago to fairhope. bahaʼi centers in alabama exist in birmingham, huntsville, and florence. health in 2018, life expectancy in alabama was 75. 1 years, below the national average of 78. 7 years and is the third lowest life expectancy in the country. factors that can cause lower life expectancy are maternal mortality, suicide, and gun crimes. a centers for disease control and prevention study in 2008 showed that obesity in alabama is a problem, with most counties having more than 29 % of adults obese, except for ten which had a rate between 26 % and 29 %. residents of the state, along with those in five other states, were least likely in the nation to be physically active during leisure time. alabama, and the southeastern u. s. in general, has one of the highest incidences of adult onset diabetes in the country, exceeding 10 % of adults