in the conflict, the situation in algeria became a point of international concern, most notably during the crisis surrounding air france flight 8969, a hijacking perpetrated by the armed islamic group. the armed islamic group declared a ceasefire in october 1997. algeria held elections in 1999, considered biased by international observers and most opposition groups which were won by president abdelaziz bouteflika. he worked to restore political stability to the country and announced a " civil concord " initiative, approved in a referendum, under which many political prisoners were pardoned, and several thousand members of armed groups were granted exemption from prosecution under a limited amnesty, in force until 13 january 2000. the ais disbanded and levels of insurgent violence fell rapidly. the groupe salafiste pour la predication et le combat ( gspc ), a splinter group of the armed islamic group, continued a terrorist campaign against the government. bouteflika was re - elected in the april 2004 presidential election after campaigning on a programme of national reconciliation. the programme comprised economic, institutional, political and social reform to modernise the country, raise living standards, and tackle the causes of alienation. it also included a second amnesty initiative, the charter for peace and national reconciliation, which was approved in a referendum in september 2005. it offered amnesty to most guerrillas and government security forces. in november 2008, the algerian constitution was amended following a vote in parliament, removing the two - term limit on presidential incumbents. this change enabled bouteflika to stand for re - election in the 2009 presidential elections, and he was re - elected in april 2009. during his election campaign and following his re - election, bouteflika promised to extend the programme of national reconciliation and a $ 150 - billion spending programme to create three million new jobs, the construction of one million new housing units, and to continue public sector and infrastructure modernisation programmes. a continuing series of protests throughout the country started on 28 december 2010, inspired by similar protests across the middle east and north africa. on 24 february 2011, the government lifted algeria ' s 19 - year - old state of emergency. the government enacted legislation dealing with political parties, the electoral code, and the representation of women in elected bodies. in april 2011, bouteflika promised further constitutional and political reform. however, elections are routinely criticised by opposition groups as unfair and international human rights groups say that media censorship and harassment of political opponents continue. on 2 april 2019, bouteflika resigned from the presidency after mass protests against his candidacy for a