numerous books on these concepts, all set in a distinctive typography. he later propounded his own philosophy, lawsonomy, and the lawsonian religion. he also developed, during the great depression, the populist economic theory of " direct credits ", according to which banks are the cause of all economic woes, the oppressors of both capital and labour. lawson believed that the government should replace banks as the provider of loans to business and workers. he predicted the worldwide adoption of lawsonian principles once " everybody understands this subject ". his rallies and lectures attracted thousands of listeners in the early 1930s, mainly in the upper midwest, but by the late 1930s the crowds had dwindled. his claims about his own greatness became increasingly hyperbolic. the lawsonomy trilogy, considered by lawson himself to be his intellectual masterpiece, is full of such self - referential statements as " about every two thousand years a new teacher with advanced intellectual equipment appears upon earth to lead the people a step or two nearer the one god of everybody ". in 1943, he founded the humanity benefactor foundation and university of lawsonomy in des moines, on the site of des moines university, to spread his teachings and offer the degree of " knowledgian ", but after various irs and other investigations it was closed and finally sold in 1954, the year of lawson ' s death. his financial arrangements remain mysterious to this day, and in later years he seems to have owned little property, moving from city to city as a guest of his farflung acolytes. in 1952, he was brought before a united states senate investigative committee on allegations that his organization had bought war surplus machines and then sold them for a profit, despite claiming non - profit status. his attempt to explain lawsonomy to the senators ended in mutual frustration and bafflement. a farm near racine, wisconsin, is the only remaining university facility, although a tiny handful of churches may yet survive in places such as wichita, kansas. the large sign, formerly reading " university of lawsonomy ", was a familiar landmark for motorists in the region for many years and was visible from interstate 94 about north of the illinois state line, on the east side of the highway. a storm in the spring of 2009 destroyed the sign, although the supporting posts are still visible. on the northbound side of interstate 94, a sign on the roof of the building nearest the freeway said " study natural law " until being shingled over in october 2014. in 2018, the town of mount