vodafone and telekom albania are the leading telecommunications service providers in the country. tourism is recognised as an industry of national importance and has been steadily increasing since the beginnings of the 21st century. it directly accounted for 8. 4 % of gdp in 2016 though including indirect contributions pushes the proportion to 26 %. in the same year, the country received approximately 4. 74 million visitors mostly from across europe and the united states as well. the increase of foreign visitors has been dramatic. albania had only 500, 000 visitors in 2005, while in 2012 had an estimated 4. 2 million, an increase of 740 percent in only 7 years. in 2015, tourism in summer increased by 25 percent in contrast the previous year according to the country ' s tourism agency. in 2011, lonely planet named as a top travel destination, while the new york times placed albania as number 4 global touristic destination in 2014. the bulk of the tourist industry is concentrated along the adriatic and ionian sea in the west of the country. however, the albanian riviera in the southwest has the most scenic and pristine beaches ; its coastline has a considerable length of. the coast has a particular character because it is rich in varieties of virgin beaches, capes, coves, covered bays, lagoons, small gravel beaches, sea caves and many landforms. some parts of this seaside are very clean ecologically, which represent in this prospective unexplored areas, which are very rare within the mediterranean. other attractions include the mountainous areas such as the albanian alps, ceraunian mountains and korab mountains but also the historical cities of berat, durres, gjirokaster, sarande, shkoder and korce. transport transportation in albania is managed within the functions of the ministry of infrastructure and energy and entities such as the albanian road authority ( arrsh ), responsible for the construction and maintenance of the highways and motorways in albania, as well as the albanian aviation authority ( aac ), with the responsibility of coordinating civil aviation and airports in the country. the international airport of tirana is the premier air gateway to the country, and is also the principal hub for albania ' s national flag carrier airline, air albania. the airport carried more than 3. 3 million passengers in 2019 with connections to many destinations in other countries around europe, africa and asia. the country plans to progressively increase the number of airports especially in the south with possible locations in sarande, gjirokaster and vlore. the highways and motorways