from him a modified form of the teachings of paul of samosata. arius taught that god the father and the son of god did not always exist together eternally. condemnation by the council of nicaea emperor constantine the great summoned the first council of nicaea, which defined the dogmatic fundaments of christianity ; these definitions served to rebut the questions posed by arians. all the bishops who were there were in agreement with the major theological points of the proto - orthodoxy, since at that time all other forms of christianity " had by this time already been displaced, suppressed, reformed, or destroyed ". although the proto - orthodox won the previous disputes, due to the more accurate defining of orthodoxy, they were vanquished with their own weapons, ultimately being declared heretics, not because they would have fought against ideas regarded as theologically correct, but because their positions lacked the accuracy and refinement needed by the fusion of several contradictory theses accepted at the same time by later orthodox theologians. according to bart ehrman that is why the trinity is a " paradoxical affirmation ". of the roughly 300 bishops in attendance at the council of nicaea, two bishops did not sign the nicene creed that condemned arianism. constantine the great also ordered a penalty of death for those who refused to surrender the arian writings : ten years after the council of nicaea, constantine the great, who was himself later baptized by the arian bishop eusebius of nicomedia in 337 ad, convened another gathering of church leaders at the regional first synod of tyre in 335 ( attended by 310 bishops ), to address various charges mounted against athanasius by his detractors, such as " murder, illegal taxation, sorcery, and treason ", following his refusal to readmit arius into fellowship. athanasius was exiled to trier ( in modern germany ) following his conviction at tyre of conspiracy, and arius was, effectively, exonerated. athanasius eventually returned to alexandria in 346, after the deaths of both arius and constantine. though arianism had spread, athanasius and other nicene christian church leaders crusaded against arian theology, and arius was anathemised and condemned as a heretic once more at the ecumenical first council of constantinople of 381 ( attended by 150 bishops ). the roman emperors constantius ii ( 337 – 361 ) and valens ( 364 – 378 ) were arians or semi - arians, as was the first king