from films and vice versa. some of the original content produced for the screen can be used and marketed in other media. stories and images can easily be adapted into children ' s books and other printed media. songs and music have appeared on records and as streaming media. while very many animation companies commercially exploit their creations outside moving image media, the walt disney company is the best known and most extreme example. since first being licensed for a children ' s writing tablet in 1929, their mickey mouse mascot has been depicted on an enormous amount of products, as have many other disney characters. this may have influenced some pejorative use of mickey ' s name, but licensed disney products sell well, and the so - called disneyana has many avid collectors, and even a dedicated disneyana fan club ( since 1984 ). disneyland opened in 1955 and features many attractions that were based on disney ' s cartoon characters. its enormous success spawned several other disney theme parks and resorts. disney ' s earnings from the theme parks have relatively often been higher than those from their movies. criticism criticism of animation has been common in media and cinema since its inception. with its popularity, a large amount of criticism has arisen, especially animated feature - length films. criticisms regarding cultural representation and psychological effects on children have been raised around the animation industry, which some claim has remained politically unchanged and stagnant since its inception into mainstream culture. awards as with any other form of media, animation has instituted awards for excellence in the field. many are part of general or regional film award programs, like the china ' s golden rooster award for best animation ( since 1981 ). awards programs dedicated to animation, with many categories, include asifa - hollywood ' s annie awards, the emile awards in europe and the anima mundi awards in brazil. academy awards apart from academy awards for best animated short film ( since 1932 ) and best animated feature ( since 2002 ), animated movies have been nominated and rewarded in other categories, relatively often for best original song and best original score. beauty and the beast was the first animated film nominated for best picture, in 1991. up ( 2009 ) and toy story 3 ( 2010 ) also received best picture nominations, after the academy expanded the number of nominees from five to ten. production the creation of non - trivial animation works ( i. e., longer than a few seconds ) has developed as a form of filmmaking, with certain unique aspects. traits common to both live - action and animated feature - length films are labor intensity and high production costs. the