given her own room. she later said her years at the home " were the happiest years " of her life ; many of the incidents in her novel little women ( 1868 ) are based on this period. alcott renovated the property, moving a barn and painting the home a rusty olive color, as well as tending to over six acres of land. on may 23, 1845, abby may was granted a sum from her father ' s estate which was put into a trust fund, granting minor financial security. that summer, bronson alcott let henry david thoreau borrow his ax to prepare his home at walden pond. the alcotts hosted a steady stream of visitors at the hillside, including fugitive slaves, which they hosted in secret as a station of the underground railroad. alcott ' s opposition to slavery also fueled his opposition to the mexican – american war which began in 1846. he considered the war a blatant attempt to extend slavery and asked if the country was made up of " a people bent on conquest, on getting the golden treasures of mexico into our hands, and of subjugating foreign peoples? " in 1848, abby may insisted they leave concord, which she called " cold, heartless, brainless, soulless ". the alcott family put the hillside up for rent and moved to boston. there, next door to peabody ' s book store on west street, bronson alcott hosted a series based on the " conversations " model by margaret fuller called " a course on the conversations on man — his history, resources, and expectations ". participants, both men and women, were charged three dollars to attend or five dollars for all seven lectures. in march 1853, alcott was invited to teach fifteen students at harvard divinity school in an extracurricular, non - credit course. alcott and his family moved back to concord after 1857, where he and his family lived in the orchard house until 1877. in 1860, alcott was named superintendent of concord schools. civil war years and beyond alcott voted in a presidential election for the first time in 1860. in his journal for november 6, 1860, he wrote : " at town house, and cast my vote for lincoln and the republican candidates generally — the first vote i ever cast for a president and state officers. " alcott was an abolitionist and a friend of the more radical william lloyd garrison. he had attended a rally led by wendell phillips on behalf of 17 - year - old thomas sims, a fugitive slave on trial in boston. alcott was