of moses, took his censer and stood between the living and the dead until the plague abated ( ), atoning in the process. to emphasize the validity of the levites ' claim to the offerings and tithes of the israelites, moses collected a rod from the leaders of each tribe in israel and laid the twelve rods overnight in the tent of meeting. the next morning, aaron ' s rod was found to have budded and blossomed and produced ripe almonds. the following chapter then details the distinction between aaron ' s family and the rest of the levites : while all the levites ( and only levites ) were devoted to the care of the sanctuary, charge of its interior and the altar was committed to the aaronites alone. death aaron, like moses, was not permitted to enter canaan with the israelites when moses brought water out of a rock to quench the people ' s thirst. although they had been commanded to speak to the rock, moses struck it with the staff twice, which was construed as displaying a lack of deference to the. there are two accounts of the death of aaron in the torah. numbers says that soon after the incident at meribah, aaron with his son eleazar and moses ascended mount hor. there moses stripped aaron of his priestly garments and transferred them to eleazar. aaron died on the summit of the mountain, and the people mourned him for thirty days. the other account is found in deuteronomy 10 : 6, where aaron died at moserah and was buried. there is a significant amount of travel between these two points, as the itinerary in numbers 33 : 31 – 37 records seven stages between moseroth ( mosera ) and mount hor. aaron died on the 1st of av and was 123 at the time of his death. descendants aaron married elisheba, daughter of amminadab and sister of nahshon of the tribe of judah. the sons of aaron were nadab, abihu, eleazar and itamar ; only the latter two had progeny. a descendant of aaron is an aaronite, or kohen, meaning priest. any non - aaronic levite — i. e., descended from levi but not from aaron — assisted the levitical priests of the family of aaron in the care of the tabernacle ; later of the temple. the gospel of luke records that both zechariah and elizabeth and therefore their son