head of three hundred volunteer horsemen and some mercenaries. at cynoscephalae, the thebans defeated alexander, but pelopidas was killed. this was closely followed by another theban victory under malcites and diogiton. alexander was then forced to restore the conquered towns to the thessalians, confine himself to pherae, join the boeotian league, and become a dependent ally of thebes. if the death of epaminondas in 362 freed athens from fear of thebes, it appears at the same time to have exposed it to further aggression from alexander, who made a piratical raid on tinos and other cities of the cyclades, plundering them, and making slaves of the inhabitants. he also besieged peparethus, and " even landed troops in attica itself, and seized the port of panormus, a little eastward of sounion. " the athenian admiral leosthenes defeated alexander and managed to relieve peparethus, but alexander escaped from being blockaded in panormus, took several attic triremes, and plundered the piraeus. death the murder of alexander is assigned by diodorus to 357 / 356. plutarch gives a detailed account of it, with a lively picture of the palace. guards watched throughout the night, except at alexander ' s bedchamber, which was at the top of a ladder with a ferocious chained dog guarding the door. thebe, alexander ' s wife and cousin ( or half - sister, as the daughter of jason of pherae ), concealed her three brothers ( tisiphonus, lycophron and peitholaus ) in the house during the day, had the dog removed when alexander had gone to rest, and, having covered the steps of the ladder with wool, brought up the young men to her husband ' s chamber. though she had taken away alexander ' s sword, they feared to set about the deed until she threatened to wake him. her brothers then entered and killed alexander. his body was cast into the streets, and exposed to every indignity. of thebe ' s motive for the murder different accounts are given. plutarch states it to have been fear of her husband, together with hatred of alexander ' s cruel and brutal character, and ascribes these feelings principally to the representations of pelopidas, when she visited him in his prison. in cicero the deed is ascribed to