established by boris spassky in 1952. career young master karpov finished first in his first international tournament, in trinec, several months later, ahead of viktor kupreichik. in 1967, he won the annual niemeyer tournament in groningen. karpov won a gold medal for academic excellence in high school, and entered moscow state university in 1968 to study mathematics. he later transferred to leningrad state university, eventually graduating from there in economics. one reason for the transfer was to be closer to his coach, grandmaster semyon furman, who lived in leningrad. in his writings, karpov credits furman as a major influence on his development as a world - class player. in 1969, karpov became the first soviet player since spassky ( 1955 ) to win the world junior championship, scoring an undefeated 10 / 11 in the final a group at stockholm. this victory earned him the international master title. in 1970, karpov tied for fourth and fifth places with pal benko at an international tournament in caracas, venezuela, and earned the international grandmaster title. fide awarded him the title during its 41st congress, held during the chess olympiad in siegen, west germany in september 1970. grandmaster karpov won the 1971 alekhine memorial tournament in moscow ( jointly with leonid stein ), ahead of a star - studded field, for his first significant adult victory. his elo rating shot from 2540 in 1971 to 2660 in 1973, during which he shared second place in the 1973 soviet championship, one point behind spassky, and qualified for the leningrad interzonal. candidate karpov ' s world junior championship qualified him for one of the two interzonals, a stage in the 1975 world championship cycle to choose the challenger to play world champion bobby fischer. he finished equal first in the leningrad interzonal, qualifying for the 1974 candidates matches. karpov defeated lev polugaevsky by the score of + 3 = 5 in the first candidates ' match, earning the right to face former champion boris spassky in the semifinal round. karpov was on record saying that he believed spassky would easily beat him and win the candidates ' cycle to face fischer, and that he ( karpov ) would win the following candidates ' cycle in 1977. spassky won the first game as black in good style, but tenacious, aggressive play from karpov secured him overall victory by + 4−1 = 6. the candidates ' final was played in moscow