aquaculture ( less commonly spelled aquiculture ), also known as aquafarming, is the controlled cultivation ( " farming " ) of aquatic organisms such as fish, crustaceans, mollusks, algae and other organisms of value such as aquatic plants ( e. g. lotus ). aquaculture involves cultivating freshwater, brackish water and saltwater populations under controlled or semi - natural conditions, and can be contrasted with commercial fishing, which is the harvesting of wild fish. mariculture, commonly known as marine farming, refers specifically to aquaculture practiced in seawater habitats and lagoons, as opposed to freshwater aquaculture. pisciculture is a type of aquaculture that consists of fish farming to obtain fish products as food. aquaculture can also be defined as the breeding, growing, and harvesting of fish and other aquatic plants, also known as farming in water. it is an environmental source of food and commercial product which help to improve healthier habitats and used to reconstruct population of endangered aquatic species. technology has increased the growth of fish in coastal marine waters and open oceans due to the increased demand for seafood. aquaculture can be conducted in completely artificial facilities built on land ( onshore aquaculture ), as in the case of fish tank, ponds, aquaponics or raceways, where the living conditions rely on human control such as water quality ( oxygen ), feed, temperature. alternatively, they can be conducted on well - sheltered shallow waters nearshore of a body of water ( inshore aquaculture ), where the cultivated species are subjected to a relatively more naturalistic environments ; or on fenced / enclosed sections of open water away from the shore ( offshore aquaculture ), where the species are either cultured in cages, racks or bags, and are exposed to more diverse natural conditions such as water currents ( such as ocean currents ), diel vertical migration and nutrient cycles. according to the food and agriculture organization ( fao ), aquaculture " is understood to mean the farming of aquatic organisms including fish, molluscs, crustaceans and aquatic plants. farming implies some form of intervention in the rearing process to enhance production, such as regular stocking, feeding, protection from predators, etc. farming also implies individual or corporate ownership of the stock being cultivated. " the reported output from global aquaculture operations in 2019 was over 120 million tonnes valued at us $ 274 billion. however, there are issues with the reliability of the reported figures. further, in current aquaculture practice, products