abortion is not associated with adverse psychological outcomes. however, women seeking abortion who are denied access to abortion have an increase in anxiety after the denial. although some studies show negative mental - health outcomes in women who choose abortions after the first trimester because of fetal abnormalities, more rigorous research would be needed to show this conclusively. some proposed negative psychological effects of abortion have been referred to by anti - abortion advocates as a separate condition called " post - abortion syndrome ", but this is not recognized by medical or psychological professionals in the united states. a 2020 long term - study among us women found that about 99 % of women felt that they made the right decision five years after they had an abortion. relief was the primary emotion with few women feeling sadness or guilt. social stigma was a main factor predicting negative emotions and regret years later. unsafe abortion women seeking an abortion may use unsafe methods, especially when it is legally restricted. they may attempt self - induced abortion or seek the help of a person without proper medical training or facilities. this can lead to severe complications, such as incomplete abortion, sepsis, hemorrhage, and damage to internal organs. unsafe abortions are a major cause of injury and death among women worldwide. although data are imprecise, it is estimated that approximately 20 million unsafe abortions are performed annually, with 97 % taking place in developing countries. unsafe abortions are believed to result in millions of injuries. estimates of deaths vary according to methodology, and have ranged from 37, 000 to 70, 000 in the past decade ; deaths from unsafe abortion account for around 13 % of all maternal deaths. the world health organization believes that mortality has fallen since the 1990s. to reduce the number of unsafe abortions, public health organizations have generally advocated emphasizing the legalization of abortion, training of medical personnel, and ensuring access to reproductive - health services. a major factor in whether abortions are performed safely or not is the legal standing of abortion. countries with restrictive abortion laws have higher rates of unsafe abortion and similar overall abortion rates compared to those where abortion is legal and available. for example, the 1996 legalization of abortion in south africa had an immediate positive impact on the frequency of abortion - related complications, with abortion - related deaths dropping by more than 90 %. similar reductions in maternal mortality have been observed after other countries have liberalized their abortion laws, such as romania and nepal. a 2011 study concluded that in the united states, some state - level anti - abortion laws are correlated with lower rates of abortion in that state