2022 novel poutine and gin by steve rhinelander, the point of divergence is the battle of the plains of abraham of the french and indian war. that novel is a mystery set in 1940 of that time line. a recent time traveling splitter variant involves entire communities being shifted elsewhere to become the unwitting creators of new time branches. these communities are transported from the present ( or the near - future ) to the past or to another time - line via a natural disaster, the action of technologically advanced aliens, or a human experiment gone wrong. s. m. stirling wrote the island in the sea of time trilogy, in which nantucket island and all its modern inhabitants are transported to bronze age times to become the world ' s first superpower. in eric flint ' s 1632 series, a small town in west virginia is transported to 17th century central europe and drastically changes the course of the thirty years ' war, which was then underway. john birmingham ' s axis of time trilogy deals with the culture shock when a united nations naval task force from 2021 finds itself back in 1942 helping the allies against the empire of japan and the germans ( and doing almost as much harm as good in spite of its advanced weapons ). the series also explores the cultural impacts of people with 2021 ideals interacting with 1940s culture. similarly, robert charles wilson ' s mysterium depicts a failed us government experiment which transports a small american town into an alternative version of the us run by believers in a form of christianity known as gnosticism, who are engaged in a bitter war with the " spanish " in mexico ( the chief scientist at the laboratory where the experiment occurred is described as a gnostic, and references to christian gnosticism appear repeatedly in the book ). although not dealing in physical time travel, in his alt - history novel marx returns, jason barker introduces anachronisms into the life and times of karl marx, such as when his wife jenny sings a verse from the sex pistols ' s song " anarchy in the u. k. ", or in the games of chess she plays with the marxes ' housekeeper helene demuth, which on one occasion involves a caro – kann defence. in her review of the novel, nina power writes of " jenny ' s ' utopian ' desire for an end to time ", an attitude which, according to power, is inspired by her husband ' s co - authored book the german ideology. however, in keeping with the novel ' s anachronisms, the latter was not