clergy of all faiths was weakened under the monarchy and ultimately eradicated during the 1950s and 1960s, under the state policy of obliterating all organised religion from the territories of albania. the communist regime persecuted and suppressed religious observance and institutions and entirely banned religion. the country was then officially declared to be the world ' s first atheist state. religious freedom has returned, however, since the end of communism. islam survived communist era persecution and reemerged in the modern era as a practised religion in albania. some smaller christian sects in albania include evangelicals and several protestant communities including seventh - day adventist church, church of jesus christ of latter - day saints and jehovah ' s witnesses. the first recorded protestant of albania was said toptani, who travelled around europe and returned to tirana in 1853, where he preached protestantism. the first evangelical protestants appeared in the 19th century and the evangelical alliance was founded in 1892. nowadays, it has 160 member congregations from different protestant denominations. following mass emigration to israel after the fall of communism, there are only 200 albanian jews left in the country. culture symbols the red and black national colours are displayed on the flag of albania that is adorned with a double - headed eagle as the foremost recognised national symbol of albania. with the black eagle portraying bravery and strength, the red field symbolises the fortitude and sacrifices of the albanian people. the eagle is linked with the legacy of the national hero gjergj kastrioti, renowned as skanderbeg, who led a prosperous resistance movement against ottoman rule. rooted in the middle ages, it emerged as a heraldic symbol in the principality of arber and among notable albanian dynasties such as the dukagjini, kastrioti, muzaka and thopia clans. amid the albanian renaissance, marking the resurgence of albanian national identity and aspirations for independence, the albanian eagle regained its prominence. its importance reached its culmination with albania ' s declaration of independence in 1912, when ismail qemali raised it as the national flag in vlore. the coat of arms of albania is an adaptation of the flag of albania and the seal of skanderbeg. the coat comprises the black double - headed eagle positioned at the center of a red field. above the eagle, it carries the helmet of skanderbeg that is crowned with the head of a golden horned goat., which translates to " you albania, give me honor, give me the name albanian ", is the national motto of albania. it finds its