international space station in two loops that are used to regulate the internal temperature and enable temperature - dependent experiments. the potential importance of ammonia as a refrigerant has increased with the discovery that vented cfcs and hfcs are extremely potent and stable greenhouse gases. stimulant ammonia, as the vapour released by smelling salts, has found significant use as a respiratory stimulant. ammonia is commonly used in the illegal manufacture of methamphetamine through a birch reduction. the birch method of making methamphetamine is dangerous because the alkali metal and liquid ammonia are both extremely reactive, and the temperature of liquid ammonia makes it susceptible to explosive boiling when reactants are added. textile liquid ammonia is used for treatment of cotton materials, giving properties like mercerisation, using alkalis. in particular, it is used for prewashing of wool. lifting gas at standard temperature and pressure, ammonia is less dense than atmosphere and has approximately 45 – 48 % of the lifting power of hydrogen or helium. ammonia has sometimes been used to fill balloons as a lifting gas. because of its relatively high boiling point ( compared to helium and hydrogen ), ammonia could potentially be refrigerated and liquefied aboard an airship to reduce lift and add ballast ( and returned to a gas to add lift and reduce ballast ). fuming ammonia has been used to darken quartersawn white oak in arts & crafts and mission - style furniture. ammonia fumes react with the natural tannins in the wood and cause it to change colour. safety the us occupational safety and health administration ( osha ) has set a 15 - minute exposure limit for gaseous ammonia of 35 ppm by volume in the environmental air and an 8 - hour exposure limit of 25 ppm by volume. the national institute for occupational safety and health ( niosh ) recently reduced the idlh ( immediately dangerous to life and health, the level to which a healthy worker can be exposed for 30 minutes without suffering irreversible health effects ) from 500 to 300 based on recent more conservative interpretations of original research in 1943. other organisations have varying exposure levels. us navy standards [ u. s. bureau of ships 1962 ] maximum allowable concentrations ( macs ) : for continuous exposure ( 60 days ) is 25 ppm ; for exposure of 1 hour is 400 ppm. ammonia vapour has a sharp, irritating, pungent odor that acts as a warning of potentially dangerous exposure. the average odor threshold is 5 ppm, well below any