recapitulating the " walking " themes, gershwin overlays the slow blues theme from section b in the final " grandioso ". response gershwin did not particularly like walter damrosch ' s interpretation at the world premiere of an american in paris. he stated that damrosch ' s sluggish, dragging tempo caused him to walk out of the hall during a matinee performance of this work. the audience, according to edward cushing, responded with " a demonstration of enthusiasm impressively genuine in contrast to the conventional applause which new music, good and bad, ordinarily arouses. " critics believed that an american in paris was better crafted than gershwin ' s concerto in f. some did not think it belonged in a program with classical composers cesar franck, richard wagner, or guillaume lekeu on its premiere. gershwin responded to the critics : instrumentation an american in paris was originally scored for 3 flutes ( 3rd doubling on piccolo ), 2 oboes, english horn, 2 clarinets in b - flat, bass clarinet in b - flat, 2 bassoons, 4 horns in f, 3 trumpets in b - flat, 3 trombones, tuba, timpani, snare drum, bass drum, triangle, wood block, ratchet, cymbals, low and high tom - toms, xylophone, glockenspiel, celesta, 4 taxi horns labeled as a, b, c, and d with circles around them, alto saxophone, tenor saxophone, baritone saxophone ( all doubling soprano and alto saxophones ), and strings. although most modern audiences have heard the taxi horns using the notes a, b, c, and d, it had been gershwin ' s intention to use the notes a4, b4, d5, and a3. it is likely that in labeling the taxi horns as a, b, c, and d with circles, he was referring to the four horns, and not the notes that they played. a major revision of the work by composer and arranger f. campbell - watson simplified the instrumentation by reducing the saxophones to only three instruments : alto, tenor and baritone ; the soprano and alto saxophone doublings were eliminated to avoid changing instruments. this became the standard performing edition until 2000, when gershwin specialist jack gibbons made his own restoration of the original orchestration of an american in paris, working directly from gershwin ' s original manuscript, including the restoration of gershwin ' s soprano saxophone parts removed in campbell - watson ' s revision. gibbons '