ion ( h3o + ) or other forms ( h5o2 +, h9o4 + ). thus, an arrhenius acid can also be described as a substance that increases the concentration of hydronium ions when added to water. examples include molecular substances such as hydrogen chloride and acetic acid. an arrhenius base, on the other hand, is a substance that increases the concentration of hydroxide ( oh− ) ions when dissolved in water. this decreases the concentration of hydronium because the ions react to form h2o molecules : h3o + oh ⇌ h2o ( liq ) + h2o ( liq ) due to this equilibrium, any increase in the concentration of hydronium is accompanied by a decrease in the concentration of hydroxide. thus, an arrhenius acid could also be said to be one that decreases hydroxide concentration, while an arrhenius base increases it. in an acidic solution, the concentration of hydronium ions is greater than 10−7 moles per liter. since ph is defined as the negative logarithm of the concentration of hydronium ions, acidic solutions thus have a ph of less than 7. brønsted – lowry acids while the arrhenius concept is useful for describing many reactions, it is also quite limited in its scope. in 1923, chemists johannes nicolaus brønsted and thomas martin lowry independently recognized that acid – base reactions involve the transfer of a proton. a brønsted – lowry acid ( or simply brønsted acid ) is a species that donates a proton to a brønsted – lowry base. brønsted – lowry acid – base theory has several advantages over arrhenius theory. consider the following reactions of acetic acid ( ch3cooh ), the organic acid that gives vinegar its characteristic taste : both theories easily describe the first reaction : ch3cooh acts as an arrhenius acid because it acts as a source of h3o + when dissolved in water, and it acts as a brønsted acid by donating a proton to water. in the second example ch3cooh undergoes the same transformation, in this case donating a proton to ammonia ( nh3 ), but does not relate to the arrhenius definition of an acid because the reaction does not produce hydronium. nevertheless, ch3cooh is both an arrhenius and a brønsted – lowry acid. br