schuette took over as dean in 2014 and served until 2017. film producer richard gladstein was dean from 2017 until 2019, when susan ruskin was appointed. notable alumni afi conservatory ' s alumni have careers in film, television and on the web. they have been recognized with all of the major industry awards — academy award, emmy award, guild awards, and the tony award. afi programs afi catalog of feature films the afi catalog, started in 1968, is a web - based filmographic database. a research tool for film historians, the catalog consists of entries on more than 60, 000 feature films and 17, 000 short films produced from 1893 to 2011, as well as afi awards outstanding movies of the year from 2000 through 2010. early print copies of this catalog may also be found at local libraries. afi life achievement award afi awards created in 2000, the afi awards honor the ten outstanding films ( " movies of the year " ) and ten outstanding television programs ( " tv programs of the year " ). the awards are a non - competitive acknowledgment of excellence. the awards are announced in december, and a private luncheon for award honorees takes place the following january. afi maya deren award afi 100 years... series the afi 100 years... series, which ran from 1998 to 2008 and created jury - selected lists of america ' s best movies in categories such as musicals, laughs and thrills, prompted new generations to experience classic american films. the juries consisted of over 1, 500 artists, scholars, critics, and historians. citizen kane was voted the greatest american film twice. afi film festivals afi operates two film festivals : afi fest in los angeles, and afi docs ( formally known as silverdocs ) in silver spring, maryland, and washington, d. c. afi fest afi fest is the american film institute ' s annual celebration of artistic excellence. it is a showcase for the best festival films of the year and an opportunity for master filmmakers and emerging artists to come together with audiences in the movie capital of the world. it is the only festival of its stature that is free to the public. the academy of motion picture arts and sciences recognizes afi fest as a qualifying festival for the short films category for the annual academy awards. the festival has paid tribute to numerous influential filmmakers and artists over the years, including agnes varda, pedro almodovar and david lynch as guest artistic directors, and has screened scores of films that have produced oscar nominations and wins. afi docs held annually