in assembly language. this approach was widely accepted in the early 1980s ( the latter days of large - scale assembly language use ). ibm ' s high level assembler toolkit includes such a macro package. a curious design was a - natural, a " stream - oriented " assembler for 8080 / z80, processors from whitesmiths ltd. ( developers of the unix - like idris operating system, and what was reported to be the first commercial c compiler ). the language was classified as an assembler because it worked with raw machine elements such as opcodes, registers, and memory references ; but it incorporated an expression syntax to indicate execution order. parentheses and other special symbols, along with block - oriented structured programming constructs, controlled the sequence of the generated instructions. a - natural was built as the object language of a c compiler, rather than for hand - coding, but its logical syntax won some fans. there has been little apparent demand for more sophisticated assemblers since the decline of large - scale assembly language development. in spite of that, they are still being developed and applied in cases where resource constraints or peculiarities in the target system ' s architecture prevent the effective use of higher - level languages. assemblers with a strong macro engine allow structured programming via macros, such as the switch macro provided with the masm32 package ( this code is a complete program ) : include \ masm32 \ include \ masm32rt. inc ; use the masm32 library. code demomain : repeat 20 switch rv ( nrandom, 9 ) ; generate a number between 0 and 8 mov ecx, 7 case 0 print " case 0 " case ecx ; in contrast to most other programming languages, print " case 7 " ; the masm32 switch allows " variable cases " case 1.. 3. if eax = = 1 print " case 1 ". elseif eax = = 2 print " case 2 ". else print " cases 1 to 3 : other ". endif case 4, 6, 8 print " cases 4, 6 or 8 " default mov ebx, 19 ; print 20 stars. repeat print " * " dec ebx. until sign? ; loop until the sign flag is set endsw print chr $ ( 13, 10 ) endm exit end demomain use of assembly language historical perspective assembly languages were not available at the time when the stored - program computer was introduced. kathleen booth " is credited with inventing assembly language " based on