. rnh2 + r ' _ 2c = o - > r ' _ 2c = nr + h2o reduction of these imines gives secondary amines : r ' _ 2c = nr + h2 - > r ' _ 2ch - nhr similarly, secondary amines react with ketones and aldehydes to form enamines : r2nh + r ' ( r ' ' ch2 ) c = o - > r ' ' ch = c ( nr2 ) r ' + h2o overview an overview of the reactions of amines is given below : biological activity amines are ubiquitous in biology. the breakdown of amino acids releases amines, famously in the case of decaying fish which smell of trimethylamine. many neurotransmitters are amines, including epinephrine, norepinephrine, dopamine, serotonin, and histamine. protonated amino groups ( ) are the most common positively charged moieties in proteins, specifically in the amino acid lysine. the anionic polymer dna is typically bound to various amine - rich proteins. additionally, the terminal charged primary ammonium on lysine forms salt bridges with carboxylate groups of other amino acids in polypeptides, which is one of the primary influences on the three - dimensional structures of proteins. amine hormones hormones derived from the modification of amino acids are referred to as amine hormones. typically, the original structure of the amino acid is modified such that a – cooh, or carboxyl, group is removed, whereas the −nh + 3, or amine, group remains. amine hormones are synthesized from the amino acids tryptophan or tyrosine. application of amines dyes primary aromatic amines are used as a starting material for the manufacture of azo dyes. it reacts with nitrous acid to form diazonium salt, which can undergo coupling reaction to form an azo compound. as azo - compounds are highly coloured, they are widely used in dyeing industries, such as : methyl orange direct brown 138 sunset yellow fcf ponceau drugs most drugs and drug candidates contain amine functional groups : chlorpheniramine is an antihistamine that helps to relieve allergic disorders due to cold, hay fever, itchy skin, insect bites and stings. chlorpromazine is a tranquilizer that sedates without inducing sleep. it is used to