novel mrs mcginty ' s dead. murder ahoy! ( 1964 ). the last film is not based on any christie work but displays a few plot elements from they do it with mirrors ( viz., the ship is used as a reform school for wayward boys and one of the teachers uses them as a crime force ), and there is a kind of salute to the mousetrap. the music to all four films was composed and conducted by ron goodwin. the same theme is used on all four films with slight variations in each. the score was written within a couple of weeks by goodwin who was approached by pollock after pollock had heard about him from stanley black. black had worked with pollock on stranger in town in 1957 and had previously hired goodwin as his orchestrator. rutherford, who was 68 years old when the first film was shot in february 1961, insisted that she wear her own clothes during the filming of the movie, as well as having her husband, stringer davis, appear alongside her as the character mr stringer. the rutherford films are frequently repeated on television in germany, and in that country miss marple is generally identified with rutherford ' s quirky portrayal. rutherford also appeared briefly as miss marple in the parodic hercule poirot adventure the alphabet murders ( 1965 ). angela lansbury in 1980, angela lansbury played miss marple in the mirror crack ' d ( emi, directed by guy hamilton ), based on christie ' s 1962 novel. the film featured an all - star cast that included elizabeth taylor, rock hudson, geraldine chaplin, tony curtis, and kim novak. edward fox appeared as inspector craddock, who did miss marple ' s legwork. lansbury ' s marple was a crisp, intelligent woman who moved stiffly and spoke in clipped tones. unlike most incarnations of miss marple, this one smoked cigarettes. lansbury was later cast as jessica fletcher in murder, she wrote, a similar role. ita ever in 1983, estonian stage and film actress ita ever starred in the russian language mosfilm adaptation of agatha christie ' s novel a pocket full of rye ( using the russian edition ' s translated title, the secret of the blackbirds ) as the character of miss marple. ever has also portrayed the character of miss marple in the eesti televisioon ( etv ) series miss marple stories in 1990, and onstage at the tallinn city theatre in a production of the mirror crack ' d from side to side in 2005. television