in performing their respective earthly duties. the subject was apt for a papal state seeking to increase its power, since it depicts the historical legend wherein saint leo the great, the first pope to receive the epithet, with supernatural aid, deterred the huns from looting rome. from a baroque standpoint, the incident is common theme : a moment of divine intervention in the affairs of man. algardi ' s patron ' s message through the relief would be that all viewers should be sternly reminded of the papal capacity to invoke divine retribution against enemies. in his later years algardi controlled a large studio and amassed a great fortune. algardi ' s classicizing manner was carried on by pupils, including ercole ferrata and domenico guidi, and antonio raggi initially trained with him. the latter two completed his design for an altarpiece of the vision of saint nicholas at san nicola da tolentino, rome, using two separate marble pieces linked together in one event and place, yet successfully separating the divine and earthly spheres. other lesser known assistants from his studio include francesco barrata, girolamo lucenti, and giuseppe peroni. algardi died in rome within a year of completing his famous relief, which was admired by contemporaries. critical assessment and legacy algardi was also known for his portraiture which shows an obsessive attention to details of psychologically revealing physiognomy in a sober but immediate naturalism, and minute attention to costume and draperies, such as in the busts of laudivio zacchia, camillo pamphilj, and of muzio frangipane and his two sons lello and roberto. in temperament, his style was more akin to the classicized and restrained baroque of duquesnoy than to the emotive works of other baroque artists. from an artistic point of view, he was most successful in portrait - statues and groups of children, where he was obliged to follow nature most closely. his terracotta models, some of them finished works of art, were prized by collectors. an outstanding series of terracotta models is at the hermitage museum, saint petersburg. gallery sources alessandro algardi in the " history of art " artnet resource library : alessandro algardi web gallery of art : algardi, sculptures roderick conway - morris, " casting light on a baroque sculptor ", international herald tribune, march 20, 1999 : review of exhibition " algardi : the other face of the baroque, ",