school excavated round house 2 on slievemore mountain under the direction of archaeologist stuart rathbone. only the outside north wall, entrance way and inside of the round house were completely excavated. from 2004 to 2006, the achill island maritime archaeology project directed by chuck meide was sponsored by the college of william and mary, the institute of maritime history, the achill folklife centre ( now the achill archaeology centre ), and the lighthouse archaeological maritime program ( lamp ). this project focused on the documentation of archaeological resources related to achill ' s rich maritime heritage. maritime archaeologists recorded a 19th - century fishing station, an ice house, boat house ruins, a number of anchors which had been salvaged from the sea, 19th - century and more recent currach pens, a number of traditional vernacular watercraft including a possibly 100 - year - old achill yawl, and the remains of four historic shipwrecks. other places of interest the cliffs of croaghaun on the western end of the island are the third highest sea cliffs in europe but are inaccessible by road. near the westernmost point of achill, achill head, is keem bay. keel beach is quite popular with tourists and some locals as a surfing location. south of keem beach is moytoge head, which with its rounded appearance drops dramatically down to the ocean. an old british observation post, built during world war i to prevent the germans from landing arms for the irish republican army, is still standing on moytoge. during the second world war this post was rebuilt by the irish defence forces as a lookout post for the coast watching service wing of the defence forces. it operated from 1939 to 1945. the mountain of slievemore, ( 672 m ) rises dramatically in the north of the island and the atlantic drive ( along the south / west of the island ) has some scenic views. on the slopes of slievemore, there is an abandoned village, the " deserted village ", traditionally thought to be a remnant village from an gorta mor ( the great hunger of 1845 – 1849 ). just west of the deserted village is an old martello tower, again built by the british to warn of any possible french invasion during the napoleonic wars. the area also boasts an approximately 5000 - year - old neolithic tomb. achillbeg (, little achill ) is a small island just off achill ' s southern tip. its inhabitants were resettled on achill in the 1960s. a plaque to johnny