it can follow analysis ; but it has no power of anticipating any analytical relations or truths. " this objection has been the subject of much debate and rebuttal, for example by alan turing in his paper " computing machinery and intelligence ". most modern computer scientists argue that this view is outdated and that computer software can develop in ways that cannot necessarily be anticipated by programmers. lovelace and babbage had a minor falling out when the papers were published, when he tried to leave his own statement ( criticising the government ' s treatment of his engine ) as an unsigned preface, which could have been mistakenly interpreted as a joint declaration. when taylor ' s scientific memoirs ruled that the statement should be signed, babbage wrote to lovelace asking her to withdraw the paper. this was the first that she knew he was leaving it unsigned, and she wrote back refusing to withdraw the paper. the historian benjamin woolley theorised that " his actions suggested he had so enthusiastically sought ada ' s involvement, and so happily indulged her... because of her ' celebrated name '. " their friendship recovered, and they continued to correspond. on 12 august 1851, when she was dying of cancer, lovelace wrote to him asking him to be her executor, though this letter did not give him the necessary legal authority. part of the terrace at worthy manor was known as philosopher ' s walk ; it was there that lovelace and babbage were reputed to have walked while discussing mathematical principles. first published computer program in 1840, babbage was invited to give a seminar at the university of turin about his analytical engine. luigi menabrea, a young italian engineer and the future prime minister of italy, transcribed babbage ' s lecture into french, and this transcript was subsequently published in the bibliotheque universelle de geneve in october 1842. babbage ' s friend charles wheatstone commissioned ada lovelace to translate menabrea ' s paper into english. she then augmented the paper with notes, which were added to the translation. ada lovelace spent the better part of a year doing this, assisted with input from babbage. these notes, which are more extensive than menabrea ' s paper, were then published in the september 1843 edition of taylor ' s scientific memoirs under the initialism aal. ada lovelace ' s notes were labelled alphabetically from a to g. in note g, she describes an algorithm for the analytical engine to compute bernoulli numbers. it is considered