, only one car would be assembled at a time. if engine installation takes 20 minutes, hood installation takes five minutes, and wheels installation takes 10 minutes, then a car can be produced every 35 minutes. in an assembly line, car assembly is split between several stations, all working simultaneously. when a station is finished with a car, it passes it on to the next. by having three stations, three cars can be operated on at the same time, each at a different stage of assembly. after finishing its work on the first car, the engine installation crew can begin working on the second car. while the engine installation crew works on the second car, the first car can be moved to the hood station and fitted with a hood, then to the wheels station and be fitted with wheels. after the engine has been installed on the second car, the second car moves to the hood assembly. at the same time, the third car moves to the engine assembly. when the third car ' s engine has been mounted, it then can be moved to the hood station ; meanwhile, subsequent cars ( if any ) can be moved to the engine installation station. assuming no loss of time when moving a car from one station to another, the longest stage on the assembly line determines the throughput ( 20 minutes for the engine installation ) so a car can be produced every 20 minutes, once the first car taking 35 minutes has been produced. history before the industrial revolution, most manufactured products were made individually by hand. a single craftsman or team of craftsmen would create each part of a product. they would use their skills and tools such as files and knives to create the individual parts. they would then assemble them into the final product, making cut - and - try changes in the parts until they fit and could work together ( craft production ). division of labor was practiced by ancient greeks, chinese and other ancient civilizations. in ancient greece it was discussed by plato and xenophon. adam smith discussed the division of labour in the manufacture of pins at length in his book the wealth of nations ( published in 1776 ). the venetian arsenal, dating to about 1104, operated similar to a production line. ships moved down a canal and were fitted by the various shops they passed. at the peak of its efficiency in the early 16th century, the arsenal employed some 16, 000 people who could apparently produce nearly one ship each day and could fit out, arm, and provision a newly built galley with standardized parts on an assembly - line basis. although the arsenal lasted until the early industrial