babbage had proposed. howard aiken, who built the quickly - obsoleted electromechanical calculator, the harvard mark i, between 1937 and 1945, praised babbage ' s work likely as a way of enhancing his own stature, but knew nothing of the analytical engine ' s architecture during the construction of the mark i, and considered his visit to the constructed portion of the analytical engine " the greatest disappointment of my life ". the mark i showed no influence from the analytical engine and lacked the analytical engine ' s most prescient architectural feature, conditional branching. j. presper eckert and john w. mauchly similarly were not aware of the details of babbage ' s analytical engine work prior to the completion of their design for the first electronic general - purpose computer, the eniac. comparison to other early computers if the analytical engine had been built, it would have been digital, programmable and turing - complete. it would, however, have been very slow. luigi federico menabrea reported in sketch of the analytical engine : " mr. babbage believes he can, by his engine, form the product of two numbers, each containing twenty figures, in three minutes ". by comparison the harvard mark i could perform the same task in just six seconds. a modern cpu could do the same thing in under a billionth of a second. in popular culture the cyberpunk novelists william gibson and bruce sterling co - authored a steampunk novel of alternative history titled the difference engine in which babbage ' s difference and analytical engines became available to victorian society. the novel explores the consequences and implications of the early introduction of computational technology. moriarty by modem, a short story by jack nimersheim, describes an alternative history where babbage ' s analytical engine was indeed completed and had been deemed highly classified by the british government. the characters of sherlock holmes and moriarty had in reality been a set of prototype programs written for the analytical engine. this short story follows holmes as his program is implemented on modern computers and he is forced to compete against his nemesis yet again in the modern counterparts of babbage ' s analytical engine. a similar setting is used by sydney padua in the webcomic the thrilling adventures of lovelace and babbage. it features an alternative history where ada lovelace and babbage have built the analytical engine and use it to fight crime at queen victoria ' s request. the comic is based on thorough research on the biographies of and correspondence between