content first. to do so, a sample of the soil is mixed into a clear container with some water, creating an almost completely saturated liquid. the container is shaken vigorously for one minute. it is then allowed to settle for a day until the soil has settled into layers. heavier particles settle out first, sand above, silt above that, and very fine clay and organic matter will stay in suspension for days. after the water has cleared, percentages of the various particles can be determined. fifty to 60 percent sand and 35 to 40 percent clay will yield strong bricks. the cooperative state research, education, and extension service at new mexico state university recommends a mix of not more than clay, not less than sand, and never more than silt. during the great depression, designer and builder hugh w. comstock used cheaper materials and made a specialized adobe brick called " bitudobe. " his first adobe house was built in 1936. in 1948, he published the book post - adobe ; simplified adobe construction combining a rugged timber frame and modern stabilized adobe, which described his method of construction, including how to make " bitudobe. " in 1938, he served as an adviser to the architects franklin & kump associates, who built the carmel high school, which used his post - adobe system. adobe wall construction the ground supporting an adobe structure should be compressed, as the weight of adobe wall is significant and foundation settling may cause cracking of the wall. footing depth is to be below the ground frost level. the footing and stem wall are commonly 24 and 14 inches thick, respectively. modern construction codes call for the use of reinforcing steel in the footing and stem wall. adobe bricks are laid by course. adobe walls usually never rise above two stories as they are load bearing and adobe has low structural strength. when creating window and door openings, a lintel is placed on top of the opening to support the bricks above. atop the last courses of brick, bond beams made of heavy wood beams or modern reinforced concrete are laid to provide a horizontal bearing plate for the roof beams and to redistribute lateral earthquake loads to shear walls more able to carry the forces. to protect the interior and exterior adobe walls, finishes such as mud plaster, whitewash or stucco can be applied. these protect the adobe wall from water damage, but need to be reapplied periodically. alternatively, the walls can be finished with other nontraditional plasters that provide longer protection. bricks made with stabilized adobe generally do not need protection of plasters