the belief that human nature allows humans to exist in or progress toward such a non - coercive society, and a suggestion on how to act to pursue the ideal of anarchy. history pre - modern era before the creation of towns and cities, established authority did not exist. it was after the institution of authority that anarchistic ideas were espoused as a reaction. the most notable precursors to anarchism in the ancient world were in china and greece. in china, philosophical anarchism ( the discussion on the legitimacy of the state ) was delineated by taoist philosophers zhuang zhou and laozi. alongside stoicism, taoism has been said to have had " significant anticipations " of anarchism. anarchic attitudes were also articulated by tragedians and philosophers in greece. aeschylus and sophocles used the myth of antigone to illustrate the conflict between laws imposed by the state and personal autonomy. socrates questioned athenian authorities constantly and insisted on the right of individual freedom of conscience. cynics dismissed human law ( nomos ) and associated authorities while trying to live according to nature ( physis ). stoics were supportive of a society based on unofficial and friendly relations among its citizens without the presence of a state. in medieval europe, there was no anarchistic activity except some ascetic religious movements. these, and other muslim movements, later gave birth to religious anarchism. in the sasanian empire, mazdak called for an egalitarian society and the abolition of monarchy, only to be soon executed by emperor kavad i. in basra, religious sects preached against the state. in europe, various sects developed anti - state and libertarian tendencies. renewed interest in antiquity during the renaissance and in private judgment during the reformation restored elements of anti - authoritarian secularism, particularly in france. enlightenment challenges to intellectual authority ( secular and religious ) and the revolutions of the 1790s and 1848 all spurred the ideological development of what became the era of classical anarchism. modern era during the french revolution, partisan groups such as the enrages and the saw a turning point in the fermentation of anti - state and federalist sentiments. the first anarchist currents developed throughout the 18th century as william godwin espoused philosophical anarchism in england, morally delegitimising the state, max stirner ' s thinking paved the way to individualism and pierre - joseph proudhon ' s theory of mutualism found fertile soil in france. by the