the late babylonian map of the world later than 9th century bc but is based probably on a much older map. these maps indicated directions, roads, towns, borders, and geological features. anaximander ' s innovation was to represent the entire inhabited land known to the ancient greeks. such an accomplishment is more significant than it at first appears. anaximander most likely drew this map for three reasons. first, it could be used to improve navigation and trade between miletus ' s colonies and other colonies around the mediterranean sea and black sea. second, thales would probably have found it easier to convince the ionian city - states to join in a federation in order to push the median threat away if he possessed such a tool. finally, the philosophical idea of a global representation of the world simply for the sake of knowledge was reason enough to design one. surely aware of the sea ' s convexity, he may have designed his map on a slightly rounded metal surface. the centre or “ navel ” of the world ( omphalos ges ) could have been delphi, but is more likely in anaximander ' s time to have been located near miletus. the aegean sea was near the map ' s centre and enclosed by three continents, themselves located in the middle of the ocean and isolated like islands by sea and rivers. europe was bordered on the south by the mediterranean sea and was separated from asia by the black sea, the lake maeotis, and, further east, either by the phasis river ( now called the rioni in georgia ) or the tanais. the nile flowed south into the ocean, separating libya ( which was the name for the part of the then - known african continent ) from asia. gnomon the suda relates that anaximander explained some basic notions of geometry. it also mentions his interest in the measurement of time and associates him with the introduction in greece of the gnomon. in lacedaemon, he participated in the construction, or at least in the adjustment, of sundials to indicate solstices and equinoxes. indeed, a gnomon required adjustments from a place to another because of the difference in latitude. in his time, the gnomon was simply a vertical pillar or rod mounted on a horizontal plane. the position of its shadow on the plane indicated the time of day. as it moves through its apparent course, the sun draws a curve with the tip of the projected shadow, which is shortest at noon, when