by commander david d. porter attacked forts jackson and st. philip, which guarded the river approach to new orleans from the south. while part of the fleet bombarded the forts, other vessels forced a break in the obstructions in the river and enabled the rest of the fleet to steam upriver to the city. a union army force commanded by major general benjamin butler landed near the forts and forced their surrender. butler ' s controversial command of new orleans earned him the nickname " beast ". the following year, the union army of the gulf commanded by major general nathaniel p. banks laid siege to port hudson for nearly eight weeks, the longest siege in us military history. the confederates attempted to defend with the bayou teche campaign but surrendered after vicksburg. these two surrenders gave the union control over the entire mississippi. several small skirmishes were fought in florida, but no major battles. the biggest was the battle of olustee in early 1864. pacific coast theater the pacific coast theater refers to military operations on the pacific ocean and in the states and territories west of the continental divide. conquest of virginia at the beginning of 1864, lincoln made grant commander of all union armies. grant made his headquarters with the army of the potomac and put maj. gen. william tecumseh sherman in command of most of the western armies. grant understood the concept of total war and believed, along with lincoln and sherman, that only the utter defeat of confederate forces and their economic base would end the war. this was total war not in killing civilians but rather in taking provisions and forage and destroying homes, farms, and railroads, that grant said " would otherwise have gone to the support of secession and rebellion. this policy i believe exercised a material influence in hastening the end. " grant devised a coordinated strategy that would strike at the entire confederacy from multiple directions. generals george meade and benjamin butler were ordered to move against lee near richmond, general franz sigel ( and later philip sheridan ) were to attack the shenandoah valley, general sherman was to capture atlanta and march to the sea ( the atlantic ocean ), generals george crook and william w. averell were to operate against railroad supply lines in west virginia, and maj. gen. nathaniel p. banks was to capture mobile, alabama. grant ' s overland campaign grant ' s army set out on the overland campaign intending to draw lee into a defense of richmond, where they would attempt to pin down and destroy the confederate army. the union army first attempted to maneuver past lee and fought several battles,