##rypha in its ancient christian usage originally meant a text read in private, rather than in public church settings. in english, it later came to have a sense of the esoteric, suspicious, or heretical, largely because of the protestant interpretation of the usefulness of non - canonical texts. esoteric writings and objects the word apocryphal ( ) was first applied to writings which were kept secret because they were the vehicles of esoteric knowledge considered too profound or too sacred to be disclosed to anyone other than the initiated. for example, the disciples of the gnostic prodicus boasted that they possessed the secret ( ) books of zoroaster. the term in general enjoyed high consideration among the gnostics ( see acts of thomas, pp. 10, 27, 44 ). sinologist anna seidel refers to texts and even items produced by ancient chinese sages as apocryphal and studied their uses during six dynasties china ( a. d. 220 to 589 ). these artifacts were used as symbols legitimizing and guaranteeing the emperor ' s heavenly mandate. examples of these include talismans, charts, writs, tallies, and registers. the first examples were stones, jade pieces, bronze vessels and weapons, but came to include talismans and magic diagrams. from their roots in zhou era china ( 1066 to 256 bc ), these items came to be surpassed in value by texts by the han dynasty ( 206 bc to ad 220 ). most of these texts have been destroyed as emperors, particularly during the han dynasty, collected these legitimizing objects and proscribed, forbade and burnt nearly all of them to prevent them from falling into the hands of political rivals. writings of questionable value apocrypha was also applied to writings that were hidden not because of their divinity but because of their questionable value to the church. the early christian theologian origen, in his commentaries on matthew, distinguishes between writings which were read by the churches and apocryphal writings : ( writing not found in the common and published books on one hand [ and ] actually found in the secret ones on the other ). the meaning of is here practically equivalent to " excluded from the public use of the church " and prepares the way for an even less favourable use of the word. spurious writings in general use, the word apocrypha came to mean " of doubtful authenticity ". this meaning also appears in origen ' s prologue to his commentary on the song of songs,