in the early 19th century, although interest waned by mid - century. western practitioners abandoned acupuncture ' s traditional beliefs in spiritual energy, pulse diagnosis, and the cycles of the moon, sun or the body ' s rhythm. diagrams of the flow of spiritual energy, for example, conflicted with the west ' s own anatomical diagrams. it adopted a new set of ideas for acupuncture based on tapping needles into nerves. in europe it was speculated that acupuncture may allow or prevent the flow of electricity in the body, as electrical pulses were found to make a frog ' s leg twitch after death. the west eventually created a belief system based on travell trigger points that were believed to inhibit pain. they were in the same locations as china ' s spiritually identified acupuncture points, but under a different nomenclature. the first elaborate western treatise on acupuncture was published in 1683 by willem ten rhijne. modern era in china, the popularity of acupuncture rebounded in 1949 when mao zedong took power and sought to unite china behind traditional cultural values. it was also during this time that many eastern medical practices were consolidated under the name traditional chinese medicine ( tcm ). new practices were adopted in the 20th century, such as using a cluster of needles, electrified needles, or leaving needles inserted for up to a week. a lot of emphasis developed on using acupuncture on the ear. acupuncture research organizations such as the international society of acupuncture were founded in the 1940s and 1950s and acupuncture services became available in modern hospitals. china, where acupuncture was believed to have originated, was increasingly influenced by western medicine. meanwhile, acupuncture grew in popularity in the us. the us congress created the office of alternative medicine in 1992 and the national institutes of health ( nih ) declared support for acupuncture for some conditions in november 1997. in 1999, the national center for complementary and alternative medicine was created within the nih. acupuncture became the most popular alternative medicine in the us. politicians from the chinese communist party said acupuncture was superstitious and conflicted with the party ' s commitment to science. communist party chairman mao zedong later reversed this position, arguing that the practice was based on scientific principles. in 1971, new york times reporter james reston published an article on his acupuncture experiences in china, which led to more investigation of and support for acup