songs figure prominently in the film. ) because of this strategy, the filmmakers are usually credited with saving the picture from the kind of sentimentality common to dramas about characters with terminal illnesses. opened in october 1952 to rave reviews — it won kurosawa his second kinema junpo " best film " award — and enormous box office success. it remains the most acclaimed of all the artist ' s films set in the modern era. in december 1952, kurosawa took his screenwriters, shinobu hashimoto and hideo oguni, for a forty - five - day secluded residence at an inn to create the screenplay for his next movie, seven samurai. the ensemble work was kurosawa ' s first proper samurai film, the genre for which he would become most famous. the simple story, about a poor farming village in sengoku period japan that hires a group of samurai to defend it against an impending attack by bandits, was given a full epic treatment, with a huge cast ( largely consisting of veterans of previous kurosawa productions ) and meticulously detailed action, stretching out to almost three - and - a - half hours of screen time. three months were spent in pre - production and a month in rehearsals. shooting took up 148 days spread over almost a year, interrupted by production and financing troubles and kurosawa ' s health problems. the film finally opened in april 1954, half a year behind its original release date and about three times over budget, making it at the time the most expensive japanese film ever made. ( however, by hollywood standards, it was a quite modestly budgeted production, even for that time. ) the film received positive critical reaction and became a big hit, quickly making back the money invested in it and providing the studio with a product that they could, and did, market internationally — though with extensive edits. over time — and with the theatrical and home video releases of the uncut version — its reputation has steadily grown. it is now regarded by some commentators as the greatest japanese film ever made, and in 1999, a poll of japanese film critics also voted it the best japanese film ever made. in the most recent ( 2012 ) version of the widely respected british film institute ( bfi ) sight & sound " greatest films of all time " poll, seven samurai placed 17th among all films from all countries in both the critics ' and the directors ' polls, receiving a place in the top ten lists of 48 critics and 22 directors. in 1954, nuclear tests in the pacific were causing