was donald k. " deke " slayton, one of the original mercury seven astronauts who was medically grounded in september 1962 due to a heart murmur. slayton was responsible for making all gemini and apollo crew assignments. thirty - two astronauts were assigned to fly missions in the apollo program. twenty - four of these left earth ' s orbit and flew around the moon between december 1968 and december 1972 ( three of them twice ). half of the 24 walked on the moon ' s surface, though none of them returned to it after landing once. one of the moonwalkers was a trained geologist. of the 32, gus grissom, ed white, and roger chaffee were killed during a ground test in preparation for the apollo 1 mission. the apollo astronauts were chosen from the project mercury and gemini veterans, plus from two later astronaut groups. all missions were commanded by gemini or mercury veterans. crews on all development flights ( except the earth orbit csm development flights ) through the first two landings on apollo 11 and apollo 12, included at least two ( sometimes three ) gemini veterans. harrison schmitt, a geologist, was the first nasa scientist astronaut to fly in space, and landed on the moon on the last mission, apollo 17. schmitt participated in the lunar geology training of all of the apollo landing crews. nasa awarded all 32 of these astronauts its highest honor, the distinguished service medal, given for " distinguished service, ability, or courage ", and personal " contribution representing substantial progress to the nasa mission ". the medals were awarded posthumously to grissom, white, and chaffee in 1969, then to the crews of all missions from apollo 8 onward. the crew that flew the first earth orbital test mission apollo 7, walter m. schirra, donn eisele, and walter cunningham, were awarded the lesser nasa exceptional service medal, because of discipline problems with the flight director ' s orders during their flight. in october 2008, the nasa administrator decided to award them the distinguished service medals. for schirra and eisele, this was posthumously. lunar mission profile the first lunar landing mission was planned to proceed : profile variations the first three lunar missions ( apollo 8, apollo 10, and apollo 11 ) used a free return trajectory, keeping a flight path coplanar with the lunar orbit, which would allow a return to earth in case the sm engine failed to make lunar orbit insertion. landing site lighting conditions on later missions dictated a lunar orbital plane change, which required a course change maneuver