durnovo ( d. a. tolstoy ' s successor in the latter post ). mikhail katkov and other journalists supported the emperor in his autocracy. the russian famine of 1891 – 92, which caused 375, 000 to 500, 000 deaths, and the ensuing cholera epidemic permitted some liberal activity, as the russian government could not cope with the crisis and had to allow zemstvos to help with relief ( among others, leo tolstoy helped with relief efforts on his estate and through the british press, and chekhov directed anti - cholera precautions in several villages ). alexander had the political goal of russification, which involved homogenizing the language and religion of russia ' s people. he implemented changes such as teaching only the russian language in russian schools in germany, poland, and finland. he also patronized eastern orthodoxy and destroyed german, polish, and swedish cultural and religious institutions. alexander was hostile to jews ; his reign witnessed a sharp deterioration in the jews ' economic, social, and political condition. his policy was eagerly implemented by tsarist officials in the " may laws " of 1882. these laws encouraged open anti - jewish sentiment and dozens of pogroms across the western part of the empire. as a result, many jews emigrated to western europe and the united states. they banned jews from inhabiting rural areas and shtetls ( even within the pale of settlement ) and restricted the occupations in which they could engage. encouraged by its successful assassination of alexander ii, the narodnaya volya movement began planning the murder of alexander iii. the okhrana uncovered the plot and five of the conspirators, including aleksandr ulyanov, the older brother of vladimir lenin, were captured and hanged in may 1887. foreign policy the general negative consensus about the tsar ' s foreign policy follows the conclusions of the british prime minister lord salisbury in 1885 : it is very difficult to come to any satisfactory conclusion as to the real objects of russian policy. i am more inclined to believe there are none ; that the emperor is really his own minister, and so bad a minister that no consequent or coherent policy is pursued ; but that each influential person, military or civil, snatches from him as opportunity offers the decisions which such person at the moment wants and that the mutual effect of these decisions on each other is determined almost exclusively by chance. in foreign affairs alexander iii was a man of peace, but not at any price, and held that the best means of averting war is to be well - prepared