pantaleon, born from a greek woman, and his other son croesus, born from a carian noblewoman, out of which the latter emerged successful. the tomb of alyattes is located in sardis at the site now called bin tepe, in a large tumulus measuring sixty metres in height and of a diameter of two hundred and fifty metres. the tomb consisted of an antechamber and a chamber with a door separating them, was built of well fitted and clamped large marble blocks, its walls were finely finished on the inside, and it contained a now lost crepidoma. the tomb of alyattes was excavated by the prussian consul general ludwig peter spiegelthal in 1853, and by american excavators in 1962 and the 1980s, although by then it had been broken in and looted by tomb robbers who left only alabastra and ceramic vessels. before it was plundered, the tomb of alyattes would likely have contained burial gifts consisting of furniture made of wood and ivory, textiles, jewellery, and large sets of solver and gold bowls, pitchers, craters, and ladles. he created the first coins in history made from electrum, a naturally occurring alloy of gold and silver. the weight of either precious metal could not just be weighed so they contained an imprint that identified the issuer who guaranteed the value of its contents. today we still use a token currency, where the value is guaranteed by the state and not by the value of the metal used in the coins. almost all coins used today descended from his invention after the technology passed into greek usage through hermodike ii - a greek princess from cyme who was likely one of his wives ( assuming he was referred to a dynastic ' midas ' because of the wealth his coinage amassed and because the electrum was sourced from midas ' famed river pactolus ) ; she was also likely the mother of croesus ( see croeseid symbolism ). he standardised the weight of coins ( 1 stater = 168 grains of wheat ). the coins were produced using an anvil die technique and stamped with a lion ' s head, the symbol of the mermnadae. tomb alyattes ' tomb still exists on the plateau between lake gygaea and the river hermus to the north of the lydian capital sardis — a large mound of earth with a substructure of huge stones. ( 38. 5723401, 28. 045115