of the courtship of aphrodite and adonis from ovid ' s metamorphoses, was the most popular of all his works published within his own lifetime. six editions of it were published before shakespeare ' s death ( more than any of his other works ) and it enjoyed particularly strong popularity among young adults. in 1605, richard barnfield lauded it, declaring that the poem had placed shakespeare ' s name " in fames immortall booke ". despite this, the poem has received mixed reception from modern critics ; samuel taylor coleridge defended it, but samuel butler complained that it bored him and c. s. lewis described an attempted reading of it as " suffocating ". aphrodite appears in richard garnett ' s short story collection the twilight of the gods and other tales ( 1888 ), in which the gods ' temples have been destroyed by christians. stories revolving around sculptures of aphrodite were common in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. examples of such works of literature include the novel the tinted venus : a farcical romance ( 1885 ) by thomas anstey guthrie and the short story the venus of ille ( 1887 ) by prosper merimee, both of which are about statues of aphrodite that come to life. another noteworthy example is aphrodite in aulis by the anglo - irish writer george moore, which revolves around an ancient greek family who moves to aulis. the french writer pierre louys titled his erotic historical novel aphrodite : mœurs antiques ( 1896 ) after the greek goddess. the novel enjoyed widespread commercial success, but scandalized french audiences due to its sensuality and its decadent portrayal of greek society. in the early twentieth century, stories of aphrodite were used by feminist poets, such as amy lowell and alicia ostriker. many of these poems dealt with aphrodite ' s legendary birth from the foam of the sea. other feminist writers, including claude cahun, thit jensen, and anais nin also made use of the myth of aphrodite in their writings. ever since the publication of isabel allende ' s book aphrodite : a memoir of the senses in 1998, the name " aphrodite " has been used as a title for dozens of books dealing with all topics even superficially connected to her domain. frequently these books do not even mention aphrodite, or mention her only briefly, but make use of her name as a