contrasting him with the subsequent briton rulers whose reigns lacked in such legitimacy. identifying historical figures gildas is a primary source for the battle of badon, yet he never mentions the names of the combatants. therefore, we cannot know if ambrosius aurelianus or his successors took part in the battle. the names of the saxon leaders in the battle are also not recorded. the identities of ambrosius ' s descendants are unknown, since gildas never identifies them by name. it is safe to assume that they were gildas ' s contemporaries and known to the author. higham suggests that they were prominent figures of the time. their lineage and identities were probably sufficiently familiar to his intended audience that they did not have to be named. the work portrays ambrosius ' s descendants as inferior to their ancestor as part of his criticism on rulers of his time, according to higham. those criticised were likely aware that the vitriol was intended for them, but probably would not challenge a work offering such a glowing report of their illustrious ancestor. mike ashley suggests that the descendants of ambrosius could include other people named by gildas. he favours the inclusion in this category of one aurelius caninus ( " aurelius the dog - like " ), whom gildas accuses of parricide, fornication, adultery, and warmongering. his name " aurelius " suggests romano - british descent. the insulting nickname " caninus " was probably invented by gildas himself, who similarly insults other contemporary rulers. due to the name used by gildas, there are theories that this ruler was actually named conan / cynan / kenan. some identify him with cynan garwyn, a 6th - century king of powys, though it is uncertain if he was a contemporary of gildas or lived one or two generations following him. another theory is that this ruler did not reign in britain but in brittany. caninus, in this view, might be conomor ( " great dog " ). conomor is considered a likelier contemporary of gildas. conomor was likely from domnonee, an area of brittany controlled by british immigrants from dumnonia. he might be remembered in british legend as mark of cornwall. gildas primarily features the saxons as barbarian raiders ; their invasions involved a slow and difficult process of military conquest. by ad 500, possibly the time described by gildas, anglo - saxons controlled the isle of wight, kent, lincolnshire, norfolk,