. after he became emperor, caligula took on the role of a dutiful son and brother in a public show of pietas ( " piety " ). he went out to the islands of pontia and pandateria in order to recover the remains of agrippina and nero. it was not easy to recover nero ' s bones as they were scattered and buried. moreover, he had a stormy passage ; however, the difficulty in his task made his devotion seem even greater. the ashes were brought to ostia, from where they were carried up the tiber and brought to the campus martius, from where equestrians placed them on briers to join the ashes of germanicus in the mausoleum of augustus. the move was reminiscent of when agrippina carried the ashes of her husband just over 17 years earlier. agrippina ' s funerary urn still survives ( ). the tablet made of marble reads : " ossa agrippina f m agrippa divi avg neptis vxoris germanici caesaris matris c caesaris avg germanici principis " which translates as " bones of agrippina ; daughter of marcus agrippa, granddaughter of divus augustus, wife of germanicus caesar, mother of princeps gaius caesar germanicus ". personality agrippina was fiercely independent, a trait she shared with her mother. dio described her as having ambitions to match her pedigree. however, anthony barrett notes that agrippina was fully aware that a woman in ancient rome could not hold power in her own right. instead, agrippina followed the model of livia in promoting the careers of her children. she and her daughter, agrippina the younger, are both described as being equally ambitious for their sons. whereas the elder agrippina ' s son failed to become emperor, the younger agrippina ' s son, also named nero, succeeds. in a contrast, tacitus has agrippina the elder merely standing on a bridge waving the soldiers passing by, whereas her daughter eclipses her by presiding over a military tribunal and accepting gifts from foreign ambassadors. tacitus also records serious tension between agrippina and livia. he describes livia as having visited " stepmotherly provocations " on agrippina. he says of agrippina : " were it not that through her moral integrity and love for her husband she converted an otherwise ungovernable temper to the good " ( tacitus, annals