##fide also has a γ form related to γ - alumina, and an unusual high - temperature hexagonal form where half the aluminium atoms have tetrahedral four - coordination and the other half have trigonal bipyramidal five - coordination. four pnictides – aluminium nitride ( aln ), aluminium phosphide ( alp ), aluminium arsenide ( alas ), and aluminium antimonide ( alsb ) – are known. they are all iii - v semiconductors isoelectronic to silicon and germanium, all of which but aln have the zinc blende structure. all four can be made by high - temperature ( and possibly high - pressure ) direct reaction of their component elements. aluminium alloys well with most other metals ( with the exception of most alkali metals and group 13 metals ) and over 150 intermetallics with other metals are known. preparation involves heating fixed metals together in certain proportion, followed by gradual cooling and annealing. bonding in them is predominantly metallic and the crystal structure primarily depends on efficiency of packing. there are few compounds with lower oxidation states. a few aluminium ( i ) compounds exist : alf, alcl, albr, and ali exist in the gaseous phase when the respective trihalide is heated with aluminium, and at cryogenic temperatures. a stable derivative of aluminium monoiodide is the cyclic adduct formed with triethylamine, al4i4 ( net3 ) 4. al2o and al2s also exist but are very unstable. very simple aluminium ( ii ) compounds are invoked or observed in the reactions of al metal with oxidants. for example, aluminium monoxide, alo, has been detected in the gas phase after explosion and in stellar absorption spectra. more thoroughly investigated are compounds of the formula r4al2 which contain an al – al bond and where r is a large organic ligand. organoaluminium compounds and related hydrides a variety of compounds of empirical formula alr3 and alr1. 5cl1. 5 exist. the aluminium trialkyls and triaryls are reactive, volatile, and colorless liquids or low - melting solids. they catch fire spontaneously in air and react with water, thus necessitating precautions when handling them. they often form dimers, unlike their boron analogues, but this tendency diminishes for branched - chain alkyls ( e. g. pri, bui, me3cch