chinese food as inauthentic food and less likely to have it, or they will not recognize american chinese cuisine, in recent years, some american chinese food restaurants have opened in some cities of china, such as beijing and shanghai. p. f. chang ' s, a restaurant chain specialized in american chinese food, opened a new restaurant in shanghai, china. the ceo of this chain michael osanloo revealed his positive attitude towards the future of opening more chain restaurants in china because he believed that chinese people would like to try something new. most owners of those american chinese restaurants opened in china are chinese americans. their primary target customers were people from foreign countries and students who have had study abroad experiences. however, many native chinese people, especially younger generations have a greater willingness to try american chinese food. yinhao xu, the owner of americanized chinese eatery - bamboo chinese fast food in beijing, said that he was surprised that some younger generations without overseas experiences have a higher level of acceptance of american - style chinese cuisine. the reason for that is cultural impact ; many american chinese cuisines appear in many american shows or movies, such as friends and the big bang theory, which leads young people in china to want to try american chinese food. impact to other countries south korea woktionary, an american chinese restaurant opened in seoul, south korea, provides authentic american chinese food, such as chow mein and mongolian beef. meanwhile, the head chef kim also added new flavors to some of the dishes. at the same time, panda express also opened a restaurant in seoul, south korea. the ceo of the company indicated that many korean customers were already expecting for their opening. japan the first panda express in japan was opened in november 2016 in kawasaki. it is dedicated to providing the original taste of american chinese food to americans in japan. it offers similar menus in japan compared to panda express restaurants in the united states, such as orange chicken, beijing beef, and fortune cookies. nevertheless, the restaurant also tries to implement localization by offering a limited dish only in japan : sweet and pungent shrimp. see also fusion cuisine canadian chinese cuisine australian chinese cuisine chinese bakery products chinese cuisine american cuisine british chinese cuisine new zealand chinese cuisine indian chinese cuisine fortune cookie list of chinese restaurants oyster pail citations references and further reading studies free download : cookbooks sara bosse, onoto watanna, with an introduction by jacqueline m. newman. chinese - japanese cook book. ( 1914 ; reprinted, bedford, ma : applewood books, 2006 )..