psychiatric hospital. it is today the largest hospital in denmark with a combined staff of some 10, 000 and 1, 150 patient beds, and has been ranked the best hospital in denmark consecutively since 2008. in 2012, construction of a new large hospital building began, known as det nye universitetshospital ( dnu ) or ' the new university hospital ' in english, and it is centralising and accommodating all of the former departments, ending in 2019. the new hospital is divided in four clinical centres, a service centre and one administrative unit along with twelve research centres. private hospitals specialised in different areas from plastic surgery to fertility treatments operate in aarhus as well. ciconia aarhus private hospital founded in 1984 is a leading danish fertility clinic and the first of its kind in denmark. ciconia has provided for the birth of 6, 000 children by artificial insemination and continually conducts research into the field of fertility. aagaard clinic, established in 2004, is another private fertility and gynaecology clinic which since 2004 has undertaken fertility treatments that has resulted in 1550 births. aarhus municipality also offers a number of specialised services in the areas of nutrition, exercise, sex, smoking and drinking, activities for the elderly, health courses and lifestyle. media the first daily newspaper to appear in aarhus was arhus stiftstidende, established in 1794 as aarhuus stifts adresse - contoirs tidender, with a moderately conservative approach. once one of denmark ' s largest, it was a leading provincial newspaper for a time, but after the second world war it increasingly faced competition from demokraten ( 1884 – 1974 ) and, both published in aarhus. in 1998, it merged with randers amtsavis and is now run by midtjyske medier, part of berlingske media. the daily newspaper of was established in 1871 in aarhus, and takes a generally right - wing editorial approach. with a reputation as a serious news publication, the paper has always included news from jutland in particular, but somewhat less so since its promotion as a national newspaper in the 1960s. today it is one of the three bestselling serious newspapers in denmark, the others being berlingske and politiken. jyllands - posten publishes jp aarhus, a section dedicated to news in and around aarhus, and hosted a free cityguide website from 2010 to 2016. the copenhagen - based media company of politiken, also publishes several free local papers once a week in