##st forms have recently disappeared ". he added that he believed the most likely cause for the rapid extinctions was glaciation, but by the time he wrote world of life ( 1911 ) he had come to believe those extinctions were " due to man ' s agency ". in 1880, wallace published the book island life as a sequel to the geographical distribution of animals. it surveyed the distribution of both animal and plant species on islands. wallace classified islands into oceanic and two types of continental islands. oceanic islands, in his view, such as the galapagos and hawaiian islands ( then called sandwich islands ) formed in mid - ocean and never part of any large continent. such islands were characterised by a complete lack of terrestrial mammals and amphibians, and their inhabitants ( except migratory birds and species introduced by humans ) were typically the result of accidental colonisation and subsequent evolution. continental islands, in his scheme, were divided into those that were recently separated from a continent ( like britain ) and those much less recently ( like madagascar ). wallace discussed how that difference affected flora and fauna. he discussed how isolation affected evolution and how that could result in the preservation of classes of animals, such as the lemurs of madagascar that were remnants of once widespread continental faunas. he extensively discussed how changes of climate, particularly periods of increased glaciation, may have affected the distribution of flora and fauna on some islands, and the first portion of the book discusses possible causes of these great ice ages. island life was considered a very important work at the time of its publication. it was discussed extensively in scientific circles both in published reviews and in private correspondence. environmentalism wallace ' s extensive work in biogeography made him aware of the impact of human activities on the natural world. in tropical nature and other essays ( 1878 ), he warned about the dangers of deforestation and soil erosion, especially in tropical climates prone to heavy rainfall. noting the complex interactions between vegetation and climate, he warned that the extensive clearing of rainforest for coffee cultivation in ceylon ( now called sri lanka ) and india would adversely impact the climate in those countries and lead to their impoverishment due to soil erosion. in island life, wallace again mentioned deforestation and invasive species. on the impact of european colonisation on the island of saint helena, he wrote that the island was " now so barren and forbidding that some persons find it difficult to believe that it was once all green and fertile ". he explained that the soil was protected by the island ' s vegetation ; once that