##temir, the porte began overtly deputizing phanariote greeks in that region, and extended the system to wallachia after prince stefan cantacuzino established links with prince eugene of savoy. the phanariotes constituted a kind of dhimmi nobility, which supplied the porte with functionaries in many important departments of the state. foreign relations the ambassadors of safavid iran and the archduchy of austria were well received when they came from 1706 to 1707. in the year 1712, the mughal emperor jahandar shah, a grandson of aurangzeb, sent gifts to the ottoman sultan ahmed iii and referred to himself as the ottoman sultan ' s devoted admirer. the mughal emperor farrukhsiyar, another grandson of aurangzeb, is also known to have sent a letter to the ottomans but this time it was received by the grand vizier nevsehirli damad ibrahim pasha. the letter provided a graphic description of the efforts of the mughal commander syed hassan ali khan barha fighting against the rajput and maratha rebellion. deposition sultan ahmed iii had become unpopular by reason of the excessive pomp and costly luxury in which he and his principal officers indulged ; on 20 september 1730, a mutinous riot of seventeen janissaries, led by the albanian patrona halil, was aided by the citizens as well as the military until it swelled into an insurrection, this consequently led the sultan to give up his throne. ahmed voluntarily led his nephew mahmud i ( 1730 – 1754 ) to the seat of sovereignty and paid allegiance to him as sultan of the empire. he then retired to the kafes previously occupied by mahmud and died at topkapı palace after six years of confinement. architecture ahmed iii commissioned the building of water claps, fountains, park waterfalls and three libraries, one inside the topkapı palace, with the famous lines " ahmed was a master in the writings on plates " which have survived. the “ basmala ” at the topkapi palace apartment door with its plates in the uskudar yeni mosque are among them. a library was built by ahmed in 1724 – 1725 situated next to the tomb entrance of turhan sultan, the structure has stone - brick alternate meshed walls, is square - shaped and covered with a flattened dome with an octagonal rim, which is provided with pendentives. there are original pen works left in the pendentives and dome of the library. disasters in 1714, an egyptian