also is not required for raw almonds sold for export outside of north america. the almond board of california states : " ppo residue dissipates after treatment ". the u. s. environmental protection agency has reported : " propylene oxide has been detected in fumigated food products ; consumption of contaminated food is another possible route of exposure ". ppo is classified as group 2b ( " possibly carcinogenic to humans " ). the usda - approved marketing order was challenged in court by organic farmers organized by the cornucopia institute, a wisconsin - based farm policy research group which filed a lawsuit in september 2008. according to the institute, this almond marketing order has imposed significant financial burdens on small - scale and organic growers and damaged domestic almond markets. a federal judge dismissed the lawsuit in early 2009 on procedural grounds. in august 2010, a federal appeals court ruled that the farmers have a right to appeal the usda regulation. in march 2013, the court vacated the suit on the basis that the objections should have been raised in 2007 when the regulation was first proposed. uses nutrition almonds are 4 % water, 22 % carbohydrates, 21 % protein, and 50 % fat ( table ). in a reference amount, almonds supply of food energy. the almond is a nutritionally dense food ( table ), providing a rich source ( 20 % or more of the daily value, dv ) of the b vitamins riboflavin and niacin, vitamin e, and the essential minerals calcium, copper, iron, magnesium, manganese, phosphorus, and zinc. almonds are a moderate source ( 10 – 19 % dv ) of the b vitamins thiamine, vitamin b6, and folate, choline, and the essential mineral potassium. they also contain substantial dietary fiber, the monounsaturated fat, oleic acid, and the polyunsaturated fat, linoleic acid. typical of nuts and seeds, almonds are a source of phytosterols such as beta - sitosterol, stigmasterol, campesterol, sitostanol, and campestanol. health almonds are included as a good source of protein among recommended healthy foods by the u. s. department of agriculture ( usda ). a 2016 review of clinical research indicated that regular consumption of almonds may reduce the risk of heart disease by lowering blood levels of ldl cholesterol. culinary while the almond