the aardvark ( ; orycteropus afer ) is a medium - sized, burrowing, nocturnal mammal native to africa. it is the only living species of the order tubulidentata, although other prehistoric species and genera of tubulidentata are known. unlike most other insectivores, it has a long snout, similar to that of a pig, which is used to sniff out food. the aardvark is found over much of the southern two - thirds of the african continent, avoiding areas that are mainly rocky. a nocturnal feeder, it subsists on ants and termites, which it will dig out of their hills using its sharp claws and powerful legs. it also digs to create burrows in which to live and rear its young. the animal is listed as " least concern " by the iucn, although its numbers are decreasing. aardvarks are afrotheres, a clade which also includes elephants, manatees, and hyraxes. name and taxonomy name the aardvark is sometimes colloquially called the " african ant bear ", " anteater " ( not to be confused with the south american anteaters ), or the " cape anteater " after the cape of good hope. the name " aardvark " is afrikaans ( ), comes from earlier afrikaans and means " earth pig " or " ground pig " ( aarde : " earth ", vark : " pig ", or " young pig " / child ), because of its burrowing habits. the name orycteropus means " burrowing foot ", and the name afer refers to africa. the name of the aardvark ' s order, tubulidentata, comes from the tubule - style teeth. taxonomy the aardvark is not closely related to the pig ; rather, it is the sole extant representative of the obscure mammalian order tubulidentata, in which it is usually considered to form one variable species of the genus orycteropus, the sole surviving genus in the family orycteropodidae. the aardvark is not closely related to the south american anteater, despite sharing some characteristics and a superficial resemblance. the similarities are the outcome of convergent evolution. the closest living relatives of the aardvark are the elephant shrews, tenrecidae, and golden moles. along with sirenians, hyraxes, elephants, and their extinct relatives, these animals form the superord