specimen of a. fragilis. allosaurus lucaris, is known mostly from vertebrae, sharing characters with allosaurus. paul and carpenter stated that the type specimen of this species, ypm 1931, was from a younger age than allosaurus, and might represent a different genus. however, they found that the specimen was undiagnostic, and thus a. lucaris was a nomen dubium. allosaurus sibiricus was described in 1914 by a. n. riabinin on the basis of a bone, later identified as a partial fourth metatarsal, from the early cretaceous of buryatia, russia. it was transferred to chilantaisaurus in 1990, but is now considered a nomen dubium indeterminate beyond theropoda. allosaurus meriani was a new combination by george olshevsky for megalosaurus meriani greppin, 1870, based on a tooth from the late jurassic of switzerland. however, a recent overview of ceratosaurus included it in ceratosaurus sp. apatodon mirus, based on a scrap of vertebra marsh first thought to be a mammalian jaw, has been listed as a synonym of allosaurus fragilis. however, it was considered indeterminate beyond dinosauria by chure, and mickey mortimer believes that the synonymy of apatodon with allosaurus was due to correspondence to ralph molnar by john mcintosh, whereby the latter reportedly found a paper saying that othniel charles marsh admitted that the apatodon holotype was actually an allosaurid dorsal vertebra. a. amplexus was named by gregory s. paul for giant morrison allosaur remains, and included in his conception saurophagus maximus ( later saurophaganax ). a. amplexus was originally coined by cope in 1878 as the type species of his new genus epanterias, and is based on what is now amnh 5767, parts of three vertebrae, a coracoid, and a metatarsal. following paul ' s work, this species has been accepted as a synonym of a. fragilis. a 2010 study by paul and kenneth carpenter, however, indicates that epanterias is temporally younger than the a. fragilis type specimen, so it is a separate species at minimum. a. maximus was a new combination by david k. smith for chure ' s saurophaganax maximus, a taxon created by chure in 1995 for giant all