in the 1960s and was originally proposed by philosophers jerry fodor and hilary putnam. philosopher john searle characterized this position as " strong ai " : " the appropriately programmed computer with the right inputs and outputs would thereby have a mind in exactly the same sense human beings have minds. " searle counters this assertion with his chinese room argument, which attempts to show that, even if a machine perfectly simulates human behavior, there is still no reason to suppose it also has a mind. robot rights if a machine has a mind and subjective experience, then it may also have sentience ( the ability to feel ), and if so it could also suffer ; it has been argued that this could entitle it to certain rights. any hypothetical robot rights would lie on a spectrum with animal rights and human rights. this issue has been considered in fiction for centuries, and is now being considered by, for example, california ' s institute for the future ; however, critics argue that the discussion is premature. future superintelligence and the singularity a superintelligence is a hypothetical agent that would possess intelligence far surpassing that of the brightest and most gifted human mind. if research into artificial general intelligence produced sufficiently intelligent software, it might be able to reprogram and improve itself. the improved software would be even better at improving itself, leading to what i. j. good called an " intelligence explosion " and vernor vinge called a " singularity ". however, most technologies do not improve exponentially indefinitely, but rather follow an s - curve, slowing when they reach the physical limits of what the technology can do. consider, for example, transportation : speed increased exponentially from 1830 to 1970, but then the trend abruptly stopped when it reached physical limits. transhumanism robot designer hans moravec, cyberneticist kevin warwick, and inventor ray kurzweil have predicted that humans and machines will merge in the future into cyborgs that are more capable and powerful than either. this idea, called transhumanism, has roots in aldous huxley and robert ettinger. edward fredkin argues that " artificial intelligence is the next stage in evolution ", an idea first proposed by samuel butler ' s " darwin among the machines " as far back as 1863, and expanded upon by george dyson in his book of the same name in 1998. in fiction thought - capable artificial beings have appeared as storytelling devices since antiquity, and have been a persistent theme in science fiction. a common trope in these