name amesbury in wiltshire might preserve the name of ambrosius, and that perhaps amesbury was the seat of his power base in the later fifth century. scholars such as shimon applebaum have found a number of place names through the midland dialect regions of britain that incorporate the ambre - element ; examples include ombersley in worcestershire, ambrosden in oxfordshire, amberley in herefordshire, amberley in gloucestershire, and amberley in west sussex. these scholars have claimed that this element represents an old english word amor, the name of a woodland bird. however, amesbury in wiltshire is in a different dialect region and does not easily fit into the pattern of the midland dialect place names. modern fictional treatments the novel coalescent by stephen baxter depicts aurelianus as a general to artorius, briton and basis for the legend of king arthur. in baxter ' s novel, aurelianus is a minor character who interacts with the book ' s main roman - era protagonist, regina, founder of a ( literally ) underground matriarchal society. in the text, he is credited with winning the battle of mount badon. in marion zimmer bradley ' s the mists of avalon, aurelianus is depicted as the ageing high king of britain, a " too - ambitious " son of a western roman emperor. his sister ' s son is uther pendragon, but uther is described as not having any roman blood. aurelianus is unable to gather the leadership of the native celts, who refuse to follow any but their own race. in alfred duggan ' s conscience of the king, a historical novel about cerdic, founder of the anglo - saxon kingdom of wessex, ambrosius aurelianus is a romano - british general who rose independently to military power, forming alliances with various british kings and setting out to drive the invading saxons from britain. cerdic, who is of both germanic and british descent and raised as a roman citizen, served in his army as a young man. in the novel ambrosius is a separate character from arthur, or artorius, who appears much later as a foe of cerdic. in stephen r. lawhead ' s pendragon cycle, aurelianus ( most often referred to as " aurelius " ) figures prominently, along with his brother uther, in the second book of the series, merlin. he is poisoned soon after becoming high king of britain, and