, most cathedrals are parish churches and their deans are now also vicars of their parishes. the anglican communion recognises roman catholic and eastern orthodox ordinations as valid. outside the anglican communion, anglican ordinations ( at least of male priests ) are recognised by the old catholic church, porvoo communion lutherans, and various independent catholic churches. diaconate in anglican churches, deacons often work directly in ministry to the marginalised inside and outside the church : the poor, the sick, the hungry, the imprisoned. unlike orthodox and most roman catholic deacons who may be married only before ordination, deacons are permitted to marry freely both before and after ordination, as are priests. most deacons are preparing for priesthood and usually only remain as deacons for about a year before being ordained priests. however, there are some deacons who remain so. many provinces of the anglican communion ordain both men and women as deacons. many of those provinces that ordain women to the priesthood previously allowed them to be ordained only to the diaconate. the effect of this was the creation of a large and overwhelmingly female diaconate for a time, as most men proceeded to be ordained priest after a short time as a deacon. deacons, in some dioceses, can be granted licences to solemnise matrimony, usually under the instruction of their parish priest and bishop. they sometimes officiate at benediction of the blessed sacrament in churches which have this service. deacons are not permitted to preside at the eucharist ( but can lead worship with the distribution of already consecrated communion where this is permitted ), absolve sins, or pronounce a blessing. it is the prohibition against deacons pronouncing blessings that leads some to believe that deacons cannot solemnise matrimony. laity all baptised members of the church are called christian faithful, truly equal in dignity and in the work to build the church. some non - ordained people also have a formal public ministry, often on a full - time and long - term basis – such as lay readers ( also known as readers ), churchwardens, vergers, and sextons. other lay positions include acolytes ( male or female, often children ), lay eucharistic ministers ( also known as chalice bearers ), and lay eucharistic visitors ( who deliver consecrated bread and wine to " shut - ins " or members of the parish who are unable to leave home or hospital to attend