use the latin alphabet, denotes an open unrounded vowel, such as,, or. an exception is saanich, in which ( and the glyph a ) stands for a close - mid front unrounded vowel. other systems in phonetic and phonemic notation : in the international phonetic alphabet, is used for the open front unrounded vowel, is used for the open central unrounded vowel, and is used for the open back unrounded vowel. in x - sampa, is used for the open front unrounded vowel and is used for the open back unrounded vowel. other uses in algebra, the letter a along with various other letters of the alphabet is often used to denote a variable, with various conventional meanings in different areas of mathematics. moreover, in 1637, rene descartes " invented the convention of representing unknowns in equations by x, y, and z, and knowns by a, b, and c ", and this convention is still often followed, especially in elementary algebra. in geometry, capital a, b, c etc. are used to denote segments, lines, rays, etc. a capital a is also typically used as one of the letters to represent an angle in a triangle, the lowercase a representing the side opposite angle a. " a " is often used to denote something or someone of a better or more prestigious quality or status : a−, a or a +, the best grade that can be assigned by teachers for students ' schoolwork ; " a grade " for clean restaurants ; a - list celebrities, etc. such associations can have a motivating effect, as exposure to the letter a has been found to improve performance, when compared with other letters. " a " is used as a prefix on some words, such as asymmetry, to mean " not " or " without " ( from greek ). in english grammar, " a ", and its variant " an ", is an indefinite article, used to introduce noun phrases. finally, the letter a is used to denote size, as in a narrow size shoe, or a small cup size in a brassiere. related characters descendants and related characters in the latin alphabet æ æ : latin ae ligature a with diacritics : a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a