of left - wing and socialist politics such as collectivism, communism, individualism, mutualism, and syndicalism, among other libertarian socialist economic theories. as anarchism does not offer a fixed body of doctrine from a single particular worldview, many anarchist types and traditions exist and varieties of anarchy diverge widely. one reaction against sectarianism within the anarchist milieu was anarchism without adjectives, a call for toleration and unity among anarchists first adopted by fernando tarrida del marmol in 1889 in response to the bitter debates of anarchist theory at the time. belief in political nihilism has been espoused by anarchists. despite separation, the various anarchist schools of thought are not seen as distinct entities but rather as tendencies that intermingle and are connected through a set of uniform principles such as individual and local autonomy, mutual aid, network organisation, communal democracy, justified authority and decentralisation. classical inceptive currents among classical anarchist currents were mutualism and individualism. they were followed by the major currents of social anarchism ( collectivist, communist and syndicalist ). they differ on organisational and economic aspects of their ideal society. mutualism is an 18th - century economic theory that was developed into anarchist theory by pierre - joseph proudhon. its aims include " abolishing the state ", reciprocity, free association, voluntary contract, federation and monetary reform of both credit and currency that would be regulated by a bank of the people. mutualism has been retrospectively characterised as ideologically situated between individualist and collectivist forms of anarchism. in what is property? ( 1840 ), proudhon first characterised his goal as a " third form of society, the synthesis of communism and property. " collectivist anarchism is a revolutionary socialist form of anarchism commonly associated with mikhail bakunin. collectivist anarchists advocate collective ownership of the means of production which is theorised to be achieved through violent revolution and that workers be paid according to time worked, rather than goods being distributed according to need as in communism. collectivist anarchism arose alongside marxism but rejected the dictatorship of the proletariat despite the stated marxist goal of a collectivist stateless society. anarcho - communism is a theory of anarchism that advocates a communist society with common ownership of the means of production, held by a federal network of voluntary associations, with production and consumption based on the guiding principle " from each according to his ability, to each