, i do, i do, i do " staying at number one for three weeks, then " sos " spending a week there, followed by " mamma mia " staying there for ten weeks, and the album holding down the number one position for months. the three songs were also successful in nearby new zealand with the first two topping that chart and the third reaching number two. 1976 – 1981 : superstardom greatest hits and arrival in march 1976, the band released the compilation album greatest hits. it became their first uk number - one album, and also took abba into the top 50 on the us album charts for the first time, eventually selling more than a million copies there. also included on greatest hits was a new single, " fernando ", which went to number - one in at least thirteen countries all over the world, including the uk, germany, france, australia, south africa and mexico, and the top five in most other significant markets, including, at number four, becoming their biggest hit to date in canada ; the single went on to sell over 10 million copies worldwide. in australia, " fernando " occupied the top position for a then record breaking 14 weeks ( and stayed in the chart for 40 weeks ), and was the longest - running chart - topper there for over 40 years until it was overtaken by ed sheeran ' s " shape of you " in may 2017. it still remains as one of the best - selling singles of all time in australia. also in 1976, the group received its first international prize, with " fernando " being chosen as the " best studio recording of 1975 ". in the united states, " fernando " reached the top 10 of the cashbox top 100 singles chart and number 13 on the billboard hot 100. it topped the billboard adult contemporary chart, abba ' s first american number - one single on any chart. at the same time, a compilation named the very best of abba was released in germany, becoming a number - one album there whereas the greatest hits compilation which followed a few months later ascended to number two in germany, despite all similarities with the very best album. the group ' s fourth studio album, arrival, a number - one best - seller in parts of europe, the uk and australia, and a number - three hit in canada and japan, represented a new level of accomplishment in both songwriting and studio work, prompting rave reviews from more rock - oriented uk music weeklies such as melody maker and new musical express, and mostly appreciative notices from