known as wanax. the civilization of mycenaean greeks perished with the collapse of bronze age culture in the eastern mediterranean, to be followed by the so - called greek dark ages. it is undetermined what cause the collapse of the mycenaeans. during the greek dark ages, writing in the linear b script ceased, vital trade links were lost, and towns and villages were abandoned. ancient greece the archaic period followed the greek dark ages in the 8th century bc. greece became divided into small self - governing communities, and adopted the phoenician alphabet, modifying it to create the greek alphabet. by the 6th century bc several cities had emerged as dominant in greek affairs : athens, sparta, corinth, and thebes, of which athens, sparta, and corinth were closest to the aegean sea. each of them had brought the surrounding rural areas and smaller towns under their control, and athens and corinth had become major maritime and mercantile powers as well. in the 8th and 7th centuries bc many greeks emigrated to form colonies in magna graecia ( southern italy and sicily ), asia minor and further afield. the aegean sea was the setting for one of the most pivotal naval engagements in history, when on september 20, 480 b. c. the athenian fleet gained a decisive victory over the persian fleet of the xerxes ii of persia at the battle of salamis. thus ending any further attempt of western expansion by the achaemenid empire. the aegean sea would later come to be under the control, albeit briefly, of the kingdom of macedonia. philip ii and his son alexander the great led a series of conquests that led not only to the unification of the greek mainland and the control of the aegean sea under his rule, but also the destruction of the achaemenid empire. after alexander the great ' s death, his empire was divided among his generals. cassander became king of the hellenistic kingdom of macedon, which held territory along the western coast of the aegean, roughly corresponding to modern - day greece. the kingdom of lysimachus had control over the sea ' s eastern coast. greece had entered the hellenistic period. roman rule the macedonian wars were a series of conflicts fought by the roman republic and its greek allies in the eastern mediterranean against several different major greek kingdoms. they resulted in roman control or influence over the eastern mediterranean basin, including the aegean, in addition to their hegemony in the western mediterranean after the punic wars. during roman rule, the land