##leth ' s last editor, said were "... models of construction and... fused with some of the most memorable characters in american literature. " most were written between 1934 and the late 1940s, though the last, " tail of the dog ", was published in 1959 and won the scholastic magazine short story award for the year. the series was collected and republished in country matters in 1996. walden west, published in 1961, is considered by many derleth ' s finest work. this prose meditation is built out of the same fundamental material as the series of sac prairie journals, but is organized around three themes : " the persistence of memory... the sounds and odors of the country... and thoreau ' s observation that the ' mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation. ' " a blend of nature writing, philosophic musings, and careful observation of the people and place of " sac prairie. " of this work, george vukelich, author of " north country notebook ", writes : " derleth ' s walden west is... the equal of sherwood anderson ' s winesburg, ohio, thornton wilder ' s our town, and edgar lee masters ' spoon river anthology. " this was followed eight years later by return to walden west, a work of similar quality, but with a more noticeable environmentalist edge to the writing, notes critic norbert blei. a close literary relative of the sac prairie saga was derleth ' s wisconsin saga, which comprises several historical novels. detective fiction and " solar pons " detective fiction represented another substantial body of derleth ' s work. most notable among this work was a series of 70 stories in affectionate pastiche of sherlock holmes, whose creator, sir arthur conan doyle, he admired greatly. the stories feature a holmes - styled british detective named solar pons, of 7b praed street in london. these included one published novel as well ( mr. fairlie ' s final journey ). the series was greatly admired by such notable writers and critics of mystery and detective fiction as ellery queen ( frederic dannay ), anthony boucher, vincent starrett, and howard haycraft. in his 1944 volume the misadventures of sherlock holmes, ellery queen wrote of derleth ' s " the norcross riddle ", an early pons story : " how many budding authors, not even old enough to vote, could have captured the spirit and atmosphere with as much fidelity? "