##nenberger. during the final years of his rule, albert was forced to raise taxes instead of further confiscating now - depleted church lands, causing peasant rebellion. the intrigues of the court favourites johann funck and paul skalic also led to various religious and political disputes. albert spent his final years virtually deprived of power and died at tapiau on 20 march 1568. his son, albert frederick, succeeded him as duke of prussia. early life albert was born in ansbach in franconia as the third son of frederick i, margrave of brandenburg - ansbach. his mother was sophia, daughter of casimir iv jagiellon, grand duke of lithuania and king of poland, and his wife elisabeth of austria. his great - grandfather was władysław ii jagiełło, the last pagan ruler in europe, who defeated the teutonic knights at the battle of grunwald in 1410. he was raised for a career in the church and spent some time at the court of hermann iv of hesse, elector of cologne, who appointed him canon of the cologne cathedral. not only was he quite religious ; he was also interested in mathematics and science and sometimes is claimed to have contradicted the teachings of the church in favour of scientific theories. his career was forwarded by the church, however, and institutions of the catholic clerics supported his early advancement. turning to a more active life, albert accompanied emperor maximilian i to italy in 1508 and after his return spent some time in the kingdom of hungary. grand master duke frederick of saxony, grand master of the teutonic order, died in december 1510. albert was chosen as his successor early in 1511 in the hope that his relationship to his maternal uncle, sigismund i the old, grand duke of lithuania and king of poland, would facilitate a settlement of the disputes over eastern prussia, which had been held by the order under polish suzerainty since the second peace of thorn ( 1466 ). the new grand master, aware of his duties to the empire and to the papacy, refused to submit to the crown of poland. as war over the order ' s existence appeared inevitable, albert made strenuous efforts to secure allies and carried on protracted negotiations with emperor maximilian i. the ill - feeling, influenced by the ravages of members of the order in poland, culminated in a war which began in december 1519 and devastated prussia. albert was granted a four - year truce early in 1521. the dispute was referred