social intelligence affective computing is an interdisciplinary umbrella that comprises systems that recognize, interpret, process or simulate human feeling, emotion and mood. for example, some virtual assistants are programmed to speak conversationally or even to banter humorously ; it makes them appear more sensitive to the emotional dynamics of human interaction, or to otherwise facilitate human – computer interaction. however, this tends to give naive users an unrealistic conception of how intelligent existing computer agents actually are. moderate successes related to affective computing include textual sentiment analysis and, more recently, multimodal sentiment analysis, wherein ai classifies the affects displayed by a videotaped subject. general intelligence a machine with artificial general intelligence should be able to solve a wide variety of problems with breadth and versatility similar to human intelligence. tools ai research uses a wide variety of tools to accomplish the goals above. search and optimization ai can solve many problems by intelligently searching through many possible solutions. there are two very different kinds of search used in ai : state space search and local search. state space search state space search searches through a tree of possible states to try to find a goal state. for example, planning algorithms search through trees of goals and subgoals, attempting to find a path to a target goal, a process called means - ends analysis. simple exhaustive searches are rarely sufficient for most real - world problems : the search space ( the number of places to search ) quickly grows to astronomical numbers. the result is a search that is too slow or never completes. " heuristics " or " rules of thumb " can help to prioritize choices that are more likely to reach a goal. adversarial search is used for game - playing programs, such as chess or go. it searches through a tree of possible moves and counter - moves, looking for a winning position. local search local search uses mathematical optimization to find a numeric solution to a problem. it begins with some form of a guess and then refines the guess incrementally until no more refinements can be made. these algorithms can be visualized as blind hill climbing : we begin the search at a random point on the landscape, and then, by jumps or steps, we keep moving our guess uphill, until we reach the top. this process is called stochastic gradient descent. evolutionary computation uses a form of optimization search. for example, they may begin with a population of organisms ( the guesses ) and then allow them to mutate and recombine, selecting only the fit