example, when the islands faced famine due to a series of dry seasons, stuyvesant came to the rescue by sending a ship with food just in time. the troubled relationship between the curacao islands and new netherland came to a sudden end in 1664. at that time, even though a war between england and the united provinces hadn ' t been officially declared yet, an english fleet led by richard nicolls demanded that new amsterdam surrender. while the dutch briefly regained control of the colony in 1673, it was once again used as leverage in 1674 to show the english the dangers of their alliance with france. during the 17th century, the dutch considered england their main adversary, as evidenced by the three wars they fought against the english. unlike the first anglo - dutch war ( 1652 - 1654 ), the second anglo - dutch war ( 1665 - 1667 ) had a long - lasting impact in the caribbean. in the end, the second anglo - dutch war and the subsequent peace treaty in 1667 marked a pivotal moment in caribbean colonial possessions. dutch supremacy waned, and the enforcement of english navigation acts left a lasting impact on regional trade. nevertheless, the caribbean islands eventually regained stability and prosperity, experiencing fewer changes in colonial holdings for centuries to come. slavery the historical narrative of slavery in aruba challenges the prevailing belief that the conditions for slaves here were considerably better than in other caribbean regions and in north and south america. records of slavery in aruba are rather limited, with mentions primarily concerning curacao in the years 1750 and 1795. particularly in aruba, the circumstances surrounding slavery were comparatively less severe, to the extent that it might give the impression that aruba did not have a history of slavery. it ' s a common misconception that indigenous people were not enslaved on the island and that there were no enslaved africans in aruba. however, this latter notion is not entirely accurate. when we draw a comparison with bonaire, which had its " slave village ", we must acknowledge that aruba, too, had a presence of enslaved individuals. in 1862, the final year of slavery, 15 percent of aruba ' s population were slaves, while in bonaire, it was 27 percent. a population report from 1820 indicates that aruba had 331 slaves : 157 were indigenous people, and 174 were of african descent. in 1820, there were also 15 free - born black individuals and 19 foreign - born free black individuals in aruba. by 1840, aruba had 497 slaves, with 269 being indigenous people and 228