##ans, with whose help he conquered the pechenegs at levounion in thrace on 29 april 1091. this put an end to the pecheneg threat, but in 1094 the cumans began to raid the imperial territories in the balkans. led by a pretender claiming to be constantine diogenes, a long - dead son of the emperor romanos iv, the cumans crossed the mountains and raided into eastern thrace until their leader was eliminated at adrianople. with the balkans more or less pacified, alexios could now turn his attention to asia minor, which had been almost completely overrun by the seljuq turks. byzantine – seljuq wars and the first crusade by the time alexios ascended the throne, the seljuqs had taken most of asia minor. alexios was able to secure much of the coastal regions by sending peasant soldiers to raid the seljuq camps, but these victories were unable to stop the turks altogether. he also got military support from western rulers like robert i count of flanders ( robert the frisian ) returning from an armed pilgrimage to jerusalem in 1086 spending time assisting the byzantine emperor against the turks. in one battle robert and three of his companions rode ahead of the main army charging the forces under the command of kerbogha, whose forces were scattered completely. as early as 1090, alexios had taken reconciliatory measures towards the papacy, with the intention of seeking western support against the seljuqs. in 1095 his ambassadors appeared before pope urban ii at the council of piacenza. the help he sought from the west was some mercenary forces, not the immense hosts that arrived, to his consternation and embarrassment, after the pope preached the first crusade at the council of clermont later that same year. this was the people ' s crusade : a mob of mostly unarmed poor peasants and serfs, led by the preacher peter the hermit, fleeing from hunger in their home regions to a promised land of milk and honey. not quite ready to supply this number of people as they traversed his territories, the emperor saw his balkan possessions subjected to further pillage at the hands of his own allies. eventually alexios dealt with the people ' s crusade by hustling them on to asia minor. there, they were massacred by the turks of kilij arslan i at the battle of civetot in october 1096. the " prince ' s crusade ", the second and much more formidable host of