such distances was extremely complex ; ships could take three months to cross the atlantic, and orders from london were often outdated by the time they arrived. prior to the conflict, the colonies were largely autonomous economic and political entities, with no centralized area of ultimate strategic importance. this meant that, unlike europe where the fall of a capital city often ended wars, that in america continued even after the loss of major settlements such as philadelphia, the seat of congress, new york, and charleston. british power was reliant on the royal navy, whose dominance allowed them to resupply their own expeditionary forces while preventing access to enemy ports. however, the majority of the american population was agrarian, rather than urban ; supported by the french navy and blockade runners based in the dutch caribbean, their economy was able to survive. the geographical size of the colonies and limited manpower meant the british could not simultaneously conduct military operations and occupy territory without local support. debate persists over whether their defeat was inevitable ; one british statesman described it as " like trying to conquer a map ". while ferling argues patriot victory was nothing short of a miracle, ellis suggests the odds always favored the americans, especially after howe squandered the chance of a decisive british success in 1776, an " opportunity that would never come again ". the us military history speculates the additional commitment of 10, 000 fresh troops in 1780 would have placed british victory " within the realm of possibility ". british army the expulsion of france from north america in 1763 led to a drastic reduction in british troop levels in the colonies ; in 1775, there were only 8, 500 regular soldiers among a civilian population of 2. 8 million. the bulk of military resources in the americas were focused on defending sugar islands in the caribbean ; jamaica alone generated more revenue than all thirteen american colonies combined. with the end of the seven years ' war, the permanent army in britain was also cut back, which resulted in administrative difficulties when the war began a decade later. over the course of the war, there were four separate british commanders - in - chief. the first was thomas gage, appointed in 1763, whose initial focus was establishing british rule in former french areas of canada. rightly or wrongly, many in london blamed the revolt on his failure to take firm action earlier, and he was relieved after the heavy losses incurred at the battle of bunker hill in charlestown, massachusetts. his replacement was sir william howe, a member of the whig faction in parliament who opposed the policy of coercion advocated by lord north ; cornwallis