azincourt ( ), historically known in english as agincourt ( ), is a commune in the pas - de - calais department in northern france. it is situated north - west of saint - pol - sur - ternoise on the d71 road between hesdin and fruges. the late medieval battle of agincourt between the english and the french took place in the commune in 1415. toponym the name is attested as aisincurt in 1175, derived from a germanic masculine name aizo, aizino and the early northern french word curt ( which meant a farm with a courtyard ; derived from the late latin cortem ). the name has no etymological link with agincourt, meurthe - et - moselle ( attested as egincourt 875 ), which is derived separately from another germanic male name * ingin -. history azincourt is known for being near the site of the battle fought on 25 october 1415 in which the army led by king henry v of england defeated the forces led by charles d ' albret on behalf of charles vi of france, which has gone down in history as the battle of agincourt. according to m. forrest, the french knights were so encumbered by their armour that they were exhausted even before the start of the battle. after he became king in 1509, henry viii is purported to have commissioned an english translation of a life of henry v so that he could emulate him, on the grounds that he thought that launching a campaign against france would help him to impose himself on the european stage. in 1513, henry viii crossed the english channel, stopping by at azincourt. the battle, as was the tradition, was named after a nearby castle called azincourt. the castle has since disappeared and the settlement now known as azincourt adopted the name in the seventeenth century. john cassell wrote in 1857 that " the village of azincourt itself is now a group of dirty farmhouses and wretched cottages, but where the hottest of the battle raged, between that village and the commune of tramecourt, there still remains a wood precisely corresponding with the one in which henry placed his ambush ; and there are yet existing the foundations of the castle of azincourt, from which the king named the field. " population sights the original battlefield museum in the village featured model knights made out of action man figures. this has now been replaced by the centre historique medieval