1930s, connected with him again in the u. s. in the early 1960s and wrote that " the enormous intellect, the beautifully modulated voice, the gentle objectivity, all were unchanged. he was one of the most highly civilized human beings i had ever met. " late - in - life perspectives biographer harold h. watts wrote that huxley ' s writings in the " final and extended period of his life " are " the work of a man who is meditating on the central problems of many modern men ". huxley had deeply felt apprehensions about the future the developed world might make for itself. from these, he made some warnings in his writings and talks. in a 1958 televised interview conducted by journalist mike wallace, huxley outlined several major concerns : the difficulties and dangers of world overpopulation ; the tendency towards distinctly hierarchical social organisation ; the crucial importance of evaluating the use of technology in mass societies susceptible to persuasion ; the tendency to promote modern politicians to a naive public as well - marketed commodities. in a december 1962 letter to brother julian, summarizing a paper he had presented in santa barbara, he wrote, " what i said was that if we didn ' t pretty quickly start thinking of human problems in ecological terms rather than in terms of power politics we should very soon be in a bad way. " huxley ' s engagement with eastern wisdom traditions was entirely compatible with a strong appreciation of modern science. biographer milton birnbaum wrote that huxley " ended by embracing both science and eastern religion ". in his last book, literature and science, huxley wrote that " the ethical and philosophical implications of modern science are more buddhist than christian.... " in " a philosopher ' s visionary prediction, " published one month before he died, huxley endorsed training in general semantics and " the nonverbal world of culturally uncontaminated consciousness, " writing that " we must learn how to be mentally silent, we must cultivate the art of pure receptivity.... [ t ] he individual must learn to decondition himself, must be able to cut holes in the fence of verbalized symbols that hems him in. " association with vedanta beginning in 1939 and continuing until his death in 1963, huxley had an extensive association with the vedanta society of southern california, founded and headed by swami prabhavananda. together with gerald heard, christopher isherwood and other followers, he was initiated by the swami and was taught meditation and spiritual practices. in 1944, hu