teaching spaces and laboratories for science courses. the natural sciences building at swansea university and lecture theatre at cardiff university are named after him, as are impact craters on mars and the moon. in 1986, the royal entomological society mounted a year - long expedition to the dumoga - bone national park in north sulawesi named project wallace. a group of indonesian islands is known as the wallacea biogeographical region in his honour, and operation wallacea, named after the region, awards " alfred russel wallace grants " to undergraduate ecology students. several hundred species of plants and animals, both living and fossil, have been named after wallace, such as the gecko cyrtodactylus wallacei, and the freshwater stingray potamotrygon wallacei. writings wallace was a prolific author. in 2002, historian of science michael shermer published a quantitative analysis of wallace ' s publications. he found that wallace had published 22 full - length books and at least 747 shorter pieces, 508 of which were scientific papers ( 191 of them published in nature ). he further broke down the 747 short pieces by their primary subjects : 29 % were on biogeography and natural history, 27 % were on evolutionary theory, 25 % were social commentary, 12 % were on anthropology, and 7 % were on spiritualism and phrenology. an online bibliography of wallace ' s writings has more than 750 entries. references notes citations sources vol. 1. vol. 2 further reading there is an extensive literature on wallace. recent books on him include : vol. 2 ( parts iii – vii ) ( project gutenberg ). london : cassell and company. published in a single volume by harper & brothers publishers, new york and london, june 1916. external links the alfred russel wallace website by george beccaloni alfred russel wallace at western kentucky university the alfred russel wallace correspondence project wallace online – the first complete online edition of the writings of alfred russel wallace great lives – bill bailey on his hero alfred russel wallace on bbc radio 4 1823 births 1913 deaths 19th - century english scientists 19th - century british writers 20th - century english non - fiction writers biogeographers british anti - vaccination activists english coleopterists british deists charles darwin english activists english anthropologists english biologists english naturalists english people of scottish descent english socialists english spiritualists british evolutionary biologists explorers of amazonia explorers of indonesia fellows of the linnean society of london fellows of the royal geographical society fellows of the royal society fellows of the zoological society