he had it set facing the wall, with the single inscription lapidem quem reprobaverunt aedificantes ( latin for " the stone the builders rejected ", from david ' s prophecy, psalm 118 : 22 – 23 ) on the front. he settled the portuguese administration, reappointing rui de araujo as factor, a post assigned before his 1509 arrest, and appointing rich merchant nina chatu to replace the previous bendahara. besides assisting in the governance of the city and the first portuguese coinage, he provided the junks for several diplomatic missions. meanwhile, afonso arrested and had executed the powerful javanese merchant utimuti raja who, after being appointed to a position in the portuguese administration as representative of the javanese population, had maintained contacts with the exiled royal family. shipwreck on the flor de la mar, 1511 on 20 november 1511 afonso sailed from malacca to the coast of malabar on the old flor de la mar carrack that had served to support the conquest of malacca. despite its unsound condition, he used it to transport the treasure amassed in the conquest, given its large capacity. he wanted to give the court of king manuel a show of malaccan treasures. there were also offerings from the ayutthaya kingdom ( thailand ) to the king of portugal, and all his own fortune. on the voyage, the flor de la mar was wrecked in a storm, and afonso barely escaped drowning. missions from malacca embassies to pegu, sumatra and siam, 1511 most muslim and gujarati merchants having fled the city, afonso invested in diplomatic efforts demonstrating generosity to southeast asian merchants, like the chinese, to encourage good relations with the portuguese. trade and diplomatic missions were sent to continental kingdoms : rui nunes da cunha was sent to pegu ( burma ), from where king binyaram sent back a friendly emissary to kochi in 1514 and sumatra, sumatran kings of kampar and indragiri sending emissaries to afonso accepting the new power, as vassal states of malacca. knowing of siamese ambitions over malacca, afonso sent duarte fernandes in a diplomatic mission to the ayutthaya kingdom ( thailand ), returning in a chinese junk. he was one of the portuguese who had been arrested in malacca, having gathered knowledge about the culture of the region. there he was the first european to arrive, establishing amicable relations between the kingdom