carr, ken mattingly, neil armstrong, buzz aldrin, vance brand, and fred haise. the mission control teams rotated in three shifts, each led by a flight director. the directors for apollo8 were clifford e. charlesworth ( green team ), glynn lunney ( black team ), and milton windler ( maroon team ). mission insignia and callsign the triangular shape of the insignia refers to the shape of the apollo cm. it shows a red figure8 looping around the earth and moon to reflect both the mission number and the circumlunar nature of the mission. on the bottom of the8 are the names of the three astronauts. the initial design of the insignia was developed by jim lovell, who reportedly sketched it while riding in the back seat of a t - 38 flight from california to houston shortly after learning of apollo8 ' s re - designation as a lunar - orbital mission. the crew wanted to name their spacecraft, but nasa did not allow it. the crew would have likely chosen columbiad, the name of the giant cannon that launches a space vehicle in jules verne ' s 1865 novel from the earth to the moon. the apollo11 cm was named columbia in part for that reason. preparations mission schedule on september 20, 1967, nasa adopted a seven - step plan for apollo missions, with the final step being a moon landing. apollo4 and apollo6 were " a " missions, tests of the saturnv launch vehicle using an uncrewed block i production model of the command and service module ( csm ) in earth orbit. apollo5 was a " b " mission, a test of the lm in earth orbit. apollo7, scheduled for october 1968, would be a " c " mission, a crewed earth - orbit flight of the csm. further missions depended on the readiness of the lm. it had been decided as early as may 1967 that there would be at least four additional missions. apollo8 was planned as the " d " mission, a test of the lm in a low earth orbit in december 1968 by james mcdivitt, david scott, and russell schweickart, while borman ' s crew would fly the " e " mission, a more rigorous lm test in an elliptical medium earth orbit as apollo9, in early 1969. the " f " mission would test the csm and lm in lunar orbit, and the " g " mission would be the finale, the moon landing. production of the l