a low opinion of retail, believing that contrary to using money to procure things one needs in managing the household, retail trade seeks to make a profit. it thus uses goods as a means to an end, rather than as an end unto itself. he believed that retail trade was in this way unnatural. similarly, aristotle considered making a profit through interest unnatural, as it makes a gain out of the money itself, and not from its use. aristotle gave a summary of the function of money that was perhaps remarkably precocious for his time. he wrote that because it is impossible to determine the value of every good through a count of the number of other goods it is worth, the necessity arises of a single universal standard of measurement. money thus allows for the association of different goods and makes them " commensurable ". he goes on to state that money is also useful for future exchange, making it a sort of security. that is, " if we do not want a thing now, we shall be able to get it when we do want it ". rhetoric aristotle ' s rhetoric proposes that a speaker can use three basic kinds of appeals to persuade his audience : ethos ( an appeal to the speaker ' s character ), pathos ( an appeal to the audience ' s emotion ), and logos ( an appeal to logical reasoning ). he also categorizes rhetoric into three genres : epideictic ( ceremonial speeches dealing with praise or blame ), forensic ( judicial speeches over guilt or innocence ), and deliberative ( speeches calling on an audience to make a decision on an issue ). aristotle also outlines two kinds of rhetorical proofs : enthymeme ( proof by syllogism ) and paradeigma ( proof by example ). poetics aristotle writes in his poetics that epic poetry, tragedy, comedy, dithyrambic poetry, painting, sculpture, music, and dance are all fundamentally acts of mimesis ( " imitation " ), each varying in imitation by medium, object, and manner. he applies the term mimesis both as a property of a work of art and also as the product of the artist ' s intention and contends that the audience ' s realisation of the mimesis is vital to understanding the work itself. aristotle states that mimesis is a natural instinct of humanity that separates humans from animals and that all human artistry " follows the pattern of nature ". because of this, aristotle believed that each of the mimetic arts possesses what stephen