this figure was approximately correct. he then measured the apparent sizes of the sun and the moon and concluded that the apparent diameter of the sun was equal to the apparent diameter of the moon at the moon ' s greatest distance, and from records of lunar eclipses, he estimated this apparent diameter, as well as the apparent diameter of the shadow cone of earth traversed by the moon during a lunar eclipse. given these data, the distance of the sun from earth can be trigonometrically computed to be earth radii. this gives a ratio of solar to lunar distance of approximately 19, matching aristarchus ' s figure. although ptolemy ' s procedure is theoretically workable, it is very sensitive to small changes in the data, so much so that changing a measurement by a few per cent can make the solar distance infinite. after greek astronomy was transmitted to the medieval islamic world, astronomers made some changes to ptolemy ' s cosmological model, but did not greatly change his estimate of the earth – sun distance. for example, in his introduction to ptolemaic astronomy, al - farghani gave a mean solar distance of earth radii, whereas in his zij, al - battani used a mean solar distance of earth radii. subsequent astronomers, such as al - biruni, used similar values. later in europe, copernicus and tycho brahe also used comparable figures ( and earth radii ), and so ptolemy ' s approximate earth – sun distance survived through the 16th century. johannes kepler was the first to realize that ptolemy ' s estimate must be significantly too low ( according to kepler, at least by a factor of three ) in his rudolphine tables ( 1627 ). kepler ' s laws of planetary motion allowed astronomers to calculate the relative distances of the planets from the sun, and rekindled interest in measuring the absolute value for earth ( which could then be applied to the other planets ). the invention of the telescope allowed far more accurate measurements of angles than is possible with the naked eye. flemish astronomer godefroy wendelin repeated aristarchus ’ measurements in 1635, and found that ptolemy ' s value was too low by a factor of at least eleven. a somewhat more accurate estimate can be obtained by observing the transit of venus. by measuring the transit in two different locations, one can accurately calculate the parallax of venus and from the relative distance of earth and venus from the sun, the solar parallax ( which cannot be measured directly due to the brightness of the