, at north adelaide ; the queen elizabeth hospital ( 340 beds ) at woodville ; modbury hospital ( 178 beds ) at modbury ; and the lyell mcewin hospital ( 198 beds ) at elizabeth vale. numerous private hospitals are also located throughout the city, with the largest operators being not - for - profits adelaide community healthcare alliance ( 3 hospitals ) and calvary care ( 4 hospitals ). in 2017, the rah was relocated from the city ' s east end to a new au $ 2. 3 billion facility built over former railyards in the west end. the state - of - the - art hospital forms part of a new biomedical precinct called biomed city that collocates the south australian health and medical research institute ( sahmri ), the university of adelaide health and medical sciences building, the university of south australia ' s health innovation building, and the state ' s dental hospital. sahmri is building a $ 300 million second facility due to be completed by 2022 to house the australian bragg centre with australia ' s first proton therapy unit. there are also plans for the women ' s and children ' s hospital to be relocated to the precinct adjacent the rah by 2024. the largest provider of community health care within adelaide is the not - for - profit royal district nursing service ( rdns ), which provides out of hospital care and hospital avoidance care. energy adelaide ' s energy requirements were originally met by the adelaide electric supply company, which was nationalised by the playford government in 1946, becoming the electricity trust of south australia ( etsa ). despite significant public opposition and the labor party ' s anti - privatisation stance which left the liberal party one vote short of the numbers needed to pass the legislation, etsa was privatised by the olsen government in 1999 by way of a 200 - year lease for the distribution network ( etsa utilities, later renamed sa power networks ) and the outright purchase of etsa power by the cheung kong holdings for $ 3. 5 billion ( 11 times etsa ' s annual earnings ) after labor mp trevor crothers resigned from the party and voted with the government. the electricity retail market was opened to competition in 2003 and although competition was expected to result in lower retail costs, prices increased by 23. 7 % in the market ' s first year. in 2004, the privatisation was deemed to be a failure with consumers paying 60 % more for their power and with the state government estimated to lose $ 3 billion in power generation net income