. tertiary alcohols eliminate easily at just above room temperature, but primary alcohols require a higher temperature. this is a diagram of acid catalysed dehydration of ethanol to produce ethylene : a more controlled elimination reaction requires the formation of the xanthate ester. protonolysis tertiary alcohols react with strong acids to generate carbocations. the reaction is related to their dehydration, e. g. isobutylene from tert - butyl alcohol. a special kind of dehydration reaction involves triphenylmethanol and especially its amine - substituted derivatives. when treated with acid, these alcohols lose water to give stable carbocations, which are commercial dyes. esterification alcohol and carboxylic acids react in the so - called fischer esterification. the reaction usually requires a catalyst, such as concentrated sulfuric acid : r - oh + r ' - co2h - > r ' - co2r + h2o other types of ester are prepared in a similar manner for example, tosyl ( tosylate ) esters are made by reaction of the alcohol with p - toluenesulfonyl chloride in pyridine. oxidation primary alcohols ( ) can be oxidized either to aldehydes ( ) or to carboxylic acids ( ). the oxidation of secondary alcohols ( ) normally terminates at the ketone ( ) stage. tertiary alcohols ( ) are resistant to oxidation. the direct oxidation of primary alcohols to carboxylic acids normally proceeds via the corresponding aldehyde, which is transformed via an aldehyde hydrate ( ) by reaction with water before it can be further oxidized to the carboxylic acid. reagents useful for the transformation of primary alcohols to aldehydes are normally also suitable for the oxidation of secondary alcohols to ketones. these include collins reagent and dess - martin periodinane. the direct oxidation of primary alcohols to carboxylic acids can be carried out using potassium permanganate or the jones reagent. see also enol ethanol fuel fatty alcohol index of alcohol - related articles list of alcohols lucas test polyol rubbing alcohol sugar alcohol transesterification notes citations general references antiseptics functional groups