ended when the younger drusus died of seemingly natural causes on 14 september ad 23. after the death of tiberius ' son, agrippina wanted to advance the careers of her sons, who were all potential heirs for tiberius. it has been suggested that to achieve this, agrippina commissioned the great cameo of france and presented it to tiberius as a personalized gift that positioned the family of germanicus around the emperor. the work was designed to convince tiberius to choose her children as his heirs. ultimately, the death of tiberius ' son elevated her own children to the position of heirs. her sons were the logical choice, because they were the sons of germanicus and tiberius ' grandsons were too young. nero was becoming popular in the senate due in part, tacitus says, to his resemblance with his father. the rise of her children was threatening to sejanus ' position. resultantly, sejanus began spreading rumors about agrippina in the imperial court. the coming years were marked with increasing hostility between sejanus and agrippina and her sons. this effectively caused factions to rise in the aristocracy between her family and sejanus. political rivalry on new year ' s day, ad 24, sejanus had the priests and magistrates add prayers for the health of nero and drusus in addition to those normally offered to the emperor on that day. tiberius was not happy with this and he voiced his displeasure in the senate. in addition, he questioned the priests of the palatine. some of the priests who offered the prayers were relatives of agrippina and germanicus. this made tiberius suspicious of her and marked a change in his attitude toward her and her older sons, but not caligula. in ad 25, sejanus requested livilla ' s hand in marriage. livilla was a niece of the emperor, which would have made him a member of the imperial family. while this did make his ambitions clear, his request was denied. the loss may have been huge for sejanus had the dissensions in the imperial household not been deteriorating. relations were so bad that agrippina refused to eat at tiberius ' dinner parties for fear of being poisoned. she also asked tiberius if she could be allowed to remarry, which he also refused. if either of them were allowed to remarry it would have threatened the line of succession that tiberius was comfortable with. by refusing sejanus ' request, tiberius made it clear he was content with the children of germanicus and his own grandchildren being