represented as a figure, with the sun - god phre leading his chariot, or standing upon a lion borne by a crocodile ; also as a name, in connection with isis, phtha, neith, athor, thot, anubis, horus, and harpocrates in a lotus - leaf ; also with a representation of the nile, the symbol of prolificacy, with agathodaemon ( chnuphis ), or with scarabs, the symbols of the revivifying energies of nature. abrasax with grecian deities, sometimes as a figure, and again with the simple name, in connection with the planets, especially venus, hecate, and zeus, richly engraved. simple or ornamental representations of the journey of departed spirits through the starry world to amenti, borrowed, as those above - named, from the egyptian religion. the spirit wafted from the earth, either with or without the corpse, and transformed at times into osiris or helios, is depicted as riding upon the back of a crocodile, or lion, guided in some instances by anubis, and other genii, and surrounded by stars ; and thus attended hastening to judgment and a higher life. representations of the judgment, which, like the preceding, are either ornamental or plain, and imitations of egyptian art, with slight modifications and prominent symbols, as the vessel in which anubis weighs the human heart, as comprehending the entire life of man, with all its errors. worship and consecrating services were, according to the testimony of origen in his description of the ophitic diagram, conducted with figurative representations in the secret assemblies of the gnostics unless indeed the statement on which this opinion rests designates, as it readily may, a statue of glyptic workmanship. it is uncertain if any of the discovered specimens actually represent the gnostic cultus and religious ceremonies, although upon some may be seen an abrasax - figure laying its hand upon a person kneeling, as though for baptism or benediction. astrological groups. the gnostics referred everything to astrology. even the bardesenists located the inferior powers, the seven, twelve and thirty - six, among the planets, in the zodiac and starry region, as rulers of the celestial phenomena which influence the earth and its inhabitants. birth and health, wealth and allotment, are considered to be mainly under their control. other sects betray still stronger partiality for