unusually short na – na distances of 328 – 330 pm which are shorter than in sodium metal, and this indicates that even with these electropositive metals the bonding cannot be straightforwardly ionic. other alkali metal arsenides not conforming to the formula m3as are known, such as lias, which has a metallic lustre and electrical conductivity indicating the presence of some metallic bonding. the antimonides are unstable and reactive as the sb3− ion is a strong reducing agent ; reaction of them with acids form the toxic and unstable gas stibine ( sbh3 ). indeed, they have some metallic properties, and the alkali metal antimonides of stoichiometry msb involve antimony atoms bonded in a spiral zintl structure. bismuthides are not even wholly ionic ; they are intermetallic compounds containing partially metallic and partially ionic bonds. oxides and chalcogenides all the alkali metals react vigorously with oxygen at standard conditions. they form various types of oxides, such as simple oxides ( containing the o2− ion ), peroxides ( containing the ion, where there is a single bond between the two oxygen atoms ), superoxides ( containing the ion ), and many others. lithium burns in air to form lithium oxide, but sodium reacts with oxygen to form a mixture of sodium oxide and sodium peroxide. potassium forms a mixture of potassium peroxide and potassium superoxide, while rubidium and caesium form the superoxide exclusively. their reactivity increases going down the group : while lithium, sodium and potassium merely burn in air, rubidium and caesium are pyrophoric ( spontaneously catch fire in air ). the smaller alkali metals tend to polarise the larger anions ( the peroxide and superoxide ) due to their small size. this attracts the electrons in the more complex anions towards one of its constituent oxygen atoms, forming an oxide ion and an oxygen atom. this causes lithium to form the oxide exclusively on reaction with oxygen at room temperature. this effect becomes drastically weaker for the larger sodium and potassium, allowing them to form the less stable peroxides. rubidium and caesium, at the bottom of the group, are so large that even the least stable superoxides can form. because the superoxide releases the most energy when formed, the superoxide is preferentially formed for the larger alkali metals where the more complex anions are not polarised. ( the oxides and