important as it is the major organizer in the ais. axonal transport the axoplasm is the equivalent of cytoplasm in the cell. microtubules form in the axoplasm at the axon hillock. they are arranged along the length of the axon, in overlapping sections, and all point in the same directiontowards the axon terminals. this is noted by the positive endings of the microtubules. this overlapping arrangement provides the routes for the transport of different materials from the cell body. studies on the axoplasm has shown the movement of numerous vesicles of all sizes to be seen along cytoskeletal filamentsthe microtubules, and neurofilaments, in both directions between the axon and its terminals and the cell body. outgoing anterograde transport from the cell body along the axon, carries mitochondria and membrane proteins needed for growth to the axon terminal. ingoing retrograde transport carries cell waste materials from the axon terminal to the cell body. outgoing and ingoing tracks use different sets of motor proteins. outgoing transport is provided by kinesin, and ingoing return traffic is provided by dynein. dynein is minus - end directed. there are many forms of kinesin and dynein motor proteins, and each is thought to carry a different cargo. the studies on transport in the axon led to the naming of kinesin. myelination in the nervous system, axons may be myelinated, or unmyelinated. this is the provision of an insulating layer, called a myelin sheath. the myelin membrane is unique in its relatively high lipid to protein ratio. in the peripheral nervous system axons are myelinated by glial cells known as schwann cells. in the central nervous system the myelin sheath is provided by another type of glial cell, the oligodendrocyte. schwann cells myelinate a single axon. an oligodendrocyte can myelinate up to 50 axons. the composition of myelin is different in the two types. in the cns the major myelin protein is proteolipid protein, and in the pns it is myelin basic protein. nodes of ranvier nodes of ranvier ( also known as myelin sheath gaps ) are short unmyelinated segments of a myelinated axon, which are found