popular sport in albania. it is governed by the football association of albania (, f. sh. f. ), which has membership in fifa and uefa. the albania national football team, ranking 51st in the world in 2017 ( highest 22nd on 22 august 2015 ) have won the 1946 balkan cup and the malta rothmans international tournament 2000, but had never participated in any major uefa or fifa tournament, until uefa euro 2016, albania ' s first ever appearance at the continental tournament and at a major men ' s football tournament. albania scored their first ever goal in a major tournament and secured their first ever win in european championship when they beat romania by 1 – 0 in a uefa euro 2016 match on 19 june 2016. the most successful football clubs are skenderbeu, kf tirana, dinamo tirana, partizani and vllaznia. weightlifting is one of the most successful individual sport for the albanians, with the national team winning medals at the european weightlifting championships and the rest international competitions. albanian weightlifters have won a total of 16 medals at the european championships with 1 of them being gold, 7 silver and 8 bronze. in the world weightlifting championships, the albanian weightlifting team has won in 1972 a gold in 2002 a silver and in 2011 a bronze medal. diaspora historically, the albanian people have established several communities in many regions throughout southern europe. the albanian diaspora has been formed since the late middle ages, when they emigrated to places such as italy, especially in sicily and calabria, and greece to escape either various socio - political difficulties or the ottoman conquest of albania. following the fall of communism, large numbers of albanians have migrated to countries such as australia, canada, france, germany, greece, italy, scandinavia, switzerland, the united kingdom and the united states. albanian minorities are present in the neighbouring territories such as the west of north macedonia, the east of montenegro, kosovo in its entirety and southern serbia. in kosovo, albanians are the largest ethnic group in the country. altogether, the number of ethnic albanians living abroad is estimated to be higher than the total population inside albania. see also outline of albania bibliography of albania notes references further reading history of the party of labor of albania. tirana : institute of marxist – leninist studies, 1971. 691 p. external links albania. al president. al kryeministria. al parlament. al albania at the world factbook by central intelligence agency ( cia ) countries and territories where albanian is an official language balkan countries countries in europe member states of nato member states of the