charles scribner ' s sons, vol. 5, pp. 165 – 171. ( the version at encyclopedia. com lacks the diagram and equations. ) r. taylor ( ed. ), 1852, scientific memoirs, selected from the transactions of foreign academies of science and learned societies, and from foreign journals ( in english ), vol., london : taylor & francis. w. whewell, 1857, history of the inductive sciences : from the earliest to the present time, 3rd ed., london : j. w. parker & son, vol. 2, book, chapters. e. t. whittaker, 1910, a history of the theories of aether and electricity : from the age of descartes to the close of the nineteenth century, london : longmans, green, & co., chapters. j. worrall, 1989, " fresnel, poisson and the white spot : the role of successful predictions in the acceptance of scientific theories ", in d. gooding, t. pinch, and s. schaffer ( eds. ), the uses of experiment : studies in the natural sciences, cambridge university press,, pp. 135 – 157. t. young, 1807, a course of lectures on natural philosophy and the mechanical arts ( 2 volumes ), london : j. johnson ; vol. 1, vol. 2. t. young ( ed. g. peacock ), 1855, miscellaneous works of the late thomas young, london : j. murray, vol. 1. further reading some english translations of works by fresnel are included in the above bibliography. for a more comprehensive list, see " external links " below. the most detailed secondary source on fresnel in english is apparently buchwald 1989 — in which fresnel, although not named in the title, is clearly the central character. on lighthouse lenses, this article heavily cites levitt 2013, elton 2009, and thomas tag at the u. s. lighthouse society ( see " external links " below ). all three authors deal not only with fresnel ' s contributions but also with later innovations that are not mentioned here ( see fresnel lens : history ). by comparison with the volume and impact of his scientific and technical writings, biographical information on fresnel is remarkably scarce. there is no book - length critical biography of him, and anyone who proposes to write one must confront the fact that the letters published in his oeuvres completes — contrary to the title