, which has a capacity of 17, 000 and is one of the few purpose - built soccer stadia in australia. prior to united ' s foundation, adelaide city and west adelaide represented the city in the national soccer league. the two sides, which contest the adelaide derby against one another, now play in the national premier leagues south australia. for two years, 1997 and 1998, adelaide was represented in australia ' s top level rugby league, after the new south wales rugby league had played a single game per season at the adelaide oval for five years starting in 1991. the adelaide rams were formed and played in the breakaway super league ( sl ) competition in 1997 before moving to the new national rugby league in 1998. initially playing at the adelaide oval, the club moved to the more suitable hindmarsh stadium late in the 1998 season. as part of a peace deal with the australian rugby league to end the super league war, the club ' s owners news limited ( who were also owners of the sl ) suddenly closed the club only weeks before the start of the 1999 season. adelaide has two professional basketball teams, the men ' s team being the adelaide 36ers which plays in the national basketball league ( nbl ) and the women ' s team, the adelaide lightning which plays in the women ' s national basketball league ( wnbl ). both teams play their home games at the titanium security arena. adelaide has a professional netball team, the adelaide thunderbirds, which plays in the national netball competition, the suncorp super netball championship, with home games played at netball sa stadium. the thunderbirds occasionally play games or finals at the titanium security arena, while international netball matches are usually played at the 10, 500 seat adelaide entertainment centre. the titanium security arena has a capacity of 8, 000 and is the largest purpose - built basketball stadium in australia. since 1999 adelaide and its surrounding areas have hosted the tour down under bicycle race, organised and directed by adelaide - based michael turtur. turtur won an olympic gold medal for australia in the 4000 m team pursuit at the 1984 los angeles olympics. the tour down under is the largest cycling event outside europe and was the first event outside europe to be granted uci protour status. adelaide maintains a franchise in the australian baseball league, the adelaide giants. they have been playing since 2009, and their home stadium ( until 2016 ) was norwood oval. from 2016 the team moved to the diamond sports stadium located near the adelaide international airport due to renovations at norwood. adelaide also has an ice hockey team, adelaide adrenaline in