equilibrate when in contact with alkali metals. whereas isomerisation is fast with lithium and sodium, it is slow with the heavier alkali metals. the heavier alkali metals also favour the sterically congested conformation. several crystal structures of organopotassium compounds have been reported, establishing that they, like the sodium compounds, are polymeric. organosodium, organopotassium, organorubidium and organocaesium compounds are all mostly ionic and are insoluble ( or nearly so ) in nonpolar solvents. alkyl and aryl derivatives of sodium and potassium tend to react with air. they cause the cleavage of ethers, generating alkoxides. unlike alkyllithium compounds, alkylsodiums and alkylpotassiums cannot be made by reacting the metals with alkyl halides because wurtz coupling occurs : rm + r ' x → r – r ' + mx as such, they have to be made by reacting alkylmercury compounds with sodium or potassium metal in inert hydrocarbon solvents. while methylsodium forms tetramers like methyllithium, methylpotassium is more ionic and has the nickel arsenide structure with discrete methyl anions and potassium cations. the alkali metals and their hydrides react with acidic hydrocarbons, for example cyclopentadienes and terminal alkynes, to give salts. liquid ammonia, ether, or hydrocarbon solvents are used, the most common of which being tetrahydrofuran. the most important of these compounds is sodium cyclopentadienide, nac5h5, an important precursor to many transition metal cyclopentadienyl derivatives. similarly, the alkali metals react with cyclooctatetraene in tetrahydrofuran to give alkali metal cyclooctatetraenides ; for example, dipotassium cyclooctatetraenide ( k2c8h8 ) is an important precursor to many metal cyclooctatetraenyl derivatives, such as uranocene. the large and very weakly polarising alkali metal cations can stabilise large, aromatic, polarisable radical anions, such as the dark - green sodium naphthalenide, na + [ c10h8 • ] −, a strong reducing agent. representative reactions of alkali metals reaction