to treat heart disease is regarded as superstition. another point of divergence occurs in 1199, when richard the lionheart survives the siege of chaluz and returns to england and makes the angevin empire so strong that it survives into the 20th century. jonathan strange & mr norrell by susanna clarke takes place in an england where a separate kingdom ruled by the raven king and founded on magic existed in northumbria for over 300 years. in patricia wrede ' s regency fantasies, great britain has a royal society of wizards. the tales of alvin maker series by orson scott card ( a parallel to the life of joseph smith, founder of the latter day saint movement ) takes place in an alternate america, beginning in the early 19th century. prior to that time, a pod occurred : england, under the rule of oliver cromwell, had banished " makers ", or anyone else demonstrating " knacks " ( an ability to perform seemingly supernatural feats ) to the north american continent. thus the early american colonists embraced as perfectly ordinary these gifts, and counted on them as a part of their daily lives. the political division of the continent is considerably altered, with two large english colonies bookending a smaller " american " nation, one aligned with england, and the other governed by exiled cavaliers. actual historical figures are seen in a much different light : ben franklin is revered as the continent ' s finest " maker ", george washington was executed after being captured, and " tom " jefferson is the first president of " appalachia ", the result of a compromise between the continentals and the british crown. on the other hand, when the " old ones " ( fairies ) still manifest themselves in england in keith roberts ' s pavane, which takes place in a technologically backward world after a spanish assassination of elizabeth i allowed the spanish armada to conquer england, the possibility that the fairies were real but retreated from modern advances makes the pod possible : the fairies really were present all along, in a secret history. again, in the english renaissance fantasy armor of light by melissa scott and lisa a. barnett, the magic used in the book, by dr. john dee and others, actually was practiced in the renaissance ; positing a secret history of effective magic makes this an alternate history with a point of departure. sir philip sidney survives the battle of zutphen in 1586, and shortly thereafter saving the life of christopher marlowe. when the magical version of our world ' s history is set in contemporary times, the distinction becomes clear