. in recent years, there has been an uptick in saffron production, which authorities and farmers trying to replace poppy cultivation. between 2012 and 2019, the saffron cultivated and produced in afghanistan was consecutively ranked the world ' s best by the international taste and quality institute. production hit record high in 2019 ( 19, 469 kg of saffron ), and one kilogram is sold domestically between $ 634 and $ 1147. the availability of cheap diesel - powered water pumps imported from china and pakistan, and in the 2010s, of cheap solar power to pump water, resulted in expansion of agriculture and population in the southwestern deserts of afghanistan in kandahar province, helmand province and nimruz province in the 2010s. wells have gradually been deepened, but water resources are limited. opium is the major crop, but as of 2022, was under attack by the new taliban government which, in order to suppress opium production, was systematically suppressing water pumping. in a 2023 report, poppy cultivation in southern afghanistan was reduced by over 80 % as a result of taliban campaigns to stop its use toward opium. this included a 99 % reduction of opium growth in the helmand province. mining the country ' s natural resources include : coal, copper, iron ore, lithium, uranium, rare earth elements, chromite, gold, zinc, talc, barite, sulfur, lead, marble, precious and semi - precious stones, natural gas, and petroleum. in 2010, us and afghan government officials estimated that untapped mineral deposits located in 2007 by the us geological survey are worth at least. michael e. o ' hanlon of the brookings institution estimated that if afghanistan generates about $ 10 billion per year from its mineral deposits, its gross national product would double and provide long - term funding for critical needs. the united states geological survey ( usgs ) estimated in 2006 that northern afghanistan has an average of crude oil, of natural gas, and of natural gas liquids. in 2011, afghanistan signed an oil exploration contract with china national petroleum corporation ( cnpc ) for the development of three oil fields along the amu darya river in the north. the country has significant amounts of lithium, copper, gold, coal, iron ore, and other minerals. the khanashin carbonatite in helmand province contains of rare earth elements. in 2007, a 30 - year lease was granted for the aynak copper mine to the china metallurgical group for $ 3 billion, making it