is argued that this was carried out by milesian mercenaries to act as a garrison to prevent thracian raids into asia minor. the city became a thriving centre for tuna exportation as a result of the high yield of tuna in the hellespont. abydos was ruled by daphnis, a pro - persian tyrant, in the 520s bc, but was occupied by the persian empire in 514. darius i destroyed the city following his scythian campaign in 512. abydos participated in the ionian revolt in the early 5th century bc, however, the city returned briefly to persian control as, in 480, at the onset of the second persian invasion of greece, xerxes i and the persian army passed through abydos on their march to greece crossing the hellespont on xerxes ' pontoon bridges. after the failed persian invasion, abydos became a member of the athenian - led delian league, and was part of the hellespontine district. ostensibly an ally, abydos was hostile to athens throughout this time, and contributed a phoros of 4 - 6 talents. xenophon documented that abydos possessed gold mines at astyra or kremaste at the time of his writing. during the second peloponnesian war, a spartan expedition led by dercylidas arrived at abydos in early may 411 bc and successfully convinced the city to defect from the delian league and fight against athens, at which time he was made harmost ( commander / governor ) of abydos. a spartan fleet was defeated by athens at abydos in the autumn of 411 bc. abydos was attacked by the athenians in the winter of 409 / 408 bc, but was repelled by a persian force led by pharnabazus, satrap ( governor ) of hellespontine phrygia. dercylidas held the office of harmost of abydos until at least. according to aristotle, abydos had an oligarchic constitution at this time. at the beginning of the corinthian war in 394 bc, agesilaus ii, king of sparta, passed through abydos into thrace. abydos remained an ally of sparta throughout the war and dercylidas served as harmost of the city from 394 until he was replaced by anaxibius in ; the latter was killed in an ambush near abydos by the athenian general