christians ) are " included in the seed of abraham and are inheritors of the promise made to abraham. " in romans 4, abraham is praised for his " unwavering faith " in god, which is tied into the concept of partakers of the covenant of grace being those " who demonstrate faith in the saving power of christ ". throughout history, church leaders, following paul, have emphasized abraham as the spiritual father of all christians. augustine of hippo declared that christians are " children ( or " seed " ) of abraham by faith ", ambrose stated that " by means of their faith christians possess the promises made to abraham ", and martin luther recalled abraham as " a paradigm of the man of faith. " the roman catholic church, the largest christian denomination, calls abraham " our father in faith " in the eucharistic prayer of the roman canon, recited during the mass. he is also commemorated in the calendars of saints of several denominations : on 20 august by the maronite church, 28 august in the coptic church and the assyrian church of the east ( with the full office for the latter ), and on 9 october by the roman catholic church and the lutheran church – missouri synod. in the introduction to his 15th - century translation of the golden legend ' s account of abraham, william caxton noted that this patriarch ' s life was read in church on quinquagesima sunday. he is the patron saint of those in the hospitality industry. the eastern orthodox church commemorates him as the " righteous forefather abraham ", with two feast days in its liturgical calendar. the first time is on 9 october ( for those churches which follow the traditional julian calendar, 9 october falls on 22 october of the modern gregorian calendar ), where he is commemorated together with his nephew " righteous lot ". the other is on the " sunday of the forefathers " ( two sundays before christmas ), when he is commemorated together with other ancestors of jesus. abraham is also mentioned in the divine liturgy of basil the great, just before the anaphora, and abraham and sarah are invoked in the prayers said by the priest over a newly married couple. some christian theologians equate the " three visitors " with the holy trinity, seeing in their apparition a theophany experienced by abraham ( see also the articles on the constantinian basilica at mamre and the church at the so - called " oak of mamre " ). islam islam regards abraham as a link in the chain of prophets that begins with adam