a general increase in anatomical knowledge of theropods, compared several tyrannosaurid skulls and came to the conclusion that the two species are more distinct than previously thought. as the two species are sister taxa, they are more closely related to each other than to any other species of tyrannosaurid. recognizing this, currie nevertheless recommended that albertosaurus and gorgosaurus be kept as separate genera, as he concluded that they were no more similar than daspletosaurus and tyrannosaurus, which are almost always separated. in addition to this, several albertosaurine specimens have been recovered from alaska and new mexico. currie suggested that the albertosaurus - gorgosaurus situation may be clarified once these are fully described. most authors have followed currie ' s recommendation, but some have not. other species in 1930, anatoly nikolaevich riabinin named albertosaurus pericolosus based on a tooth from china that probably belonged to tarbosaurus. in 1932, friedrich von huene renamed dryptosaurus incrassatus, not considered a nomen dubium by him, to albertosaurus incrassatus. because he had identified gorgosaurus with albertosaurus, in 1970, russell also renamed gorgosaurus sternbergi ( matthew & brown 1922 ) into albertosaurus sternbergi and gorgosaurus lancensis ( gilmore 1946 ) into albertosaurus lancensis. the former species is today seen as a juvenile form of gorgosaurus libratus and the latter is seen as either identical to tyrannosaurus or representing a separate genus, nanotyrannus. in 1988, gregory s. paul based albertosaurus megagracilis on a small tyrannosaurid skeleton, specimen lacm 28345, from the hell creek formation of montana. it was renamed dinotyrannus in 1995, but is now thought to represent a juvenile tyrannosaurus rex. also in 1988, paul renamed alectrosaurus olseni ( gilmore 1933 ) into albertosaurus olseni, but this has found no general acceptance. in 1989, gorgosaurus novojilovi ( maleev 1955 ) was renamed by bryn mader and robert bradley as albertosaurus novojilovi. on two occasions, species based on valid albertosaurus material were reassigned to a different genus, deinodon. in 1922, william diller matthew renamed a. sarcophagus into deinodon sarcophagus. in 1939, german paleontologist oskar kuhn renamed a. arctunguis into deinodon arctunguis