including the wing at the side. magazines for food and offerings storage were built to either side of the forecourts, as well as a small palace for the king and his retinue, to the southeast of the first forecourt ( ghazouli, the palace and magazines attached to the temple of sety i at abydos and the facade of this temple. asae 58 ( 1959 ) ). except for the list of pharaohs and a panegyric on ramesses ii, the subjects are not historical, but religious in nature, dedicated to the transformation of the king after his death. the temple reliefs are celebrated for their delicacy and artistic refinement, utilizing both the archaism of earlier dynasties with the vibrancy of late 18th dynasty reliefs. the sculptures had been published mostly in hand copy, not facsimile, by auguste mariette in his abydos, i. the temple has been partially recorded epigraphically by amice calverley and myrtle broome in their 4 volume publication of the temple of king sethos i at abydos ( 1933 – 1958 ). osireion the osirion or osireon is an ancient egyptian temple. it is located to the rear of the temple of seti i. it is an integral part of seti i ' s funeral complex and is built to resemble an 18th dynasty valley of the kings tomb. helicopter hieroglyphs some of the hieroglyphs carved over an arch on the site have been interpreted in esoteric and " ufological " circles as depicting modern technology. the " helicopter " image is the result of carved stone being re - used over time. the initial carving was made during the reign of seti i and translates to " he who repulses the nine [ enemies of egypt ] ". this carving was later filled in with plaster and re - carved during the reign of ramesses ii with the title " he who protects egypt and overthrows the foreign countries ". over time, the plaster has eroded away, leaving both inscriptions partially visible and creating a palimpsest - like effect of overlapping hieroglyphs. ramesses ii temple the adjacent temple of ramesses ii was much smaller and simpler in plan, but it had a fine historical series of scenes around the outside that lauded his achievements, of which the lower parts remain. the outside of the temple was decorated with scenes of the battle of kadesh. his list of pharaohs, similar to that of seti i, formerly