##ism list of catholic saints list of roman catholic scientist - clerics saint albert the great, patron saint archive science in the middle ages notes references citations sources sighart, joachim ( 1876 ), albert the great : his life and scholastic labours : from original documents. further reading collins, david j. " albertus, magnus or magus? magic, natural philosophy, and religious reform in the late middle ages. " renaissance quarterly 63, no. 1 ( 2010 ) : 1 – 44. honnefelder, ludger ( ed. ) albertus magnus and the beginnings of the medieval reception of aristotle in the latin west. from richardus rufus to franciscus de mayronis, ( collection of essays in german and english ), munster aschendorff, 2005. jong, jonathan. " albert the great : patron saint of scientists ", in : st mary magdalen school of theology, thinking faithfully. kovach, francis j. & shahan, robert w. albert the great. commemorative essays, norman : university of oklahoma press, 1980. lemay, helen rodnite. women ' s secrets : a translation of pseudo - albertus magnus ' s de secretis mulierum with commentaries. suny series in medieval studies. albany : suny press, 1992. miteva, evelina. " the soul between body and immortality : the 13th century debate on the definition of the human rational soul as form and substance ", in : philosophia : e - journal of philosophy and culture, 1 / 2012.. resnick, irven ( ed. ), a companion to albert the great : theology, philosophy, and the sciences, leiden, brill, 2013. resnick, irven e kitchell jr, kenneth ( eds. ), albert the great : a selective annotated bibliography, ( 1900 – 2000 ), tempe, arizona center for medieval and renaissance studies, 2004. external links alberti magni works in latin online albertus magnus on astrology & magic " albertus magnus & prognostication by the stars " albertus magnus : " secrets of the virtues of herbs, stones and certain beasts ", london, 1604, full online version. albertus magnus – de adhaerendo deo – on cleaving to god online galleries, history of science collections, university of oklahoma libraries – high resolution images of works by albertus magnus in. jpg and. tiff format. albertus magnus works at somni in the