artificial one at the entrance of sint ann bay were a complete failure. although the salt pans in bonaire showed more potential, they never developed into a major salt trading center. in 1816, aruba possessed seven salt pans, all of which yielded salt of subpar quality. the salt production was just sufficient to meet the local demand. aruban laborers, often assisted by donkeys, were tasked with gathering the salt, which was subsequently distributed among the island ' s inhabitants. around 1924, salt extraction at rancho had limited benefits, primarily being used in the preservation of fish during shipping. paardenbaai ( horses ' bay ) contained salt pans up until 1949 when it was dredged and disappeared beneath the sand. 1648 – 1687 between the peace of westphalia in 1648 and the peace of nijmegen in 1678, there were 30 years of crisis in the dutch antilles and the entire caribbean region. by 1648, curacao had lost its importance as a military outpost. governor peter stuyvesant had a plan to strengthen the connections between the islands and new netherland. he believed that the two colonies could support each other : new netherland would provide food in exchange for slaves from curacao, horses from aruba, and salt from bonaire. but stuyvesant didn ' t anticipate the rivalry between the two colonies, which prevented them from working together effectively. the dutch in curacao preferred to sell their goods to other caribbean islands where they could get a better price, rather than trading with their fellow countrymen in new netherland. additionally, the islands were involved in illegal trade with the spanish mainland and didn ' t want to switch to legal trade with new netherland. governor stuyvesant needed slaves to strengthen new amsterdam ' s defenses, but he mostly received old or sick slaves, called mancarrons, in response to his requests. the better slaves were sold elsewhere to the highest bidder. however, the people in new netherland weren ' t motivated by unselfish reasons or a strong sense of patriotism. they continued to trade with their french, english, and swedish neighbors across the border. only in extreme situations did their shared heritage become more important than making money. for example, when the islands faced famine due to a series of dry seasons, stuyvesant came to the rescue by sending a ship with food just in time. the troubled relationship between the curacao islands and new netherland came to a