with altitude is given by the presence of the chief deciduous trees — oak, beech, ash and sycamore maple. these do not reach the same elevation, nor are they often found growing together, but their upper limit corresponds accurately enough to the change from a temperate to a colder climate that is further proved by a change in the presence of wild herbaceous vegetation. this limit usually lies about above the sea on the north side of the alps, but on the southern slopes it often rises to, sometimes even to. above the forestry, there is often a band of short pine trees ( pinus mugo ), which is in turn superseded by alpenrosen, dwarf shrubs, typically rhododendron ferrugineum ( on acid soils ) or rhododendron hirsutum ( on alkaline soils ). although alpenrose prefers acidic soil, the plants are found throughout the region. above the tree line is the area defined as " alpine " where in the alpine meadow plants are found that have adapted well to harsh conditions of cold temperatures, aridity, and high altitudes. the alpine area fluctuates greatly because of regional fluctuations in tree lines. alpine plants such as the alpine gentian grow in abundance in areas such as the meadows above the lauterbrunnental. gentians are named after the illyrian king gentius, and 40 species of the early - spring blooming flower grow in the alps, in a range of. writing about the gentians in switzerland d. h. lawrence described them as " darkening the day - time, torch - like with the smoking blueness of pluto ' s gloom. " gentians tend to " appear " repeatedly as the spring blooming takes place at progressively later dates, moving from the lower altitude to the higher altitude meadows where the snow melts much later than in the valleys. on the highest rocky ledges, the spring flowers bloom in the summer. at these higher altitudes, the plants tend to form isolated cushions. in the alps, several species of flowering plants have been recorded above, including ranunculus glacialis, androsace alpina and saxifraga biflora. eritrichium nanum, commonly known as the king of the alps, is the most elusive of the alpine flowers, growing on rocky ridges at. perhaps the best known of the alpine plants is edelweiss which grows in rocky areas and can be found at altitudes as low as and as high as. the plants that