the f mission was successfully carried out on apollo 10 in may 1969 by gemini veterans thomas p. stafford, john young and eugene cernan. stafford and cernan took the lm to within of the lunar surface. the g mission was achieved on apollo 11 in july 1969 by an all - gemini veteran crew consisting of neil armstrong, michael collins and buzz aldrin. armstrong and aldrin performed the first landing at the sea of tranquility at 20 : 17 : 40 utc on july 20, 1969. they spent a total of 21 hours, 36 minutes on the surface, and spent 2hours, 31 minutes outside the spacecraft, walking on the surface, taking photographs, collecting material samples, and deploying automated scientific instruments, while continuously sending black - and - white television back to earth. the astronauts returned safely on july 24. production lunar landings in november 1969, charles " pete " conrad became the third person to step onto the moon, which he did while speaking more informally than had armstrong : conrad and rookie alan l. bean made a precision landing of apollo 12 within walking distance of the surveyor 3 uncrewed lunar probe, which had landed in april 1967 on the ocean of storms. the command module pilot was gemini veteran richard f. gordon jr. conrad and bean carried the first lunar surface color television camera, but it was damaged when accidentally pointed into the sun. they made two evas totaling 7hours and 45 minutes. on one, they walked to the surveyor, photographed it, and removed some parts which they returned to earth. the contracted batch of 15 saturn vs was enough for lunar landing missions through apollo 20. shortly after apollo 11, nasa publicized a preliminary list of eight more planned landing sites after apollo 12, with plans to increase the mass of the csm and lm for the last five missions, along with the payload capacity of the saturn v. these final missions would combine the i and j types in the 1967 list, allowing the cmp to operate a package of lunar orbital sensors and cameras while his companions were on the surface, and allowing them to stay on the moon for over three days. these missions would also carry the lunar roving vehicle ( lrv ) increasing the exploration area and allowing televised liftoff of the lm. also, the block ii spacesuit was revised for the extended missions to allow greater flexibility and visibility for driving the lrv. the success of the first two landings allowed the remaining missions to be crewed with a single veteran as commander, with two rookies.