poem " the astronaut ", appearing in the november 1934 bulletin of the british interplanetary society. the first known formal use of the term astronautics in the scientific community was the establishment of the annual international astronautical congress in 1950, and the subsequent founding of the international astronautical federation the following year. nasa applies the term astronaut to any crew member aboard nasa spacecraft bound for earth orbit or beyond. nasa also uses the term as a title for those selected to join its astronaut corps. the european space agency similarly uses the term astronaut for members of its astronaut corps. cosmonaut by convention, an astronaut employed by the russian federal space agency ( or its predecessor, the soviet space program ) is called a cosmonaut in english texts. the word is an anglicization of kosmonavt ( ). other countries of the former eastern bloc use variations of the russian kosmonavt, such as the ( although poles also used, and the two words are considered synonyms ). coinage of the term has been credited to soviet aeronautics ( or " cosmonautics " ) pioneer mikhail tikhonravov ( 1900 – 1974 ). the first cosmonaut was soviet air force pilot yuri gagarin, also the first person in space. he was part of the first six soviet citizens, with german titov, yevgeny khrunov, andriyan nikolayev, pavel popovich, and grigoriy nelyubov, who were given the title of pilot - cosmonaut in january 1961. valentina tereshkova was the first female cosmonaut and the first and youngest woman to have flown in space with a solo mission on the vostok 6 in 1963. on 14 march 1995, norman thagard became the first american to ride to space on board a russian launch vehicle, and thus became the first " american cosmonaut ". taikonaut in chinese, the term (, " cosmos navigating personnel " ) is used for astronauts and cosmonauts in general, while (, " navigating celestial - heaven personnel " ) is used for chinese astronauts. here, (, literally " heaven - navigating ", or spaceflight ) is strictly defined as the navigation of outer space within the local star system, i. e. solar system. the phrase (, " spaceman " ) is often used in hong kong and taiwan. the term taikonaut is used by some english - language news media organizations for professional space travelers from