function correctly after being built. intermittently from 1880 to 1910, babbage ' s son henry prevost babbage was constructing a part of the mill and the printing apparatus. in 1910, it was able to calculate a ( faulty ) list of multiples of pi. this constituted only a small part of the whole engine ; it was not programmable and had no storage. ( popular images of this section have sometimes been mislabelled, implying that it was the entire mill or even the entire engine. ) henry babbage ' s " analytical engine mill " is on display at the science museum in london. henry also proposed building a demonstration version of the full engine, with a smaller storage capacity : " perhaps for a first machine ten ( columns ) would do, with fifteen wheels in each ". such a version could manipulate 20 numbers of 25 digits each, and what it could be told to do with those numbers could still be impressive. " it is only a question of cards and time ", wrote henry babbage in 1888, "... and there is no reason why ( twenty thousand ) cards should not be used if necessary, in an analytical engine for the purposes of the mathematician ". in 1991, the london science museum built a complete and working specimen of babbage ' s difference engine no. 2, a design that incorporated refinements babbage discovered during the development of the analytical engine. this machine was built using materials and engineering tolerances that would have been available to babbage, quelling the suggestion that babbage ' s designs could not have been produced using the manufacturing technology of his time. in october 2010, john graham - cumming started a " plan 28 " campaign to raise funds by " public subscription " to enable serious historical and academic study of babbage ' s plans, with a view to then build and test a fully working virtual design which will then in turn enable construction of the physical analytical engine. as of may 2016, actual construction had not been attempted, since no consistent understanding could yet be obtained from babbage ' s original design drawings. in particular it was unclear whether it could handle the indexed variables which were required for lovelace ' s bernoulli program. by 2017, the " plan 28 " effort reported that a searchable database of all catalogued material was available, and an initial review of babbage ' s voluminous scribbling books had been completed. many of babbage ' s original drawings have been digitised and