assistive technology ( at ) is a term for assistive, adaptive, and rehabilitative devices for people with disabilities and the elderly. disabled people often have difficulty performing activities of daily living ( adls ) independently, or even with assistance. adls are self - care activities that include toileting, mobility ( ambulation ), eating, bathing, dressing, grooming, and personal device care. assistive technology can ameliorate the effects of disabilities that limit the ability to perform adls. assistive technology promotes greater independence by enabling people to perform tasks they were formerly unable to accomplish, or had great difficulty accomplishing, by providing enhancements to, or changing methods of interacting with, the technology needed to accomplish such tasks. for example, wheelchairs provide independent mobility for those who cannot walk, while assistive eating devices can enable people who cannot feed themselves to do so. due to assistive technology, disabled people have an opportunity of a more positive and easygoing lifestyle, with an increase in " social participation ", " security and control ", and a greater chance to " reduce institutional costs without significantly increasing household expenses. " in schools, assistive technology can be critical in allowing students with disabilities to access the general education curriculum. students who experience challenges writing or keyboarding, for example, can use voice recognition software instead. assistive technologies assist people who are recovering from strokes and people who have sustained injuries that affect their daily tasks. adaptive technology adaptive technology and assistive technology are different. assistive technology is something that is used to help disabled people, while adaptive technology covers items that are specifically designed for disabled people and would seldom be used by a non - disabled person. in other words, assistive technology is any object or system that helps people with disabilities, while adaptive technology is specifically designed for disabled people. consequently, adaptive technology is a subset of assistive technology. adaptive technology often refers specifically to electronic and information technology access. occupational therapy occupational therapy ( ot ) is a healthcare profession that specializes in maintaining or improving the quality of life for individuals that experience challenges when independently performing life ' s occupations. according to the occupational therapy practice framework : domain and process ( 3rd ed. ; aota, 2014 ), occupations include areas related to all basic and instrumental activities of daily living ( adls ), rest and sleep, education, work, play, leisure and social participation. occupational therapists have the specialized skill of employing assistive technology ( at ) in the improvement and maintenance of optimal, functional participation in occupations. the application