, in the gospel of mark, jesus speaks of a " tribulation ", with his " coming in the clouds with great power and glory " ( st. mark ), and states that it will happen but it has not : " this generation shall not pass, till all these things be fulfilled " ( st. matthew, 24 : 34 ) or, " have taken place " ( luke 21 : 32 ). similarly, in 1st peter 1 : 20, " christ, who verily was foreordained before the foundation of the world but was manifest in these last times for you ", as well as " but the end of all things is at hand " ( 1 peter 4 : 7 ) and " surely, i come quickly. " ( revelation 22 : 20 ). schweitzer concluded his treatment of jesus with what has been called the most famous words of twentieth - century theology : " he comes to us as one unknown, without a name, as of old, by the lake - side, he came to those men who knew him not. he speaks to us the same word : ' follow thou me ' and sets us to the task which he has to fulfill for our time. he commands. and to those who obey him, whether they be wise or simple, he will reveal himself in the toils, the conflicts, the sufferings which they shall pass through in his fellowship, and as an ineffable mystery, they shall learn in their own experience who he is. " the mysticism of paul the apostle ( 1931 ) in the mysticism of paul the apostle, schweitzer first distinguishes between two categories of mysticism : primitive and developed. primitive mysticism " has not yet risen to a conception of the universal, and is still confined to naive views of earthly and super - earthly, temporal and eternal ". additionally, he argues that this view of a " union with the divinity, brought about by efficacious ceremonies, is found even in quite primitive religions ". on the other hand, a more developed form of mysticism can be found in the greek mystery - cults that were popular in first - century a. d. society. these included the cults of attis, osiris, and mithras. a developed form of mysticism is attained when the " conception of the universal is reached and a man reflects upon his relation to the totality of being and to being in itself ". schweitzer claims that this form of mysticism is more intellectual