of the bugel ), a large spade - like fluke area, and a sharp toe for penetrating weed and grass. the rocna sets quickly and holds well. mantus : this is claimed to be a fast setting anchor with high holding power. it is designed as an all round anchor capable of setting even in challenging bottoms such as hard sand / clay bottoms and grass. the shank is made out of a high tensile steel capable of withstanding high loads. it is similar in design to the rocna but has a larger and wider roll - bar that reduces the risk of fouling and increases the angle of the fluke that results in improved penetration in some bottoms. ultra : this is an innovative spade design that dispenses with a roll - bar. made primarily of stainless steel, its main arm is hollow, while the fluke tip has lead within it. it is similar in appearance to the spade anchor. vulcan : a recent sibling to the rocna, this anchor performs similarly but does not have a roll - bar. instead the vulcan has patented design features such as the " v - bulb " and the " roll palm " that allow it to dig in deeply. the vulcan was designed primarily for sailors who had difficulties accommodating the roll - bar rocna on their bow. peter smith ( originator of the rocna ) designed it specifically for larger powerboats. both vulcans and rocnas are available in galvanised steel, or in stainless steel. the vulcan is similar in appearance to the spade anchor. knox anchor : this is produced in scotland and was invented by professor john knox. it has a divided concave large area fluke arrangement and a shank in high tensile steel. a roll bar similar to the rocna gives fast setting and a holding power of about 40 times anchor weight. other temporary anchors mud weight : consists of a blunt heavy weight, usually cast iron or cast lead, that sinks into the mud and resist lateral movement. it is suitable only for soft silt bottoms and in mild conditions. sizes range between 5 and 20 kg for small craft. various designs exist and many are home produced from lead or improvised with heavy objects. this is a commonly used method on the norfolk broads in england. bulwagga : this is a unique design featuring three flukes instead of the usual two. it has performed well in tests by independent sources such as american boating magazine practical sailor. permanent anchors these are used where the vessel is permanently or semi - permanently sited, for example in