mixed with honey, molasses, or chocolate to make a treat called, meaning " joy " in spanish. while all species are believed to be native to the americas, several have been cultivated and introduced to warm regions worldwide. amaranth ' s cosmopolitan distribution makes it one of many plants providing evidence of pre - columbian oceanic contact. the earliest archeological evidence for amaranth in the old world was found in an excavation in narhan, india, dated to 1000 – 800 bce. because of its importance as a symbol of indigenous culture, its palatability, ease of cooking, and a protein that is particularly well - suited to human nutritional needs, interest in amaranth seeds ( especially a. cruentus and a. hypochondriacus ) revived in the 1970s. it was recovered in mexico from wild varieties and is now commercially cultivated. it is a popular snack in mexico, sometimes mixed with chocolate or puffed rice, and its use has spread to europe and other parts of north america. seed several species are raised for amaranth " grain " in asia and the americas. amaranth and its relative quinoa are considered pseudocereals because of their similarities to cereals in flavor and cooking. the spread of amaranthus is of a joint effort of human expansion, adaptation, and fertilization strategies. grain amaranth has been used for food by humans in several ways. the grain can be ground into a flour for use like other grain flours. it can be popped like popcorn, or flaked like oatmeal. seeds of amaranth grain have been found in antofagasta de la sierra department, catamarca, argentina in the southern puna desert of the north of argentina dating from 4, 500 years ago, with evidence suggesting earlier use. archeological evidence of seeds from a. hypochondriacus and a. cruentus found in a cave in tehuacan, mexico, suggests amaranth was part of aztec civilization in the 1400s. ancient amaranth grains still used include the three species amaranthus caudatus, a. cruentus, and a. hypochondriacus. evidence from single - nucleotide polymorphisms and chromosome structure supports a. hypochondriacus as the common ancestor of the three grain species. it has been proposed as an inexpensive native crop that could be cultivated by indigenous people in rural areas for several reasons : a small amount of seed plants a large