definite wall. in this sense, a rapid compression of a gas is sometimes approximately or loosely said to be adiabatic, though often far from isentropic, even when the gas is not adiabatically isolated by a definite wall. quantum mechanics and quantum statistical mechanics, however, use the word adiabatic in a very different sense, one that can at times seem almost opposite to the classical thermodynamic sense. in quantum theory, the word adiabatic can mean something perhaps near isentropic, or perhaps near quasi - static, but the usage of the word is very different between the two disciplines. on the one hand, in quantum theory, if a perturbative element of compressive work is done almost infinitely slowly ( that is to say quasi - statically ), it is said to have been done adiabatically. the idea is that the shapes of the eigenfunctions change slowly and continuously, so that no quantum jump is triggered, and the change is virtually reversible. while the occupation numbers are unchanged, nevertheless there is change in the energy levels of one - to - one corresponding, pre - and post - compression, eigenstates. thus a perturbative element of work has been done without heat transfer and without introduction of random change within the system. for example, max born writes " actually, it is usually the ' adiabatic ' case with which we have to do : i. e. the limiting case where the external force ( or the reaction of the parts of the system on each other ) acts very slowly. in this case, to a very high approximation that is, there is no probability for a transition, and the system is in the initial state after cessation of the perturbation. such a slow perturbation is therefore reversible, as it is classically. " on the other hand, in quantum theory, if a perturbative element of compressive work is done rapidly, it changes the occupation numbers and energies of the eigenstates in proportion to the transition moment integral and in accordance with time - dependent perturbation theory, as well as perturbing the functional form of the eigenstates themselves. in that theory, such a rapid change is said not to be adiabatic, and the contrary word diabatic is applied to it. recent research suggests that the power absorbed from the perturbation corresponds to the rate of these non - adiabatic transitions. this corresponds to