aarhus (,, ; officially spelled arhus from 1948 until 1 january 2011 ) is the second - largest city in denmark and the seat of aarhus municipality. it is located on the eastern shore of jutland in the kattegat sea and approximately northwest of copenhagen. dating back to the late 8th century, aarhus was founded as a harbour settlement at the mouth of the aarhus river and quickly became a trade hub. the first christian church was built here around the year 900 and later in the viking age the town was fortified with defensive ramparts. the bishopric of aarhus grew steadily stronger and more prosperous, building several religious institutions in the town during the early middle ages. trade continued to improve, although it was not until 1441 that aarhus was granted market town privileges, and the population of aarhus remained relatively stable until the 19th century. the city began to grow significantly as trade prospered in the mid - 18th century, but not until the mid - 19th century did the industrial revolution bring real growth in population. the first railway line in jutland was built here in 1862. in 1928, the first university in jutland was founded in aarhus and today it is a university city and the largest centre for trade, services, industry, and tourism in jutland. aarhus cathedral is the longest cathedral in denmark with a total length of. the church of our lady ( vor frue kirke ) was originally built in 1060, making it the oldest stone church in scandinavia. the city hall, designed by arne jacobsen and erik møller, was completed in 1941 in a modern functionalist style. aarhus theatre, the largest provincial theatre in denmark, opposite the cathedral on bispetorvet, was built by hack kampmann in the art nouveau style and completed in 1916. musikhuset aarhus ( concert hall ) and det jyske musikkonservatorium ( royal academy of music, aarhus / aalborg ) are also of note, as are its museums including the open - air museum den gamle by, the art museum aros aarhus kunstmuseum, the moesgard museum and the women ' s museum kvindemuseet. the city ' s major cultural institutions include den gamle by, aros aarhus kunstmuseum, the moesgard museum, gender museum denmark, musikhuset aarhus and aarhus theatre. known as ( lit. city of smiles ) it is the danish city with the youngest demographics and home to scandinavia ' s largest university, aarhus university. commercially, the city is the principal