, and working and living conditions of a community have been studied in such detail. cuisine egyptian cuisine remained remarkably stable over time ; indeed, the cuisine of modern egypt retains some striking similarities to the cuisine of the ancients. the staple diet consisted of bread and beer, supplemented with vegetables such as onions and garlic, and fruit such as dates and figs. wine and meat were enjoyed by all on feast days while the upper classes indulged on a more regular basis. fish, meat, and fowl could be salted or dried, and could be cooked in stews or roasted on a grill. architecture the architecture of ancient egypt includes some of the most famous structures in the world : the great pyramids of giza and the temples at thebes. building projects were organized and funded by the state for religious and commemorative purposes, but also to reinforce the wide - ranging power of the pharaoh. the ancient egyptians were skilled builders ; using only simple but effective tools and sighting instruments, architects could build large stone structures with great accuracy and precision that is still envied today. the domestic dwellings of elite and ordinary egyptians alike were constructed from perishable materials such as mudbricks and wood, and have not survived. peasants lived in simple homes, while the palaces of the elite and the pharaoh were more elaborate structures. a few surviving new kingdom palaces, such as those in malkata and amarna, show richly decorated walls and floors with scenes of people, birds, water pools, deities and geometric designs. important structures such as temples and tombs that were intended to last forever were constructed of stone instead of mudbricks. the architectural elements used in the world ' s first large - scale stone building, djoser ' s mortuary complex, include post and lintel supports in the papyrus and lotus motif. the earliest preserved ancient egyptian temples, such as those at giza, consist of single, enclosed halls with roof slabs supported by columns. in the new kingdom, architects added the pylon, the open courtyard, and the enclosed hypostyle hall to the front of the temple ' s sanctuary, a style that was standard until the greco - roman period. the earliest and most popular tomb architecture in the old kingdom was the mastaba, a flat - roofed rectangular structure of mudbrick or stone built over an underground burial chamber. the step pyramid of djoser is a series of stone mastabas stacked on top of each other. pyramids were built during the old and middle kingdoms, but most later rulers abandoned them in favor