, dynamic network analysis, link analysis, and brainstorming to sort through problems they face. military intelligence may explore issues through the use of game theory, red teaming, and wargaming. signals intelligence applies cryptanalysis and frequency analysis to break codes and ciphers. business intelligence applies theories of competitive intelligence analysis and competitor analysis to resolve questions in the marketplace. law enforcement intelligence applies a number of theories in crime analysis. linguistics linguistics explores individual languages and language in general. it breaks language down and analyses its component parts : theory, sounds and their meaning, utterance usage, word origins, the history of words, the meaning of words and word combinations, sentence construction, basic construction beyond the sentence level, stylistics, and conversation. it examines the above using statistics and modeling, and semantics. it analyses language in context of anthropology, biology, evolution, geography, history, neurology, psychology, and sociology. it also takes the applied approach, looking at individual language development and clinical issues. literature literary criticism is the analysis of literature. the focus can be as diverse as the analysis of homer or freud. while not all literary - critical methods are primarily analytical in nature, the main approach to the teaching of literature in the west since the mid - twentieth century, literary formal analysis or close reading, is. this method, rooted in the academic movement labelled the new criticism, approaches texts – chiefly short poems such as sonnets, which by virtue of their small size and significant complexity lend themselves well to this type of analysis – as units of discourse that can be understood in themselves, without reference to biographical or historical frameworks. this method of analysis breaks up the text linguistically in a study of prosody ( the formal analysis of meter ) and phonic effects such as alliteration and rhyme, and cognitively in examination of the interplay of syntactic structures, figurative language, and other elements of the poem that work to produce its larger effects. mathematics modern mathematical analysis is the study of infinite processes. it is the branch of mathematics that includes calculus. it can be applied in the study of classical concepts of mathematics, such as real numbers, complex variables, trigonometric functions, and algorithms, or of non - classical concepts like constructivism, harmonics, infinity, and vectors. florian cajori explains in a history of mathematics ( 1893 ) the difference between modern and ancient mathematical analysis, as distinct from logical analysis, as follows : the terms synthesis and analysis are used in mathematics in a more special sense than in logic. in