collection. history in the 1970s the us department of defense ( dod ) became concerned by the number of different programming languages being used for its embedded computer system projects, many of which were obsolete or hardware - dependent, and none of which supported safe modular programming. in 1975, a working group, the high order language working group ( holwg ), was formed with the intent to reduce this number by finding or creating a programming language generally suitable for the department ' s and the uk ministry of defence ' s requirements. after many iterations beginning with an original straw - man proposal the eventual programming language was named ada. the total number of high - level programming languages in use for such projects fell from over 450 in 1983 to 37 by 1996. holwg crafted the steelman language requirements, a series of documents stating the requirements they felt a programming language should satisfy. many existing languages were formally reviewed, but the team concluded in 1977 that no existing language met the specifications. requests for proposals for a new programming language were issued and four contractors were hired to develop their proposals under the names of red ( intermetrics led by benjamin brosgol ), green ( honeywell, led by jean ichbiah ), blue ( softech, led by john goodenough ) and yellow ( sri international, led by jay spitzen ). in april 1978, after public scrutiny, the red and green proposals passed to the next phase. in may 1979, the green proposal, designed by jean ichbiah at honeywell, was chosen and given the name ada — after augusta ada, countess of lovelace. this proposal was influenced by the language lis that ichbiah and his group had developed in the 1970s. the preliminary ada reference manual was published in acm sigplan notices in june 1979. the military standard reference manual was approved on december 10, 1980 ( ada lovelace ' s birthday ), and given the number mil - std - 1815 in honor of ada lovelace ' s birth year. in 1981, c. a. r. hoare took advantage of his turing award speech to criticize ada for being overly complex and hence unreliable, but subsequently seemed to recant in the foreword he wrote for an ada textbook. ada attracted much attention from the programming community as a whole during its early days. its backers and others predicted that it might become a dominant language for general purpose programming and not only defense - related work. ichbiah publicly stated that within ten years, only two programming languages would remain : ada and lisp.