from −25 ( normal human level ), through −10 ( normal level for a denizen of the courts of chaos ) and 0 ( normal level for an inhabitant of amber ), upwards without limit. scores above 0 are " ranked ", with the highest score being ranked 1st, the next - highest 2nd, and so on. the character with 1st rank in each attribute is considered " superior " in that attribute, being considered to be substantially better than the character with 2nd rank even if the difference in scores is small. all else being equal, a character with a higher rank in an attribute will always win a contest based on that attribute. the attribute auction a character ' s ability scores are purchased during character creation in an auction ; players get 100 character points, and bid on each attribute in turn. the character who bids the most for an attribute is " ranked " first and is considered superior to all other characters in that attribute. unlike conventional auctions, bids are non - refundable ; if one player bids 65 for psyche and another wins with a bid of 66, then the character with 66 is " superior " to the character with 65 even though there is only one bid difference. instead, lower bidding characters are ranked in ascending order according to how much they have bid, the characters becoming progressively weaker in that attribute as they pay less for it. after the auction, players can secretly pay extra points to raise their ranks, but they can only pay to raise their scores to an existing rank. further, a character with a bid - for rank is considered to have a slight advantage over character with a bought - up rank. the auction simulates a ' history ' of competition between the descendants of oberon for player characters who have not had dozens of decades to get to know each other. through the competitive auction, characters may begin the game vying for standings. the auction serves to introduce some unpredictability into character creation without the need to resort to dice, cards, or other randomizing devices. a player may intend, for example, to create a character who is a strong, mighty warrior, but being " outplayed " in the auction may result in lower attribute scores than anticipated, therefore necessitating a change of character concept. since a player cannot control another player ' s bids, and since all bids are non - refundable, the auction involves a considerable amount of strategizing and prioritization by players. a willingness to spend as many points as possible on an attribute may improve your chances of a