shearers ' strike. the state library of queensland now holds the manifesto ; in 2008 the historic document was added to unesco ' s memory of the world australian register and, in 2009, the document was added to unesco ' s memory of the world international register. the balmain, new south wales branch of the party claims to be the oldest in australia. however, the scone branch has a receipt for membership fees for the ' labour electoral league ' dated april 1891. this predates the balmain claim. this can be attested in the centenary of the alp book. labour as a parliamentary party dates from 1891 in new south wales and south australia, 1893 in queensland, and later in the other colonies. the first election contested by labour candidates was the 1891 new south wales election, when labour candidates ( then called the labor electoral league of new south wales ) won 35 of 141 seats. the major parties were the protectionist and free trade parties and labour held the balance of power. it offered parliamentary support in exchange for policy concessions. the united labor party ( ulp ) of south australia was founded in 1891, and three candidates were that year elected to the south australian legislative council. the first successful south australian house of assembly candidate was john mcpherson at the 1892 east adelaide by - election. richard hooper however was elected as an independent labor candidate at the 1891 wallaroo by - election, while he was the first " labor " member of the house of assembly he was not a member of the newly formed ulp. at the 1893 south australian elections the ulp was immediately elevated to balance of power status with 10 of 54 lower house seats. the liberal government of charles kingston was formed with the support of the ulp, ousting the conservative government of john downer. so successful, less than a decade later at the 1905 state election, thomas price formed the world ' s first stable labor government. john verran led labor to form the state ' s first of many majority governments at the 1910 state election. in 1899, anderson dawson formed a minority labour government in queensland, the first in the world, which lasted one week while the conservatives regrouped after a split. the colonial labour parties and the trade unions were mixed in their support for the federation of australia. some labour representatives argued against the proposed constitution, claiming that the senate as proposed was too powerful, similar to the anti - reformist colonial upper houses and the british house of lords. they feared that federation would further entrench the power of the conservative forces. however, the first