sexually harassing her in the early 1980s. list of programs in brief afi educational and cultural programs include : american film institute awards – an honor celebrating the creative ensembles of the most outstanding motion picture and television programs of the year afi catalog of feature films and afi archive – the written history of all feature films during the first 100 years of the art form – accessible free online afi conservatory – a film school led by master filmmakers in a graduate - level program afi directing workshop for women – a production - based training program committed to increasing the number of women working professionally in screen directing afi life achievement award – a tradition since 1973, a high honor for a career in film afi 100 years... series – television events and movie reference lists afi ' s two film festivals – afi fest in los angeles and afi docs in washington, d. c., and silver spring, maryland afi silver theatre and cultural center – a historic theater with year - round art house, first - run and classic film programming in silver spring, maryland american film – a magazine launched in october 1975 that explores the art of new and historic film classics, now a blog on afi. com afi conservatory in 1969, the institute established the afi conservatory for advanced film studies at greystone, the doheny mansion in beverly hills, california. the first class included filmmakers terrence malick, caleb deschanel, and paul schrader. that program grew into the afi conservatory, an accredited graduate film school located in the hills above hollywood, california, providing training in six filmmaking disciplines : cinematography, directing, editing, producing, production design, and screenwriting. mirroring a professional production environment, fellows collaborate to make more films than any other graduate level program. admission to afi conservatory is highly selective, with a maximum of 140 graduates per year. in 2013, emmy and oscar - winning director, producer, and screenwriter james l. brooks ( as good as it gets, broadcast news, terms of endearment ) joined as the artistic director of the afi conservatory where he provides leadership for the film program. brooks ' artistic role at the afi conservatory has a rich legacy that includes daniel petrie, jr., robert wise, and frank pierson. award - winning director bob mandel served as dean of the afi conservatory for nine years. jan schuette took over as dean in 2014 and served until 2017. film producer richard gladstein was dean from 2017 until 2019, when susan ruskin was appointed. notable alumni afi conservatory ' s alumni have careers in film, television and on the web