in the summer of 2010, the band performed a series of live shows to promote capture ( 1995 – 2010 ), released on 6 september 2010 on real world records. further performances continue to the present day, and a new album - in - progress titled born was announced on their website in 2014. following the split ( see below ), emmerson ' s version of the band released the album the source in 2016. split during 2015, the band had split into two formations, one of them including simon emmerson, n ' faly kouyate and johnny kalsi, the other one james mcnally and martin russell. the split was announced on the band ' s website in january 2016. the dispute officially ended with an announcement on social media on 21 december 2016. members when afro celt sound system formed in the mid - 1990s during the real world recording week, the difference between a guest artist and a band member was virtually non - existent. however, over time, a combination of people became most often associated with the name afro celt sound system ( while volume 5 : anatomic only lists emmerson, mcnally, o lionaird and russell as regulars ). the divided grouping of the band into two versions, both operating under the name afro celt sound system, began in january 2016 and was resolved in december 2016 after mcnally and russell agreed to work under a different name from emmerson. simon emmerson who died on 13 march 2023 after falling ill. n ' faly kouyate johnny kalsi moussa sissokho griogair labhruidh ronan browne emer mayock davy spillane russell / mcnally version martin russell james mcnally ian markin tim bradshaw babara bangoura dorothee munyaneza kadially kouyate dav daheley other musicians who have performed or recorded with afro celt sound system include : jimmy mahon, demba barry, babara bangoura, iarla o lionaird, peter gabriel, robert plant, pete lockett, sinead o ' connor, pina kollar, dorothee munyaneza, sevara nazarkhan, simon massey, jesse cook, martin hayes, eileen ivers, mundy, mairead ni mhaonaigh and ciaran tourish of altan, ronan browne, michael mcgoldrick, myrdhin, shooglenifty, mairead nesbitt, nigel eaton, davy