' s bids, and since all bids are non - refundable, the auction involves a considerable amount of strategizing and prioritization by players. a willingness to spend as many points as possible on an attribute may improve your chances of a high ranking, but too reckless a spending strategy could leave a player with few points to spend on powers and objects. in a hotly contested auction, such as for the important attribute of warfare, the most valuable skill is the ability to force one ' s opponents to back down. with two or more equally determined players, this can result in a " bidding war, " in which the attribute is driven up by increments to large sums. an alternative strategy is to try to cow other players into submission with a high opening bid. most players bid low amounts between one and ten points in an initial bid in order to feel out the competition and to save points for other uses. a high enough opening bid could signal a player ' s determination to be first ranked in that attribute, thereby dissuading others from competing. psyche in amber drpg compared to the chronicles characters with high psyche are presented as having strong telepathic abilities, being able to hypnotise and even mentally dominate any character with lesser psyche with whom they can make eye - contact. this is likely due to three scenes in the chronicles : first, when eric paralyzes corwin with an attack across the trump and refuses to desist because one or the other would be dominated ; second, when corwin faces the demon strygalldwir, it is able to wrestle mentally with him when their gazes meet ; and third, when fiona is able to keep brand immobile in the final battle at the courts of chaos. however, in general, the books only feature mental battles when there is some reason for mind - to - mind contact ( for example, trump contact ) and magic or trump is involved in all three of the above conflicts, so it is not clear whether zelazny intended his characters to have such a power ; the combination of brand ' s " living trump " powers and his high psyche ( as presented in the roleplaying game ) would have guaranteed him victory over corwin. shadow knight does address this inconsistency somewhat, by presenting the " living trump " abilities as somewhat limited. powers characters in amber drpg have access to the powers seen in the chronicles of amber : pattern, logrus, shape - shifting, trump, and magic. pattern : a character who has walked