totally unacceptable. the original requirement that the site be free of craters had to be relaxed, as no such site was found. five sites were considered : sites 1 and 2 were in the sea of tranquility ( mare tranquillitatis ) ; site 3 was in the central bay ( sinus medii ) ; and sites 4 and 5 were in the ocean of storms ( oceanus procellarum ). the final site selection was based on seven criteria : the site needed to be smooth, with relatively few craters ; with approach paths free of large hills, tall cliffs or deep craters that might confuse the landing radar and cause it to issue incorrect readings ; reachable with a minimum amount of propellant ; allowing for delays in the launch countdown ; providing the apollo spacecraft with a free - return trajectory, one that would allow it to coast around the moon and safely return to earth without requiring any engine firings should a problem arise on the way to the moon ; with good visibility during the landing approach, meaning the sun would be between 7 and 20 degrees behind the lm ; and a general slope of less than two degrees in the landing area. the requirement for the sun angle was particularly restrictive, limiting the launch date to one day per month. a landing just after dawn was chosen to limit the temperature extremes the astronauts would experience. the apollo site selection board selected site 2, with sites 3 and 5 as backups in the event of the launch being delayed. in may 1969, apollo 10 ' s lunar module flew to within of site 2, and reported it was acceptable. first - step decision during the first press conference after the apollo 11 crew was announced, the first question was, " which one of you gentlemen will be the first man to step onto the lunar surface? " slayton told the reporter it had not been decided, and armstrong added that it was " not based on individual desire ". one of the first versions of the egress checklist had the lunar module pilot exit the spacecraft before the commander, which matched what had been done on gemini missions, where the commander had never performed the spacewalk. reporters wrote in early 1969 that aldrin would be the first man to walk on the moon, and associate administrator george mueller told reporters he would be first as well. aldrin heard that armstrong would be the first because armstrong was a civilian, which made aldrin livid. aldrin attempted to persuade other lunar module pilots he should be first, but they responded cynically about what they perceived as a lobbying