no. 70, and, in federalist no. 24, hamilton used american to denote the lands beyond the u. s. ' s political borders. early official u. s. documents show inconsistent usage ; the 1778 treaty of alliance with france used " the united states of north america " in the first sentence, then " the said united states " afterwards ; " the united states of america " and " the united states of north america " derive from " the united colonies of america " and " the united colonies of north america ". the treaty of peace and amity of september 5, 1795, between the united states and the barbary states contains the usages " the united states of north america ", " citizens of the united states ", and " american citizens ". u. s. president george washington, in his 1796 farewell address, declaimed that " the name of american, which belongs to you in your national capacity, must always exalt the just pride of patriotism more than any appellation. " political scientist virginia l. arbery notes that, in his farewell address : "... washington invites his fellow citizens to view themselves now as americans who, out of their love for the truth of liberty, have replaced their maiden names ( virginians, south carolinians, new yorkers, etc. ) with that of “ american ”. get rid of, he urges, “ any appellation derived from local discriminations. ” by defining himself as an american rather than as a virginian, washington set the national standard for all citizens. " over and over, washington said that america must be something set apart. as he put it to patrick henry, ' in a word, i want an american character, that the powers of europe may be convinced we act for ourselves and not for others. ' " as the historian garry wills has noted : " this was a theme dear to washington. he wrote to timothy pickering that the nation ' must never forget that we are americans ; the remembrance of which will convince us we ought not to be french or english '. " washington ' s countrymen subsequently embraced his exhortation with notable enthusiasm. this semantic divergence among north american anglophones, however, remained largely unknown in the spanish - american colonies. in 1801, the document titled letter to american spaniards — published in french ( 1799 ), in spanish ( 1801 ), and in english ( 1808 ) — might have influenced venezuela ' s act of independence and its 1811 constitution. the latter - day saints