an enhancement of the intel 8080a, supports all the 8080a instructions plus many more ; zilog invented an entirely new assembly language, not only for the new instructions but also for all of the 8080a instructions. for example, where intel uses the mnemonics mov, mvi, lda, sta, lxi, ldax, stax, lhld, and shld for various data transfer instructions, the z80 assembly language uses the mnemonic ld for all of them. a similar case is the nec v20 and v30 cpus, enhanced copies of the intel 8086 and 8088, respectively. like zilog with the z80, nec invented new mnemonics for all of the 8086 and 8088 instructions, to avoid accusations of infringement of intel ' s copyright. ( it is questionable whether such copyrights can be valid, and later cpu companies such as amd and cyrix republished intel ' s x86 / ia - 32 instruction mnemonics exactly with neither permission nor legal penalty. ) it is doubtful whether in practice many people who programmed the v20 and v30 actually wrote in nec ' s assembly language rather than intel ' s ; since any two assembly languages for the same instruction set architecture are isomorphic ( somewhat like english and pig latin ), there is no requirement to use a manufacturer ' s own published assembly language with that manufacturer ' s products. language design basic elements there is a large degree of diversity in the way the authors of assemblers categorize statements and in the nomenclature that they use. in particular, some describe anything other than a machine mnemonic or extended mnemonic as a pseudo - operation ( pseudo - op ). a typical assembly language consists of 3 types of instruction statements that are used to define program operations : opcode mnemonics data definitions assembly directives opcode mnemonics and extended mnemonics instructions ( statements ) in assembly language are generally very simple, unlike those in high - level languages. generally, a mnemonic is a symbolic name for a single executable machine language instruction ( an opcode ), and there is at least one opcode mnemonic defined for each machine language instruction. each instruction typically consists of an operation or opcode plus zero or more operands. most instructions refer to a single value or a pair of values. operands can be immediate ( value coded in the instruction itself ), registers specified in the instruction or implied, or the addresses of data