( " greater wild bog " ), a swamp where a mirage is sometimes seen in summer. southeast lies the similar lille vildmose ( " lesser wild bog " ). store vildmose was drained and farmed in the beginning of the 20th century, and lille vildmose is now the largest moor in denmark. urban areas in aalborg municipality aalborg city has a total population of 123, 432. the metropolitan area is a conurbation of the aalborg urban area in himmerland ( 102, 312 ) and the urban area in ( 21, 120 ). economy north flying has its head office on the property of aalborg airport in, aalborg municipality. politics municipal council aalborg ' s municipal council consists of 31 members, elected every four years. below are the municipal councils elected since the municipal reform of 2007. twin towns – sister cities aalborg is twinned with 34 cities, more than any other city in denmark. every four years, aalborg gathers young people from most of its twin towns for a week of sports, known as ungdomslegene ( youth games )., netherlands antibes, france budelsdorf, germany edinburgh, scotland, united kingdom, norway fuglafjørður, faroe islands galway, ireland gdynia, poland haifa, israel hefei, china, austria, greenland karlskoga, sweden lancaster, england lerum, sweden liperi, finland, iceland orsa, sweden orust, sweden osno lubuskie, poland, russia racine, united states rapperswil - jona, switzerland rendalen, norway rendsburg, germany riga, latvia riihimaki, finland, greenland solvang, united states, romania, bulgaria vilnius, lithuania, germany references municipal statistics : netborger kommunefakta, delivered from kmd a. k. a. kommunedata ( municipal data ) municipal mergers and neighbors : eniro map with named municipalities aalborg in figures 2008, a publication from aalborg municipality. external links about aalborg from nordjyske medier aalborg municipality ' s official website visitaalborg ( aalborg tourist office ) website for aalborg municipality ' s former municipality reformation board public transport in aalborg and surroundings searchable map aalborg municipalities of the north jutland region municipalities of denmark populated places established in 2007