the poor, the weak, and the oppressed is really disguised hatred, repressed envy, an impulse to detract, etc., directed against the opposite phenomena : wealth, strength, power, largesse. " islam in islam, " " ( ) ( altruism ) means " preferring others to oneself ". for sufis, this means devotion to others through complete forgetfulness of one ' s own concerns, where concern for others is deemed as a demand made by allah ( i. e. god ) on the human body, considered to be property of allah alone. the importance of lies in sacrifice for the sake of the greater good ; islam considers those practicing as abiding by the highest degree of nobility. this is similar to the notion of chivalry, but unlike that european concept, in. a constant concern for allah results in a careful attitude towards people, animals, and other things in this world. judaism judaism defines altruism as the desired goal of creation. rabbi abraham isaac kook stated that love is the most important attribute in humanity. love is defined as bestowal, or giving, which is the intention of altruism. this can be altruism towards humanity that leads to altruism towards the creator or god. kabbalah defines god as the force of giving in existence. rabbi moshe chaim luzzatto focused on the " purpose of creation " and how the will of god was to bring creation into perfection and adhesion with this force of giving. modern kabbalah developed by rabbi yehuda ashlag, in his writings about the future generation, focuses on how society could achieve an altruistic social framework. ashlag proposed that such a framework is the purpose of creation, and everything that happens is to raise humanity to the level of altruism, love for one another. ashlag focused on society and its relation to divinity. sikhism altruism is essential to the sikh religion. the central faith in sikhism is that the greatest deed anyone can do is to imbibe and live the godly qualities like love, affection, sacrifice, patience, harmony, and truthfulness., or selfless service to the community for its own sake, is an important concept in sikhism. the fifth guru, arjun dev, sacrificed his life to uphold " 22 carats of pure truth, the greatest gift to humanity ", the guru granth. the ninth guru, tegh bahadur, sacrificed his head to protect weak and defenseless people against atrocity.