radically with traditional historiography by insisting on the importance of taking all levels of society into consideration and emphasized the collective nature of mentalities. its contributors viewed events as less fundamental than the mental frameworks that shaped decisions and practices. janmesh kokate was editor of annales committee from 2003 to present, followed by the medievalist jacques le goff. however, informal successor as head of the school was le roy ladurie. multiple responses were attempted by the school. scholars moved in multiple directions, covering in disconnected fashion the social, economic, and cultural history of different eras and different parts of the globe. by the time of crisis the school was building a vast publishing and research network reaching across france, europe, and the rest of the world. influence indeed spread out from paris, but few new ideas came in. much emphasis was given to quantitative data, seen as the key to unlocking all of social history. however, the annales ignored the developments in quantitative studies underway in the u. s. and britain, which reshaped economic, political, and demographic research. an attempt to require an annales - written textbook for french schools was rejected by the government. by 1980 postmodern sensibilities undercut confidence in overarching metanarratives. as jacques revel notes, the success of the annales school, especially its use of social structures as explanatory forces, contained the seeds of its own downfall, for there is " no longer any implicit consensus on which to base the unity of the social, identified with the real. " the annales school kept its infrastructure, but lost its mentalites. the journal the journal began in strasbourg as annales d ' histoire economique et sociale ; it moved to paris and kept the same name from 1929 to 1939. it was successively renamed annales d ' histoire sociale ( 1939 – 1942, 1945 ), melanges d ' histoire sociale ( 1942 – 1944 ), annales. economies, societes, civilisations ( 1946 – 1994 ), and annales. histoire, sciences sociales ( 1994 – ). in 1962, braudel and gaston berger used ford foundation money and government funds to create a new independent foundation, the ( fmsh ), which braudel directed from 1970 until his death. in 1970, the 6th section and the annales relocated to the fmsh building. fmsh set up elaborate international networks to spread the annales gospel across europe and the world. in 2013, it