the latter. australia recovered the ashes in 1934 and held them until 1953, though no test cricket was played during the second world war. as in 1930, the 1934 series was decided in the final test at the oval. australia, batting first, posted a massive 701 in the first innings. bradman ( 244 ) and ponsford ( 266 ) were in record - breaking form with a partnership of 451 for the second wicket. england eventually faced a massive 707 - run target for victory and failed, australia winning the series 2 – 1. this made woodfull the only captain to regain the ashes and he retired upon his return to australia. in 1936 – 37 bradman succeeded woodfull as australian captain. he started badly, losing the first two tests heavily after australia were caught on sticky wickets. however, the australians fought back and bradman won his first series in charge 3 – 2. the 1938 series was a high - scoring affair with two high - scoring draws, resulting in a 1 – 1 result, australia retaining the ashes. after the first two matches ended in stalemate and the third test at old trafford never started due to rain, australia then scraped home by five wickets inside three days in a low - scoring match at headingley to retain the urn. in the timeless fifth test at the oval, the highlight was len hutton ' s then world - record score of 364 as england made 903 - 7 declared. bradman and jack fingleton injured themselves during hutton ' s marathon effort, and with only nine men, australia fell to defeat by an innings and 579 runs, the heaviest in test history. the ashes resumed after the war when england toured in 1946 – 47 and, as in 1920 – 21, found that australia had made the better post - war recovery. still captained by bradman and now featuring the potent new - ball partnership of ray lindwall and keith miller, australia were convincing 3 – 0 winners. aged 38 and having been unwell during the war, bradman had been reluctant to play. he batted unconvincingly and reached 28 when he hit a ball to jack ikin ; england believed it was a catch, but bradman stood his ground, believing it to be a bump ball. the umpire ruled in the australian captain ' s favour and he appeared to regain his fluency of yesteryear, scoring 187. australia promptly seized the initiative, won the first test convincingly and inaugurated a dominant post - war era. the controversy over the ikin catch was one