, described in his laws of association. aristotle believed that past experiences are hidden within the mind. a force operates to awaken the hidden material to bring up the actual experience. according to aristotle, association is the power innate in a mental state, which operates upon the unexpressed remains of former experiences, allowing them to rise and be recalled. dreams aristotle describes sleep in on sleep and wakefulness. sleep takes place as a result of overuse of the senses or of digestion, so it is vital to the body. while a person is asleep, the critical activities, which include thinking, sensing, recalling and remembering, do not function as they do during wakefulness. since a person cannot sense during sleep they cannot have desire, which is the result of sensation. however, the senses are able to work during sleep, albeit differently, unless they are weary. dreams do not involve actually sensing a stimulus. in dreams, sensation is still involved, but in an altered manner. aristotle explains that when a person stares at a moving stimulus such as the waves in a body of water, and then looks away, the next thing they look at appears to have a wavelike motion. when a person perceives a stimulus and the stimulus is no longer the focus of their attention, it leaves an impression. when the body is awake and the senses are functioning properly, a person constantly encounters new stimuli to sense and so the impressions of previously perceived stimuli are ignored. however, during sleep the impressions made throughout the day are noticed as there are no new distracting sensory experiences. so, dreams result from these lasting impressions. since impressions are all that are left and not the exact stimuli, dreams do not resemble the actual waking experience. during sleep, a person is in an altered state of mind. aristotle compares a sleeping person to a person who is overtaken by strong feelings toward a stimulus. for example, a person who has a strong infatuation with someone may begin to think they see that person everywhere because they are so overtaken by their feelings. since a person sleeping is in a suggestible state and unable to make judgements, they become easily deceived by what appears in their dreams, like the infatuated person. this leads the person to believe the dream is real, even when the dreams are absurd in nature. in de anima iii 3, aristotle ascribes the ability to create, to store, and to recall images in the absence of perception to the faculty of imagination, phantasia. one component of aristotle ' s theory of