river and the marajo island ocean frontage are included, the amazon estuary is some wide. in this case, the width of the mouth of the river is usually measured from cabo norte, the cape located straight east of pracuuba in the brazilian state of amapa, to ponta da tijoca near the town of curuca, in the state of para. a more conservative measurement excluding the para river estuary, from the mouth of the araguari river to ponta do navio on the northern coast of marajo, would still give the mouth of the amazon a width of over. if only the river ' s main channel is considered, between the islands of curua ( state of amapa ) and jurupari ( state of para ), the width falls to about. the plume generated by the river ' s discharge covers up to 1. 3 million km2 and is responsible for muddy bottoms influencing a wide area of the tropical north atlantic in terms of salinity, ph, light penetration, and sedimentation. lack of bridges there are no bridges across the entire width of the river. this is not because the river would be too wide to bridge ; for most of its length, engineers could build a bridge across the river easily. for most of its course, the river flows through the amazon rainforest, where there are very few roads and cities. most of the time, the crossing can be done by a ferry. the manaus iranduba bridge linking the cities of manaus and iranduba spans the rio negro, the second - largest tributary of the amazon, just before their confluence. dispute regarding length while debate as to whether the amazon or the nile is the world ' s longest river has gone on for many years, the historic consensus of geographic authorities has been to regard the amazon as the second longest river in the world, with the nile being the longest. however, the amazon has been reported as being anywhere between and long. it is often said to be " at least " long. the nile is reported to be anywhere from. often it is said to be " about " long. there are several factors that can affect these measurements, such as the position of the geographical source and the mouth, the scale of measurement, and the length measuring techniques ( for details see also list of rivers by length ). in july 2008, the brazilian institute for space research ( inpe ) published a news article on their webpage, claiming that the amazon river was longer than the nile. the amazon '