alternate history moved into a new arena. the december 1933 issue of astounding published nat schachner ' s " ancestral voices ", which was quickly followed by murray leinster ' s " sidewise in time ". while earlier alternate histories examined reasonably - straightforward divergences, leinster attempted something completely different. in his " world gone mad ", pieces of earth traded places with their analogs from different timelines. the story follows professor minott and his students from a fictitious robinson college as they wander through analogues of worlds that followed a different history. a somewhat similar approach was taken by robert a. heinlein in his 1941 novelette elsewhen in which a professor trains his mind to move his body across timelines. he then hypnotizes his students so that they can explore more of them. eventually, each settles into the reality that is most suitable for him or her. some of the worlds they visit are mundane, some are very odd, and others follow science fiction or fantasy conventions. world war ii produced alternate history for propaganda : both british and american authors wrote works depicting nazi invasions of their respective countries as cautionary tales. time travel to create historical divergences the period around world war ii also saw the publication of the time travel novel lest darkness fall by l. sprague de camp in which an american academic travels to italy at the time of the byzantine invasion of the ostrogoths. de camp ' s time traveler, martin padway, is depicted as making permanent historical changes and implicitly forming a new time branch, thereby making the work an alternate history. in william tenn ' s short story brooklyn project ( 1948 ), a tyrannical us government brushes aside the warnings of scientists about the dangers of time travel and goes on with a planned experiment - with the result that minor changes to the prehistoric past cause humanity to never have existed, its place taken by tentacled underwater intelligent creatures - who also have a tyrannical government which also insists on experimenting with time - travel. time travel as the cause of a point of divergence ( pod ), which can denote either the bifurcation of a historical timeline or a simple replacement of the future that existed before the time - travelling event, has continued to be a popular theme. in ward moore ' s bring the jubilee, the protagonist lives in an alternate history in which the confederacy has won the american civil war. he travels backward through time and brings about a union victory at the battle of gettysburg. when a story ' s assumptions about the