partner. zuogeng ( ), a constellation depicting a marsh and pond inspector, was composed of mu, nu, omicron, pi, and sigma arietis. he was accompanied by yeou - kang, a constellation depicting an official in charge of pasture distribution. in a similar system to the chinese, the first lunar mansion in hindu astronomy was called " aswini ", after the traditional names for beta and gamma arietis, the aswins. because the hindu new year began with the vernal equinox, the rig veda contains over 50 new - year ' s related hymns to the twins, making them some of the most prominent characters in the work. aries itself was known as " aja " and " mesha ". in hebrew astronomy aries was named " taleh " ; it signified either simeon or gad, and generally symbolizes the " lamb of the world ". the neighboring syrians named the constellation " amru ", and the bordering turks named it " kuzi ". half a world away, in the marshall islands, several stars from aries were incorporated into a constellation depicting a porpoise, along with stars from cassiopeia, andromeda, and triangulum. alpha, beta, and gamma arietis formed the head of the porpoise, while stars from andromeda formed the body and the bright stars of cassiopeia formed the tail. other polynesian peoples recognized aries as a constellation. the marquesas islanders called it na - pai - ka ; the maori constellation pipiri may correspond to modern aries as well. in indigenous peruvian astronomy, a constellation with most of the same stars as aries existed. it was called the " market moon " and the " kneeling terrace ", as a reminder of when to hold the annual harvest festival, ayri huay. features stars aries has three prominent stars forming an asterism, designated alpha, beta, and gamma arietis by johann bayer. alpha ( hamal ) and beta ( sheratan ) are commonly used for navigation. there is also one other star above the fourth magnitude, 41 arietis ( bharani ). α arietis, called hamal, is the brightest star in aries. its traditional name is derived from the arabic word for " lamb " or " head of the ram " ( ras al - hamal ), which references aries ' s mythological background. with a