themselves as autonomous nations that had a right to the land they lived on. significant portions of the five major tribes in the area then known as the southwest — the cherokee, choctaw, chickasaw, creek, and seminoles — began to adopt white culture, including education, agricultural techniques, a road system, and rudimentary manufacturing. in the case of the tensions between the state of georgia and the cherokee, adams had tried to address the issue encouraging cherokee emigration west of the mississippi through financial incentives, but most refused. in the first days of jackson ' s presidency, some of the southern states had passed legislation extending state jurisdiction to native american lands. jackson supported the states ' right to do so. his position was later made clear in the 1832 supreme court test case of this legislation, worcester v. georgia. georgia had arrested a group of missionaries for entering cherokee territory without a permit ; the cherokee declared these arrests illegal. the court under chief justice john marshall decided in favor of the cherokee : imposition of georgia law on the cherokee was unconstitutional. horace greeley alleges that when jackson heard the ruling, he said, " well, john marshall has made his decision, but now let him enforce it. " although the quote may be apocryphal, jackson made it clear he would not use the federal government to enforce the ruling. jackson used the power of the federal government to enforce the separation of the native american tribes and whites. in may 1830, jackson passed the indian removal act through congress. it gave the president the right to negotiate treaties to buy tribal lands in the eastern part of the united states in exchange for lands set aside for native americans west of the mississippi, as well as broad discretion on how to use the federal funds allocated to the negotiations. the law was supposed to be a voluntary relocation program, but it was not implemented as one. jackson ' s administration often achieved agreement to relocate through bribes, fraud and intimidation, and the leaders who signed the treaties often did not represent the entire tribe. the relocations could be a source of misery too : the choctaw relocation was rife with corruption, theft, and mismanagement that brought great suffering to that people. in 1830, jackson personally negotiated with the chickasaw, who quickly agreed to move. in the same year, choctaw leaders signed the treaty of dancing rabbit creek ; the majority did not want the treaty but complied with its terms. in 1832, seminole leaders signed the treaty of payne ' s landing, which stipulated that the seminole