the founding of phytogeography in the mid - 19th century. algae spread mainly by the dispersal of spores analogously to the dispersal of plantae by seeds and spores. this dispersal can be accomplished by air, water, or other organisms. due to this, spores can be found in a variety of environments : fresh and marine waters, air, soil, and in or on other organisms. whether a spore is to grow into an organism depends on the combination of the species and the environmental conditions where the spore lands. the spores of freshwater algae are dispersed mainly by running water and wind, as well as by living carriers. however, not all bodies of water can carry all species of algae, as the chemical composition of certain water bodies limits the algae that can survive within them. marine spores are often spread by ocean currents. ocean water presents many vastly different habitats based on temperature and nutrient availability, resulting in phytogeographic zones, regions, and provinces. to some degree, the distribution of algae is subject to floristic discontinuities caused by geographical features, such as antarctica, long distances of ocean or general land masses. it is, therefore, possible to identify species occurring by locality, such as " pacific algae " or " north sea algae ". when they occur out of their localities, hypothesizing a transport mechanism is usually possible, such as the hulls of ships. for example, ulva reticulata and u. fasciata travelled from the mainland to hawaii in this manner. mapping is possible for select species only : " there are many valid examples of confined distribution patterns. " for example, clathromorphum is an arctic genus and is not mapped far south of there. however, scientists regard the overall data as insufficient due to the " difficulties of undertaking such studies. " ecology algae are prominent in bodies of water, common in terrestrial environments, and are found in unusual environments, such as on snow and ice. seaweeds grow mostly in shallow marine waters, under deep ; however, some such as navicula pennata have been recorded to a depth of. a type of algae, ancylonema nordenskioeldii, was found in greenland in areas known as the ' dark zone ', which caused an increase in the rate of melting ice sheet. same algae was found in the italian alps, after pink ice appeared on parts of the presena glacier. the various sorts of algae play significant roles in aquatic ecology. microscopic forms that live suspended in the