staff in 1906 and becoming an assistant editor. during this period he published 18 plays and three novels, including the murder mystery the red house mystery ( 1922 ). his son was born in august 1920 and in 1924 milne produced a collection of children ' s poems, when we were very young, which were illustrated by punch staff cartoonist e. h. shepard. a collection of short stories for children a gallery of children, and other stories that became part of the winnie - the - pooh books, were first published in 1925. milne was an early screenwriter for the nascent british film industry, writing four stories filmed in 1920 for the company minerva films ( founded in 1920 by the actor leslie howard and his friend and story editor adrian brunel ). these were the bump, starring aubrey smith ; twice two ; five pound reward ; and bookworms. some of these films survive in the archives of the british film institute. milne had met howard when the actor starred in milne ' s play mr pim passes by in london. looking back on this period ( in 1926 ), milne observed that when he told his agent that he was going to write a detective story, he was told that what the country wanted from a " punch humorist " was a humorous story ; when two years later he said he was writing nursery rhymes, his agent and publisher were convinced he should write another detective story ; and after another two years, he was being told that writing a detective story would be in the worst of taste given the demand for children ' s books. he concluded that " the only excuse which i have yet discovered for writing anything is that i want to write it ; and i should be as proud to be delivered of a telephone directory con amore as i should be ashamed to create a blank verse tragedy at the bidding of others. " 1926 to 1928 milne is most famous for his two pooh books about a boy named christopher robin after his son, christopher robin milne ( 1920 – 1996 ), and various characters inspired by his son ' s stuffed animals, most notably the bear named winnie - the - pooh. christopher robin milne ' s stuffed bear, originally named edward, was renamed winnie after a canadian black bear named winnie ( after winnipeg ), which was used as a military mascot in world war i, and left to london zoo during the war. " the pooh " comes from a swan the young milne named " pooh ". e. h. shepard illustrated the original pooh books, using his own son ' s teddy growler ( " a