##s of infrastructure. three days later, he also proposed to hitler that germany ' s remaining military resources be concentrated along the rhine and vistula rivers in an attempt to prolong the fighting. this ignored military realities, as the german armed forces were unable to match the allies ' firepower and were facing total defeat. hitler rejected speer ' s proposal to cease demolitions. instead, he issued the " nero decree " on 19 march, which called for the destruction of all infrastructure as the army retreated. speer was appalled by this order, and persuaded several key military and political leaders to ignore it. during a meeting with speer on 28 / 29 march, hitler rescinded the decree and gave him authority over demolitions. speer ended them, though the army continued to blow up bridges. by april, little was left of the armaments industry, and speer had few official duties. speer visited the fuhrerbunker on 22 april for the last time. he met hitler and toured the damaged chancellery before leaving berlin to return to hamburg. on 29 april, the day before committing suicide, hitler dictated a final political testament which dropped speer from the successor government. speer was to be replaced by his subordinate, karl - otto saur. speer was disappointed that hitler had not selected him as his successor. after hitler ' s death, speer offered his services to the so - called flensburg government, headed by hitler ' s successor, karl donitz. he took a role in that short - lived regime as minister of industry and production. speer provided information to the allies, regarding the effects of the air war, and on a broad range of subjects, beginning on 10 may. on 23 may, two weeks after the surrender of german forces, british troops arrested the members of the flensburg government and brought nazi germany to a formal end. post - war nuremberg trial speer was taken to several internment centres for nazi officials and interrogated. in september 1945, he was told that he would be tried for war crimes, and several days later, he was moved to nuremberg and incarcerated there. speer was indicted on four counts : participating in a common plan or conspiracy for the accomplishment of crime against peace ; planning, initiating and waging wars of aggression and other crimes against peace ; war crimes ; and crimes against humanity. the chief united states prosecutor, robert h. jackson, of the u. s. supreme court said, " speer joined in planning and executing the program to dragoon prisoners of