, partly on his own insistence, the roman senate granted him the honorific augustus ( ). historians use this name to refer to him from 27 bc until his death in ad 14. the name is sometimes given as " augustus caesar ". early life gaius octavius was born in rome on 23 september 63 bc. his paternal family was from the volscian town of velletri, approximately south - east of the city. he was born at ox head, a small property on the palatine hill, very close to the roman forum. in his childhood, he received the cognomen " thurinus ", possibly commemorating his father ' s victory at thurii over a rebellious band of slaves which occurred a few years after his birth. suetonius wrote : " there are many indications that the octavian family was in days of old a distinguished one at velitrae ; for not only was a street in the most frequented part of town long ago called octavian, but an altar was shown there besides, consecrated by an octavius. this man was leader in a war with a neighbouring town... " due to the crowded nature of rome at the time, octavius was taken to his father ' s home village at velletri to be raised. octavius mentions his father ' s equestrian family only briefly in his memoirs. his paternal great - grandfather gaius octavius was a military tribune in sicily during the second punic war. his grandfather had served in several local political offices. his father, also named gaius octavius, had been governor of macedonia. his mother, atia, was the niece of julius caesar. his father died in 59 bc when octavius was four years old. his mother married a former governor of syria, lucius marcius philippus. philippus claimed descent from alexander the great and was elected consul in 56 bc. philippus never had much of an interest in young octavius. because of this, octavius was raised by his grandmother, julia, the sister of julius caesar. julia died in 52 or 51 bc, and octavius delivered the funeral oration for his grandmother. from this point, his mother and stepfather took a more active role in raising him. he donned the toga virilis ( " toga of manhood " ) four years later and was elected to the college of pontiffs in 47 bc. the following year he was put in charge of the greek games that were staged in honor of the temple of venus gene