definitions in july 1993, leandro despouy, the then un special rapporteur on extreme poverty and human rights made use of a definition he adapted from a 1987 report to the french economic and social council by fr. joseph wresinski, founder of the international movement atd fourth world, distinguishing " lack of basic security " ( poverty ) and " chronic poverty " ( extreme poverty ), linking the eradication of extreme poverty by allowing people currently experiencing it a real opportunity to exercise all their human rights : " the lack of basic security connotes the absence of one or more factors enabling individuals and families to assume basic responsibilities and to enjoy fundamental rights. the situation may become widespread and result in more serious and permanent consequences. the lack of basic security leads to chronic poverty when it simultaneously affects several aspects of people ' s lives, when it is prolonged and when it severely compromises people ' s chances of regaining their rights and of reassuming their responsibilities in the foreseeable future. " this definition was mentioned previously, in june 1989, in the preliminary report on the realization of economic, social and cultural rights by the un special rapporteur danilo turk. it is still in use today, among others, in the current un guiding principles on extreme poverty and human rights adopted by the un human rights council in september 2012 consumption - based definition extreme poverty is defined by the international community as living below $ 1. 90 a day, as measured in 2011 international prices ( equivalent to $ 2. 12 in 2018 ). this number, also known as the international poverty line, is periodically updated to account for inflation and differences in the cost of living ; it was originally defined at $ 1. 00 a day in 1996. the updates are made according to new price data to portray the costs of basic food, health services, clothing, and shelter around the world as accurately as possible. the latest revision was made in 2015 when the world bank increased the line to international - $ 1. 90. because many of the world ' s poorest people do not have a monetary income, the poverty measurement is based on the monetary value of a person ' s consumption. otherwise the poverty measurement would be missing the home production of subsistence farmers that consume largely their own production. alternative definitions the $ 1. 90 / day extreme poverty line remains the most widely used metric as it highlights the reality of those in the most severe conditions. although widely used by most international organizations, it has come under scrutiny due to a variety of factors. for example, it does not account for