forgotten the desert life for the comforts of the city. he was defeated by the combined action of his christian foes in iberia and the agitation of the almohads ( muwahhids ) in morocco. after ali ibn yusuf ' s death in 1143, his son tashfin ibn ali lost ground rapidly before the almohads. in 1146 he was killed in a fall from a precipice while attempting to escape after a defeat near oran. his two successors were ibrahim ibn tashfin and ishaq ibn ali, but their reigns were short. the conquest of the city of marrakesh by the almohads in 1147 marked the fall of the dynasty, though fragments of the almoravids continued to struggle throughout the empire. among these fragments, there was the rebel yahya al - sahrawiyya, who resisted almohad rule in the maghreb for eight years after the fall of marrakesh before surrendering in 1155. also in 1155, the remaining almoravids were forced to retreat to the balearic islands and later ifriqiya under the leadership of the banu ghaniya, who were eventually influential in the downfall of their conquerors, the almohads, in the eastern part of the maghreb. culture religion the almoravid movement started as a conservative islamic reform movement inspired by the maliki school of jurisprudence. the writings of abu imran al - fasi, a moroccan maliki scholar, influenced yahya ibn ibrahim and the early almoravid movement. art amira bennison describes the art of the almoravid period as influenced by the " integration of several areas into a single political unit and the resultant development of a widespread andalusi – maghribi style ", as well as the tastes of the sanhaja rulers as patrons of art. bennison also challenges robert hillenbrand ' s characterization of the art of al - andalus and the maghreb as provincial and peripheral in consideration of islamic art globally, and of the contributions of the almoravids as " sparse " as a result of the empire ' s " puritanical fervour " and " ephemerality. " at first, the almoravids, subscribing to the conservative maliki school of islamic jurisprudence, rejected what they perceived as decadence and a lack of piety among the iberian muslims of the andalusi taifa