in his cocaine addiction, crowley took him on holiday to france and morocco to recuperate. in 1907, he also began taking in paying students, whom he instructed in occult and magical practice. victor neuburg, whom crowley met in february 1907, became his sexual partner and closest disciple ; in 1908 the pair toured northern spain before heading to tangier, morocco. the following year neuburg stayed at boleskine, where he and crowley engaged in sadomasochism. crowley continued to write prolifically, producing such works of poetry as ambergris, clouds without water, and konx om pax, as well as his first attempt at an autobiography, the world ' s tragedy. recognizing the popularity of short horror stories, crowley wrote his own, some of which were published, and he also published several articles in vanity fair, a magazine edited by his friend frank harris. he also wrote liber 777, a book of magical and qabalistic correspondences that borrowed from mathers and bennett. in november 1907, crowley and jones decided to found an occult order to act as a successor to the hermetic order of the golden dawn, being aided in doing so by fuller. the result was the. the group ' s headquarters and temple were situated at 124 victoria street in central london, and their rites borrowed much from those of the golden dawn, but with an added thelemic basis. its earliest members included solicitor richard noel warren, artist austin osman spare, horace sheridan - bickers, author george raffalovich, francis henry everard joseph feilding, engineer herbert edward inman, kenneth ward, and charles stansfeld jones. in march 1909, crowley began production of a biannual periodical titled the equinox. he billed this periodical, which was to become the " official organ " of the, as " the review of scientific illuminism ". crowley had become increasingly frustrated with rose ' s alcoholism, and in november 1909 he divorced her on the grounds of his own adultery. lola was entrusted to rose ' s care ; the couple remained friends and rose continued to live at boleskine. her alcoholism worsened, and as a result she was institutionalized in september 1911. algeria and the rites of eleusis : 1909 – 1911 in november 1909, crowley and neuburg travelled to algeria, touring the desert from el arba to aumale, bou saada, and then da ' leh addin, with crowley reciting the quran on