this region, midday desert temperatures can be hot year round. after sunset, however, the clear, dry air permits rapid loss of heat, and the nights are cool to chilly. enormous daily ranges in temperature are recorded. rainfall is fairly plentiful along the coastal part of the tell atlas, ranging from annually, the amount of precipitation increasing from west to east. precipitation is heaviest in the northern part of eastern algeria, where it reaches as much as in some years. farther inland, the rainfall is less plentiful. algeria also has ergs, or sand dunes, between mountains. among these, in the summer time when winds are heavy and gusty, temperatures can go up to. fauna and flora the varied vegetation of algeria includes coastal, mountainous and grassy desert - like regions which all support a wide range of wildlife. many of the creatures comprising the algerian wildlife live in close proximity to civilisation. the most commonly seen animals include the wild boars, jackals, and gazelles, although it is not uncommon to spot fennecs ( foxes ), and jerboas. algeria also has a small african leopard and saharan cheetah population, but these are seldom seen. a species of deer, the barbary stag, inhabits the dense humid forests in the north - eastern areas. the fennec fox is the national animal of algeria. a variety of bird species makes the country an attraction for bird watchers. the forests are inhabited by boars and jackals. barbary macaques are the sole native monkey. snakes, monitor lizards, and numerous other reptiles can be found living among an array of rodents throughout the semi arid regions of algeria. many animals are now extinct, including the barbary lions, atlas bears and crocodiles. in the north, some of the native flora includes macchia scrub, olive trees, oaks, cedars and other conifers. the mountain regions contain large forests of evergreens ( aleppo pine, juniper, and evergreen oak ) and some deciduous trees. fig, eucalyptus, agave, and various palm trees grow in the warmer areas. the grape vine is indigenous to the coast. in the sahara region, some oases have palm trees. acacias with wild olives are the predominant flora in the remainder of the sahara. algeria had a 2018 forest landscape integrity index mean score of 5. 22 / 10, ranking it 106th globally out of 172 countries. camels are used extensively ; the desert also abounds with venomous and nonven