- 18th to 19th centuries ; its use as a stimulant was especially prevalent as sport animals such as race horses or with work dogs. alloys the main use of arsenic is in alloying with lead. lead components in car batteries are strengthened by the presence of a very small percentage of arsenic. dezincification of brass ( a copper - zinc alloy ) is greatly reduced by the addition of arsenic. " phosphorus deoxidized arsenical copper " with an arsenic content of 0. 3 % has an increased corrosion stability in certain environments. gallium arsenide is an important semiconductor material, used in integrated circuits. circuits made from gaas are much faster ( but also much more expensive ) than those made from silicon. unlike silicon, gaas has a direct bandgap, and can be used in laser diodes and leds to convert electrical energy directly into light. military after world war i, the united states built a stockpile of 20, 000 tons of weaponized lewisite ( clch = chascl2 ), an organoarsenic vesicant ( blister agent ) and lung irritant. the stockpile was neutralized with bleach and dumped into the gulf of mexico in the 1950s. during the vietnam war, the united states used agent blue, a mixture of sodium cacodylate and its acid form, as one of the rainbow herbicides to deprive north vietnamese soldiers of foliage cover and rice. other uses copper acetoarsenite was used as a green pigment known under many names, including paris green and emerald green. it caused numerous arsenic poisonings. scheele ' s green, a copper arsenate, was used in the 19th century as a coloring agent in sweets. arsenic is used in bronzing and pyrotechnics. as much as 2 % of produced arsenic is used in lead alloys for lead shot and bullets. arsenic is added in small quantities to alpha - brass to make it dezincification - resistant. this grade of brass is used in plumbing fittings and other wet environments. arsenic is also used for taxonomic sample preservation. it was also used in embalming fluids historically. arsenic was used as an opacifier in ceramics, creating white glazes. until recently, arsenic was used in optical glass. modern glass manufacturers, under pressure from environmentalists, have ceased using both arsenic and lead. in computers ; arsenic is used in the chips as the n - type doping biological role bacteria some species of bacteria