. ( tantalum - 180m is odd - odd and observationally stable, but is predicted to decay with a very long half - life. ) also, only four naturally occurring, radioactive odd - odd nuclides have a half - life over a billion years : potassium - 40, vanadium - 50, lanthanum - 138, and lutetium - 176. most odd - odd nuclei are highly unstable with respect to beta decay, because the decay products are even - even, and are therefore more strongly bound, due to nuclear pairing effects. mass the large majority of an atom ' s mass comes from the protons and neutrons that make it up. the total number of these particles ( called " nucleons " ) in a given atom is called the mass number. it is a positive integer and dimensionless ( instead of having dimension of mass ), because it expresses a count. an example of use of a mass number is " carbon - 12, " which has 12 nucleons ( six protons and six neutrons ). the actual mass of an atom at rest is often expressed in daltons ( da ), also called the unified atomic mass unit ( u ). this unit is defined as a twelfth of the mass of a free neutral atom of carbon - 12, which is approximately. hydrogen - 1 ( the lightest isotope of hydrogen which is also the nuclide with the lowest mass ) has an atomic weight of 1. 007825 da. the value of this number is called the atomic mass. a given atom has an atomic mass approximately equal ( within 1 % ) to its mass number times the atomic mass unit ( for example the mass of a nitrogen - 14 is roughly 14 da ), but this number will not be exactly an integer except ( by definition ) in the case of carbon - 12. the heaviest stable atom is lead - 208, with a mass of. as even the most massive atoms are far too light to work with directly, chemists instead use the unit of moles. one mole of atoms of any element always has the same number of atoms ( about ). this number was chosen so that if an element has an atomic mass of 1 u, a mole of atoms of that element has a mass close to one gram. because of the definition of the unified atomic mass unit, each carbon - 12 atom has an atomic mass of exactly 12 da, and so a mole of carbon - 12 atoms weighs exactly 0. 012 kg. shape and size atoms lack a