to the ship, charts, and a method of learning the depth of the water. vessels may carry a number of anchors : bower anchors are the main anchors used by a vessel and normally carried at the bow of the vessel. a kedge anchor is a light anchor used for warping an anchor, also known as kedging, or more commonly on yachts for mooring quickly or in benign conditions. a stream anchor, which is usually heavier than a kedge anchor, can be used for kedging or warping in addition to temporary mooring and restraining stern movement in tidal conditions or in waters where vessel movement needs to be restricted, such as rivers and channels. charts are vital to good anchoring. knowing the location of potential dangers, as well as being useful in estimating the effects of weather and tide in the anchorage, is essential in choosing a good place to drop the hook. one can get by without referring to charts, but they are an important tool and a part of good anchoring gear, and a skilled mariner would not choose to anchor without them. anchor rode the anchor rode ( or " cable " or " warp " ) that connects the anchor to the vessel is usually made up of chain, rope, or a combination of those. large ships use only chain rode. smaller craft might use a rope / chain combination or an all chain rode. all rodes should have some chain ; chain is heavy but it resists abrasion from coral, sharp rocks, or shellfish beds, whereas a rope warp is susceptible to abrasion and can fail in a short time when stretched against an abrasive surface. the weight of the chain also helps keep the direction of pull on the anchor closer to horizontal, which improves holding, and absorbs part of snubbing loads. where weight is not an issue, a heavier chain provides better holding by forming a catenary curve through the water and resting as much of its length on the bottom as would not be lifted by tension of the mooring load. any changes to the tension are accommodated by additional chain being lifted or settling on the bottom, and this absorbs shock loads until the chain is straight, at which point the full load is taken by the anchor. additional dissipation of shock loads can be achieved by fitting a snubber between the chain and a bollard or cleat on deck. this also reduces shock loads on the deck fittings, and the vessel usually lies more comfortably and quietly. being strong and elastic, nylon rope is