##sius, and basil of caesarea, with whom he was also exchanging letters. ambrose became a famous rhetorician whom augustine came to hear speak. augustine wrote in his confessions that faustus, the manichean rhetorician, was a more impressive speaker, but the content of ambrose ' s sermons began to affect augustine ' s faith. augustine sought guidance from ambrose, and again records in his confessions that ambrose was too busy to answer his questions. in a passage of augustine ' s confessions in which augustine wonders why he could not share his burden with ambrose, he comments : " ambrose himself i esteemed a happy man, as the world counted happiness, because great personages held him in honor. only his celibacy appeared to me a painful burden. " simplician regularly met with augustine, however, and augustine writes of simplician ' s " fatherly affection " for him. it was simplician who introduced augustine to christian neoplatonism. it is commonly understood in the christian tradition that ambrose baptized augustine. in this same passage of augustine ' s confessions is an anecdote which bears on the history of reading : this is a celebrated passage in modern scholarly discussion. the practice of reading to oneself without vocalizing the text was less common in antiquity than it has since become. in a culture that set a high value on oratory and public performances of all kinds, in which the production of books was very labor - intensive, the majority of the population was illiterate, and where those with the leisure to enjoy literary works also had slaves to read for them, written texts were more likely to be seen as scripts for recitation than as vehicles of silent reflection. however, there is also evidence that silent reading did occur in antiquity and that it was not generally regarded as unusual. music ambrose ' s writings extend past literature and into music, where he was an important innovator in early christian hymnography. his contributions include the " successful invention of christian latin hymnody ", while the hymnologist guido maria dreves designated him to be " the father of church hymnody ". he was not the first to write latin hymns ; the bishop hilary of poitiers had done so a few decades before. however, the hymns of hilary are thought to have been largely inaccessible because of their complexity and length. only fragments of hymns from hilary ' s liber hymnorum exist, making those of ambrose the earliest extant complete latin hymns. the assembling of ambrose ' s surviving oeuvre remains controversial