alexander ii ( medieval gaelic : ; modern gaelic : ; 24 august 1198 – 6 july 1249 ) was king of scotland from 1214 until his death. he concluded the treaty of york ( 1237 ) which defined the boundary between england and scotland, virtually unchanged today. early life alexander was born at haddington, east lothian, the only son of the scottish king william the lion and ermengarde de beaumont. he spent time in england ( john of england knighted him at clerkenwell priory in 1213 ) before succeeding to the kingdom on the death of his father on 4 december 1214, being crowned at scone on 6 december the same year. king of scots in 1215, the year after his accession, the clans meic uilleim and macheths, inveterate enemies of the scottish crown, broke into revolt ; but loyalist forces speedily quelled the insurrection. in the same year, alexander joined the english barons in their struggle against king john of england, and led an army into the kingdom of england in support of their cause. this action led to the sacking of berwick - upon - tweed as john ' s forces ravaged the north. the scottish forces reached the south coast of england at the port of dover where in september 1216, alexander paid homage to the pretender louis viii of france for his lands in england, chosen by the barons to replace john. but since john died, the papacy and the english aristocracy changed their allegiance to his nine - year - old son, henry iii, forcing the french and the scots armies to return home. peace between henry, louis and alexander followed on 12 september 1217 with the treaty of kingston. diplomacy further strengthened the reconciliation by the marriage of alexander to henry ' s sister joan on 18 june or 25 june 1221. in 1222 jon haraldsson, the last native scandinavian to be jarl of orkney, was indirectly implicated in the burning of adam of melrose at his hall at halkirk by local farmers when this part of caithness was still part of the kingdom of norway. a contemporary chronicler, boethius the dane blamed haraldsson for the bishop ' s death. after the jarl swore oaths to his own innocence, alexander took the opportunity to assert his claims to the mainland part of the orkney jarldom. he visited caithness in person, and hanged the majority of the farmers, while mutilating the rest. his actions were applauded by pope honorius iii, and a quarter of