to the east were significantly exposed to greek civilization and influence. some of the cities he founded became major cultural centers, many surviving into the 21st century. his chroniclers recorded valuable information about the areas through which he marched, while the greeks themselves got a sense of belonging to a world beyond the mediterranean. hellenistic kingdoms alexander ' s most immediate legacy was the introduction of macedonian rule to huge new swathes of asia. at the time of his death, alexander ' s empire covered some, and was the largest state of its time. many of these areas remained in macedonian hands or under greek influence for the next 200 – 300 years. the successor states that emerged were, at least initially, dominant forces, and these 300 years are often referred to as the hellenistic period. the eastern borders of alexander ' s empire began to collapse even during his lifetime. however, the power vacuum he left in the northwest of the indian subcontinent directly gave rise to one of the most powerful indian dynasties in history, the maurya empire. taking advantage of this power vacuum, chandragupta maurya ( referred to in greek sources as " sandrokottos " ), of relatively humble origin, took control of the punjab, and with that power base proceeded to conquer the nanda empire. founding of cities over the course of his conquests, alexander founded some twenty cities that bore his name, most of them east of the tigris. the first, and greatest, was alexandria in egypt, which would become one of the leading mediterranean cities. the cities ' locations reflected trade routes as well as defensive positions. at first, the cities must have been inhospitable, little more than defensive garrisons. following alexander ' s death, many greeks who had settled there tried to return to greece. however, a century or so after alexander ' s death, many of the alexandrias were thriving, with elaborate public buildings and substantial populations that included both greek and local peoples. the foundation of the " new " smyrna was also associated with alexander. according to the legend, after alexander hunted on the mount pagus, he slept under a plane tree at the sanctuary of nemesis. while he was sleeping, the goddess appeared and told him to found a city there and move into it the smyrnaeans from the " old " city. the smyrnaeans sent ambassadors to the oracle at clarus to ask about this, and after the response from the oracle they decided to move to the " new " city. the city of pella, in modern jordan,