square ions in the mineral skutterudite. in the + 3 oxidation state, arsenic is typically pyramidal owing to the influence of the lone pair of electrons. inorganic compounds one of the simplest arsenic compounds is the trihydride, the highly toxic, flammable, pyrophoric arsine ( ash3 ). this compound is generally regarded as stable, since at room temperature it decomposes only slowly. at temperatures of 250 – 300 °c decomposition to arsenic and hydrogen is rapid. several factors, such as humidity, presence of light and certain catalysts ( namely aluminium ) facilitate the rate of decomposition. it oxidises readily in air to form arsenic trioxide and water, and analogous reactions take place with sulfur and selenium instead of oxygen. arsenic forms colorless, odorless, crystalline oxides as2o3 ( " white arsenic " ) and as2o5 which are hygroscopic and readily soluble in water to form acidic solutions. arsenic ( v ) acid is a weak acid and the salts are called arsenates, the most common arsenic contamination of groundwater, and a problem that affects many people. synthetic arsenates include scheele ' s green ( cupric hydrogen arsenate, acidic copper arsenate ), calcium arsenate, and lead hydrogen arsenate. these three have been used as agricultural insecticides and poisons. the protonation steps between the arsenate and arsenic acid are similar to those between phosphate and phosphoric acid. unlike phosphorous acid, arsenous acid is genuinely tribasic, with the formula as ( oh ) 3. a broad variety of sulfur compounds of arsenic are known. orpiment ( as2s3 ) and realgar ( as4s4 ) are somewhat abundant and were formerly used as painting pigments. in as4s10, arsenic has a formal oxidation state of + 2 in as4s4 which features as - as bonds so that the total covalency of as is still 3. both orpiment and realgar, as well as as4s3, have selenium analogs ; the analogous as2te3 is known as the mineral kalgoorlieite, and the anion as2te− is known as a ligand in cobalt complexes. all trihalides of arsenic ( iii ) are well known except the astatide, which is unknown. arsenic pentafluoride ( asf5 ) is the only important penta