received in 23 bc. like his tribune authority, the consular powers were another instance of gaining power from offices that he did not actually hold. in addition, augustus was allowed to wear the consul ' s insignia in public and before the senate, as well as to sit in the symbolic chair between the two consuls and hold the fasces, an emblem of consular authority. this seems to have assuaged the populace ; regardless of whether or not augustus was a consul, the importance was that he both appeared as one before the people and could exercise consular power if necessary. on 6 march 12 bc, after the death of lepidus, he additionally took up the position of pontifex maximus, the high priest of the college of the pontiffs, the most important position in roman religion. on 5 february 2 bc, augustus was also given the title pater patriae, or " father of the country ". stability and staying power a final reason for the second settlement was to give the principate constitutional stability and staying power in case something happened to princeps augustus. his illness of early 23 bc and the caepio conspiracy showed that the regime ' s existence hung by the thin thread of the life of one man, augustus himself, who had several severe and dangerous illnesses throughout his life. if he were to die from natural causes or fall victim to assassination, rome could be subjected to another round of civil war. the memories of pharsalus, the ides of march, the proscriptions, philippi, and actium, barely twenty - five years distant, were still vivid in the minds of many citizens. proconsular imperium was conferred upon agrippa for five years, similar to augustus ' s power, in order to accomplish this constitutional stability. the exact nature of the grant is uncertain but it probably covered augustus ' s imperial provinces, east and west, perhaps lacking authority over the provinces of the senate. that came later, as did the jealously guarded tribunicia potestas. augustus ' s accumulation of powers was now complete. war and expansion by ad 13, augustus boasted 21 occasions where his troops proclaimed " imperator " ( " victorious commander " ) as his title after a successful battle. almost the entire fourth chapter in his publicly released memoirs of achievements known as the res gestae is devoted to his military victories and honors. augustus also promoted the ideal of a superior roman civilization with a task of ruling the world ( to the extent to which the romans