a clockwork orange is a dystopian satirical black comedy novel by english writer anthony burgess, published in 1962. it is set in a near - future society that has a youth subculture of extreme violence. the teenage protagonist, alex, narrates his violent exploits and his experiences with state authorities intent on reforming him. the book is partially written in a russian - influenced argot called " nadsat ", which takes its name from the russian suffix that is equivalent to ' - teen ' in english. according to burgess, the novel was a jeu d ' esprit written in just three weeks. in 2005, a clockwork orange was included on time magazine ' s list of the 100 best english - language novels written since 1923, and it was named by modern library and its readers as one of the 100 best english - language novels of the 20th century. the original manuscript of the book has been kept at mcmaster university ' s william ready division of archives and research collections in hamilton, ontario, canada since the institution purchased the documents in 1971. it is considered one of the most influential dystopian books. in 2022, the novel was included on the " big jubilee read " list of 70 books by commonwealth authors selected to celebrate the platinum jubilee of elizabeth ii. plot summary part 1 : alex ' s world alex is a 15 - year - old gang leader living in a near - future dystopian city. his friends ( " droogs " in the novel ' s anglo - russian slang, " nadsat " ) and fellow gang members are dim, a slow - witted bruiser, who is the gang ' s muscle ; georgie, an ambitious second - in - command ; and pete, who mostly plays along as the droogs indulge their taste for " ultra - violence " ( random, violent mayhem ). characterised as a sociopath and hardened juvenile delinquent, alex is also intelligent, quick - witted, and enjoys classical music ; he is particularly fond of beethoven, whom he calls " lovely ludwig van ". the droogs sit in their favourite hangout, the korova milk bar, drinking " milk - plus " ( milk laced with the customer ' s drug of choice ) to prepare for a night of ultra - violence. they assault a scholar walking home from the public library ; rob a shop, leaving the owner and his wife bloodied and unconscious ; beat up a beggar ; then scuffle with a rival gang. joyriding through the