casados ) and christian converts, of which there were about a hundred, to read and write. on 10 september 1512, afonso sailed from cochin to goa with fourteen ships carrying 1, 700 soldiers. determined to recapture the fortress, he ordered trenches dug and a wall breached. but on the day of the planned final assault, rasul khan surrendered. afonso demanded the fort be handed over with its artillery, ammunition and horses, and the deserters to be given up. some had joined rasul khan when the portuguese were forced to flee goa in may 1510, others during the recent siege. rasul khan consented, on condition that their lives be spared. afonso agreed and he left goa. he did spare the lives of the deserters, but had them horribly mutilated. one such renegade was fernao lopes, bound for portugal in custody, who escaped at the island of saint helena and led a ' robinson crusoe ' life for many years. after such measures the town became the most prosperous portuguese settlement in india. campaign in the red sea, 1513 in december 1512 an envoy from ethiopia arrived at goa. mateus was sent by the regent queen eleni, following the arrival of the portuguese from socotra in 1507, as an ambassador for the king of portugal in search of a coalition to help face growing muslim influence. he was received in goa with great honour by afonso, as a long - sought " prester john " envoy. his arrival was announced by king manuel to pope leo x in 1513. although mateus faced the distrust of afonso ' s rivals, who tried to prove he was some impostor or muslim spy, afonso sent him to portugal. the king is described as having wept with joy at their report. in february 1513, while mateus was in portugal, afonso sailed to the red sea with a force of about 1000 portuguese and 400 malabaris. he was under orders to secure that channel for portugal. socotra had proved ineffective to control the red sea entrance and was abandoned, and afonso ' s hint that massawa could be a good portuguese base might have been influenced by mateus ' reports. knowing that the mamluks were preparing a second fleet at suez, he wanted to advance before reinforcements arrived in aden, and accordingly laid siege to the city. aden was a fortified city, but although he had scaling ladders they broke during the chaotic attack. after half a day