miasma around the family. the curse begins with agamemnon ' s great - grandfather tantalus, who is in zeus ' s favor until he tries to feed his son pelops to the gods in order to test their omniscience, as well as stealing some ambrosia and nectar. tantalus is then banished to the underworld, where he stands in a pool of water that evaporates every time he reaches down to drink, and above him is a fruit tree whose branches are blown just out of reach by the wind whenever he reaches for the fruit. this begins the cursed house of atreus, and his descendants would face similar or worse fates. later, using his relationship with poseidon, pelops convinces the god to grant him a chariot so he may beat oenomaus, king of pisa, in a race, and win the hand of his daughter hippodamia. myrtilus, who in some accounts helps pelops win his chariot race, attempts to lie with pelops ' s new bride hippodamia. in anger, pelops throws myrtilus off a cliff, but not before myrtilus curses pelops and his entire line. pelops and hippodamia have many children, including atreus and thyestes, who are said to have murdered their half - brother chrysippus. pelops banishes atreus and thyestes to mycanae, where atreus becomes king. thyestes later conspires with atreus ' s wife, aerope, to supplant atreus, but they are unsuccessful. atreus then kills thyestes ' son and cooks him into a meal which thyestes eats, and afterwards atreus taunts him with the hands and feet of his now dead son. thyestes, on the advice of an oracle, then has a son with his own daughter pelopia. pelopia tries to expose the infant aegisthus, but he is found by a shepherd and raised in the house of atreus. when aegisthus reaches adulthood thyestes reveals the truth of his birth, and aegithus then kills atreus. atreus and aerope have three children, agamemnon, menelaus, and anaxibia. the continued miasma surrounding the house of atreus expresses itself in several events throughout their lives. agamemnon is forced to sacrifice his own daughter, iphigenia,