to some countries like azerbaijan. the turkish manufacturer mkek, has announced that they have found an alternate supplier for the power pack where azerbaijan showed interest to buy the high tech, more capable 155mm 52 caliber from turkish authorities. united states section 907 of the united states freedom support act bans any kind of direct united states aid to the azerbaijani government. since a waiver was made in 2001 there has been extensive u. s. military cooperation with azerbaijan. this has included special forces and naval aid, consultations with united states european command, and linkages through the u. s. national guard state partnership program. on 19 may 2006, azerbaijani defense minister safar abiyev and the then commander of united states air forces in europe general tom hobbins met in baku to discuss military cooperation. he said the objective of his visit was to become familiar with the state of azerbaijani armed forces. hobbins pointed to the progress made in the nato - azerbaijan relations, saying that the successful implementation of the nato partnership for peace program in azerbaijan has brought the country even closer to the alliance. he said that the two countries ' air forces will expand cooperation. the u. s. state of oklahoma is linked with azerbaijan through the u. s. national guard state partnership program ( spp ). oklahoma national guard troops have been sent on training and humanitarian missions to baku. russia russia is one of azerbaijan ' s main suppliers of arms. " as of today, military and technical cooperation with russia is measured at $ 4 billion and it tends to grow further, " president ilham aliyev said after meeting with russian president vladimir putin in baku in 2013. israel azerbaijan and israel cooperate on numerous areas of the defense industry. israel is azerbaijan ' s largest weapon supplier with $ 4. 85 billion in sales during 2016 alone. azerbaijan has shown great interest in israeli technology over the years. in particular, an agreement was reached over the construction of the factory of intelligence and combat drones in azerbaijan. the israeli defense company elta systems ltd has had cooperation from azerbaijan in building the tecsar reconnaissance satellite system, which can take high - definition photos of ground surfaces in all weather conditions. according to azerbaijani military experts, the tecsar system will be indispensable for military operations in the mountainous terrains of azerbaijan. as of june 2009, israel and azerbaijan had been negotiating on the production of namer armoured infantry fighting vehicles in azerbaijan. there is no further information as to whether any agreement has been made. nato the north atlantic treaty organization ( nato ) and azerbaijan actively