' s point of view, because the child is still discovering the universe and many adults are not. " philip offered the opinion that the " essence of his work " was " the struggle to render the complex in simple, bare terms ; to couch the abstract in the concrete and communicate it directly to the reader ". he added that garner ' s work is " intensely autobiographical, in both obvious and subtle ways ". highlighting garner ' s use of mythological and folkloric sources, philip stated that his work explores " the disjointed and troubled psychological and emotional landscape of the twentieth century through the symbolism of myth and folklore. " he also expressed the opinion that " time is garner ' s most consistent theme ". the english author and academic catherine butler noted that garner was attentive to the " geological, archaeological and cultural history of his settings, and careful to integrate his fiction with the physical reality beyond the page. " as a part of this, garner had included maps of alderley edge in both the weirdstone of brisingamen and the moon of gomrath. garner has spent much time investigating the areas that he deals with in his books ; writing in the times literary supplement in 1968, garner commented that in preparation for writing his book elidor : i had to read extensively textbooks on physics, celtic symbolism, unicorns, medieval watermarks, megalithic archaeology ; study the writings of jung ; brush up my plato ; visit avebury, silbury and coventry cathedral ; spend a lot of time with demolition gangs on slum clearance sites ; and listen to the whole of britten ' s war requiem nearly every day. recognition and legacy in a paper published in the children ' s literature association quarterly, maria nikolajeva characterised garner as " one of the most controversial " authors of modern children ' s literature. in the fiftieth anniversary edition of the weirdstone of brisingamen, published by harpercollins in 2010, several notable british fantasists praised garner and his work. susan cooper wrote that " the power and range of alan garner ' s astounding talent has grown with every book he ' s written ", and david almond called him one of britain ' s " greatest writers " whose works " really matter ". philip pullman, the author of the his dark materials trilogy, went further : garner is indisputably the great originator, the most important british writer of fantasy since tolkien, and in many respects better than tolkien, because deeper and more truthful... any country except