) there is also the newly expanded ankamall at the outskirts, on the istanbul highway, which houses most of the well - known international brands. this mall is the largest throughout the ankara region. in 2014, a few more shopping malls were open in ankara. they are next level and taurus on the boulevard of mevlana ( also known as konya road ). culture the arts turkish state opera and ballet, the national directorate of opera and ballet companies of turkey, has its headquarters in ankara, and serves the city with three venues : ankara opera house ( opera sahnesi, also known as buyuk tiyatro ) is the largest of the three venues for opera and ballet in ankara. music ankara is host to five classical music orchestras : presidential symphony orchestra ( turkish presidential symphony orchestra ) bilkent symphony orchestra ( bso ) is a major symphony orchestra of turkey. hacettepe symphony orchestra was founded in 2003 and directed by erol erdinc baskent oda orkestrası ( chamber orchestra of the capital ) there are four concert halls in the city : cso concert hall bilkent concert hall is a performing arts center in ankara. it is located in the bilkent university campus. meb sura salonu ( also known as the festival hall ), it is noted for its tango performances. cankaya cagdas sanatlar merkezi concert hall was founded in 1994. the city has been host to several well - established, annual theater, music, film festivals : ankara international music festival, a music festival organized in the turkish capital presenting classical music and ballet programs. ankara also has a number of concert venues such as eskiyeni, if performance hall, jolly joker, kite, nefes bar, and route, which host the live performances and events of popular musicians. theater the turkish state theatres also has its head office in ankara and runs the following stages in the city : 125. yıl cayyolu sahnesi buyuk tiyatro, kucuk tiyatro, sinasi sahnesi, akun sahnesi, altındag tiyatrosu, irfan sahinbas atolye sahnesi, oda tiyatrosu, mahir canova sahnesi, muhsin ertugrul sahnesi. in addition, the city is served by several private theater companies, among which ankara sanat tiyatrosu, who have their own