in the periodic table, only francium is less stable, and all the astatine isotopes more stable than the longest - lived francium isotopes are in any case synthetic and do not occur in nature. the bulk properties of astatine are not known with any certainty. research is limited by its short half - life, which prevents the creation of weighable quantities. a visible piece of astatine would immediately vaporize itself because of the heat generated by its intense radioactivity. it remains to be seen if, with sufficient cooling, a macroscopic quantity of astatine could be deposited as a thin film. astatine is usually classified as either a nonmetal or a metalloid ; metal formation has also been predicted. physical most of the physical properties of astatine have been estimated ( by interpolation or extrapolation ), using theoretically or empirically derived methods. for example, halogens get darker with increasing atomic weight – fluorine is nearly colorless, chlorine is yellow - green, bromine is red - brown, and iodine is dark gray / violet. astatine is sometimes described as probably being a black solid ( assuming it follows this trend ), or as having a metallic appearance ( if it is a metalloid or a metal ). astatine sublimes less readily than does iodine, having a lower vapor pressure. even so, half of a given quantity of astatine will vaporize in approximately an hour if put on a clean glass surface at room temperature. the absorption spectrum of astatine in the middle ultraviolet region has lines at 224. 401 and 216. 225 nm, suggestive of 6p to 7s transitions. the structure of solid astatine is unknown. as an analog of iodine it may have an orthorhombic crystalline structure composed of diatomic astatine molecules, and be a semiconductor ( with a band gap of 0. 7 ev ). alternatively, if condensed astatine forms a metallic phase, as has been predicted, it may have a monatomic face - centered cubic structure ; in this structure, it may well be a superconductor, like the similar high - pressure phase of iodine. metallic astatine is expected to have a density of 8. 91 – 8. 95 g / cm3. evidence for ( or against ) the existence of diatomic astatine ( at2 ) is sparse and inconclusive. some sources state that it does not