a century, except for an exemption of a limited number of salmon for ceremonial purposes. the group claimed the japanese government did not abide by the 2007 united nations declaration on the rights of indigenous people, which it had signed. situation in russia as a result of the treaty of saint petersburg ( 1875 ), the kuril islands – along with their ainu inhabitants – came under japanese administration. a total of 83 north kuril ainu arrived in petropavlovsk - kamchatsky on september 18, 1877, after they decided to remain under russian rule. they refused the offer by russian officials to move to new reservations in the commander islands. an agreement was reached in 1881, and the ainu decided to settle in the village of yavin. in march 1881, the group left petropavlovsk and started the journey towards yavin on foot. four months later they arrived at their new homes. another village, golygino, was founded later. under soviet rule, both the villages were forced to disband, and residents were moved to the russian - dominated zaporozhye rural settlement in ust - bolsheretsky raion. as a result of intermarriage, the three ethnic groups assimilated to form the kamchadal community. in 1953, k. omelchenko, the minister for the protection of military and state secrets in the ussr, banned the press from publishing any more information on the ainu living in the ussr. this order was revoked after two decades., the north kuril ainu of zaporozhye form the largest ainu subgroup in russia. the nakamura clan ( south kuril ainu on their paternal side ), the smallest group, numbers just six people residing in petropavlovsk. on sakhalin island, a few dozen people identify themselves as sakhalin ainu, but many more with partial ainu ancestry do not acknowledge it. most of the 888 japanese people living in russia ( 2010 census ) are of mixed japanese – ainu ancestry, although they do not acknowledge it ( full japanese ancestry gives them the right of visa - free entry to japan. ) similarly, no one identifies themselves as amur valley ainu, although people with partial descent live in khabarovsk. there is no evidence of living descendants of the kamchatka ainu. in the 2010 census of russia, nearly 100 people tried to register themselves as ethnic ainu in the village, but the governing council of kamchatka