), were sent from the southern province ' s capital suvarnagiri to various places. all three versions contain the same message, preceded by an initial greeting from the arya - putra ( presumably ashoka ' s son and the provincial governor ) and the mahamatras ( officials ) in suvarnagiri. coinage the caduceus appears as a symbol of the punch - marked coins of the maurya empire in india, in the 3rd – 2nd century bce. numismatic research suggests that this symbol was the symbol of king ashoka, his personal " mudra ". this symbol was not used on the pre - mauryan punch - marked coins, but only on coins of the maurya period, together with the three arched - hill symbol, the " peacock on the hill ", the triskelis and the taxila mark. modern scholarship rediscovery ashoka had almost been forgotten, but in the 19th century james prinsep contributed in the revelation of historical sources. after deciphering the brahmi script, prinsep had originally identified the " priyadasi " of the inscriptions he found with the king of ceylon devanampiya tissa. however, in 1837, george turnour discovered an important sri lankan manuscript ( dipavamsa, or " island chronicle " ) associating piyadasi with ashoka : since then, the association of " devanampriya priyadarsin " with ashoka was confirmed through various inscriptions, and especially confirmed in the minor rock edict inscription discovered in maski, directly associating ashoka with his regnal title devanampriya ( " beloved - of - the - gods " ) : another important historian was british archaeologist john hubert marshall, who was director - general of the archaeological survey of india. his main interests were sanchi and sarnath, in addition to harappa and mohenjodaro. sir alexander cunningham, a british archaeologist and army engineer, and often known as the father of the archaeological survey of india, unveiled heritage sites like the bharhut stupa, sarnath, sanchi, and the mahabodhi temple. mortimer wheeler, a british archaeologist, also exposed ashokan historical sources, especially the taxila. perceptions and historiography the use of buddhist sources in reconstructing the life of ashoka has had a strong influence on perceptions of ashoka, as well as the interpretations of his edicts. building on traditional accounts, early scholars regarded ashoka as a primarily buddhist