everyone stopped and looked. that shows that something like this never happened before. this battle was part of a civil war between david and ish - bosheth. after this battle, abner switched sides and granted david control over the tribe of benjamin. this act put abner in david ' s favor. for some time afterward, the war was carried on, the advantage being invariably on the side of david. at length, ish - bosheth lost the main prop of his tottering cause by accusing abner of sleeping with rizpah, one of saul ' s concubines, an alliance which, according to contemporary notions, would imply pretensions to the throne. abner was indignant at the rebuke, and immediately opened negotiations with david, who welcomed him on the condition that his wife michal should be restored to him. this was done, and the proceedings were ratified by a feast. almost immediately after, however, joab, who had been sent away, perhaps intentionally returned and slew abner at the gate of hebron. the ostensible motive for the assassination was a desire to avenge asahel, and this would be a sufficient justification for the deed according to the moral standard of the time ( although abner should have been safe from such a revenge killing in hebron, which was a city of refuge ). the conduct of david after the event was such as to show that he had no complicity in the act, though he could not venture to punish its perpetrators. david had abner buried in hebron, as stated in samuel 3 : 31 – 32, " and david said to all the people who were with him, ' rend your clothes and gird yourselves with sackcloth, and wail before abner. ' and king david went after the bier. and they buried abner in hebron, and the king raised his voice and wept on abner ' s grave, and all the people wept. " shortly after abner ' s death, ish - bosheth was assassinated as he slept, and david became king of the reunited kingdoms. rabbinical literature son of the witch of en - dor ( pirke r. el. xxxiii. ), and the hero par excellence in the haggadah ( yalk., jer. 285 ; eccl. r. on ix. 11 ; kid. 49b ). conscious of his extraordinary strength, he exclaimed : " if i could only catch hold of the earth