have undoubtedly had a difficult jewish problem, but why is it necessary to handle it so unreasonably? ", acknowledgement on lindbergh ' s part that he agreed with the nazis that germany had a " jewish problem ". an article by jonathan marwil in antisemitism, a historical encyclopedia of prejudice and persecution claims that " no one who ever knew lindbergh thought him antisemitic " and that claims of his antisemitism were solely tied to the remarks he made in that one speech. in the east the third reich forced jews into ghettos in warsaw, in krakow, in lvov, in lublin and in radom. after the beginning of the war between nazi germany and the soviet union in 1941, a campaign of mass murder, conducted by the einsatzgruppen, culminated from 1942 to 1945 in systematic genocide : the holocaust. eleven million jews were targeted for extermination by the nazis, and some six million were eventually killed. contemporary antisemitism post - wwii antisemitism there have continued to be antisemitic incidents since wwii, some of which had been state - sponsored. in the soviet union, antisemitism has been used as an instrument for settling personal conflicts starting with the conflict between joseph stalin and leon trotsky and continuing through numerous conspiracy theories spread by official propaganda. antisemitism in the ussr reached new heights after 1948 during the campaign against the " rootless cosmopolitan " ( euphemism for " jew " ) in which numerous yiddish - language poets, writers, painters, and sculptors were killed or arrested. this culminated in the so - called doctors ' plot in 1952. similar antisemitic propaganda in poland resulted in the flight of polish jewish survivors from the country. after the war, the kielce pogrom and the " march 1968 events " in communist poland represented further incidents of antisemitism in europe. the anti - jewish violence in postwar poland had a common theme of blood libel rumours. 21st - century european antisemitism physical assaults against jews in europe have included beatings, stabbings, and other violence, which increased markedly, sometimes resulting in serious injury and death. a 2015 report by the us state department on religious freedom declared that " european anti - israel sentiment crossed the line into anti - semitism. " this rise in antisemitic attacks is associated with both muslim antisemitism and the rise of far - right political parties as a result of the economic crisis of 2008