fulgentius of ruspe encountered mosaics of aphrodite and reinterpreted her as a symbol of the sin of lust, arguing that she was shown naked because " the sin of lust is never cloaked " and that she was often shown " swimming " because " all lust suffers shipwreck of its affairs. " he also argued that she was associated with doves and conchs because these are symbols of copulation, and that she was associated with roses because " as the rose gives pleasure, but is swept away by the swift movement of the seasons, so lust is pleasant for a moment, but is swept away forever. " while fulgentius had appropriated aphrodite as a symbol of lust, isidore of seville ( 560 – 636 ) interpreted her as a symbol of marital procreative sex and declared that the moral of the story of aphrodite ' s birth is that sex can only be holy in the presence of semen, blood, and heat, which he regarded as all being necessary for procreation. meanwhile, isidore denigrated aphrodite / venus ' s son eros / cupid as a " demon of fornication " ( daemon fornicationis ). aphrodite / venus was best known to western european scholars through her appearances in virgil ' s aeneid and ovid ' s metamorphoses. venus is mentioned in the latin poem pervigilium veneris ( " the eve of saint venus " ), written in the third or fourth century ad, and in giovanni boccaccio ' s genealogia deorum gentilium. since the late middle ages. the myth of the venusberg ( german ; french mont de venus, " mountain of venus " ) – a subterranean realm ruled by venus, hidden underneath christian europe – became a motif of european folklore rendered in various legends and epics. in german folklore of the 16th century, the narrative becomes associated with the minnesinger tannhauser, and in that form the myth was taken up in later literature and opera. art aphrodite is the central figure in sandro botticelli ' s painting primavera, which has been described as " one of the most written about, and most controversial paintings in the world ", and " one of the most popular paintings in western art ". the story of aphrodite ' s birth from the foam was a popular subject matter for painters during the italian renaissance