. today, the catalogue most often used is usno - b1. 0, an all - sky catalogue that tracks proper motions, positions, magnitudes and other characteristics for over one billion stellar objects. during the past 50 years, 7, 435 schmidt camera plates were used to complete several sky surveys that make the data in usno - b1. 0 accurate to within 0. 2 arcsec. applications apart from the fundamental function of providing astronomers with a reference frame to report their observations in, astrometry is also fundamental for fields like celestial mechanics, stellar dynamics and galactic astronomy. in observational astronomy, astrometric techniques help identify stellar objects by their unique motions. it is instrumental for keeping time, in that utc is essentially the atomic time synchronized to earth ' s rotation by means of exact astronomical observations. astrometry is an important step in the cosmic distance ladder because it establishes parallax distance estimates for stars in the milky way. astrometry has also been used to support claims of extrasolar planet detection by measuring the displacement the proposed planets cause in their parent star ' s apparent position on the sky, due to their mutual orbit around the center of mass of the system. astrometry is more accurate in space missions that are not affected by the distorting effects of the earth ' s atmosphere. nasa ' s planned space interferometry mission ( sim planetquest ) ( now cancelled ) was to utilize astrometric techniques to detect terrestrial planets orbiting 200 or so of the nearest solar - type stars. the european space agency ' s gaia mission, launched in 2013, applies astrometric techniques in its stellar census. in addition to the detection of exoplanets, it can also be used to determine their mass. astrometric measurements are used by astrophysicists to constrain certain models in celestial mechanics. by measuring the velocities of pulsars, it is possible to put a limit on the asymmetry of supernova explosions. also, astrometric results are used to determine the distribution of dark matter in the galaxy. astronomers use astrometric techniques for the tracking of near - earth objects. astrometry is responsible for the detection of many record - breaking solar system objects. to find such objects astrometrically, astronomers use telescopes to survey the sky and large - area cameras to take pictures at various determined intervals. by studying these images, they can detect solar system objects by their movements relative to the background stars, which remain fixed. once a movement per unit time is observed, astronomers compensate for the parallax caused by earth