rampart ) and graven ( the moat ). aarhus grew to become one of the largest cities in the country by the early 16th century. in 1657, octroi was imposed in larger danish cities which changed the layout and face of aarhus over the following decades. wooden city walls were erected to prevent smuggling, with gates and toll booths on the major thoroughfares, mejlgade and studsgade. the city gates funnelled most traffic through a few streets where merchant quarters were built. in the 17th century, aarhus entered a period of recession as it suffered blockades and bombardments during the swedish wars and trade was dampened by the preferential treatment of the capital by the state. not until the middle of the 18th century did growth return, in large part due to trade with the large agricultural catchment areas around the city ; grain, particularly, proved to be a remunerative export. the first factories were established at this time, as the industrial revolution reached the country, and in 1810 the harbour was expanded to accommodate growing trade. industrialisation aarhus began to prosper in the 1830s as the industrial revolution reached the city and factories with steam - driven machinery became more productive. in 1838, the electoral laws were reformed leading to elections for the 15 seats on the city council. the rules were initially very strict, allowing only the wealthiest citizens to run. in the 1844 elections, only 174 citizens qualified out of a total population of more than 7, 000. the first city council, mainly composed of wealthy merchants and industrialists, quickly looked to improve the harbour, situated along the aarhus river. larger ships and growing freight volumes made a river harbour increasingly impractical. in 1840, the harbour was moved to the coast, north of the river, where it became the largest industrial harbour outside copenhagen over the following 15 years. from the outset, the new harbour was controlled by the city council, as it is to this day. during the first schleswig war, aarhus was occupied by german troops from 21 june to 24 july 1849. the city was spared any fighting, but in vejlby north of the city a cavalry skirmish known as rytterfægtningen took place which stopped the german advance through jutland. the war and occupation left a notable impact on the city as many streets, particularly on frederiksbjerg, are named after danish officers of the time. fifteen years later, in 1864, the city was occupied again, this time for seven months, during the second schleswig war. in spite of wars and occupation,