, n. c., the old, dilapidated piano - organ was still being played by dr. schweitzer in 1962, and stories told that " his fingers were still lively " on the old instrument at 88 years of age. sir donald tovey dedicated his conjectural completion of bach ' s the art of fugue to schweitzer. schweitzer ' s recordings of organ - music, and his innovative recording technique, are described below. one of his pupils was conductor and composer hans munch. theology in 1899, schweitzer became a deacon at the church of saint nicholas in strasbourg. in 1900, with the completion of his licentiate in theology, he was ordained as curate, and that year he witnessed the oberammergau passion play. in the following year he became provisional principal of the theological college of saint thomas, from which he had just graduated, and in 1903 his appointment was made permanent. in 1906, he published geschichte der leben - jesu - forschung [ history of life - of - jesus research ]. this book, which established his reputation, was first published in english in 1910 as the quest of the historical jesus. under this title the book became famous in the english - speaking world. a second german edition was published in 1913, containing theologically significant revisions and expansions : this revised edition did not appear in english until 2001. in 1931, he published mystik des apostels paulus ( the mysticism of paul the apostle ) ; a second edition was published in 1953. the quest of the historical jesus ( 1906 ) in the quest, schweitzer criticised the liberal view put forward by liberal and romantic scholars during the first quest for the historical jesus. schweitzer maintained that the life of jesus must be interpreted in the light of jesus ' own convictions, which reflected late jewish eschatology and apocalypticism. schweitzer writes : instead of these liberal and romantic views, schweitzer wrote that jesus and his followers expected the imminent end of the world. schweitzer cross - referenced the many new testament verses declaring imminent fulfilment of the promise of the world ' s ending within the lifetime of jesus ' s original followers. he wrote that in his view, in the gospel of mark, jesus speaks of a " tribulation ", with his " coming in the clouds with great power and glory " ( st. mark ), and states that it will happen but it has not : " this generation