interpreter in court ". although that would make asl the third - most used language among monolinguals other than english, it does not imply that it is the fourth - most - spoken language in the united states since speakers of other languages may also speak english. geographic distribution asl is used throughout anglo - america. that contrasts with europe, where a variety of sign languages are used within the same continent. the unique situation of asl seems to have been caused by the proliferation of asl through schools influenced by the american school for the deaf, wherein asl originated, and the rise of community organizations for the deaf. throughout west africa, asl - based sign languages are signed by educated deaf adults. such languages, imported by boarding schools, are often considered by associations to be the official sign languages of their countries and are named accordingly, such as nigerian sign language, ghanaian sign language. such signing systems are found in benin, burkina faso, ivory coast, ghana, liberia, mauritania, mali, nigeria, and togo. due to lack of data, it is still an open question how similar those sign languages are to the variety of asl used in america. in addition to the aforementioned west african countries, asl is reported to be used as a first language in barbados, bolivia, cambodia ( alongside cambodian sign language ), the central african republic, chad, china ( hong kong ), the democratic republic of the congo, gabon, jamaica, kenya, madagascar, the philippines, singapore, and zimbabwe. asl is also used as a lingua franca throughout the deaf world, widely learned as a second language. regional variation sign production sign production can often vary according to location. signers from the south tend to sign with more flow and ease. native signers from new york have been reported as signing comparatively quicker and sharper. sign production of native californian signers has also been reported as being fast. research on that phenomenon often concludes that the fast - paced production for signers from the coasts could be due to the fast - paced nature of living in large metropolitan areas. that conclusion also supports how the ease with which southern sign could be caused by the easygoing environment of the south in comparison to that of the coasts. sign production can also vary depending on age and native language. for example, sign production of letters may vary in older signers. slight differences in finger spelling production can be a signal of age. additionally, signers who learned american sign language as a second language vary in production. for deaf sign