public health insurance. users of acupuncture in japan are more likely to be elderly and to have a limited education. approximately half of users surveyed indicated a likelihood to seek such remedies in the future, while 37 % did not. less than one percent of the us population reported having used acupuncture in the early 1990s. by the early 2010s, more than 14 million americans reported having used acupuncture as part of their health care. in the us, acupuncture is increasingly ( ) used at academic medical centers, and is usually offered through cam centers or anesthesia and pain management services. examples include those at harvard university, stanford university, johns hopkins university, and ucla. cdc clinical practice guidelines from 2022 list acupuncture among the types of complementary and alternative medicines physicians should consider in preference to opioid prescription for certain kinds of pain. the use of acupuncture in germany increased by 20 % in 2007, after the german acupuncture trials supported its efficacy for certain uses. in 2011, there were more than one million users, and insurance companies have estimated that two - thirds of german users are women. as a result of the trials, german public health insurers began to cover acupuncture for chronic low back pain and osteoarthritis of the knee, but not tension headache or migraine. this decision was based in part on socio - political reasons. some insurers in germany chose to stop reimbursement of acupuncture because of the trials. for other conditions, insurers in germany were not convinced that acupuncture had adequate benefits over usual care or sham treatments. highlighting the results of the placebo group, researchers refused to accept a placebo therapy as efficient. regulation there are various government and trade association regulatory bodies for acupuncture in the united kingdom, the united states, saudi arabia, australia, new zealand, japan, canada, and in european countries and elsewhere. the world health organization recommends that before being licensed or certified, an acupuncturist receive 200 hours of specialized training if they are a physician and 2, 500 hours for non - physicians ; many governments have adopted similar standards. in hong kong, the practice of acupuncture is regulated by the chinese medicine council that was formed in 1999 by the legislative council. it includes a licensing exam and registration, as well as degree courses approved by the board. canada has acupuncture licensing programs in the provinces of british columbia