" ) was performed and recorded by many artists, including john kraaijkamp sr. ; the best - known version is probably that by wim sonneveld ( 1962 ). in the 1950s johnny jordaan rose to fame with " geef mij maar amsterdam " ( " i prefer amsterdam " ), which praises the city above all others ( explicitly paris ) ; jordaan sang especially about his own neighbourhood, the jordaan ( " bij ons in de jordaan " ). colleagues and contemporaries of johnny include tante leen and manke nelis. another notable amsterdam song is " amsterdam " by jacques brel ( 1964 ). a 2011 poll by amsterdam newspaper het parool that trio bier ' s " oude wolf " was voted " amsterdams lijflied ". notable amsterdam bands from the modern era include the osdorp posse and the ex. afas live ( formerly known as the heineken music hall ) is a concert hall located near the johan cruyff arena ( known as the amsterdam arena until 2018 ). its main purpose is to serve as a podium for pop concerts for big audiences. many famous international artists have performed there. two other notable venues, paradiso and the are located near the leidseplein. both focus on broad programming, ranging from indie rock to hip hop, r & b, and other popular genres. other more subcultural music venues are occii, ot301, de nieuwe anita, winston kingdom, and zaal 100. jazz has a strong following in amsterdam, with the bimhuis being the premier venue. in 2012, ziggo dome was opened, also near amsterdam arena, a state - of - the - art indoor music arena. afas live is also host to many electronic dance music festivals, alongside many other venues. armin van buuren and tiesto, some of the worlds leading trance dj ' s hail from the netherlands and frequently perform in amsterdam. each year in october, the city hosts the amsterdam dance event ( ade ) which is one of the leading electronic music conferences and one of the biggest club festivals for electronic music in the world, attracting over 350, 000 visitors each year. another popular dance festival is 5daysoff, which takes place in the venues paradiso and. in the summertime, there are several big outdoor dance parties in or nearby amsterdam, such as awakenings, dance valley, mystery land, loveland, a