, but kulikowski certainly sees the issue of available treasure in a different light, writing that " for three days, alaric ' s goths sacked the city, stripping it of the wealth of centuries. " the barbarian invaders were not gentle in their treatment of property as substantial damage was still evident into the sixth century. certainly the roman world was shaken by the fall of the eternal city to barbarian invaders, but as guy halsall emphasizes, " rome ' s fall had less striking political effects. alaric, unable to treat with honorius, remained in the political cold. " kulikowski sees the situation similarly, commenting : but for alaric the sack of rome was an admission of defeat, a catastrophic failure. everything he had hoped for, had fought for over the course of a decade and a half, went up in flames with the capital of the ancient world. imperial office, a legitimate place for himself and his followers inside the empire, these were now forever out of reach. he might seize what he wanted, as he had seized rome, but he would never be given it by right. the sack of rome solved nothing and when the looting was over alaric ' s men still had nowhere to live and fewer future prospects than ever before. still, the importance of alaric cannot be " overestimated " according to halsall, since he had desired and obtained a roman command even though he was a barbarian ; his real misfortune was being caught between the rivalry of the eastern and western empires and their court intrigue. according to historian peter brown, when one compares alaric with other barbarians, " he was almost an elder statesman. " nonetheless, alaric ' s respect for roman institutions as a former servant to its highest office did not stay his hand in violently sacking the city that had for centuries exemplified roman glory, leaving behind physical destruction and social disruption, while alaric took clerics and even the emperor ' s sister, galla placidia, with him when he left the city. many other italian communities beyond the city of rome itself fell victim to the forces under alaric, as procopius ( wars 3. 2. 11 – 13 ) writing in the sixth century later relates : for they destroyed all the cities which they captured, especially those south of the ionian gulf, so completely that nothing has been left to my time to know them by, unless, indeed, it might be one tower or gate or some such thing which chanced to remain. and they killed all the people