two distinct waves : confusion with emishi the claim that the ancient emishi were ainu has been largely disproved by current research, although it is still under dispute. the term " emishi " in the nara period ( 710 - 794 ) referred to people who lived in the tohoku region and whose lifestyle and culture differed markedly from that of the yamato people ; it was originally a highly cultural and political concept with no racial distinction. from the mid - heian period onward, emishi who did not fall under the governance of the yamato kingship were singled out as northern emishi. they began to be referred to as " ezo " ( emishi ). the first written reference to " ezo, " which is thought to be ainu, can be found in suwa daimyojin ekotoba, which was written in 1356. indeed, ainu have lived in sakhalin, the kuril islands, hokkaido, and the northern tohoku region since the 13th century. thus, " ezo = ainu " is a concept that was accepted in the medieval and early modern periods, and it is not accurate to apply it to ancient emishi as well. caucasoid theory source : the ainu caucasian theory was proposed by siebold, a physician and naturalist at the dutch trading post in nagasaki in the 19th century ; he claimed that the ainu were caucasian ( caucasoid ) and that the ainu were a long - lost white people. early european ainu researchers considered the ainu to be caucasian because they were an ancient culture and based their lives on a lifestyle that could be compared to the paleolithic period in europe, i. e., gathering plants and hunting animals in the mountains and sea, and because their facial moats were deeper than those of the mainland japanese. this theory was popular until the 1950s. followers of the theory include french ethnologist georges montandon and p. wilhelm koppers of the viennese school of historical ethnography. genetics paternal lineages genetic testing has shown that the ainu belong mainly to y - dna haplogroup d - m55 ( d1a2 ) and c - m217. y - dna haplogroup d - m55 is found throughout the japanese archipelago, but with very high frequencies among the ainu of hokkaido in the far north, and to a lesser extent among the ryukyuans in the ryukyu islands of the far south. recently