, as well as politically revolutionary visions of a post - monarchist world, such as blake ' s portrayal of newton as a divine geometer, or david ' s propagandistic paintings. this led to romantic rejections of this in favor of pictures of the emotional side and individuality of humans, exemplified in the novels of goethe. the late 19th century then saw a host of artistic movements, such as academic art, symbolism, impressionism and fauvism among others. the history of 20th - century art is a narrative of endless possibilities and the search for new standards, each being torn down in succession by the next. thus the parameters of impressionism, expressionism, fauvism, cubism, dadaism, surrealism, etc. cannot be maintained very much beyond the time of their invention. increasing global interaction during this time saw an equivalent influence of other cultures into western art. thus, japanese woodblock prints ( themselves influenced by western renaissance draftsmanship ) had an immense influence on impressionism and subsequent development. later, african sculptures were taken up by picasso and to some extent by matisse. similarly, in the 19th and 20th centuries the west has had huge impacts on eastern art with originally western ideas like communism and post - modernism exerting a powerful influence. modernism, the idealistic search for truth, gave way in the latter half of the 20th century to a realization of its unattainability. theodor w. adorno said in 1970, " it is now taken for granted that nothing which concerns art can be taken for granted any more : neither art itself, nor art in relationship to the whole, nor even the right of art to exist. " relativism was accepted as an unavoidable truth, which led to the period of contemporary art and postmodern criticism, where cultures of the world and of history are seen as changing forms, which can be appreciated and drawn from only with skepticism and irony. furthermore, the separation of cultures is increasingly blurred and some argue it is now more appropriate to think in terms of a global culture, rather than of regional ones. in the origin of the work of art, martin heidegger, a german philosopher and seminal thinker, describes the essence of art in terms of the concepts of being and truth. he argues that art is not only a way of expressing the element of truth in a culture, but the means of creating it and providing a springboard from which " that which is " can be revealed. works of art are not merely representations of