speed and density the memory of the atanasoff – berry computer was a system called regenerative capacitor memory, which consisted of a pair of drums, each containing 1600 capacitors that rotated on a common shaft once per second. the capacitors on each drum were organized into 32 " bands " of 50 ( 30 active bands and two spares in case a capacitor failed ), giving the machine a speed of 30 additions / subtractions per second. data was represented as 50 - bit binary fixed - point numbers. the electronics of the memory and arithmetic units could store and operate on 60 such numbers at a time ( 3000 bits ). the alternating current power - line frequency of 60 hz was the primary clock rate for the lowest - level operations. the arithmetic logic functions were fully electronic, implemented with vacuum tubes. the family of logic gates ranged from inverters to two - and three - input gates. the input and output levels and operating voltages were compatible between the different gates. each gate consisted of one inverting vacuum - tube amplifier, preceded by a resistor divider input network that defined the logical function. the control logic functions, which only needed to operate once per drum rotation and therefore did not require electronic speed, were electromechanical, implemented with relays. the alu operated on only one bit of each number at a time ; it kept the carry / borrow bit in a capacitor for use in the next ac cycle. although the atanasoff – berry computer was an important step up from earlier calculating machines, it was not able to run entirely automatically through an entire problem. an operator was needed to operate the control switches to set up its functions, much like the electro - mechanical calculators and unit record equipment of the time. selection of the operation to be performed, reading, writing, converting to or from binary to decimal, or reducing a set of equations was made by front - panel switches and, in some cases, jumpers. there were two forms of input and output : primary user input and output and an intermediate results output and input. the intermediate results storage allowed operation on problems too large to be handled entirely within the electronic memory. ( the largest problem that could be solved without the use of the intermediate output and input was two simultaneous equations, a trivial problem. ) intermediate results were binary, written onto paper sheets by electrostatically modifying the resistance at 1500 locations to represent 30 of the 50 - bit numbers ( one equation ). each sheet could be written or