##uranic elements — those with atomic numbers greater than 92 — only plutonium and neptunium occur naturally on earth. transuranic elements have radioactive lifetimes shorter than the current age of the earth and thus identifiable quantities of these elements have long since decayed, with the exception of traces of plutonium - 244 possibly deposited by cosmic dust. natural deposits of plutonium and neptunium are produced by neutron capture in uranium ore. the earth contains approximately atoms. although small numbers of independent atoms of noble gases exist, such as argon, neon, and helium, 99 % of the atmosphere is bound in the form of molecules, including carbon dioxide and diatomic oxygen and nitrogen. at the surface of the earth, an overwhelming majority of atoms combine to form various compounds, including water, salt, silicates and oxides. atoms can also combine to create materials that do not consist of discrete molecules, including crystals and liquid or solid metals. this atomic matter forms networked arrangements that lack the particular type of small - scale interrupted order associated with molecular matter. rare and theoretical forms superheavy elements all nuclides with atomic numbers higher than 82 ( lead ) are known to be radioactive. no nuclide with an atomic number exceeding 92 ( uranium ) exists on earth as a primordial nuclide, and heavier elements generally have shorter half - lives. nevertheless, an " island of stability " encompassing relatively long - lived isotopes of superheavy elements with atomic numbers 110 to 114 might exist. predictions for the half - life of the most stable nuclide on the island range from a few minutes to millions of years. in any case, superheavy elements ( with z > 104 ) would not exist due to increasing coulomb repulsion ( which results in spontaneous fission with increasingly short half - lives ) in the absence of any stabilizing effects. exotic matter each particle of matter has a corresponding antimatter particle with the opposite electrical charge. thus, the positron is a positively charged antielectron and the antiproton is a negatively charged equivalent of a proton. when a matter and corresponding antimatter particle meet, they annihilate each other. because of this, along with an imbalance between the number of matter and antimatter particles, the latter are rare in the universe. the first causes of this imbalance are not yet fully understood, although theories of baryogenesis may offer an explanation. as a result, no antimatter atoms have been discovered in