and within three years reached us $ 1 billion in annual sales, becoming the fastest retailer in history to do so. over the years, apple has expanded the number of retail locations and its geographical coverage, with 499 stores across 22 countries worldwide. strong product sales have placed apple among the top - tier retail stores, with sales over $ 16 billion globally in 2011. apple stores underwent a period of significant redesign, beginning in may 2016. this redesign included physical changes to the apple stores, such as open spaces and re - branded rooms, as well as changes in function to facilitate interaction between consumers and professionals. many apple stores are located inside shopping malls, but apple has built several stand - alone " flagship " stores in high - profile locations. it has been granted design patents and received architectural awards for its stores ' designs and construction, specifically for its use of glass staircases and cubes. the success of apple stores have had significant influence over other consumer electronics retailers, who have lost traffic, control and profits due to a perceived higher quality of service and products at apple stores. due to the popularity of the brand, apple receives a large number of job applications, many of which come from young workers. although apple store employees receive above - average pay, are offered money toward education and health care, and receive product discounts, there are limited or no paths of career advancement. market power on march 16, 2020, france fined apple €1. 1 billion for colluding with two wholesalers to stifle competition and keep prices high by handicapping independent resellers. the arrangement created aligned prices for apple products such as ipads and personal computers for about half the french retail market. according to the french regulators, the abuses occurred between 2005 and 2017 but were first discovered after a complaint by an independent reseller, ebizcuss, in 2012. on august 13, 2020, epic games, the maker of the popular game fortnite, sued apple and google after its hugely popular video game was removed from apple and google ' s app store. the suits come after both apple and google blocked the game after it introduced a direct payment system, effectively shutting out the tech titans from collecting fees. in september 2020 epic games founded the coalition for app fairness together with other thirteen companies, which aims for better conditions for the inclusion of apps in the app stores. later in december 2020, facebook agreed to assist epic in their legal game against apple, planning to support the company by providing materials and documents to epic. facebook had, however, stated that