1970s operating systems used ebcdic encoding instead of ascii, and they were oriented toward punch - card input and line printer output on which the concept of " carriage return " was meaningless. ibm ' s pc dos ( also marketed as ms - dos by microsoft ) inherited the convention by virtue of being loosely based on cp / m, and windows in turn inherited it from ms - dos. requiring two characters to mark the end of a line introduces unnecessary complexity and ambiguity as to how to interpret each character when encountered by itself. to simplify matters, plain text data streams, including files, on multics used line feed ( lf ) alone as a line terminator. unix and unix - like systems, and amiga systems, adopted this convention from multics. on the other hand, the original macintosh os, apple dos, and prodos used carriage return ( cr ) alone as a line terminator ; however, since apple has now replaced these obsolete operating systems with the unix - based macos operating system, they now use line feed ( lf ) as well. the radio shack trs - 80 also used a lone cr to terminate lines. computers attached to the arpanet included machines running operating systems such as tops - 10 and tenex using cr - lf line endings ; machines running operating systems such as multics using lf line endings ; and machines running operating systems such as os / 360 that represented lines as a character count followed by the characters of the line and which used ebcdic rather than ascii encoding. the telnet protocol defined an ascii " network virtual terminal " ( nvt ), so that connections between hosts with different line - ending conventions and character sets could be supported by transmitting a standard text format over the network. telnet used ascii along with cr - lf line endings, and software using other conventions would translate between the local conventions and the nvt. the file transfer protocol adopted the telnet protocol, including use of the network virtual terminal, for use when transmitting commands and transferring data in the default ascii mode. this adds complexity to implementations of those protocols, and to other network protocols, such as those used for e - mail and the world wide web, on systems not using the nvt ' s cr - lf line - ending convention. end of file / stream the pdp - 6 monitor, and its pdp - 10 successor tops - 10, used control - z ( sub ) as an end - of - file indication for input