##s ; be " burnt " by " scorching fire " and when " their skins are roasted through, we shall change them for fresh skins " to repeat the process forever ; they will have nothing to drink but " boiling water and running sores " ; their cries of remorse and pleading for forgiveness will be in vain. traditionally jannah and jahannam are thought to have different levels. eight gates and eight levels in jannah, where the higher the level the better it is and the happier you are. jahannam possess seven layers. each layer more horrible than the one above. the quran teaches that the purpose of man ' s creation is to worship god and god alone. those it describes as being punished in hell are " most typically ", unbelievers, including those who worship others besides allah, those who deny the divine origin of the quran, or the coming of judgement day. straightforward crimes / sins against other people are also grounds for going to hell : the murder of a believer, usury ( q. 2 : 275 ), devouring the property of an orphan, slander, particularly of a chaste woman. however it is a common belief among muslims that whatever crimes / sins muslims may have committed, their punishment in hell will be temporary. only unbelievers will reside in hell permanently. thus jahannam combines both the concept of an eternal hell ( for unbelievers ), and what is known in christian catholicism as purgatory ( for believers eventually destined for heaven after punishment for their sins ). the common belief holds that jahannam coexists with the temporal world. mainstream islam teaches the continued existence of the soul and a transformed physical existence after death. the resurrection that will take place on the last day is physical, and is explained by suggesting that god will re - create the decayed body ( " have they not realized that allah, who created the heavens and the earth, can re - create them? " ). ahmadiyya ahmadi muslims believe that the afterlife is not material but of a spiritual nature. according to mirza ghulam ahmad, founder of the ahmadiyya muslim community, the soul will give birth to another rarer entity and will resemble the life on this earth in the sense that this entity will bear a similar relationship to the soul as the soul bears relationship with the human existence on earth. on earth, if a person leads a righteous life and submits to the will of god, his or her tastes become attuned to enjoying spiritual pleasures