50 % was to be distributed by the government, with preference given to members of the labour organisations. a major problem of this system, however, was the lack of supporting legislation covering foreign investment protection, bankruptcy, monopoly policy, and consumer protection. in the first post - communist years, efforts to interest foreign investors in joint enterprises were only moderately successful because of the blockade and the energy shortage. only in late 1993 was a department of foreign investment established in the ministry of economy, to spread information about armenia ' s investment opportunities and improve the legal infrastructure for investment activity. a specific goal of this agency was creating a market for scientific and technical intellectual property. a few armenians living abroad made large - scale investments. besides a toy factory and construction projects, diaspora armenians built a cold storage plant ( which in its first years had little produce to store ) and established the american university of armenia in yerevan to teach the techniques necessary to run a market economy. armenia was admitted to the international monetary fund in may 1992 and to the world bank in september. a year later, the government complained that those organisations were holding back financial assistance and announced its intention to move toward fuller price liberalisation, and the removal of all tariffs, quotas, and restrictions of foreign trade. although privatisation had slowed because of catastrophic collapse of the economy, prime minister hrant bagratyan informed the united states officials in the fall of 1993 that plans had been made to embark on a renewed privatisation programme by the end of the year. like other former states, armenia ' s economy suffers from the legacy of a centrally planned economy and the breakdown of former soviet trading patterns. soviet investment in and support of armenian industry has virtually disappeared, so that few major enterprises are still able to function. in addition, the effects of the 1988 earthquake, which killed more than 25, 000 people and made 500, 000 homeless, are still being felt. although a cease - fire has held since 1994, the conflict with azerbaijan over nagorno - karabakh has not been resolved. the consequent blockade along both the azerbaijani and turkish borders has devastated the economy, because of armenia ' s dependence on outside supplies of energy and most raw materials. land routes through azerbaijan and turkey are closed ; routes through georgia and iran are adequate and reliable. in 1992 – 93, the gdp had fallen nearly 60 % from its 1989 level. the national currency, the dram, suffered hyperinflation for the first few years after its introduction in 1993. armenia has registered strong economic growth since 1995 and inflation