weather, and experts also warn that the bottle be opened with care. this is not usually a problem for 25 % ( ' 0. 900 ' ) solutions. experts warn that ammonia solutions not be mixed with halogens, as toxic and / or explosive products are formed. experts also warn that prolonged contact of ammonia solutions with silver, mercury or iodide salts can also lead to explosive products : such mixtures are often formed in qualitative inorganic analysis, and that it needs to be lightly acidified but not concentrated ( < 6 % w / v ) before disposal once the test is completed. laboratory use of anhydrous ammonia ( gas or liquid ) anhydrous ammonia is classified as toxic ( t ) and dangerous for the environment ( n ). the gas is flammable ( autoignition temperature : 651 °c ) and can form explosive mixtures with air ( 16 – 25 % ). the permissible exposure limit ( pel ) in the united states is 50 ppm ( 35 mg / m3 ), while the idlh concentration is estimated at 300 ppm. repeated exposure to ammonia lowers the sensitivity to the smell of the gas : normally the odour is detectable at concentrations of less than 50 ppm, but desensitised individuals may not detect it even at concentrations of 100 ppm. anhydrous ammonia corrodes copper - and zinc - containing alloys, which makes brass fittings not appropriate for handling the gas. liquid ammonia can also attack rubber and certain plastics. ammonia reacts violently with the halogens. nitrogen triiodide, a primary high explosive, is formed when ammonia comes in contact with iodine. ammonia causes the explosive polymerisation of ethylene oxide. it also forms explosive fulminating compounds with compounds of gold, silver, mercury, germanium or tellurium, and with stibine. violent reactions have also been reported with acetaldehyde, hypochlorite solutions, potassium ferricyanide and peroxides. production ammonia has one of the highest rates of production of any inorganic chemical. production is sometimes expressed in terms of ' fixed nitrogen '. global production was estimated as being 160 million tonnes in 2020 ( 147 tons of fixed nitrogen ). china accounted for 26. 5 % of that, followed by russia at 11. 0 %, the united states at 9. 5 %, and india at 8. 3 %. before the start of world war i, most ammonia was obtained by the dry distillation of