along the entire length of the nile valley, spanning 4000 years of egyptian history. 81 samples were collected from 17 mummies and 14 skeletal remains, and 18 high quality mitochondrial genomes were reconstructed from 10 individuals. the authors argued that the analyzed mitochondrial genomes supported the results from the earlier study at abusir el - meleq. in 2018, the 4000 - year - old mummified head of djehutynakht, a governor in the middle kingdom of the 11th or 12th dynasty, was analyzed for mitochondrial dna. the sequence of the mummy most closely resembles a u5a lineage from sample jk2903, a much more recent 2000 - year - old skeleton from the abusir el - meleq site in egypt, although no direct matches to the djehutynakht sequence have been reported. haplogroup u5 is found in modern egyptians, and is found in modern egyptian berbers from the siwa oasis in egypt. a 2009 study by coudray et al. recorded haplogroup u5 at 16. 7 % in the siwa oasis in egypt whereas haplogroup u6 is more common in other berber populations to the west of egypt. in 2018, the mummified remains of two high - status egyptian relatives, nakht - ankh and khnum - nakht were analyzed dna by a team of researchers from the university of manchester. the y - chromosome sequences were not complete, but the y - chromosome snps indicated that they had different fathers, suggesting that they were half - brothers. the snp identities were consistent with mtdna haplogroup m1a1 with 88. 05 – 91. 27 % degree of confidence, thus " confirming the african origins of the two individuals " according to the study authors, based on their maternal lineage. a 2020 dna study by gad, hawass et al., analysed mitochondrial and y - chromosomal haplogroups from tutankhamun ' s family members of the 18th dynasty, using comprehensive control procedures to ensure quality results. they found that the y - chromosome haplogroup of the family was r1b, which is believed to have originated in the western asia / near eastern region, and dispersed from there to europe and parts of africa during the neolithic. haplogroup r1b is carried by modern egyptians. modern egypt is also the only african country that is known to harbor all three r1 subtypes, including r1b - m26