to the abdomen. the degree of force, if severe, can cause serious internal injuries without necessarily succeeding in inducing miscarriage. in southeast asia, there is an ancient tradition of attempting abortion through forceful abdominal massage. one of the bas reliefs decorating the temple of angkor wat in cambodia depicts a demon performing such an abortion upon a woman who has been sent to the underworld. reported methods of unsafe, self - induced abortion include misuse of misoprostol and insertion of non - surgical implements such as knitting needles and clothes hangers into the uterus. these and other methods to terminate pregnancy may be called " induced miscarriage ". such methods are rarely used in countries where surgical abortion is legal and available. safety the health risks of abortion depend principally upon whether the procedure is performed safely or unsafely. the world health organization ( who ) defines unsafe abortions as those performed by unskilled individuals, with hazardous equipment, or in unsanitary facilities. legal abortions performed in the developed world are among the safest procedures in medicine. in the united states as of 2012, abortion was estimated to be about 14 times safer for women than childbirth. cdc estimated in 2019 that us pregnancy - related mortality was 17. 2 maternal deaths per 100, 000 live births, while the us abortion mortality rate is 0. 7 maternal deaths per 100, 000 procedures. in the uk, guidelines of the royal college of obstetricians and gynaecologists state that " women should be advised that abortion is generally safer than continuing a pregnancy to term. " worldwide, on average, abortion is safer than carrying a pregnancy to term. a 2007 study reported that " 26 % of all pregnancies worldwide are terminated by induced abortion, " whereas " deaths from improperly performed [ abortion ] procedures constitute 13 % of maternal mortality globally. " in indonesia in 2000 it was estimated that 2 million pregnancies ended in abortion, 4. 5 million pregnancies were carried to term, and 14 - 16 percent of maternal deaths resulted from abortion. in the us from 2000 to 2009, abortion had a mortality rate lower than plastic surgery, lower or similar to running a marathon, and about equivalent to traveling in a passenger car. five years after seeking abortion services, women who gave birth after being denied an abortion reported worse health than women who had either first or second trimester abortions. the risk of abortion - related mortality increases with gestational age, but remains lower than that of childbirth. outpatient abortion is as safe from 64 to 70 days