and 15. in 2008, the illiteracy rate for people over 10 was 22. 3 %, 15. 6 % for men and 29. 0 % for women. the province with the lowest rate of illiteracy was algiers province at 11. 6 %, while the province with the highest rate was djelfa province at 35. 5 %. algeria has 26 universities and 67 institutions of higher education, which must accommodate a million algerians and 80, 000 foreign students in 2008. the university of algiers, founded in 1879, is the oldest, it offers education in various disciplines ( law, medicine, science and letters ). twenty - five of these universities and almost all of the institutions of higher education were founded after the independence of the country. even if some of them offer instruction in arabic like areas of law and the economy, most of the other sectors as science and medicine continue to be provided in french and english. among the most important universities, there are the university of sciences and technology houari boumediene, the university of mentouri constantine, and university of oran es - senia. the university of abou bekr belkaid in tlemcen and university of batna hadj lakhdar occupy the 26th and 45th row in africa. algeria was ranked 119th in the global innovation index in 2023. largest cities culture modern algerian literature, split between arabic, tamazight and french, has been strongly influenced by the country ' s recent history. famous novelists of the 20th century include mohammed dib, albert camus, kateb yacine and ahlam mosteghanemi while assia djebar is widely translated. among the important novelists of the 1980s were rachid mimouni, later vice - president of amnesty international, and tahar djaout, murdered by an islamist group in 1993 for his secularist views. malek bennabi and frantz fanon are noted for their thoughts on decolonization ; augustine of hippo was born in tagaste ( modern - day souk ahras ) ; and ibn khaldun, though born in tunis, wrote the muqaddima while staying in algeria. the works of the sanusi family in pre - colonial times, and of emir abdelkader and sheikh ben badis in colonial times, are widely noted. the latin author apuleius was born in madaurus ( mdaourouch ), in what later became algeria. contemporary algerian cinema is various in terms of