princess victoria eugenie of battenberg, the daughter of edward ' s youngest sister princess beatrice, and a granddaughter of queen victoria. he found her attractive, and she returned his interest. there were obstacles to the marriage. victoria was a protestant, and would have to become a catholic. victoria ' s brother, leopold, was a haemophiliac, so there was a 50 percent chance that victoria was a carrier of the trait. finally, alfonso ' s mother maria christina wanted him to marry a member of her family, the house of habsburg - lorraine, or some other catholic princess, as she considered the battenbergs to be non - dynastic. victoria was willing to change her religion, and her being a haemophilia carrier was only a possibility. maria christina was eventually persuaded to drop her opposition. in january 1906 she wrote an official letter to princess beatrice proposing the match. victoria met maria christina and alfonso in biarritz, france, later that month, and converted to catholicism in san sebastian in march. in may, diplomats of both kingdoms officially executed the agreement of marriage. alfonso and victoria were married at the royal monastery of san jeronimo in madrid on 31 may 1906, with british royalty in attendance, including victoria ' s cousins the prince and princess of wales ( later king george v and queen mary ). the wedding was marked by an assassination attempt on alfonso and victoria by catalan anarchist mateu morral. as the wedding procession returned to the palace, he threw a bomb from a window which killed 30 bystanders and members of the procession, while 100 others were wounded. on 10 may 1907, the couple ' s first child, alfonso, prince of asturias, was born. victoria was in fact a haemophilia carrier, and alfonso inherited the condition. neither of the two daughters born to the king and queen were haemophilia carriers, but another of their sons, gonzalo ( 1914 – 1934 ), had the condition. alfonso distanced himself from his wife for transmitting the condition to their sons. from 1914 on, he had several mistresses, and fathered five illegitimate children. a sixth illegitimate child had been born before his marriage. world war i during world war i, because of his family connections with both sides and the division of popular opinion, spain remained neutral. the king established an office for assistance to prisoners of war on all sides. this office used the spanish diplomatic and military network abroad to intercede for thousands of pows – transmitting and receiving letters for