. the bryges were also present in central albania, while the south was inhabited by the epirote chaonians, whose capital was at phoenice. other colonies such as apollonia and epidamnos were established by greek city - states on the coast by the 7th century bc. the illyrian taulanti were a powerful illyrian tribe that were among the earliest recorded tribes in the area. they lived in a area that corresponds much of present - day albania. together with the dardanian ruler cleitus, glaucias, the ruler of the taulantian kingdom, fought against alexander the great at the battle of pelium in 335 bc. as the time passed, the ruler of ancient macedonia, cassander of macedon captured apollonia and crossed the river genusus ( ) in 314 bc. a few years later glaucias laid siege to apollonia and captured the greek colony of epidamnos. the illyrian ardiaei tribe, centred in montenegro, ruled over most of the territory of northern albania. their ardiaean kingdom reached its greatest extent under king agron, the son of pleuratus ii. agron extended his rule over other neighbouring tribes as well. following agron ' s death in 230 bc, his wife, teuta, inherited the ardiaean kingdom. teuta ' s forces extended their operations further southwards to the ionian sea. in 229 bc, rome declared war on the kingdom for extensively plundering roman ships. the war ended in illyrian defeat in 227 bc. teuta was eventually succeeded by gentius in 181 bc. gentius clashed with the romans in 168 bc, initiating the third illyrian war. the conflict resulted in roman conquest of the region by 167 bc. the romans split the region into three administrative divisions. middle ages the roman empire was split in 395 upon the death of theodosius i into an eastern and western roman empire in part because of the increasing pressure from threats during the barbarian invasions. from the 6th century into the 7th century, the slavs crossed the danube and largely absorbed the indigenous greeks, illyrians and thracians in the balkans ; thus, the illyrians were mentioned for the last time in historical records in the 7th century. in the 11th century, the great schism formalised the break of communion between the eastern orthodox and western catholic church that is reflected in albania through the emergence of a catholic north and orthodox south. the albanian people inhabited the west