an anatolian goddess equated by the greeks to their own goddess artemis. lydia and ephesus also shared important economic interests which allowed ephesus to hold an advantageous position between the maritime trade routes of the aegean sea and the continental trade routes going through inner anatolia and reaching assyria, thus acting as an intermediary between the lydian kingdom which controlled access to the trade routes leading to the inside of asia and the greeks inhabiting the european continent and the aegean islands, and allowing ephesus to profit from the goods transiting across its territory without fear of any military attack by the lydians. these connections in turn provided lydia with a port through which it could have access to the mediterranean sea. offerings to delphi like his great - grandfather gyges, alyattes also dedicated lavish offerings to the oracle of the god apollo at delphi. according to the greek historian herodotus, alyattes ' s offerings consisted of a large silver crater and an iron crater - stand which had been made by welding by glaucus of chios, thus combining lydian and ionian artistic traditions. alyattes ' s offering to delphi might have been sent to please the sanctuary of apollo and the delphains, especially the priests, to impress the greek visitors of the sanctuary, and to influence the oracle to advise to periander of corinth, an ally of thrasybulus of miletus, to convince the latter to make peace with alyattes. lyde of lydia story according to tractatus de mulieribus ( citing xenophilos, who wrote the history of lydia ), lyde was the wife and sister of alyattes, the ancestor of croesus. lyde ' s son, alyattes, when he inherited the kingdom from his father, committed the terrible crime of tearing the clothes of respectable people and spitting on many. she too held her son back as much as she could and placated those who were insulted with kind words and actions. she showed all his compassion to her son and made him feel great love for himself. when she believes that he is loved enough and abstains from food and other things, citing his illness as an excuse, xenophilos accompanies his mother that he does not eat in the same way and has changed enough to be extremely honest and fair ( someone ). alyattes after seeing this becomes a changed man. relations with caria in the south, alyattes continued what had been