##ctric effect. however, he became displeased with modern quantum mechanics as it had evolved after 1925, despite its acceptance by other physicists. he was skeptical that the randomness of quantum mechanics was fundamental rather than the result of determinism, stating that god " is not playing at dice ". until the end of his life, he continued to maintain that quantum mechanics was incomplete. bohr versus einstein the bohr – einstein debates were a series of public disputes about quantum mechanics between einstein and niels bohr, who were two of its founders. their debates are remembered because of their importance to the philosophy of science. their debates would influence later interpretations of quantum mechanics. einstein – podolsky – rosen paradox einstein never fully accepted quantum mechanics. while he recognized that it made correct predictions, he believed a more fundamental description of nature must be possible. over the years he presented multiple arguments to this effect, but the one he preferred most dated to a debate with bohr in 1930. einstein suggested a thought experiment in which two objects are allowed to interact and then moved apart a great distance from each other. the quantum - mechanical description of the two objects is a mathematical entity known as a wavefunction. if the wavefunction that describes the two objects before their interaction is given, then the schrodinger equation provides the wavefunction that describes them after their interaction. but because of what would later be called quantum entanglement, measuring one object would lead to an instantaneous change of the wavefunction describing the other object, no matter how far away it is. moreover, the choice of which measurement to perform upon the first object would affect what wavefunction could result for the second object. einstein reasoned that no influence could propagate from the first object to the second instantaneously fast. indeed, he argued, physics depends on being able to tell one thing apart from another, and such instantaneous influences would call that into question. because the true " physical condition " of the second object could not be immediately altered by an action done to the first, einstein concluded, the wavefunction could not be that true physical condition, only an incomplete description of it. a more famous version of this argument came in 1935, when einstein published a paper with boris podolsky and nathan rosen that laid out what would become known as the epr paradox. in this thought experiment, two particles interact in such a way that the wavefunction describing them is entangled. then, no matter how far the two particles were