university college london ' s school of energy and resources ( australia ), and constitute the city ' s international university precinct. the university of adelaide, with 25, 000 students, is australia ' s third - oldest university and a member of the leading " group of eight ". it has five campuses throughout the state, including two in the city - centre, and a campus in singapore. the university of south australia, with 37, 000 students, has two north terrace campuses, three other campuses in the metropolitan area and campuses in the regional cities of whyalla and mount gambier. the university of adelaide and the university of south australia have had multiple proposals to merge into a single university. a proposal in 2018 failed due to uncertainty as to the new name and leadership of the merged university. in 2022, the universities announced a new merger proposal, with the name and leadership issues settled and support from the south australian government. flinders university, with 25, 184 students, is based in the southern suburb of bedford park, alongside the flinders medical centre, with additional campuses in neighbouring tonsley and in victoria square in the city centre. the adelaide college of divinity is at brooklyn park. there are several south australian tafe ( technical and further education ) campuses in the metropolitan area that provide a range of vocational education and training. the adelaide college of the arts, as a school of tafe sa, provides nationally recognised training in visual and performing arts. research in addition to the universities, adelaide is home to research institutes, including the royal institution of australia, established in 2009 as a counterpart to the two - hundred - year - old royal institution of great britain. many of the organisations involved in research tend to be geographically clustered throughout the adelaide metropolitan area : the east end of north terrace : sa pathology ; hanson institute ; national wine centre. the west end of north terrace : south australian health and medical research institute ( sahmri ), located next to the royal adelaide hospital. the waite research precinct : sardi head office and plant research centre ; awri ; acpfg ; csiro research laboratories. sardi also has establishments at glenside and west beach. edinburgh, south australia : dsto ; bae systems ( australia ) ; lockheed martin australia electronic systems. technology park ( mawson lakes ) : bae systems ; optus ; raytheon ; topcon ; lockheed martin australia electronic systems. research park at thebarton : businesses involved in materials engineering, biotechnology, environmental services, information technology, industrial design, laser / optics technology, health products