. " at first, the almoravids, subscribing to the conservative maliki school of islamic jurisprudence, rejected what they perceived as decadence and a lack of piety among the iberian muslims of the andalusi taifa kingdoms. however, monuments and textiles from almeria from the late almoravid period indicate that the empire had changed its attitude with time. artistic production under the almoravids included finely constructed minbars produced in cordoba ; marble basins and tombstones in almeria ; fine textiles in almeria, malaga, seville ; and luxury ceramics. marble work a large group of marble tombstones have been preserved from the first half of the 12th century. they were crafted in almeria in al - andalus, at a time when it was a prosperous port city under almoravid control. the tombstones were made of macael marble, which was quarried locally, and carved with extensive kufic inscriptions that were sometimes adorned with vegetal or geometric motifs. these demonstrate that the almoravids not only reused umayyad marble columns and basins, but also commissioned new works. the inscriptions on them are dedicated to various individuals, both men and women, from a range of different occupations, indicating that such tombstones were relatively affordable. the stones take the form of either rectangular stelae or of long horizontal prisms known as mqabriyyas ( similar to the ones found in the much later saadian tombs of marrakesh ). they have been found in many locations across west africa and western europe, which is evidence that a wide - reaching industry and trade in marble existed. a number of pieces found in france were likely acquired from later pillaging. some of the most ornate tombstones found outside al - andalus were discovered in gao - saney in the african sahel, testament to the reach of almoravid influence into the african continent. two almoravid - period marble columns have also been found reused as spolia in later monuments in fes. one is incorporated into the window of the dar al - muwaqqit ( timekeeper ' s house ) overlooking the courtyard of the qarawiyyin mosque, built in the marinid period. the other is embedded into the decoration of the exterior southern facade of the zawiya of moulay idris ii, a structure which was rebuilt by ismail ibn sharif. textiles the fact that ibn tumart, leader of the almohad movement,