soviet model was morally bankrupt. camus was firmly against any kind of exploitation, authority, property, the state, and centralization. he, however, opposed revolution, separating the rebel from the revolutionary and believing that the belief in " absolute truth ", most often assuming the guise of history or reason, inspires the revolutionary and leads to tragic results. he believed that rebellion is spurred by our outrage over the world ' s lack of transcendent significance, while political rebellion is our response to attacks against the dignity and autonomy of the individual. camus opposed political violence, tolerating it only in rare and very narrowly defined instances, as well as revolutionary terror which he accused of sacrificing innocent lives on the altar of history. philosophy professor david sherman considers camus an anarcho - syndicalist. graeme nicholson considers camus an existentialist anarchist. the anarchist andre prudhommeaux first introduced him at a meeting of the cercle des etudiants anarchistes ( " anarchist student circle " ) in 1948 as a sympathiser familiar with anarchist thought. camus wrote for anarchist publications such as le libertaire ( the libertarian ), la revolution proletarienne ( the proletarian revolution ), and solidaridad obrera ( " workers ' solidarity " ), the organ of the anarcho - syndicalist confederacion nacional del trabajo ( cnt ) ( " national confederation of labor " ). camus kept a neutral stance during the algerian revolution ( 1954 – 62 ). while he was against the violence of the national liberation front ( fln ) he acknowledged the injustice and brutalities imposed by colonialist france. he was supportive of pierre mendes france ' s unified socialist party ( psu ) and its approach to the crisis ; mendes france advocated reconciliation. camus also supported a like - minded algerian militant, aziz kessous. camus traveled to algeria to negotiate a truce between the two belligerents but was met with distrust by all parties. in one, often misquoted incident, camus confronted an algerian critic during his 1957 nobel prize acceptance speech in stockholm, rejecting the false equivalence of justice with revolutionary terrorism : " people are now planting bombs in the tramways of algiers. my mother might be on one of those tramways. if that is justice, then i prefer my mother. " camus ' s critics have labelled the response as reactionary and a result of a colonialist attitude. he was sharply critical of the proliferation of