hamal, is the brightest star in aries. its traditional name is derived from the arabic word for " lamb " or " head of the ram " ( ras al - hamal ), which references aries ' s mythological background. with a spectral class of k2 and a luminosity class of iii, it is an orange giant with an apparent visual magnitude of 2. 00, which lies 66 light - years from earth. hamal has a luminosity of and its absolute magnitude is −0. 1. β arietis, also known as sheratan, is a blue - white star with an apparent visual magnitude of 2. 64. its traditional name is derived from " sharatayn ", the arabic word for " the two signs ", referring to both beta and gamma arietis in their position as heralds of the vernal equinox. the two stars were known to the bedouin as " qarna al - hamal ", " horns of the ram ". it is 59 light - years from earth. it has a luminosity of and its absolute magnitude is 2. 1. it is a spectroscopic binary star, one in which the companion star is only known through analysis of the spectra. the spectral class of the primary is a5. hermann carl vogel determined that sheratan was a spectroscopic binary in 1903 ; its orbit was determined by hans ludendorff in 1907. it has since been studied for its eccentric orbit. γ arietis, with a common name of mesarthim, is a binary star with two white - hued components, located in a rich field of magnitude 8 – 12 stars. its traditional name has conflicting derivations. it may be derived from a corruption of " al - sharatan ", the arabic word meaning " pair " or a word for " fat ram ". however, it may also come from the sanskrit for " first star of aries " or the hebrew for " ministerial servants ", both of which are unusual languages of origin for star names. along with beta arietis, it was known to the bedouin as " qarna al - hamal ". the primary is of magnitude 4. 59 and the secondary is of magnitude 4. 68. the system is 164 light - years from earth. the two components are separated by 7. 8 arcseconds, and the system as a whole has an apparent magnitude of 3. 9. the primary has a luminosity of and