and that, while the mother was fighting with a client during a thunderstorm — the mother believed the client had tried to molest marnie — marnie had killed the client to save her mother. cured of her fears when she remembers what happened, she decides to stay with mark. hitchcock told cinematographer robert burks that the camera had to be placed as close as possible to hedren when he filmed her face. evan hunter, the screenwriter of the birds who was writing marnie too, explained to hitchcock that, if mark loved marnie, he would comfort her, not rape her. hitchcock reportedly replied : " evan, when he sticks it in her, i want that camera right on her face! " when hunter submitted two versions of the script, one without the rape scene, hitchcock replaced him with jay presson allen. later years : 1966 – 1980 final films failing health reduced hitchcock ' s output during the last two decades of his life. biographer stephen rebello claimed universal imposed two films on him, torn curtain ( 1966 ) and topaz ( 1969 ), the latter of which is based on a leon uris novel, partly set in cuba. both were spy thrillers with cold war - related themes. torn curtain, with paul newman and julie andrews, precipitated the bitter end of the twelve - year collaboration between hitchcock and composer bernard herrmann. hitchcock was unhappy with herrmann ' s score and replaced him with john addison, jay livingston and ray evans. upon release, torn curtain was a box office disappointment, and topaz was disliked by both critics and the studio. hitchcock returned to britain to make his penultimate film, frenzy ( 1972 ), based on the novel goodbye piccadilly, farewell leicester square ( 1966 ). after two espionage films, the plot marked a return to the murder - thriller genre. richard blaney ( jon finch ), a volatile barman with a history of explosive anger, becomes the prime suspect in the investigation into the " necktie murders ", which are actually committed by his friend bob rusk ( barry foster ). this time, hitchcock makes the victim and villain kindreds, rather than opposites, as in strangers on a train. in frenzy, hitchcock allowed nudity for the first time. two scenes show naked women, one of whom is being raped and strangled ; donald spoto called the latter " one of the most repellent examples of a detailed murder in the history of film ". both actors, barbara leigh - hunt and anna massey, refused to do the