ataxia ( from greek α - [ a negative prefix ] + - ταξις [ order ] = " lack of order " ) is a neurological sign consisting of lack of voluntary coordination of muscle movements that can include gait abnormality, speech changes, and abnormalities in eye movements, that indicates dysfunction of parts of the nervous system that coordinate movement, such as the cerebellum. these nervous system dysfunctions occur in several different patterns, with different results and different possible causes. ataxia can be limited to one side of the body, which is referred to as hemiataxia. friedreich ' s ataxia has gait abnormality as the most commonly presented symptom. dystaxia is a mild degree of ataxia. types cerebellar the term cerebellar ataxia is used to indicate ataxia due to dysfunction of the cerebellum. the cerebellum is responsible for integrating a significant amount of neural information that is used to coordinate smoothly ongoing movements and to participate in motor planning. although ataxia is not present with all cerebellar lesions, many conditions affecting the cerebellum do produce ataxia. people with cerebellar ataxia may have trouble regulating the force, range, direction, velocity, and rhythm of muscle contractions. this results in a characteristic type of irregular, uncoordinated movement that can manifest itself in many possible ways, such as asthenia, asynergy, delayed reaction time, and dyschronometria. individuals with cerebellar ataxia could also display instability of gait, difficulty with eye movements, dysarthria, dysphagia, hypotonia, dysmetria, and dysdiadochokinesia. these deficits can vary depending on which cerebellar structures have been damaged, and whether the lesion is bi - or unilateral. people with cerebellar ataxia may initially present with poor balance, which could be demonstrated as an inability to stand on one leg or perform tandem gait. as the condition progresses, walking is characterized by a widened base and high stepping, as well as staggering and lurching from side to side. turning is also problematic and could result in falls. as cerebellar ataxia becomes severe, great assistance and effort are needed to stand and walk. dysarthria, an impairment with articulation, may also be present and is characterized by " scanning "