observed experimentally. the pressure of the α - β transition decreases with increasing temperature, and when α - americium is heated at ambient pressure, at 770 °c it changes into an fcc phase which is different from β - am, and at 1075 °c it converts to a body - centered cubic structure. the pressure - temperature phase diagram of americium is thus rather similar to those of lanthanum, praseodymium and neodymium. as with many other actinides, self - damage of the crystal structure due to alpha - particle irradiation is intrinsic to americium. it is especially noticeable at low temperatures, where the mobility of the produced structure defects is relatively low, by broadening of x - ray diffraction peaks. this effect makes somewhat uncertain the temperature of americium and some of its properties, such as electrical resistivity. so for americium - 241, the resistivity at 4. 2 k increases with time from about 2 µohm · cm to 10 µohm · cm after 40 hours, and saturates at about 16 µohm · cm after 140 hours. this effect is less pronounced at room temperature, due to annihilation of radiation defects ; also heating to room temperature the sample which was kept for hours at low temperatures restores its resistivity. in fresh samples, the resistivity gradually increases with temperature from about 2 µohm · cm at liquid helium to 69 µohm · cm at room temperature ; this behavior is similar to that of neptunium, uranium, thorium and protactinium, but is different from plutonium and curium which show a rapid rise up to 60 k followed by saturation. the room temperature value for americium is lower than that of neptunium, plutonium and curium, but higher than for uranium, thorium and protactinium. americium is paramagnetic in a wide temperature range, from that of liquid helium, to room temperature and above. this behavior is markedly different from that of its neighbor curium which exhibits antiferromagnetic transition at 52 k. the thermal expansion coefficient of americium is slightly anisotropic and amounts to along the shorter a axis and for the longer c hexagonal axis. the enthalpy of dissolution of americium metal in hydrochloric acid at standard conditions is, from which the standard enthalpy change of formation ( δfh° ) of aqueous am