his actions allegedly gave agrippina a motive to eliminate claudius. the ancient sources say she poisoned claudius on october 13, 54 ( a sunday ) with a plate of deadly mushrooms at a banquet, thus enabling nero to quickly take the throne as emperor. accounts vary wildly with regard to this private incident and according to more modern sources, it is possible that claudius died of natural causes ; claudius was 63 years old. in the aftermath of claudius ' s death, agrippina, who initially kept the death secret, tried to consolidate power, and immediately ordered that the palace and the capital be sealed. all the gates were blockaded and exit of the capital forbidden and she introduced nero first to the soldiers and then to the senators as emperor. reign of nero relationship with nero nero was raised to emperor and agrippina was named a priestess of the cult of the deified claudius. she now attempted to use her son ' s youth to participate in the rule of the roman empire. she enjoyed imperial prerogatives : holding court with the emperor by her side, being allowed to visit senate meetings from behind a curtain, and appearing as a partner to her son in the royal coins and statues. the historian tacitus depicts her as attempting a diarchy with her son when she demanded that the praetorian guard pledge their loyalty to her. she was also said to have tried to participate in her son ' s meeting with armenian ambassadors until seneca and burrus stopped her. in year one of nero ' s reign, agrippina guided her 17 - year - old son in his rule but started losing influence over nero when he began to have an affair with the freed woman claudia acte, which agrippina strongly disapproved of and violently scolded him for. agrippina began to support britannicus in her possible attempt to make him emperor, or to threaten nero. the panicking emperor decided on whether to eliminate his mother or his step - brother. soon, nero had britannicus secretly poisoned during his own banquet in february 55. the power struggle between agrippina and her son had begun. agrippina between 56 and 58 became very watchful and had a critical eye over her son. in 56, agrippina was forced out of the palace by her son to live in the imperial residence. however, some degree of agrippina ' s influence over her son still lasted several more years, and they are considered the best years of nero ' s reign. but their relationship grew more hostile and nero gradually deprived