, quickly earned a place among the most celebrated shakespeare adaptations. another adaptation of a classic european theatrical work followed almost immediately, with production of the lower depths, based on a play by maxim gorky, taking place in may and june 1957. in contrast to the shakespearean sweep of throne of blood, the lower depths was shot on only two confined sets, in order to emphasize the restricted nature of the characters ' lives. though faithful to the play, this adaptation of russian material to a completely japanese setting — in this case, the late edo period — unlike his earlier the idiot, was regarded as artistically successful. the film premiered in september 1957, receiving a mixed response similar to that of throne of blood. however, some critics rank it among the director ' s most underrated works. kurosawa ' s three next movies after seven samurai had not managed to capture japanese audiences in the way that that film had. the mood of the director ' s work had been growing increasingly pessimistic and dark even as japan entered a boom period of high - speed growth and rising standards of living. out of step with the prevailing mood of the era, kurosawa ' s films questioned the possibility of redemption through personal responsibility, particularly in throne of blood and the lower depths. he recognized this, and deliberately aimed for a more light - hearted and entertaining film for his next production while switching to the new widescreen format that had been gaining popularity in japan. the resulting film, the hidden fortress, is an action - adventure comedy - drama about a medieval princess, her loyal general, and two peasants who all need to travel through enemy lines in order to reach their home region. released in december 1958, the hidden fortress became an enormous box - office success in japan and was warmly received by critics both in japan and abroad. today, the film is considered one of kurosawa ' s most lightweight efforts, though it remains popular, not least because it is one of several major influences on george lucas ' s 1977 space opera, star wars. birth of a company and red beard ( 1959 – 1965 ) starting with rashomon, kurosawa ' s productions had become increasingly large in scope and so had the director ' s budgets. toho, concerned about this development, suggested that he might help finance his own works, therefore making the studio ' s potential losses smaller, while in turn allowing himself more artistic freedom as co - producer. kurosawa agreed, and the kurosawa production company was established in april 1959, with toho as the