the russian emperor. in return for the russian support which had enabled him to create the german empire, it was thought that he would help russia to solve the eastern question in accordance with russian interests, but to the surprise and indignation of the cabinet of saint petersburg he confined himself to acting the part of " honest broker " at the congress, and shortly afterwards contracted an alliance with austria - hungary for the purpose of counteracting russian designs in eastern europe. the tsesarevich could refer to these results as confirmation of the views he had expressed during the franco - prussian war ; he concluded that for russia, the best thing was to recover as quickly as possible from her temporary exhaustion, and prepare for future contingencies by military and naval reorganization. in accordance with this conviction, he suggested that certain reforms should be introduced. trade and industry alexander iii took initiatives to stimulate the development of trade and industry, as his father did before him. russia ' s economy was still challenged by the russian - turkish war of 1877 – 1878, which created a deficit, so he imposed customs duties on imported goods. to further alleviate the budget deficit, he implemented increased frugality and accounting in state finances. industrial development increased during his reign. also during his reign, construction of the trans siberian railway was started. family life following his father ' s assassination, alexander iii was advised that it would be difficult for him to be kept safe at the winter palace. as a result, alexander relocated his family to the gatchina palace, located south of st. petersburg. the palace was surrounded by moats, watch towers, and trenches, and soldiers were on guard night and day. under heavy guard, he would make occasional visits into st. petersburg, but even then he would stay in the anichkov palace, as opposed to the winter palace. alexander resented having to take refuge at gatchina. grand duke alexander mikhailovich of russia remembered hearing alexander say, " to think that after having faced the guns of the turks i must retreat now before these skunks. " in the 1860s, alexander fell in love with his mother ' s lady - in - waiting, princess maria elimovna meshcherskaya. dismayed to learn that prince zu sayn - wittgenstein - sayn had proposed to her in early 1866, he told his parents that he was prepared to give up his rights of succession in order to marry his beloved " dusenka ". on 19 may 1866, alexander ii informed his son that russia had come to an agreement