but in the case of branched chain alkanes, the carbon chain is preferentially cleaved at tertiary or quaternary carbons due to the relative stability of the resulting free radicals. the fragment resulting from the loss of a single methyl group ( m − 15 ) is often absent, and other fragments are often spaced by intervals of fourteen mass units, corresponding to sequential loss of ch2 groups. chemical properties alkanes are only weakly reactive with most chemical compounds. the acid dissociation constant ( pka ) values of all alkanes are estimated to range from 50 to 70, depending on the extrapolation method, hence they are extremely weak acids that are practically inert to bases ( see : carbon acids ). they are also extremely weak bases, undergoing no observable protonation in pure sulfuric acid ( h0 ~ −12 ), although superacids that are at least millions of times stronger have been known to protonate them to give hypercoordinate alkanium ions ( see : methanium ion ). similarly, they only show reactivity with the strongest of electrophilic reagents ( e. g., dioxiranes and salts containing the nf4 + cation ). by virtue of their strong c – h bonds ( ~ 100 kcal / mol ) and c – c bonds ( ~ 90 kcal / mol, but usually less sterically accessible ), they are also relatively unreactive toward free radicals, although many electron - deficient radicals will react with alkanes in the absence of other electron - rich bonds ( see below ). this inertness is the source of the term paraffins ( with the meaning here of " lacking affinity " ). in crude oil the alkane molecules have remained chemically unchanged for millions of years. free radicals, molecules with unpaired electrons, play a large role in most reactions of alkanes, such as cracking and reformation where long - chain alkanes are converted into shorter - chain alkanes and straight - chain alkanes into branched - chain isomers. moreover, redox reactions of alkanes involving free radical intermediates, in particular with oxygen and the halogens, are possible as the carbon atoms are in a strongly reduced state ; in the case of methane, carbon is in its lowest possible oxidation state ( −4 ). reaction with oxygen ( if present in sufficient quantity to satisfy the reaction stoichiometry ) leads to combustion without any