matching royal order but declined to yield. he protested that his term ended only in january and stated his intention to avenge his son ' s death by fighting the mamluk fleet of mirocem, refusing afonso ' s offer to fight the mamluk fleet himself. afonso avoided confrontation, which could have led to civil war, and moved to kochi, india, to await further instruction from the king. increasingly isolated, he wrote to diogo lopes de sequeira, who arrived in india with a new fleet, but was ignored as sequeira joined almeida. at the same time, afonso refused approaches from opponents of almeida who encouraged him to seize power. on 3 february 1509, almeida fought the naval battle of diu against a joint fleet of mamluks, ottomans, the zamorin of calicut, and the sultan of gujarat. his victory was decisive : the ottomans and mamluks abandoned the indian ocean, easing the way for portuguese rule there for the next century. in august, after a petition from afonso ' s former officers with the support of diogo lopes de sequeira claiming him unfit for governance, afonso was sent in custody to st. angelo fort in cannanore. there he remained under what he considered as imprisonment. governor of portuguese india, 1509 – 1515 afonso was released after three months ' confinement, on the arrival at cannanore of the marshal of portugal fernando coutinho with a large fleet sent by the king. coutinho was the most important portuguese noble to visit india up to that point. he brought an armada of fifteen ships and 3, 000 men to defend afonso ' s rights, and to take calicut. on 4 november 1509, afonso became the second governor of portuguese india, a position he would hold until his death. almeida set off to return to portugal, but he was killed before he got there in a skirmish with the khoekhoe. upon his assuming office, afonso intended to dominate the muslim world and control the spice trade. initially, king manuel i and his council in lisbon tried to distribute the power by outlining three areas of jurisdiction in the indian ocean. in 1509, the nobleman diogo lopes de sequeira was sent with a fleet to southeast asia, to seek an agreement with sultan mahmud shah of malacca, but failed and returned to portugal. to jorge de aguiar was given the region