##tined ; corpses and burials are strictly supervised. a supply of plague serum finally arrives, but there is enough to treat only existing cases, and the country ' s emergency reserves are depleted. when the daily number of deaths jumps to 30, the town is sealed, and an outbreak of plague is officially declared. part two the town is sealed off. the town gates are shut, rail travel is prohibited, and all mail service is suspended. the use of telephone lines is restricted only to " urgent " calls, leaving short telegrams as the only means of communicating with friends or family outside the town. the separation affects daily activity and depresses the spirit of the townspeople, who begin to feel isolated and introverted, and the plague begins to affect various characters. one character, raymond rambert, devises a plan to escape the city to join his wife in paris after city officials refused his request to leave. he befriends some underground criminals so that they may smuggle him out of the city. another character, father paneloux, uses the plague as an opportunity to advance his stature in the town by suggesting that the plague was an act of god punishing the citizens ' sinful nature. his diatribe falls on the ears of many citizens of the town, who turned to religion in droves, but would not have done so under normal circumstances. cottard, a criminal remorseful enough to attempt suicide but fearful of being arrested, becomes wealthy as a major smuggler. meanwhile, jean tarrou, a vacationer ; joseph grand, a civil engineer ; and dr. rieux, exhaustively treat patients in their homes and in the hospital. rambert informs tarrou of his escape plan, but when tarrou tells him that there are others in the city, including dr. rieux, who have loved ones outside the city whom they are not allowed to see, rambert becomes sympathetic and offers to help rieux fight the epidemic until he leaves town. part three in mid - august, the situation continues to worsen. people try to escape the town, but some are shot by armed sentries. violence and looting break out on a small scale, and the authorities respond by declaring martial law and imposing a curfew. funerals are conducted with more speed, no ceremony and little concern for the feelings of the families of the deceased. the inhabitants passively endure their increasing feelings of exile and separation. despondent, they waste away emotionally as well as physically. part four in september and october, the town