' s bayside grill, located in meads bay, represent the european culture assimilating within the island. similar to nearby islands, anguillans geography and location require a cultural reliance on the ocean. the island ' s abundance of sea life has led to the incorporation of many fish and crustacean into daily life. they have become a part of the local cuisine, opened up opportunities for ecotourism, and introduced celebrations such as lobster fest and boat races. as throughout the caribbean, holidays are a cultural fixture. anguilla ' s most important holidays are of historic as much as cultural importance – particularly the anniversary of the emancipation ( previously august monday in the park ), celebrated as the summer festival, or carnival, the sailboat races, and lobster fest. british festivities, such as the king ' s birthday, are also celebrated. music in anguilla presents itself as an important part of its culture as well. all different genres of music are played at the celebrations mentioned above. this music represents the deep history of talent that anguillans have displayed for decades. the anguilla national trust ( ant ) was established in 1989 and opened its current office in 1991 charged with the responsibility of preserving the heritage of the island, including its cultural heritage. cuisine anguillan cuisine is influenced by native caribbean, west african, spanish, french, and english cuisines. seafood is abundant, including prawns, shrimp, crab, spiny lobster, conch, mahi - mahi, red snapper, marlin, and grouper. salt cod is a staple food eaten on its own and used in stews, casseroles and soups. livestock is limited due to the small size of the island and people there use poultry, pork, goat, and mutton, along with imported beef. goat is the most commonly eaten meat, used in a variety of dishes. the official national food of anguilla is pigeon peas and rice. a significant amount of the island ' s produce is imported due to limited land suitable for agriculture production ; much of the soil is sandy and infertile. the agriculture produce of anguilla includes tomatoes, peppers, limes and other citrus fruits, onion, garlic, squash, pigeon peas, and callaloo. starch staple foods include imported rice and other foods that are imported or locally grown, including yams, sweet potatoes and breadfruit. literature the anguilla national trust has programmes encouraging anguillan writers and the preservation of the island '