secure a treaty for unrestricted commerce. demands were made for favors and there was no assurance that individual states would agree to a treaty. adams stated it was necessary for the states to confer the power of passing navigation laws to congress, or that the states themselves pass retaliatory acts against great britain. congress had already requested and failed to get power over navigation laws. meanwhile, each state acted individually against great britain to little effect. when other new england states closed their ports to british shipping, connecticut hastened to profit by opening its ports. by 1787 congress was unable to protect manufacturing and shipping. state legislatures were unable or unwilling to resist attacks upon private contracts and public credit. land speculators expected no rise in values when the government could not defend its borders nor protect its frontier population. the idea of a convention to revise the articles of confederation grew in favor. alexander hamilton realized while serving as washington ' s top aide that a strong central government was necessary to avoid foreign intervention and allay the frustrations due to an ineffectual congress. hamilton led a group of like - minded nationalists, won washington ' s endorsement, and convened the annapolis convention in 1786 to petition congress to call a constitutional convention to meet in philadelphia to remedy the long - term crisis. signatures the second continental congress approved the articles for distribution to the states on november 15, 1777. a copy was made for each state and one was kept by the congress. on november 28, the copies sent to the states for ratification were unsigned, and the cover letter, dated november 17, had only the signatures of henry laurens and charles thomson, who were the president and secretary to the congress. the articles, however, were unsigned, and the date was blank. congress began the signing process by examining their copy of the articles on june 27, 1778. they ordered a final copy prepared ( the one in the national archives ), and that delegates should inform the secretary of their authority for ratification. on july 9, 1778, the prepared copy was ready. they dated it and began to sign. they also requested each of the remaining states to notify its delegation when ratification was completed. on that date, delegates present from new hampshire, massachusetts, rhode island, connecticut, new york, pennsylvania, virginia and south carolina signed the articles to indicate that their states had ratified. new jersey, delaware and maryland could not, since their states had not ratified. north carolina and georgia also were unable to sign that day, since their delegations were absent. after the first signing, some