spelling reform of 1996 and several conferences leading up to the reform were hosted in vienna at the invitation of the austrian federal government. austria adopted it as a signatory, along with germany, switzerland, and liechtenstein, of an international memorandum of understanding ( ) signed in vienna in 1996. the eszett or " sharp s " ( ß ) is used in austria, as in germany but unlike in switzerland. because of german ' s pluricentric nature, german dialects in austria should not be confused with the variety of standard austrian german spoken by most austrians, which is distinct from that of germany or switzerland. distinctions in vocabulary persist, for example, in culinary terms, for which communication with germans is frequently difficult, and administrative and legal language because of austria ' s exclusion from the development of a german nation - state in the late 19th century and its manifold particular traditions. a comprehensive collection of austrian - german legal, administrative and economic terms is offered in markhardt, heidemarie : worterbuch der osterreichischen rechts -, wirtschafts - und verwaltungsterminologie ( peter lang, 2006 ). former spoken standard until 1918, the spoken standard in austria was the, a sociolect spoken by the imperial habsburg family and the nobility of austria - hungary. the sociolect, a variety of standard german, is influenced by viennese german and other austro - bavarian dialects spoken in eastern austria but is slightly nasalized. special written forms for many years, austria had a special form of the language for official government documents that is known as, or " austrian chancellery language ". it is a very traditional form of the language, probably derived from medieval deeds and documents, and has a very complex structure and vocabulary generally reserved for such documents. for most speakers ( even native speakers ), this form of the language is generally difficult to understand, as it contains many highly - specialised terms for diplomatic, internal, official, and military matters. there are no regional variations because the special written form has been used mainly by a government that has now for centuries been based in vienna. is now used less and less because of various administrative reforms that reduced the number of traditional civil servants ( ). as a result, standard austrian german is replacing it in government and administrative texts. european union when austria became a member of the european union, 23 food - related terms were listed in its accession agreement as having the same legal status as the equivalent terms used in germany, for example, the words for " potato