##s and speaking english. by the middle of the 1960s, research in the u. s. was heavily funded by the department of defense and laboratories had been established around the world. herbert simon predicted, " machines will be capable, within twenty years, of doing any work a man can do ". marvin minsky agreed, writing, " within a generation... the problem of creating ' artificial intelligence ' will substantially be solved ". they had, however, underestimated the difficulty of the problem. both the u. s. and british governments cut off exploratory research in response to the criticism of sir james lighthill and ongoing pressure from the us congress to fund more productive projects. minsky ' s and papert ' s book perceptrons was understood as proving that artificial neural networks approach would never be useful for solving real - world tasks, thus discrediting the approach altogether. the " ai winter ", a period when obtaining funding for ai projects was difficult, followed. in the early 1980s, ai research was revived by the commercial success of expert systems, a form of ai program that simulated the knowledge and analytical skills of human experts. by 1985, the market for ai had reached over a billion dollars. at the same time, japan ' s fifth generation computer project inspired the u. s. and british governments to restore funding for academic research. however, beginning with the collapse of the lisp machine market in 1987, ai once again fell into disrepute, and a second, longer - lasting winter began. many researchers began to doubt that the current practices would be able to imitate all the processes of human cognition, especially perception, robotics, learning and pattern recognition. a number of researchers began to look into " sub - symbolic " approaches. robotics researchers, such as rodney brooks, rejected " representation " in general and focussed directly on engineering machines that move and survive.. judea pearl, lofti zadeh and others developed methods that handled incomplete and uncertain information by making reasonable guesses rather than precise logic. but the most important development was the revival of " connectionism ", including neural network research, by geoffrey hinton and others. in 1990, yann lecun successfully showed that convolutional neural networks can recognize handwritten digits, the first of many successful applications of neural networks. ai gradually restored its reputation in the late 1990s and early 21st century by exploiting formal mathematical methods and by finding specific solutions to specific problems. this " narrow " and " formal " focus allowed