##s may lead to an overgrowth of algae, resulting in depletion of oxygen in the water when the algae later die and decompose. aquatic invertebrates and fish might then die and there would be unpredictable ecological consequences. pollution and pesticides the decline in amphibian and reptile populations has led to an awareness of the effects of pesticides on reptiles and amphibians. in the past, the argument that amphibians or reptiles were more susceptible to any chemical contamination than any land aquatic vertebrate was not supported by research until recently. amphibians and reptiles have complex life cycles, live in different climate and ecological zones, and are more vulnerable to chemical exposure. certain pesticides, such as organophosphates, neonicotinoids, and carbamates, react via cholinesterase inhibition. cholinesterase is an enzyme that causes the hydrolysis of acetylcholine, an excitatory neurotransmitter that is abundant in the nervous system. ache inhibitors are either reversible or irreversible, and carbamates are safer than organophosphorus insecticides, which are more likely to cause cholinergic poisoning. reptile exposure to an ache inhibitory pesticide may result in disruption of neural function in reptiles. the buildup of these inhibitory effects on motor performance, such as food consumption and other activities. conservation and protection strategies the amphibian specialist group of the iucn is spearheading efforts to implement a comprehensive global strategy for amphibian conservation. amphibian ark is an organization that was formed to implement the ex - situ conservation recommendations of this plan, and they have been working with zoos and aquaria around the world, encouraging them to create assurance colonies of threatened amphibians. one such project is the panama amphibian rescue and conservation project that built on existing conservation efforts in panama to create a country - wide response to the threat of chytridiomycosis. another measure would be to stop exploitation of frogs for human consumption. in the middle east, a growing appetite for eating frog legs and the consequent gathering of them for food was already linked to an increase in mosquitoes and thus has direct consequences for human health. see also cultural depictions of amphibians list of amphibians list of amphibian genera list of threatened reptiles and amphibians of the united states references cited texts further reading external links amphibians – animalspot. net archeozootheque : amphibians skeletons drawings