##ispensable traditions of russian literature ", and the gulag archipelago was a highly influential work that " amounted to a head - on challenge to the soviet state ", and sold tens of millions of copies. biography early years solzhenitsyn was born in kislovodsk ( now in stavropol krai, russia ). his father, isaakiy semyonovich solzhenitsyn, was of russian descent and his mother, taisiya zakharovna ( nee shcherbak ), was of ukrainian descent. taisiya ' s father had risen from humble beginnings to become a wealthy landowner, acquiring a large estate in the kuban region in the northern foothills of the caucasus and during world war i, taisiya had gone to moscow to study. while there she met and married isaakiy, a young officer in the imperial russian army of cossack origin and fellow native of the caucasus region. the family background of his parents is vividly brought to life in the opening chapters of august 1914, and in the later red wheel novels. in 1918, taisiya became pregnant with aleksandr. on 15 june, shortly after her pregnancy was confirmed, isaakiy was killed in a hunting accident. aleksandr was raised by his widowed mother and his aunt in lowly circumstances. his earliest years coincided with the russian civil war. by 1930 the family property had been turned into a collective farm. later, solzhenitsyn recalled that his mother had fought for survival and that they had to keep his father ' s background in the old imperial army a secret. his educated mother encouraged his literary and scientific learnings and raised him in the russian orthodox faith ; she died in 1944 having never remarried. as early as 1936, solzhenitsyn began developing the characters and concepts for planned epic work on world war i and the russian revolution. this eventually led to the novel august 1914 ; some of the chapters he wrote then still survive. solzhenitsyn studied mathematics and physics at rostov state university. at the same time, he took correspondence courses from the moscow institute of philosophy, literature and history, which by this time were heavily ideological in scope. as he himself makes clear, he did not question the state ideology or the superiority of the soviet union until he was sentenced to time in the camps. world war ii during the war, solzhenitsyn served as the commander of a sound - ranging battery in the red army, was involved in major action at the front