2011 – 2013 ) central african republic civil war ( 2012 – present ) russo - ukrainian war ( 2014 – present ) 2020s second nagorno - karabakh war ( 2020 ) tigray war ( 2020 – 2022 ) russian invasion of ukraine ( 2022 – present ) cultural influence and impact during the cold war, the soviet union and the people ' s republic of china, as well as united states and other nato nations supplied arms and technical knowledge to numerous countries and rebel forces around the world. during this time the western countries used relatively expensive automatic rifles, such as the fn fal, the hk g3, the m14, and the m16. in contrast, the russians and chinese used the ak - 47 ; its low production cost and ease of manufacture allow them to make aks in vast numbers. in the pro - communist states, the ak - 47 became a symbol of the third world revolution. they were utilized in the cambodian civil war and the cambodian – vietnamese war. during the 1980s, the soviet union became the principal arms dealer to countries embargoed by western nations, including middle eastern nations such as libya and syria, which welcomed soviet union backing against israel. after the fall of the soviet union, ak - 47s were sold both openly and on the black market to any group with cash, including drug cartels and dictatorial states, and more recently they have been seen in the hands of islamic groups such as al - qaeda, isil, and the taliban in afghanistan and iraq, and farc, ejercito de liberacion nacional guerrillas in colombia. in russia, the kalashnikov is a tremendous source of national pride. " the family of the inventor of the world ' s most famous rifle, mikhail kalashnikov, has authorized german engineering company mmi to use the well - known kalashnikov name on a variety of not - so - deadly goods. " in recent years, kalashnikov vodka has been marketed with souvenir bottles in the shape of the ak - 47 kalashnikov. there are also kalashnikov watches, umbrellas, and knives. the kalashnikov museum ( also called the ak - 47 museum ) opened on 4 november 2004 in izhevsk, udmurt republic. this city is in the ural region of russia. the museum chronicles the biography of general kalashnikov and documents the invention of the ak - 47. the museum complex of kalashnikov ' s small arms, a series of halls, and multimedia exhibitions are