blesses the koliva. it is then eaten as a memorial by all present. radonitsa another memorial day in the east, radonitsa, does not fall on a saturday, but on either monday or tuesday of the second week after pascha ( easter ). radonitsa does not have special hymns for the dead at the divine services. instead a panikhida will follow the divine liturgy, and then all will bring paschal foods to the cemeteries to greet the departed with the joy of the resurrection. east syriac tradition east syriac churches including the syro malabar church and chaldean catholic church commemorates the feast of departed faithful on the last friday of epiphany season ( which means friday just before start of great lent ). the season of epiphany remembers the revelation of christ to the world. each friday of epiphany season, the church remembers important evangelistic figures. in the syro malabar church, the friday before the parish festival is also celebrated as feast of departed faithful when the parish remembers the activities of forebears who worked for the parish and faithful. they also request the intercession of all departed souls for the faithful celebration of parish festival. in east syriac liturgy, the church remembers departed souls including saints on every friday throughout the year since the christ was crucified and died on friday. latin catholicism history in western christianity, there is ample evidence of the custom of praying for the dead in the inscriptions of the catacombs, with their constant prayers for the peace of the souls of the departed and in the early liturgies, which commonly contain commemorations of the dead. tertullian, cyprian and other early western fathers witness to the regular practice of praying for the dead among the early christians. in the sixth century, it was customary in benedictine monasteries to hold a commemoration of the deceased members at whitsuntide. in the time of st. isidore of seville ( d. 636 ) who lived in what is today spain, the monday after pentecost was designated to remember the deceased. at the beginning of the ninth century, abbot eigil of fulda set 17 december as commemoration of all deceased in part of what is today germany. according to widukind of corvey ( c. 975 ), there also existed a ceremony praying for the dead on 1 october in saxony. but it was the day after all saints ' day that saint odilo of cluny chose when in the 11th century he