. " legacy after ealdred ' s death, one of the restraints on william ' s treatment of the english was removed. ealdred was one of a few native englishmen who william appears to have trusted, and his death led to fewer attempts to integrate englishmen into the administration, although such efforts did not entirely stop. in 1070, a church council was held at westminster and a number of bishops were deposed. by 1073 there were only two englishmen in episcopal sees, and by the time of william ' s death in 1087 there was only one, wulfstanii of worcester. ealdred did much to restore discipline in the monasteries and churches under his authority, and was liberal with gifts to the churches of his diocese. he built the monastic church of st peter at gloucester ( now gloucester cathedral, though nothing of his fabric remains ), then part of his diocese of worcester. he also repaired a large part of beverley minster in the diocese of york, adding a presbytery and an unusually splendid painted ceiling covering " all the upper part of the church from the choir to the tower... intermingled with gold in various ways, and in a wonderful fashion. " he added a pulpit " in german style " of bronze, gold and silver, surmounted by an arch with a rood cross in the same materials ; these were examples of the lavish decorations added to important churches in the years before the conquest. ealdred encouraged folcard, a monk of canterbury, to write the life of saint john of beverley. this was part of ealdred ' s promotion of the cult of saint john, who had been canonised only since 1037. along with the pontificale, ealdred may have brought back from cologne the first manuscript of the cambridge songs to enter england, a collection of latin goliardic songs which became famous in the middle ages. the historian michael lapidge suggests that the laudes regiae, which are included in cotton vitellius exii, might have been composed by ealdred, or a member of his household. another historian, h. j. cowdrey, argued that the laudes were composed at winchester. these praise songs are probably the same performed at matilda ' s coronation, but might have been used at other court ceremonies before ealdred ' s death. historians have seen ealdred as an " old - fashioned prince - bishop ". others say he " raised the see of york from its former rustic state ". he