q is replaced by a second control - s to resume output. the 33 asr also could be configured to employ control - r ( dc2 ) and control - t ( dc4 ) to start and stop the tape punch ; on some units equipped with this function, the corresponding control character lettering on the keycap above the letter was tape and tape respectively. delete vs backspace the teletype could not move its typehead backwards, so it did not have a key on its keyboard to send a bs ( backspace ). instead, there was a key marked that sent code 127 ( del ). the purpose of this key was to erase mistakes in a manually - input paper tape : the operator had to push a button on the tape punch to back it up, then type the rubout, which punched all holes and replaced the mistake with a character that was intended to be ignored. teletypes were commonly used with the less - expensive computers from digital equipment corporation ( dec ) ; these systems had to use what keys were available, and thus the del character was assigned to erase the previous character. because of this, dec video terminals ( by default ) sent the del character for the key marked " backspace " while the separate key marked " delete " sent an escape sequence ; many other competing terminals sent a bs character for the backspace key. the unix terminal driver could only use one character to erase the previous character ; this could be set to bs or del, but not both, resulting in recurring situations of ambiguity where users had to decide depending on what terminal they were using ( shells that allow line editing, such as ksh, bash, and zsh, understand both ). the assumption that no key sent a bs character allowed control + h to be used for other purposes, such as the " help " prefix command in gnu emacs. escape many more of the control characters have been assigned meanings quite different from their original ones. the " escape " character ( esc, code 27 ), for example, was intended originally to allow sending of other control characters as literals instead of invoking their meaning, an " escape sequence ". this is the same meaning of " escape " encountered in url encodings, c language strings, and other systems where certain characters have a reserved meaning. over time this interpretation has been co - opted and has eventually been changed. in modern usage, an esc sent to the terminal usually indicates the start of a command sequence usually in the form of a so - called " an