##dyomene ( aphrodite rising from the sea ). according to athenaeus, apelles was inspired to paint the painting after watching the courtesan phryne take off her clothes, untie her hair, and bathe naked in the sea at eleusis. the painting was displayed in the asclepeion on the island of kos. the aphrodite anadyomene went unnoticed for centuries, but pliny the elder records that, in his own time, it was regarded as apelles ' s most famous work. during the hellenistic and roman periods, statues depicting aphrodite proliferated ; many of these statues were modeled at least to some extent on praxiteles ' s aphrodite of knidos. some statues show aphrodite crouching naked ; others show her wringing water out of her hair as she rises from the sea. another common type of statue is known as aphrodite kallipygos, the name of which is greek for " aphrodite of the beautiful buttocks " ; this type of sculpture shows aphrodite lifting her peplos to display her buttocks to the viewer while looking back at them from over her shoulder. the ancient romans produced massive numbers of copies of greek sculptures of aphrodite and more sculptures of aphrodite have survived from antiquity than of any other deity. post - classical culture middle ages early christians frequently adapted pagan iconography to suit christian purposes. in the early middle ages, christians adapted elements of aphrodite / venus ' s iconography and applied them to eve and prostitutes, but also female saints and even the virgin mary. christians in the east reinterpreted the story of aphrodite ' s birth as a metaphor for baptism ; in a coptic stele from the sixth century ad, a female orant is shown wearing aphrodite ' s conch shell as a sign that she is newly baptized. throughout the middle ages, villages and communities across europe still maintained folk tales and traditions about aphrodite / venus and travelers reported a wide variety of stories. numerous roman mosaics of venus survived in britain, preserving memory of the pagan past. in north africa in the late fifth century ad, fulgentius of ruspe encountered mosaics of aphrodite and reinterpreted her as a symbol of the sin of lust, arguing that she was shown naked because " the sin of lust is never cloaked " and that she