takeout restaurants, wonton are often made with thicker dough skins, to withstand the rigors of delivery. regional variations new york city the new york metropolitan area is home to the largest chinese population outside of asia, which also constitutes the largest metropolitan asian - american group in the united states and the largest asian - national metropolitan diaspora in the western hemisphere. the chinese - american population of the new york city metropolitan area was an estimated 893, 697 as of 2017. given the new york metropolitan area ' s continuing status as by far the leading gateway for chinese immigrants to the united states, all popular styles of every chinese regional cuisine have commensurately become ubiquitously accessible in new york city, including hakka, taiwanese, shanghainese, hunanese, szechuan, cantonese, fujianese, xinjiang, zhejiang, and korean chinese cuisine. even the relatively obscure dongbei style of cuisine indigenous to northeast china is now available in flushing, queens, as well as mongolian cuisine and uyghur cuisine. kosher preparation kosher preparation of chinese food is also widely available in new york city, given the metropolitan area ' s large jewish and particularly orthodox jewish populations. the perception that american jews eat at chinese restaurants on christmas day is documented in media. the tradition may have arisen from the lack of other open restaurants on christmas day, the close proximity of jewish and chinese immigrants to each other in new york city, and the absence of dairy foods combined with meat. kosher chinese food is usually prepared in new york city, as well as in other large cities with orthodox jewish neighborhoods, under strict rabbinical supervision as a prerequisite for kosher certification. los angeles county chinese populations in los angeles represent at least 21 of the 34 provincial - level administrative units of china, along with the largest population of taiwanese - born immigrants outside of taiwan, making greater los angeles home to a diverse population of chinese people in the united states. chinese - american cuisine in the greater los angeles area is concentrated in chinese ethnoburbs rather than traditional chinatowns. the oldest chinese ethnoburb is monterey park, considered to be the nation ' s first suburban chinatown. although chinatown in los angeles is still a significant commercial center for chinese immigrants, the majority are centered in the san gabriel valley which is the one of the largest concentration of asian - americans in the country, stretching from monterey park into the cities of alhambra, san gabriel, rosemead, san marino, south pasadena, west covina, walnut, city of industry,