##r armavir regional subdivision martuni gegharkunik regional subdivision abovyan kotayk regional subdivision vanadzor lori regional subdivision gyumri shirak regional subdivision goris syunik regional subdivision ijevan tavush regional subdivision yeghegnadzor vayots dzor province regional subdivision the armed forces also sport the following volunteer units : sisakan regiment erato detachment vanadzor volunteer detachment homeland detachment arf battalion tigran the great international military regiment women in the armed forces during the first nagorno - karabakh war in the early 90s, at least 115 armenian women were known to have taken part in combat operations. many women from the diaspora arrived to serve in non - combat missions. the first woman to have been given a significant position in the military was zhanna galstyan, who was appointed deputy commander of the central district defensive unit after the formation of the artsakh defense army. more than 2, 000 women currently serve in the army, with most working in administrative positions or in liaison and medical units. in october 2016, a program, approved by the national assembly, committed the military to " creating additional opportunities " for women serving in the army or seeking military service. defense minister vigen sargsyan at the time told the mps that " it would be wrong not to let them ( women ) reach their full potential. " the erato detachment was the first all - women military unit in the armenian armed forces, being created after of clashes between the azerbaijani army and armenia occurred in july 2020. anna hakobyan, the wife of the current prime minister of armenia, nikol pashinyan, underwent a week long combat readiness program with women from the republic of artsakh who joined the unit. minorities during the 2020 war, a group of yazidi reservists formed a reserve military unit that joined the frontline in karabakh. the unit was led by rzgan sarhangyan and is composed of 50 soldiers aged between 18 and 55. equipment the armenian army operates a wide variety of older equipment, mostly of soviet origin. there is also some newer equipment from russia. in 2015, a us $ 200m loan was ratified by russia for the purchase of modern weapons between 2015 and 2017. armenia produces its own combat helmets and body armors through the works of a joint armenian - polish company. some personal equipment used by special units ( future assault shell technology helmets, plate carriers and special pouches ) is imported. armenia also