, these models emitted nitrogen oxide at up to nine times the legal limit when the car detected that it was not hooked up to emissions testing equipment. in november 2016, audi expressed an intention to establish an assembly factory in pakistan, with the company ' s local partner acquiring land for a plant in korangi creek industrial park in karachi. approval of the plan would lead to an investment of $ 30 million in the new plant. audi planned to cut 9, 500 jobs in germany starting from 2020 till 2025 to fund electric vehicles and digital working. in february 2020, volkswagen ag announced that it plans to take over all audi shares it does not own ( totalling 0. 36 % ) via a squeeze - out according to german stock corporation law, thus making audi a fully owned subsidiary of the volkswagen group. this change took effect from 16 november 2020, when audi became a wholly owned subsidiary of the volkswagen group. in january 2021, audi announced that it is planning to sell 1 million vehicles in china in 2023, comparing to 726, 000 vehicles in 2020. technology audi ai audi ai is a driver assist feature offered by audi. the company ' s stated intent is to offer fully autonomous driving at a future time, acknowledging that legal, regulatory and technical hurdles must be overcome to achieve this goal. on 4 june 2017, audi stated that its new a8 will be fully self - driving for speeds up to 60 km / h using its audi ai. contrary to other cars, the driver will not have to do safety checks such as touching the steering wheel every 15 seconds to use this feature. the audi a8 will therefore be the first production car to reach level 3 autonomous driving, meaning that the driver can safely turn their attention away from driving tasks, e. g. the driver can text or watch a movie. audi will also be the first manufacturer to use a 3d lidar system in addition to cameras and ultrasonic sensors for their ai. bodyshells audi produces 100 % galvanised cars to prevent corrosion, and was the first mass - market vehicle to do so, following introduction of the process by porsche, c. 1975. along with other precautionary measures, the full - body zinc coating has proved to be very effective in preventing rust. the body ' s resulting durability even surpassed audi ' s own expectations, causing the manufacturer to extend its original 10 - year warranty against corrosion perforation to currently 12 years ( except for aluminium bodies which do not rust ). space frame audi introduced a new series of vehicles