tin, and lead react with the alkali metal hydroxides to give aluminates, zincates, stannates, and plumbates. silicon dioxide is acidic, and thus the alkali metal hydroxides can also attack silicate glass. intermetallic compounds the alkali metals form many intermetallic compounds with each other and the elements from groups 2 to 13 in the periodic table of varying stoichiometries, such as the sodium amalgams with mercury, including na5hg8 and na3hg. some of these have ionic characteristics : taking the alloys with gold, the most electronegative of metals, as an example, naau and kau are metallic, but rbau and csau are semiconductors. nak is an alloy of sodium and potassium that is very useful because it is liquid at room temperature, although precautions must be taken due to its extreme reactivity towards water and air. the eutectic mixture melts at −12. 6 °c. an alloy of 41 % caesium, 47 % sodium, and 12 % potassium has the lowest known melting point of any metal or alloy, −78 °c. compounds with the group 13 elements the intermetallic compounds of the alkali metals with the heavier group 13 elements ( aluminium, gallium, indium, and thallium ), such as natl, are poor conductors or semiconductors, unlike the normal alloys with the preceding elements, implying that the alkali metal involved has lost an electron to the zintl anions involved. nevertheless, while the elements in group 14 and beyond tend to form discrete anionic clusters, group 13 elements tend to form polymeric ions with the alkali metal cations located between the giant ionic lattice. for example, natl consists of a polymeric anion ( — tl− — ) n with a covalent diamond cubic structure with na + ions located between the anionic lattice. the larger alkali metals cannot fit similarly into an anionic lattice and tend to force the heavier group 13 elements to form anionic clusters. boron is a special case, being the only nonmetal in group 13. the alkali metal borides tend to be boron - rich, involving appreciable boron – boron bonding involving deltahedral structures, and are thermally unstable due to the alkali metals having a very high vapour pressure at elevated temperatures. this makes direct synthesis problematic because the alkali metals do not