imperial medical institute. he said it was unfit for practice by gentlemen - scholars. in china acupuncture was increasingly associated with lower - class, illiterate practitioners. it was restored for a time, but banned again in 1929 in favor of science - based western medicine. although acupuncture declined in china during this time period, it was also growing in popularity in other countries. international expansion korea is believed to be the first country in asia that acupuncture spread to outside of china. within korea there is a legend that acupuncture was developed by emperor dangun, though it is more likely to have been brought into korea from a chinese colonial prefecture in 514 ad. acupuncture use was commonplace in korea by the 6th century. it spread to vietnam in the 8th and 9th centuries. as vietnam began trading with japan and china around the 9th century, it was influenced by their acupuncture practices as well. china and korea sent " medical missionaries " that spread traditional chinese medicine to japan, starting around 219 ad. in 553, several korean and chinese citizens were appointed to re - organize medical education in japan and they incorporated acupuncture as part of that system. japan later sent students back to china and established acupuncture as one of five divisions of the chinese state medical administration system. acupuncture began to spread to europe in the second half of the 17th century. around this time the surgeon - general of the dutch east india company met japanese and chinese acupuncture practitioners and later encouraged europeans to further investigate it. he published the first in - depth description of acupuncture for the european audience and created the term " acupuncture " in his 1683 work de acupunctura. france was an early adopter among the west due to the influence of jesuit missionaries, who brought the practice to french clinics in the 16th century. the french doctor louis berlioz ( the father of the composer hector berlioz ) is usually credited with being the first to experiment with the procedure in europe in 1810, before publishing his findings in 1816. by the 19th century, acupuncture had become commonplace in many areas of the world. americans and britons began showing interest in acupuncture in the early 19th century, although interest waned by mid - century. western practitioners abandoned acupuncture ' s traditional beliefs in spiritual energy, pulse diagnosis, and the cycles of the moon, sun or the body ' s rhythm. diagrams of