cumming rose, who also determined the essential amino acids and established the minimum daily requirements of all amino acids for optimal growth. the unity of the chemical category was recognized by wurtz in 1865, but he gave no particular name to it. the first use of the term " amino acid " in the english language dates from 1898, while the german term,, was used earlier. proteins were found to yield amino acids after enzymatic digestion or acid hydrolysis. in 1902, emil fischer and franz hofmeister independently proposed that proteins are formed from many amino acids, whereby bonds are formed between the amino group of one amino acid with the carboxyl group of another, resulting in a linear structure that fischer termed " peptide ". general structure amino acids are known as 2 -, alpha -, or α - amino acids.. they have the generic formula in most cases, where r is an organic substituent known as a " side chain ". of the many hundreds of amino acids, 22 are proteinogenic ( " protein - building " ). it is these 22 compounds that combine to give a vast array of peptides and proteins. chirality the carbon atom next to the carboxyl group is called the α – carbon. it bears the amine and, except in the case of glycine, the r group or side chain specific to each amino acid. with four distinct substituents, the α – carbon is stereogenic ( gives rise to chirality ) in all amino acids except glycine. all proteogenic amino acids have the l configuration. they are " left - handed " enantiomers, which refers to the stereoisomers of the alpha carbon. a few d - amino acids ( " right - handed " ) have been found in nature, e. g., in bacterial envelopes, as a neuromodulator ( d - serine ), and in some antibiotics. rarely, d - amino acid residues are found in proteins, and are converted from the - amino acid as a post - translational modification. side chains charged side chains five amino acids possess a charge at neutral ph. often these side chains appear at the surfaces on proteins to enable their solubility in water, and side chains with opposite charges form important electrostatic contacts called salt bridges that maintain structures within a single protein or between interfacing proteins. many proteins bind metal into their structures specifically, and these interactions are commonly mediated by charged side chains such as aspartate