brian christian wrote that experts have pivoted " from the question of ' what they know ' to the question of ' what they ' re doing with it '. ". generative ai is often trained on unlicensed copyrighted works, including in domains such as images or computer code ; the output is then used under a rationale of " fair use ". experts disagree about how well, and under what circumstances, this rationale will hold up in courts of law ; relevant factors may include " the purpose and character of the use of the copyrighted work " and " the effect upon the potential market for the copyrighted work ". in 2023, leading authors ( including john grisham and jonathan franzen ) sued ai companies for using their work to train generative ai. misinformation youtube, facebook and others use recommender systems to guide users to more content. these ai programs were given the goal of maximizing user engagement ( that is, the only goal was to keep people watching ). the ai learned that users tended to choose misinformation, conspiracy theories, and extreme partisan content, and, to keep them watching, the ai recommended more of it. users also tended to watch more content on the same subject, so the ai led people into filter bubbles where they received multiple versions of the same misinformation. this convinced many users that the misinformation was true, and ultimately undermined trust in institutions, the media and the government. the ai program had correctly learned to maximize its goal, but the result was harmful to society. after the u. s. election in 2016, major technology companies took steps to mitigate the problem. in 2022, generative ai began to create images, audio, video and text that are indistinguishable from real photographs, recordings, films or human writing. it is possible for bad actors to use this technology to create massive amounts of misinformation or propaganda. this technology has been widely distributed at minimal cost. geoffrey hinton ( who was an instrumental developer of these tools ) expressed his concerns about ai disinformation. he quit his job at google to freely criticize the companies developing ai. algorithmic bias and fairness machine learning applications will be biased if they learn from biased data. anyone looking to use machine learning as part of real - world, in - production systems needs to factor ethics into their ai training processes and strive to avoid bias. this is especially true when using ai algorithms that are inherently unexplainable