apatosaurus is well preserved in specimen byu17096, which also preserved much of the skeleton. a phylogenetic analysis found that the braincase had a morphology similar to those of other diplodocoids. some skulls of apatosaurus have been found still in articulation with their teeth. those teeth that have the enamel surface exposed do not show any scratches on the surface ; instead, they display a sugary texture and little wear. like those of other sauropods, the neck vertebrae are deeply bifurcated ; they carried neural spines with a large trough in the middle, resulting in a wide, deep neck. the vertebral formula for the holotype of a. louisae is 15cervicals, 10dorsals, 5sacrals, and 82caudals. the caudal vertebra number may vary, even within species. the cervical vertebrae of apatosaurus and brontosaurus are stouter and more robust than those of other diplodocids and were found to be most similar to camarasaurus by charles whitney gilmore. in addition, they support cervical ribs that extend farther towards the ground than in diplodocines, and have vertebrae and ribs that are narrower towards the top of the neck, making the neck nearly triangular in cross - section. in apatosaurus louisae, the atlas - axis complex of the first cervicals is nearly fused. the dorsal ribs are not fused or tightly attached to their vertebrae and are instead loosely articulated. apatosaurus has ten dorsal ribs on either side of the body. the large neck was filled with an extensive system of weight - saving air sacs. apatosaurus, like its close relative supersaurus, has tall neural spines, which make up more than half the height of the individual bones of its vertebrae. the shape of the tail is unusual for a diplodocid ; it is comparatively slender because of the rapidly decreasing height of the vertebral spines with increasing distance from the hips. apatosaurus also had very long ribs compared to most other diplodocids, giving it an unusually deep chest. as in other diplodocids, the tail transformed into a whip - like structure towards the end. the limb bones are also very robust. within apatosaurinae, the scapula of apatosaurus louisae is intermediate in morphology between those of a. ajax and brontosaurus excelsus. the arm bones are stout, so the humerus of apato