berys gaut and paisley livingston in their essay " the creation of art " : " structuralist and post - structuralists theorists and critics were sharply critical of many aspects of new criticism, beginning with the emphasis on aesthetic appreciation and the so - called autonomy of art, but they reiterated the attack on biographical criticisms ' assumption that the artist ' s activities and experience were a privileged critical topic. " these authors contend that : " anti - intentionalists, such as formalists, hold that the intentions involved in the making of art are irrelevant or peripheral to correctly interpreting art. so details of the act of creating a work, though possibly of interest in themselves, have no bearing on the correct interpretation of the work. " gaut and livingston define the intentionalists as distinct from formalists stating that : " intentionalists, unlike formalists, hold that reference to intentions is essential in fixing the correct interpretation of works. " they quote richard wollheim as stating that, " the task of criticism is the reconstruction of the creative process, where the creative process must in turn be thought of as something not stopping short of, but terminating on, the work of art itself. " " linguistic turn " and its debate the end of the 20th century fostered an extensive debate known as the linguistic turn controversy, or the " innocent eye debate " in the philosophy of art. this debate discussed the encounter of the work of art as being determined by the relative extent to which the conceptual encounter with the work of art dominates over the perceptual encounter with the work of art. decisive for the linguistic turn debate in art history and the humanities were the works of yet another tradition, namely the structuralism of ferdinand de saussure and the ensuing movement of poststructuralism. in 1981, the artist mark tansey created a work of art titled the innocent eye as a criticism of the prevailing climate of disagreement in the philosophy of art during the closing decades of the 20th century. influential theorists include judith butler, luce irigaray, julia kristeva, michel foucault and jacques derrida. the power of language, more specifically of certain rhetorical tropes, in art history and historical discourse was explored by hayden white. the fact that language is a transparent medium of thought had been stressed by a very different form of philosophy of language which originated in the works of johann georg hamann and wilhelm von humboldt. ernst gombrich and nelson goodman in his book languages of art : an approach to a theory of symbols came to hold that the conceptual encounter