ahmed i ( ; ; 18 april 1590 – 22 november 1617 ) was the sultan of the ottoman empire from 1603 to 1617. ahmed ' s reign is noteworthy for marking the first breach in the ottoman tradition of royal fratricide ; henceforth, ottoman rulers would no longer systematically execute their brothers upon accession to the throne. he is also well known for his construction of the blue mosque, one of the most famous mosques in turkey. early life ahmed was probably born in 18 april 1590 at the manisa palace, manisa, when his father mehmed was still a prince and the governor of the sanjak of manisa. his mother was handan sultan. after his grandfather murad iii ' s death in 1595, his father came to constantinople and ascended the throne as sultan mehmed iii. mehmed ordered the execution of his nineteen half brothers. ahmed ' s elder brother sehzade mahmud was also executed by his father mehmed on 7 june 1603, just before mehmed ' s own death on 22 december 1603. mahmud was buried along with his mother in a separate mausoleum built by ahmed in sehzade mosque, constantinople. reign ahmed ascended the throne after his father ' s death in 1603, at the age of thirteen, when his powerful grandmother safiye sultan was still alive. with his accession to the throne, the power struggle in the harem flared up ; between his mother handan sultan and his grandmother safiye sultan, who in the previous reign had absolute power within the walls ( behind the throne ), in the end, with the support of ahmed, the fight ended in favor of his mother. a far lost uncle of ahmed, yahya, resented his accession to the throne and spent his life scheming to become sultan. ahmed broke with the traditional fratricide following previous enthronements and did not order the execution of his brother mustafa. instead, mustafa was sent to live at the old palace at bayezit along with their grandmother, safiye sultan. this was most likely due to ahmed ' s young age - he had not yet demonstrated his ability to sire children, and mustafa was then the only other candidate for the ottoman throne. his brother ' s execution would have endangered the dynasty, and thus he was spared. his mother tried to interfere in his affairs and influence his decision, especially she wanted to control his communication and movements. in the earlier part of his reign, ahmed i showed decision and vigor, which were belied by his