from god a monopoly over the priesthood for himself and his male descendants. the family of aaron had the exclusive right and responsibility to make offerings on the altar to yahweh. the rest of his tribe, the levites, were given subordinate responsibilities within the sanctuary. moses anointed and consecrated aaron and his sons to the priesthood, and arrayed them in the robes of office. he also related to them god ' s detailed instructions for performing their duties while the rest of the israelites listened. aaron and his successors as high priest were given control over the urim and thummim by which the will of god could be determined. god commissioned the aaronide priests to distinguish the holy from the common and the clean from the unclean, and to teach the divine laws ( the torah ) to the israelites. the priests were also commissioned to bless the people. when aaron completed the altar offerings for the first time and, with moses, " blessed the people : and the glory of the appeared unto all the people : and there came a fire out from before the, and consumed upon the altar the burnt offering and the fat [ which ] when all the people saw, they shouted, and fell on their faces ". in this way, the institution of the aaronide priesthood was established. in later books of the hebrew bible, aaron and his kin are not mentioned very often except in literature dating to the babylonian captivity and later. the books of judges, samuel and kings mention priests and levites, but do not mention the aaronides in particular. the book of ezekiel, which devotes much attention to priestly matters, calls the priestly upper class the zadokites after one of king david ' s priests. it does reflect a two - tier priesthood with the levites in subordinate position. a two - tier hierarchy of aaronides and levites appears in ezra, nehemiah and chronicles. as a result, many historians think that aaronide families did not control the priesthood in pre - exilic israel. what is clear is that high priests claiming aaronide descent dominated the second temple period. most scholars think the torah reached its final form early in this period, which may account for aaron ' s prominence in exodus, leviticus and numbers. conflicts aaron plays a leading role in several stories of conflicts during israel ' s wilderness wanderings. during the prolonged absence of moses on mount sinai, the people provoked aaron to make a golden calf. this incident nearly caused god to destroy the israelites. moses successfully intervened, but then