death, than any other work in his filmography. vertigo contains a camera technique developed by irmin roberts, commonly referred to as a dolly zoom, which has been copied by many filmmakers. the film premiered at the san sebastian international film festival, and hitchcock won the silver seashell prize. vertigo is considered a classic, but it attracted mixed reviews and poor box - office receipts at the time ; the critic from variety opined that the film was " too slow and too long ". bosley crowther of the new york times thought it was " devilishly far - fetched ", but praised the cast performances and hitchcock ' s direction. the picture was also the last collaboration between stewart and hitchcock. in the 2002 sight & sound polls, it ranked just behind citizen kane ( 1941 ) ; ten years later, in the same magazine, critics chose it as the best film ever made. north by northwest and psycho after vertigo, the rest of 1958 was a difficult year for hitchcock. during pre - production of north by northwest ( 1959 ), which was a " slow " and " agonising " process, his wife alma was diagnosed with cancer. while she was in hospital, hitchcock kept himself occupied with his television work and would visit her every day. alma underwent surgery and made a full recovery, but it caused hitchcock to imagine, for the first time, life without her. hitchcock followed up with three more successful films, which are also recognised as among his best : north by northwest, psycho ( 1960 ) and the birds ( 1963 ). in north by northwest, cary grant portrays roger thornhill, a madison avenue advertising executive who is mistaken for a government secret agent. he is pursued across the united states by enemy agents, including eve kendall ( eva marie saint ). at first, thornhill believes kendall is helping him, but then realises that she is an enemy agent ; he later learns that she is working undercover for the cia. during its opening two - week run at radio city music hall, the film grossed $ 404, 056 ( equivalent to $ million in ), setting a non - holiday gross record for that theatre. time magazine called the film " smoothly troweled and thoroughly entertaining ". psycho ( 1960 ) is arguably hitchcock ' s best - known film. based on robert bloch ' s 1959 novel psycho, which was inspired by the case of ed gein, the film was produced on a tight budget of $ 800, 000 ( equivalent to $ million in ) and shot in black - and - white on a spare set using