win approach as " the first sign of the mastery that would mark lincoln ' s presidency " ; the union would win if it could resupply and hold onto the fort, and the south would be the aggressor if it opened fire on an unarmed ship supplying starving men. an april 9 confederate cabinet meeting resulted in president davis ' s ordering general p. g. t. beauregard to take the fort before supplies could reach it. at 4 : 30 am on april 12, confederate forces fired the first of 4, 000 shells at the fort ; it fell the next day. the loss of fort sumter lit a patriotic fire under the north. on april 15, lincoln called on the states to field 75, 000 volunteer troops for 90 days ; impassioned union states met the quotas quickly. on may 3, 1861, lincoln called for an additional 42, 000 volunteers for a period of three years. shortly after this, virginia, tennessee, arkansas, and north carolina seceded and joined the confederacy. to reward virginia, the confederate capital was moved to richmond. attitude of the border states maryland, delaware, missouri, and kentucky were slave states whose people had divided loyalties to northern and southern businesses and family members. some men enlisted in the union army and others in the confederate army. west virginia separated from virginia and was admitted to the union on june 20, 1863. maryland ' s territory surrounded the united states ' capital of washington, d. c., and could cut it off from the north. it had numerous anti - lincoln officials who tolerated anti - army rioting in baltimore and the burning of bridges, both aimed at hindering the passage of troops to the south. maryland ' s legislature voted overwhelmingly ( 53 – 13 ) to stay in the union, but also rejected hostilities with its southern neighbors, voting to close maryland ' s rail lines to prevent them from being used for war. lincoln responded by establishing martial law and unilaterally suspending habeas corpus in maryland, along with sending in militia units from the north. lincoln rapidly took control of maryland and the district of columbia by seizing many prominent figures, including arresting 1 / 3 of the members of the maryland general assembly on the day it reconvened. all were held without trial, with lincoln ignoring a ruling on june 1, 1861, by u. s. supreme court chief justice roger taney, not speaking for the court, that only congress ( and not the president ) could suspend habeas corpus ( ex parte merryman )