weight on their legs without risk of a fall. these standers are generally grouped into two categories based on the position of the occupant. prone standers distribute the body weight to the front of the individual and usually have a tray in front of them. this makes them good for users who are actively trying to carry out some task. supine standers distribute the body weight to the back and are good for cases where the user has more limited mobility or is recovering from injury. for children children with severe disabilities can develop learned helplessness, which makes them lose interest in their environment. robotic arms are used to provide an alternative method to engage in joint play activities. these robotic arms allows children to manipulate real objects in the context of play activities. visual impairments many people with serious visual impairments live independently, using a wide range of tools and techniques. examples of assistive technology for visually impairment include screen readers, screen magnifiers, braille embossers, desktop video magnifiers, and voice recorders. screen readers screen readers are used to help the visually impaired to easily access electronic information. these software programs run on a computer in order to convey the displayed information through voice ( text - to - speech ) or braille ( refreshable braille displays ) in combination with magnification for low vision users in some cases. there are a variety of platforms and applications available for a variety of costs with differing feature sets. some example of screen readers are apple voiceover, google talkback and microsoft narrator. this software is provided free of charge on all apple devices. apple voiceover includes the option to magnify the screen, control the keyboard, and provide verbal descriptions to describe what is happening on the screen. there are thirty languages to select from. it also has the capacity to read aloud file content, as well as web pages, e - mail messages, and word processing files. as mentioned above, screen readers may rely on the assistance of text - to - speech tools. to use the text - to - speech tools, the documents must in an electronic form, that is uploaded as the digital format. however, people usually will use the hard copy documents scanned into the computer, which cannot be recognized by the text - to - speech software. to solve this issue, people always use optical character recognition technology accompanied with text - to - speech software. braille and braille technology braille is a system of raised dots formed into units called braille cells. a full braille cell is made up