to be outdone he too presented " a plan somewhat analogous, i apprehend, to prof. jevon ' s abacus... [ and ] [ a ] gain, corresponding to prof. jevons ' s logical machine, the following contrivance may be described. i prefer to call it merely a logical - diagram machine... but i suppose that it could do very completely all that can be rationally expected of any logical machine ". jacquard loom, hollerith punch cards, telegraphy and telephony – the electromechanical relay : bell and newell ( 1971 ) indicate that the jacquard loom ( 1801 ), precursor to hollerith cards ( punch cards, 1887 ), and " telephone switching technologies " were the roots of a tree leading to the development of the first computers. by the mid - 19th century the telegraph, the precursor of the telephone, was in use throughout the world, its discrete and distinguishable encoding of letters as " dots and dashes " a common sound. by the late 19th century the ticker tape ( ) was in use, as was the use of hollerith cards in the 1890 u. s. census. then came the teleprinter ( ) with its punched - paper use of baudot code on tape. telephone - switching networks of electromechanical relays ( invented 1835 ) was behind the work of george stibitz ( 1937 ), the inventor of the digital adding device. as he worked in bell laboratories, he observed the " burdensome ' use of mechanical calculators with gears. " he went home one evening in 1937 intending to test his idea... when the tinkering was over, stibitz had constructed a binary adding device ". the mathematician martin davis observes the particular importance of the electromechanical relay ( with its two " binary states " open and closed ) : it was only with the development, beginning in the 1930s, of electromechanical calculators using electrical relays, that machines were built having the scope babbage had envisioned. " mathematics during the 19th century up to the mid - 20th century symbols and rules : in rapid succession, the mathematics of george boole ( 1847, 1854 ), gottlob frege ( 1879 ), and giuseppe peano ( 1888 – 1889 ) reduced arithmetic to a sequence of symbols manipulated by rules. peano ' s the principles of arithmetic, presented by a new method ( 1888 )