queen penthesilea, who was of thracian birth, came to join the ranks of the trojans after hector ' s death and initially put the greeks under serious pressure. only after the greatest effort and the help of the reinvigorated hero achilles, the greeks eventually triumphed. penthesilea died fighting the mighty achilles in single combat. homer himself deemed the amazon myths to be common knowledge all over greece, which suggests that they had already been known for some time before him. he was also convinced that the amazons lived not at its fringes, but somewhere in or around lycia in asia minor - a place well within the greek world. troy is mentioned in the iliad as the place of myrine ' s death. later identified as an amazon queen, according to diodorus ( 1st century bc ), the amazons under her rule invaded the territories of the atlantians, defeated the army of the atlantian city of cerne, and razed the city to the ground. in scythia the poet bacchylides ( 6th century bc ) and the historian herodotus ( 5th century bc ) located the amazon homeland in pontus at the southern shores of the black sea, and the capital themiscyra at the banks of the thermodon ( modern terme river ), by the modern city of terme. herodotus also explains how it came to be that some amazons would eventually be living in scythia. a greek fleet, sailing home upon defeating the amazons in battle at the thermodon river, included three ships crowded with amazon prisoners. once out at sea, the amazon prisoners overwhelmed and killed the small crews of the prisoner ships and, despite not having even basic navigation skills, managed to escape and safely disembark at the scythian shore. as soon as the amazons had caught enough horses, they easily asserted themselves in the steppe in between the caspian sea and the black sea and, according to herodotus, would eventually assimilate with the scythians, whose descendants were the sauromatae, the predecessors of the sarmatians. amazon homeland strabo ( 1st century bc ) visits and confirms the original homeland of the amazons on the plains by the thermodon river. however, long gone and not seen again during his lifetime, the amazons had allegedly retreated into the mountains. strabo, however, added that other authors, among them metrodorus of scepsis