, which are more useful for alkyl iodides and bromides, the degree of alkylation is difficult to control such that one obtains mixtures of primary, secondary, and tertiary amines, as well as quaternary ammonium salts. selectivity can be improved via the delepine reaction, although this is rarely employed on an industrial scale. selectivity is also assured in the gabriel synthesis, which involves organohalide reacting with potassium phthalimide. aryl halides are much less reactive toward amines and for that reason are more controllable. a popular way to prepare aryl amines is the buchwald - hartwig reaction. from alkenes disubstituted alkenes react with hcn in the presence of strong acids to give formamides, which can be decarbonylated. this method, the ritter reaction, is used industrially to produce tertiary amines such a tert - octylamine. hydroamination of alkenes is also widely practiced. the reaction is catalyzed by zeolite - based solid acids. reductive routes via the process of hydrogenation, unsaturated n - containing functional groups are reduced to amines using hydrogen in the presence of a nickel catalyst. suitable groups include nitriles, azides, imines including oximes, amides, and nitro. in the case of nitriles, reactions are sensitive to acidic or alkaline conditions, which can cause hydrolysis of the group. is more commonly employed for the reduction of these same groups on the laboratory scale. many amines are produced from aldehydes and ketones via reductive amination, which can either proceed catalytically or stoichiometrically. aniline ( ) and its derivatives are prepared by reduction of the nitroaromatics. in industry, hydrogen is the preferred reductant, whereas, in the laboratory, tin and iron are often employed. specialized methods many methods exist for the preparation of amines, many of these methods being rather specialized. reactions alkylation, acylation, and sulfonation, etc. aside from their basicity, the dominant reactivity of amines is their nucleophilicity. most primary amines are good ligands for metal ions to give coordination complexes. amines are alkylated by alkyl halides. acyl chlorides and acid anhydrides react with primary and secondary amin