teeth ) during the animal ' s lifetime or not at all, as is the case in cetaceans. mammals have three bones in the middle ear and a cochlea in the inner ear. they are clothed in hair and their skin contains glands which secrete sweat. some of these glands are specialized as mammary glands, producing milk to feed the young. mammals breathe with lungs and have a muscular diaphragm separating the thorax from the abdomen which helps them draw air into the lungs. the mammalian heart has four chambers, and oxygenated and deoxygenated blood are kept entirely separate. nitrogenous waste is excreted primarily as urea. mammals are amniotes, and most are viviparous, giving birth to live young. exceptions to this are the egg - laying monotremes, the platypus and the echidnas of australia. most other mammals have a placenta through which the developing foetus obtains nourishment, but in marsupials, the foetal stage is very short and the immature young is born and finds its way to its mother ' s pouch where it latches on to a nipple and completes its development. human anatomy humans have the overall body plan of a mammal. humans have a head, neck, trunk ( which includes the thorax and abdomen ), two arms and hands, and two legs and feet. generally, students of certain biological sciences, paramedics, prosthetists and orthotists, physiotherapists, occupational therapists, nurses, podiatrists, and medical students learn gross anatomy and microscopic anatomy from anatomical models, skeletons, textbooks, diagrams, photographs, lectures and tutorials and in addition, medical students generally also learn gross anatomy through practical experience of dissection and inspection of cadavers. the study of microscopic anatomy ( or histology ) can be aided by practical experience examining histological preparations ( or slides ) under a microscope. human anatomy, physiology and biochemistry are complementary basic medical sciences, which are generally taught to medical students in their first year at medical school. human anatomy can be taught regionally or systemically ; that is, respectively, studying anatomy by bodily regions such as the head and chest, or studying by specific systems, such as the nervous or respiratory systems. the major anatomy textbook, gray ' s anatomy, has been reorganized from a systems format to a regional format, in line with modern teaching methods. a thorough working knowledge of anatomy is required by physicians