respectively, and lost to chang in straight sets in the australian and us open semi - finals. at the time, agassi blamed the australian open loss on the windy conditions, but later said in his biography that he had lost the match on purpose, as he did not want to play boris becker, whom he would have faced in that final. the high point for agassi was winning the men ' s singles gold medal at the olympic games in atlanta, beating sergi bruguera of spain in the final. agassi also successfully defended his singles titles in cincinnati and key biscayne. 1997 was the low point of agassi ' s career. his wrist injury resurfaced, and he played only 24 matches during the year. he later confessed that he started using crystal methamphetamine at that time, allegedly on the urging of a friend. he failed an atp drug test, but wrote a letter claiming the same friend had spiked a drink. the atp dropped the failed drug test as a warning. in his autobiography, agassi admitted that the letter was a lie. he quit the drug soon after. at this time agassi was also in a failing marriage with actress, model, and socialite brooke shields and had lost interest in the game. he won no top - level titles, and his ranking sank to no. 141 on november 10, 1997, prompting many to believe that his run as one of the sport ' s premier competitors was over and he would never again win any significant tournaments. 1998 – 2003 : return to glory and career super slam in 1998, agassi began a rigorous conditioning program and worked his way back up the rankings by playing in challenger series tournaments, a circuit for pro players ranked outside the world ' s top 50. after returning to top physical and mental shape, agassi recorded the most successful period of his tennis career and also played classic matches in that period against pete sampras and patrick rafter. in 1998, agassi won five titles and leapt from no. 110 to no. 6, the highest jump into the top 10 made by any player during a calendar year. at wimbledon, he had an early loss in the second round to tommy haas. he won five titles in ten finals and was runner - up at the masters series tournament in key biscayne, losing to marcelo rios, who became no. 1 as a result. at the year end he was awarded the atp most improved player of the year for the second time in his