arjun dev, sacrificed his life to uphold " 22 carats of pure truth, the greatest gift to humanity ", the guru granth. the ninth guru, tegh bahadur, sacrificed his head to protect weak and defenseless people against atrocity. in the late seventeenth century, guru gobind singh ( the tenth guru in sikhism ), was at war with the mughal rulers to protect the people of different faiths when a fellow sikh, bhai kanhaiya, attended the troops of the enemy. he gave water to both friends and foes who were wounded on the battlefield. some of the enemy began to fight again and some sikh warriors were annoyed by bhai kanhaiya as he was helping their enemy. sikh soldiers brought bhai kanhaiya before guru gobind singh, and complained of his action that they considered counterproductive to their struggle on the battlefield. " what were you doing, and why? " asked the guru. " i was giving water to the wounded because i saw your face in all of them ", replied bhai kanhaiya. the guru responded, " then you should also give them ointment to heal their wounds. you were practicing what you were coached in the house of the guru. " under the tutelage of the guru, bhai kanhaiya subsequently founded a volunteer corps for altruism, which is still engaged today in doing good to others and in training new recruits for this service. hinduism in hinduism selflessness ( ), love ( ), kindness ( ), and forgiveness ( ) are considered as the highest acts of humanity or " ". giving alms to the beggars or poor people is considered as a divine act or " " and hindus believe it will free their souls from guilt or " " and will led them to heaven or " " in afterlife. altruism is also the central act of various hindu mythology and religious poems and songs. mass donation of clothes to poor people ( ), or blood donation camp or mass food donation ( ) for poor people is common in various hindu religious ceremonies. the bhagavad gita supports the doctrine of karma yoga ( achieving oneness with god through action ) & " nishkam karma " or action without expectation / desire for personal gain which can be said to encompass altruism. altruistic acts are generally celebrated and very well received in hindu literature and are central to hindu morality. philosophy there is a wide range of philosophical views on humans ' obligations or motivations to act altru