secret and saves a country that is about to be conquered by its neighbors. the paratime patrol members are warned against going into the timelines immediately surrounding it, where the country will be overrun, but the book never depicts the slaughter of the innocent thus entailed, remaining solely in the timeline where the country is saved. the cross - time theme was further developed in the 1960s by keith laumer in the first three volumes of his imperium sequence, which would be completed in zone yellow ( 1990 ). piper ' s politically more sophisticated variant was adopted and adapted by michael kurland and jack chalker in the 1980s ; chalker ' s g. o. d. inc trilogy ( 1987 – 89 ), featuring paratime detectives sam and brandy horowitz, marks the first attempt at merging the paratime thriller with the police procedural. kurland ' s perchance ( 1988 ), the first volume of the never - completed " chronicles of elsewhen ", presents a multiverse of secretive cross - time societies that utilize a variety of means for cross - time travel, ranging from high - tech capsules to mutant powers. harry turtledove has launched the crosstime traffic series for teenagers featuring a variant of h. beam piper ' s paratime trading empire. rival paratime worlds the concept of a cross - time version of a world war, involving rival paratime empires, was developed in fritz leiber ' s change war series, starting with the hugo award winning the big time ( 1958 ) ; followed by richard c. meredith ' s timeliner trilogy in the 1970s, michael mccollum ' s a greater infinity ( 1982 ) and john barnes ' timeline wars trilogy in the 1990s. such " paratime " stories may include speculation that the laws of nature can vary from one universe to the next, providing a science fictional explanation — or veneer — for what is normally fantasy. aaron allston ' s doc sidhe and sidhe devil take place between our world, the " grim world " and an alternate " fair world " where the sidhe retreated to. although technology is clearly present in both worlds, and the " fair world " parallels our history, about fifty years out of step, there is functional magic in the fair world. even with such explanation, the more explicitly the alternate world resembles a normal fantasy world, the more likely the story is to be labelled fantasy, as in poul anderson ' s " house rule " and " loser ' s night ". in both science fiction and fantasy, whether a given parallel