called " pea sprouts ", " pea pod stems ", or " pea shoots " ) are also appearing on menus, and even in supermarkets in north america. american - chinese food also has had a reputation for high levels of msg to enhance flavor. in recent years, market forces and customer demand have encouraged many restaurants to offer " msg free " or " no msg " menus, or to omit this ingredient on request. egg fried rice in american chinese cuisine is also prepared differently, with more soy sauce added for more flavor whereas the traditional egg fried rice uses less soy sauce. some food styles, such as dim sum, were also modified to fit american palates, such as added batter for fried dishes and extra soy sauce. both chinese and american - chinese cooking utilize similar methods of preparation, such as stir frying, pan frying, and deep frying, which are all easily done using a wok. ming tsai, the owner of the blue ginger restaurant in wellesley, massachusetts, and host of pbs culinary show simply ming, said that american chinese restaurants typically try to have food representing 3 - 5 regions of china at one time, have chop suey, or have " fried vegetables and some protein in a thick sauce ", " eight different sweet and sour dishes ", or " a whole page of 20 different chow meins or fried rice dishes ". tsai said " chinese - american cuisine is ' dumbed - down ' chinese food. it ' s adapted... to be blander, thicker and sweeter for the american public ". most american chinese establishments cater to non - chinese customers with menus written in english or containing pictures. if separate chinese - language menus are available, they typically feature items such as liver, chicken feet, or other meat dishes that might deter american customers ( such as offal ). in chinatown, manhattan, some restaurants are known for having a " phantom " menu with food preferred by ethnic chinese, but believed to be disliked by non - chinese americans. dishes menu items not found in china dishes that often appear on american chinese restaurant menus include : almond chicken — chicken breaded in batter containing ground almonds, fried and served with almonds and onions. beef and broccoli — flank steak cut into small pieces, stir fried with broccoli, and covered in a dark sauce made with soy sauce and oyster sauce and thickened with cornstarch. chicken and broccoli — similar to beef and broccoli, but with chicken