leto would portray the title character in warhol, an upcoming american biographical drama film produced by michael de luca and written by terence winter, based on the book warhol : the biography by victor bockris. documentaries absolut warhola ( 2001 ) was produced by polish director stanislaw mucha, featuring warhol ' s parents ' family and hometown in slovakia. andy warhol : a documentary film ( 2006 ) is a reverential, four - hour movie by ric burns that won a peabody award in 2006. andy warhol : double denied ( 2006 ) is a 52 - minute movie by ian yentob about the difficulties authenticating warhol ' s work. andy warhol ' s people factory ( 2008 ), a three - part television documentary directed by catherine shorr, features interviews with several of warhol ' s associates. the andy warhol diaries ( 2022 ), a six - part docuseries directed by andrew rossi, was released on netflix chronicling warhol ' s life from the vantage point of his diaries. television warhol appeared as a recurring character in tv series vinyl, played by john cameron mitchell. warhol was portrayed by evan peters in the american horror story : cult episode " valerie solanas died for your sins : scumbag ". the episode depicts the attempted assassination of warhol by valerie solanas ( lena dunham ). in early 1969, andy warhol was commissioned by braniff international to appear in two television commercials to promote the luxury airline ' s " when you got it – flaunt it " campaign. the campaign was created by the advertising agency lois holland calloway, which was led by george lois, creator of a famed series of esquire magazine covers. the first commercial series involved pairing unlikely people who shared the fact that they both flew braniff airways. warhol was paired with boxing legend sonny liston. the odd commercial worked as did the others that featured unlikely fellow travelers such as painter salvador dali and baseball legend whitey ford. two additional commercials for braniff were created that featured famous persons entering a braniff jet and being greeted by a braniff hostess while espousing their like for flying braniff. warhol was also featured in the first of these commercials that were also produced by lois and were released in the summer of 1969. lois has incorrectly stated that he was commissioned by braniff in 1967 for representation during that year, but at that time madison avenue advertising doyenne mary wells lawrence, who was married to braniff '