of humour. the film, starring laurence olivier and joan fontaine, concerns an unnamed naive young woman who marries a widowed aristocrat. she lives in his large english country house, and struggles with the lingering reputation of his elegant and worldly first wife rebecca, who died under mysterious circumstances. the film won best picture at the 13th academy awards ; the statuette was given to producer selznick. hitchcock received his first nomination for best director, his first of five such nominations. hitchcock ' s second american film was the thriller foreign correspondent ( 1940 ), set in europe, based on vincent sheean ' s book personal history ( 1935 ) and produced by walter wanger. it was nominated for best picture that year. hitchcock felt uneasy living and working in hollywood while britain was at war ; his concern resulted in a film that overtly supported the british war effort. filmed in 1939, it was inspired by the rapidly changing events in europe, as covered by an american newspaper reporter played by joel mccrea. by mixing footage of european scenes with scenes filmed on a hollywood backlot, the film avoided direct references to nazism, nazi germany and germans, to comply with the motion picture production code at the time. early war years in september 1940, the hitchcocks bought the cornwall ranch near scotts valley, california, in the santa cruz mountains. their primary residence was an english - style home in bel air, purchased in 1942. hitchcock ' s films were diverse during this period, ranging from the romantic comedy mr. & mrs. smith ( 1941 ) to the bleak film noir shadow of a doubt ( 1943 ). suspicion ( 1941 ) marked hitchcock ' s first film as a producer and director. it is set in england ; hitchcock used the north coast of santa cruz for the english coastline sequence. the film is the first of four in which cary grant was cast by hitchcock, and it is one of the rare occasions that grant plays a sinister character. grant plays johnnie aysgarth, an english conman whose actions raise suspicion and anxiety in his shy young english wife, lina mclaidlaw ( joan fontaine ). in one scene, hitchcock placed a light inside a glass of milk, perhaps poisoned, that grant is bringing to his wife ; the light ensures that the audience ' s attention is on the glass. grant ' s character is actually a killer, as per written in the book, before the fact by francis iles, but the studio felt that grant ' s image would be tarnished by that. hitchcock therefore settled for an ambiguous finale, although