##stotelian method of induction ( istiqra ), and the method of examination and experimentation ( tajriba ). avicenna criticized aristotelian induction, arguing that " it does not lead to the absolute, universal, and certain premises that it purports to provide. " in its place, he developed a " method of experimentation as a means for scientific inquiry. " logic an early formal system of temporal logic was studied by avicenna. although he did not develop a real theory of temporal propositions, he did study the relationship between temporalis and the implication. avicenna ' s work was further developed by najm al - din al - qazwini al - katibi and became the dominant system of islamic logic until modern times. avicennian logic also influenced several early european logicians such as albertus magnus and william of ockham. avicenna endorsed the law of non - contradiction proposed by aristotle, that a fact could not be both true and false at the same time and in the same sense of the terminology used. he stated, " anyone who denies the law of non - contradiction should be beaten and burned until he admits that to be beaten is not the same as not to be beaten, and to be burned is not the same as not to be burned. " physics in mechanics, avicenna, in the book of healing, developed a theory of motion, in which he made a distinction between the inclination ( tendency to motion ) and force of a projectile, and concluded that motion was a result of an inclination ( mayl ) transferred to the projectile by the thrower, and that projectile motion in a vacuum would not cease. he viewed inclination as a permanent force whose effect is dissipated by external forces such as air resistance. the theory of motion presented by avicenna was probably influenced by the 6th - century alexandrian scholar john philoponus. avicenna ' s is a less sophisticated variant of the theory of impetus developed by buridan in the 14th century. it is unclear if buridan was influenced by avicenna, or by philoponus directly. in optics, avicenna was among those who argued that light had a speed, observing that " if the perception of light is due to the emission of some sort of particles by a luminous source, the speed of light must be finite. " he also provided a wrong explanation of the rainbow phenomenon. carl benjamin boyer described avicenna ' s ( " ibn sina " ) theory