the oxford movement. however, this theory of the via media was reworked in the ecclesiological writings of frederick denison maurice, in a more dynamic form that became widely influential. both maurice and newman saw the church of england of their day as sorely deficient in faith ; but whereas newman had looked back to a distant past when the light of faith might have appeared to burn brighter, maurice looked forward to the possibility of a brighter revelation of faith in the future. maurice saw the protestant and catholic strands within the church of england as contrary but complementary, both maintaining elements of the true church, but incomplete without the other ; such that a true catholic and evangelical church might come into being by a union of opposites. central to maurice ' s perspective was his belief that the collective elements of family, nation, and church represented a divine order of structures through which god unfolds his continuing work of creation. hence, for maurice, the protestant tradition had maintained the elements of national distinction which were amongst the marks of the true universal church, but which had been lost within contemporary roman catholicism in the internationalism of centralised papal authority. within the coming universal church that maurice foresaw, national churches would each maintain the six signs of catholicity : baptism, eucharist, the creeds, scripture, an episcopal ministry, and a fixed liturgy ( which could take a variety of forms in accordance with divinely ordained distinctions in national characteristics ). this vision of a becoming universal church as a congregation of autonomous national churches proved highly congenial in anglican circles ; and maurice ' s six signs were adapted to form the chicago - lambeth quadrilateral of 1888. in the latter decades of the 20th century, maurice ' s theory, and the various strands of anglican thought that derived from it, have been criticised by stephen sykes, who argues that the terms protestant and catholic as used in these approaches are synthetic constructs denoting ecclesiastic identities unacceptable to those to whom the labels are applied. hence, the catholic church does not regard itself as a party or strand within the universal church – but rather identifies itself as the universal church. moreover, sykes criticises the proposition, implicit in theories of via media, that there is no distinctive body of anglican doctrines, other than those of the universal church ; accusing this of being an excuse not to undertake systematic doctrine at all. contrariwise, sykes notes a high degree of commonality in anglican liturgical forms and in the doctrinal understandings expressed within those liturgies. he proposes that