##oe vera again being the most commonly used species. also included are a. perryi and a. ferox. the ancient greeks and romans used aloe vera to treat wounds. in the middle ages, the yellowish liquid found inside the leaves was favored as a purgative. unprocessed aloe that contains aloin is generally used as a laxative, whereas processed juice does not usually contain significant aloin. some species, particularly aloe vera, are used in alternative medicine and first aid. both the translucent inner pulp and the resinous yellow aloin from wounding the aloe plant are used externally for skin discomforts. as an herbal medicine, aloe vera juice is commonly used internally for digestive discomfort. according to cancer research uk, a potentially deadly product called t - up is made of concentrated aloe, and promoted as a cancer cure. they say " there is currently no evidence that aloe products can help to prevent or treat cancer in humans ". aloin in otc laxative products on may 9, 2002, the us food and drug administration issued a final rule banning the use of aloin, the yellow sap of the aloe plant, for use as a laxative ingredient in over - the - counter drug products. most aloe juices today do not contain significant aloin. chemical properties according to w. a. shenstone, two classes of aloins are recognized : ( 1 ) nataloins, which yield picric and oxalic acids with nitric acid, and do not give a red coloration with nitric acid ; and ( 2 ) barbaloins, which yield aloetic acid ( c7h2n3o5 ), chrysammic acid ( c7h2n2o6 ), picric and oxalic acids with nitric acid, being reddened by the acid. this second group may be divided into a - barbaloins, obtained from barbados aloe, and reddened in the cold, and b - barbaloins, obtained from aloe socotrina and zanzibar aloe, reddened by ordinary nitric acid only when warmed or by fuming acid in the cold. nataloin ( 2c17h13o7 · h2o ) forms bright - yellow scales, barbaloin ( c17h18o7 ) prismatic crystals. aloe species are used in essential oils as a safety measure to dilute the solution before they are applied to the skin. flavoring aloe