to form massive armies. the inaccuracy of the weapons necessitated large groups of massed soldiers. this led to a rapid swelling of the size of armies. for the first time huge masses of the population could enter combat, rather than just the highly skilled professionals. it has been argued that the drawing of men from across the nation into an organized corps helped breed national unity and patriotism, and during this period the modern notion of the nation state was born. however, this would only become apparent after the french revolutionary wars. at this time, the levee en masse and conscription would become the defining paradigm of modern warfare. before then, however, most national armies were in fact composed of many nationalities. in spain armies were recruited from all the spanish european territories including spain, italy, wallonia ( walloon guards ) and germany. the french recruited some soldiers from germany, switzerland as well as from piedmont. britain recruited hessian and hanovrian troops until the late 18th century. irish catholics made careers for themselves in the armies of many catholic european states. prior to the english civil war in england, the monarch maintained a personal bodyguard of yeomen of the guard and the honourable corps of gentlemen at arms, or " gentlemen pensioners ", and a few locally raised companies to garrison important places such as berwick on tweed or portsmouth ( or calais before it was recaptured by france in 1558 ). troops for foreign expeditions were raised upon an ad hoc basis. noblemen and professional regular soldiers were commissioned by the monarch to supply troops, raising their quotas by indenture from a variety of sources. on january 26, 1661 charles ii issued the royal warrant that created the genesis of what would become the british army, although the scottish and english armies would remain two separate organizations until the unification of england and scotland in 1707. the small force was represented by only a few regiments. after the american revolutionary war the continental army was quickly disbanded as part of the americans ' distrust of standing armies, and irregular state militias became the sole ground army of the united states, with the exception of one battery of artillery guarding west point ' s arsenal. then first american regiment was established in 1784. however, because of continuing conflict with native americans, it was soon realized that it was necessary to field a trained standing army. the first of these, the legion of the united states, was established in 1791. until 1733 the common soldiers of prussian army consisted largely of peasantry recruited or impressed from brandenburg – prussia, leading many to flee to neighboring countries. to halt