tube. the camera had two lenses, a very wide - angle ( 160° ) lens, and a telephoto ( 9° ) lens. during this first broadcast, the crew gave a tour of the spacecraft and attempted to show how the earth appeared from space. however, difficulties aiming the narrow - angle lens without the aid of a monitor to show what it was looking at made showing the earth impossible. additionally, without proper filters, the earth image became saturated by any bright source. in the end, all the crew could show the people watching back on earth was a bright blob. after broadcasting for 17 minutes, the rotation of the spacecraft took the high - gain antenna out of view of the receiving stations on earth and they ended the transmission with lovell wishing his mother a happy birthday. by this time, the crew had completely abandoned the planned sleep shifts. lovell went to sleep hours into the flight – three - and - a - half hours before he had planned to. a short while later, anders also went to sleep after taking a sleeping pill. the crew was unable to see the moon for much of the outward cruise. two factors made the moon almost impossible to see from inside the spacecraft : three of the five windows fogging up due to out - gassed oils from the silicone sealant, and the attitude required for passive thermal control. it was not until the crew had gone behind the moon that they would be able to see it for the first time. apollo 8 made a second television broadcast at 55 hours into the flight. this time, the crew rigged up filters meant for the still cameras so they could acquire images of the earth through the telephoto lens. although difficult to aim, as they had to maneuver the entire spacecraft, the crew was able to broadcast back to earth the first television pictures of the earth. the crew spent the transmission describing the earth, what was visible, and the colors they could see. the transmission lasted 23 minutes. lunar sphere of influence at about 55 hours and 40 minutes into the flight, and 13 hours before entering lunar orbit, the crew of apollo8 became the first humans to enter the gravitational sphere of influence of another celestial body. in other words, the effect of the moon ' s gravitational force on apollo8 became stronger than that of the earth. at the time it happened, apollo8 was from the moon and had a speed of relative to the moon. this historic moment was of little interest to the crew, since they were still calculating their trajectory with respect to the