. the physiocrats, along with the ideas of john locke and the romantic era, formed the basis of modern european and american agrarianism. types of agrarianism physiocracy jeffersonian democracy the united states president thomas jefferson was an agrarian who based his ideas about the budding american democracy around the notion that farmers are " the most valuable citizens " and the truest republicans. jefferson and his support base were committed to american republicanism, which they saw as being in opposition to aristocracy and corruption, and which prioritized virtue, exemplified by the " yeoman farmer ", " planters ", and the " plain folk ". in praising the rural farmfolk, the jeffersonians felt that financiers, bankers and industrialists created " cesspools of corruption " in the cities and should thus be avoided. the jeffersonians sought to align the american economy more with agriculture than industry. part of their motive to do so was jefferson ' s fear that the over - industrialization of america would create a class of wage slaves who relied on their employers for income and sustenance. in turn, these workers would cease to be independent voters as their vote could be manipulated by said employers. to counter this, jefferson introduced, as scholar clay jenkinson noted, " a graduated income tax that would serve as a disincentive to vast accumulations of wealth and would make funds available for some sort of benign redistribution downward " and tariffs on imported articles, which were mainly purchased by the wealthy. in 1811, jefferson, writing to a friend, explained : " these revenues will be levied entirely on the rich.... the rich alone use imported articles, and on these alone the whole taxes of the general government are levied. the poor man... pays not a farthing of tax to the general government, but on his salt. " there is general agreement that the substantial united states ' federal policy of offering land grants ( such as thousands of gifts of land to veterans ) had a positive impact on economic development in the 19th century. agrarian socialism agrarian socialism is a form of agrarianism that is anti - capitalist in nature and seeks to introduce socialist economic systems in their stead. zapatismo notable agrarian socialists include emiliano zapata who was a leading figure in the mexican revolution. as part of the liberation army of the south, his group of revolutionaries fought on behalf of the mexican peasants, whom they saw as exploited by the landowning classes. zapata published plan of ayala,