treated like a quarry, as the stones that made up the abbey were then re - used in local architecture. the stone graves housing alfred and his family stayed underground, and the land returned to farming. these graves remained intact until 1788 when the site was acquired by the county for the construction of a town jail. before construction began, convicts that would later be imprisoned at the site were sent in to prepare the ground, to ready it for building. while digging the foundation trenches, the convicts discovered the coffins of alfred and his family. the local catholic priest, dr. milner recounts this event : the convicts broke the stone coffins into pieces, the lead, which lined the coffins, was sold for two guineas, and the bones within scattered around the area. the prison was demolished between 1846 and 1850. further excavations were inconclusive in 1866 and 1897. in 1866, amateur antiquarian john mellor claimed to have recovered a number of bones from the site which he said were those of alfred. these came into the possession of the vicar of nearby st bartholomew ' s church who reburied them in an unmarked grave in the church graveyard. excavations conducted by the winchester museums service of the hyde abbey site in 1999 located a second pit dug in front of where the high altar would have been located, which was identified as probably dating to mellor ' s 1866 excavation. the 1999 archeological excavation uncovered the foundations of the abbey buildings and some bones, suggested at the time to be those of alfred ; they proved instead to belong to an elderly woman. in march 2013, the diocese of winchester exhumed the bones from the unmarked grave at st bartholomew ' s and placed them in secure storage. the diocese made no claim that they were the bones of alfred, but intended to secure them for later analysis, and from the attentions of people whose interest may have been sparked by the recent identification of the remains of richard iii. the bones were radiocarbon - dated but the results showed that they were from the 1300s and therefore not of alfred. in january 2014, a fragment of pelvis that had been unearthed in the 1999 excavation of the hyde site, and had subsequently lain in a winchester museum store room, was radiocarbon - dated to the correct period. it has been suggested that this bone may belong to either alfred or his son edward, but this remains unproven. legacy henry vi of england attempted unsuccessfully to have alfred canonized by pope eugene iv in 1441. the current " roman martyrology " does not mention alfred. the