such as the swedes and franks to whom the anglo - saxons were closely related – to crown a successor as royal prince and military commander. viking invasion in 868, alfred was recorded as fighting beside æthelred in a failed attempt to keep the great heathen army led by ivar the boneless out of the adjoining kingdom of mercia. the danes arrived in his homeland at the end of 870, and nine engagements were fought in the following year, with mixed results ; the places and dates of two of these battles have not been recorded. a successful skirmish at the battle of englefield in berkshire on 31 december 870 was followed by a severe defeat at the siege and the battle of reading by ivar ' s brother halfdan ragnarsson on 5 january 871. four days later, the anglo - saxons won a victory at the battle of ashdown on the berkshire downs, possibly near compton or aldworth. the saxons were defeated at the battle of basing on 22 january. they were defeated again on 22 march at the battle of merton ( perhaps marden in wiltshire or martin in dorset ). æthelred died shortly afterwards in april. king at war early struggles in april 871 king æthelred died and alfred acceded to the throne of wessex and the burden of its defence, even though æthelred left two under - age sons, æthelhelm and æthelwold. this was in accordance with the agreement that æthelred and alfred had made earlier that year in an assembly at an unidentified place called swinbeorg. the brothers had agreed that whichever of them outlived the other would inherit the personal property that king æthelwulf had left jointly to his sons in his will. the deceased ' s sons would receive only whatever property and riches their father had settled upon them and whatever additional lands their uncle had acquired. the unstated premise was that the surviving brother would be king. given the danish invasion and the youth of his nephews, alfred ' s accession probably went uncontested. while he was busy with the burial ceremonies for his brother, the danes defeated the saxon army in his absence at an unnamed spot and then again in his presence at wilton in may. the defeat at wilton smashed any remaining hope that alfred could drive the invaders from his kingdom. alfred was forced instead to make peace with them. although the terms of the peace are not recorded, bishop asser wrote that the pagans agreed to vacate the realm and made