) in more desirable local timeslots. the ceremony was broadcast live internationally for the first time via satellite since 1970, but only two south american countries, chile and brazil, purchased the rights to air the broadcast. by that time, the television rights to the academy awards had been sold in 50 countries. a decade later, the rights were already being sold to 60 countries, and by 1984, the tv rights to the awards were licensed in 76 countries. the ceremonies were moved up from late march / early april to late february, since 2004, to help disrupt and shorten the intense lobbying and ad campaigns associated with oscar season in the film industry. another reason was because of the growing tv ratings success coinciding with the ncaa basketball tournament, which would cut into the academy awards audience. ( in 1976 and 1977, abc ' s regained oscars were moved from tuesday to monday and went directly opposite nbc ' s ncaa title game. ) the earlier date is also to the advantage of abc, as it now usually occurs during the highly profitable and important february sweeps period. some years, the ceremony is moved into the first sunday of march to avoid a clash with the winter olympic games. another reason for the move to late february and early march is also to avoid the awards ceremony occurring so close to the religious holidays of passover and easter, which for decades had been a grievance from members and the general public. advertising is somewhat restricted, however, as traditionally no movie studios or competitors of official academy award sponsors may advertise during the telecast. the production of the academy awards telecast currently holds the distinction of winning the most emmys in history, with 47 wins and 195 nominations overall since that award ' s own launch in 1949. after many years of being held on mondays at 9 : 00 pm eastern / 6 : 00 p. m pacific, since the 1999 ceremonies, it was moved to sundays at 8 : 30 pm et / 5 : 30 pm pt. the reasons given for the move were that more viewers would tune in on sundays, that los angeles rush - hour traffic jams could be avoided, and an earlier start time would allow viewers on the east coast to go to bed earlier. for many years the film industry opposed a sunday broadcast because it would cut into the weekend box office. in 2010, the academy contemplated moving the ceremony even further back into january, citing tv viewers ' fatigue with the film industry ' s long awards season. however, such an accelerated schedule would dramatically decrease the voting period for its members, to the point where some