includes the myelin sheath. the nissl bodies that produce the neuronal proteins are absent in the axonal region. proteins needed for the growth of the axon, and the removal of waste materials, need a framework for transport. this axonal transport is provided for in the axoplasm by arrangements of microtubules and intermediate filaments known as neurofilaments. axon hillock the axon hillock is the area formed from the cell body of the neuron as it extends to become the axon. it precedes the initial segment. the received action potentials that are summed in the neuron are transmitted to the axon hillock for the generation of an action potential from the initial segment. axonal initial segment the axonal initial segment ( ais ) is a structurally and functionally separate microdomain of the axon. one function of the initial segment is to separate the main part of an axon from the rest of the neuron ; another function is to help initiate action potentials. both of these functions support neuron cell polarity, in which dendrites ( and, in some cases the soma ) of a neuron receive input signals at the basal region, and at the apical region the neuron ' s axon provides output signals. the axon initial segment is unmyelinated and contains a specialized complex of proteins. it is between approximately 20 and 60 µm in length and functions as the site of action potential initiation. both the position on the axon and the length of the ais can change showing a degree of plasticity that can fine - tune the neuronal output. a longer ais is associated with a greater excitability. plasticity is also seen in the ability of the ais to change its distribution and to maintain the activity of neural circuitry at a constant level. the ais is highly specialized for the fast conduction of nerve impulses. this is achieved by a high concentration of voltage - gated sodium channels in the initial segment where the action potential is initiated. the ion channels are accompanied by a high number of cell adhesion molecules and scaffold proteins that anchor them to the cytoskeleton. interactions with ankyrin - g are important as it is the major organizer in the ais. axonal transport the axoplasm is the equivalent of cytoplasm in the cell. microtubules form in the axoplasm at the axon hillock. they