well as empire - building via the delian league. originally intended as an association of greek city - states to continue the fight against the persians, the league soon turned into a vehicle for athens ' s own imperial ambitions. the resulting tensions brought about the peloponnesian war ( 431 – 404 bc ), in which athens was defeated by its rival sparta. by the mid - 4th century bc, the northern greek kingdom of macedon was becoming dominant in athenian affairs. in 338 bc the armies of philip ii defeated an alliance of some of the greek city - states including athens and thebes at the battle of chaeronea. later, under rome, athens was given the status of a free city because of its widely admired schools. in the second century ad, the roman emperor hadrian, himself an athenian citizen, ordered the construction of a library, a gymnasium, an aqueduct which is still in use, several temples and sanctuaries, a bridge and financed the completion of the temple of olympian zeus. in the early 4th century ad, the eastern roman empire began to be governed from constantinople, and with the construction and expansion of the imperial city, many of athens ' s works of art were taken by the emperors to adorn it. the empire became christianized, and the use of latin declined in favour of exclusive use of greek ; in the roman imperial period, both languages had been used. in the later roman period, athens was ruled by the emperors continuing until the 13th century, its citizens identifying themselves as citizens of the roman empire ( " rhomaioi " ). the conversion of the empire from paganism to christianity greatly affected athens, resulting in reduced reverence for the city. ancient monuments such as the parthenon, erechtheion and the hephaisteion ( theseion ) were converted into churches. as the empire became increasingly anti - pagan, athens became a provincial town and experienced fluctuating fortunes. the city remained an important center of learning, especially of neoplatonism — with notable pupils including gregory of nazianzus, basil of caesarea and emperor julian ( ) — and consequently a center of paganism. christian items do not appear in the archaeological record until the early 5th century. the sack of the city by the herules in 267 and by the visigoths under their king alaric i ( ) in 396, however, dealt a heavy blow to the city ' s fabric and fortunes, and athens was henceforth confined to a small fortified area that embraced a fraction of the