weighted and fluid - attenuated inversion recovery ( flair ) white matter hyperintensities with areas of hemorrhages, significant edema, and mass effect. treatment no controlled clinical trials have been conducted on adem treatment, but aggressive treatment aimed at rapidly reducing inflammation of the cns is standard. the widely accepted first - line treatment is high doses of intravenous corticosteroids, such as methylprednisolone or dexamethasone, followed by 3 – 6 weeks of gradually lower oral doses of prednisolone. patients treated with methylprednisolone have shown better outcomes than those treated with dexamethasone. oral tapers of less than three weeks duration show a higher chance of relapsing, and tend to show poorer outcomes. other anti - inflammatory and immunosuppressive therapies have been reported to show beneficial effect, such as plasmapheresis, high doses of intravenous immunoglobulin ( ivig ), mitoxantrone and cyclophosphamide. these are considered alternative therapies, used when corticosteroids cannot be used or fail to show an effect. there is some evidence to suggest that patients may respond to a combination of methylprednisolone and immunoglobulins if they fail to respond to either separately in a study of 16 children with adem, 10 recovered completely after high - dose methylprednisolone, one severe case that failed to respond to steroids recovered completely after iv ig ; the five most severe cases – with adam and severe peripheral neuropathy – were treated with combined high - dose methylprednisolone and immunoglobulin, two remained paraplegic, one had motor and cognitive handicaps, and two recovered. a recent review of ivig treatment of adem ( of which the previous study formed the bulk of the cases ) found that 70 % of children showed complete recovery after treatment with ivig, or ivig plus corticosteroids. a study of ivig treatment in adults with adem showed that ivig seems more effective in treating sensory and motor disturbances, while steroids seem more effective in treating impairments of cognition, consciousness and rigor. this same study found one subject, a 71 - year - old man who had not responded to steroids, that responded to an ivig treatment 58 days after disease onset. prognosis full recovery is seen in 50 to 70