producing the quintessence ( or aether ), an elixir which was believed to be able to heal all sicknesses, defend against diseases, and perpetuate youthfulness. she also wrote about creating the illustrious philosophers ' stone. due to the proliferation in alchemical literature of pseudepigrapha and anonymous works, it is difficult to know which of the alchemists were actually women. as the sixteenth century went on, scientific culture flourished and people began collecting " secrets ". during this period " secrets " referred to experiments, and the most coveted ones were not those which were bizarre, but the ones which had been proven to yield the desired outcome. some women known for their interest in alchemy were catherine de ' medici, the queen of france, and marie de ' medici, the following queen of france, who carried out experiments in her personal laboratory. also, isabella d ' este, the marchioness of mantua, made perfumes herself to serve as gifts. in this period, the only book of secrets ascribed to a woman was ( ' the secrets of signora isabella cortese ' ). this book contained information on how to turn base metals into gold, medicine, and cosmetics. however, it is rumored that a man, girolamo ruscelli, was the real author and only used a female voice to attract female readers. this contributed to a bigger problem in which male authors would credit prominent noblewomen for beauty products with the purpose of appealing to a female audience. for example, in ( " gallant recipe - book " ), the distillation of lemons and roses was attributed to elisabetta gonzaga, the duchess of urbino. in the same book, isabella d ' aragona, the daughter of alfonso ii of naples, is accredited for recipes involving alum and mercury. ippolita maria sforza is even referred to in an anonymous manuscript about a hand lotion created with rose powder and crushed bones. mary anne atwood ' s a suggestive inquiry into the hermetic mystery ( 1850 ) marks the return of women during the nineteenth - century occult revival. modern historical research the history of alchemy has become a significant and recognized subject of academic study. as the language of the alchemists is analyzed, historians are becoming more aware of the intellectual connections between that discipline and other facets of western cultural history, such as the evolution of science and philosophy, the sociology and psychology of the intellectual communities, kabbalism, spiritualism, rosic