of zaanstad and wormerland. it excludes graft - de rijp. the smallest of these areas is the municipality of amsterdam with a population of about 870, 000 in 2021. the larger conurbation had a population of over one million. it includes the municipalities of zaanstad, wormerland, oostzaan, diemen and amstelveen only, as well as the municipality of amsterdam. greater amsterdam includes 15 municipalities, and had a population of 1, 400, 000 in 2021. though much larger in area, the population of this area is only slightly larger, because the definition excludes the relatively populous municipality of zaanstad. the largest area by population, the amsterdam metropolitan area ( dutch : metropoolregio amsterdam ), has a population of 2, 33 million. it includes for instance zaanstad, wormerland, muiden, abcoude, haarlem, almere and lelystad but excludes graft - de rijp. amsterdam is part of the conglomerate metropolitan area randstad, with a total population of 6, 659, 300 inhabitants. of these various metropolitan area configurations, only the stadsregio amsterdam ( city region of amsterdam ) has a formal governmental status. its responsibilities include regional spatial planning and the metropolitan public transport concessions. national capital under the dutch constitution, amsterdam is the capital of the netherlands. since the 1983 constitutional revision, the constitution mentions " amsterdam " and " capital " in chapter 2, article 32 : the king ' s confirmation by oath and his coronation take place in " the capital amsterdam " ( " de hoofdstad amsterdam " ). previous versions of the constitution only mentioned " the city of amsterdam " ( " de stad amsterdam " ). for a royal investiture, therefore, the states general of the netherlands ( the dutch parliament ) meets for a ceremonial joint session in amsterdam. the ceremony traditionally takes place at the nieuwe kerk on dam square, immediately after the former monarch has signed the act of abdication at the nearby royal palace of amsterdam. normally, however, the parliament sits in the hague, the city which has historically been the seat of the dutch government, the dutch monarchy, and the dutch supreme court. foreign embassies are also located in the hague. symbols the coat of arms of amsterdam is composed of several historical elements. first and centre are three st andrew ' s crosses, aligned in a vertical band on the city ' s shield ( although amsterdam ' s patron saint was