2010 european women ' s handball championship, the 2014 european men ' s handball championship, the 2013 men ' s european volleyball championships, the 2005 european table tennis championships, the denmark open in badminton, the uci women ' s road cycling world cup, the 2006 world orienteering championships, the 2006 world artistic gymnastics championships and the gf world cup ( women ' s handball ). on average, aarhus is hosting one or two international sailing competitions every year. in 2008, the city hosted the isaf youth sailing world championships and in 2018 it was host to the isaf sailing world championships, the world championship for the 12 olympic sailing disciplines. aarhus is an important qualifier for the 2020 olympics. education aarhus is the principal centre for education in the jutland region. it draws students from a large area, especially from the western and southern parts of the peninsula. the relatively large influx of young people and students creates a natural base for cultural activities. aarhus has the greatest concentration of students in denmark, fully 12 % of citizens attending short, medium or long courses of study. in addition to around 25 institutions of higher education, several research forums have evolved to assist in the transfer of expertise from education to business. the city is home to more than 52, 000 students. since 2012, aarhus university ( au ) has been the largest university in denmark by number of students enrolled. it is ranked among the top 100 universities in the world by several of the most influential and respected rankings. the university has approximately 41, 500 bachelor and master students enrolled as well as about 1, 500 phd students. it is possible to engage in higher academic studies in many areas, from the traditional spheres of natural science, humanities and theology to more vocational academic areas like engineering and dentistry. aarhus tech is one of the largest technical colleges in denmark, teaching undergraduate study programmes in english, including vocational education and training ( vet ), continuing vocational training ( cvt ), and human resource development. business academy aarhus is among the largest business academies in denmark and offers undergraduate and some academic degrees, in it, business and technical fields. the academic level technical aspects are covered in a collaboration with aarhus tech, aarhus school of marine and technical engineering and aarhus educational centre for agriculture. the danish school of media and journalism ( dmjx ) is the oldest and largest of the colleges, offering journalism courses since 1946, with approximately 1, 700 students as of 2014. dmjx has been an independent institution since 1974, conducting research and teaching at undergraduate level, and in 2004, master ' s courses in