sm ) supported the command module, with a service propulsion engine and an rcs with propellants, and a fuel cell power generation system with liquid hydrogen and liquid oxygen reactants. a high - gain s - band antenna was used for long - distance communications on the lunar flights. on the extended lunar missions, an orbital scientific instrument package was carried. the service module was discarded just before reentry. the module was long and in diameter. the initial lunar flight version weighed approximately fully fueled, while a later version designed to carry a lunar orbit scientific instrument package weighed just over. north american aviation won the contract to build the csm, and also the second stage of the saturn v launch vehicle for nasa. because the csm design was started early before the selection of lunar orbit rendezvous, the service propulsion engine was sized to lift the csm off the moon, and thus was oversized to about twice the thrust required for translunar flight. also, there was no provision for docking with the lunar module. a 1964 program definition study concluded that the initial design should be continued as block i which would be used for early testing, while block ii, the actual lunar spacecraft, would incorporate the docking equipment and take advantage of the lessons learned in block i development. apollo lunar module the apollo lunar module ( lm ) was designed to descend from lunar orbit to land two astronauts on the moon and take them back to orbit to rendezvous with the command module. not designed to fly through the earth ' s atmosphere or return to earth, its fuselage was designed totally without aerodynamic considerations and was of an extremely lightweight construction. it consisted of separate descent and ascent stages, each with its own engine. the descent stage contained storage for the descent propellant, surface stay consumables, and surface exploration equipment. the ascent stage contained the crew cabin, ascent propellant, and a reaction control system. the initial lm model weighed approximately, and allowed surface stays up to around 34 hours. an extended lunar module weighed over, and allowed surface stays of more than three days. the contract for design and construction of the lunar module was awarded to grumman aircraft engineering corporation, and the project was overseen by thomas j. kelly. launch vehicles before the apollo program began, wernher von braun and his team of rocket engineers had started work on plans for very large launch vehicles, the saturn series, and the even larger nova series. in the midst of these plans, von braun was transferred from the army to nasa and was made director of the marshall space flight center.