month for the orchestra and to rehearse with them at least five times when in venice. the orphanage ' s records show that he was paid for 140 concerti between 1723 and 1733. opera impresario in early 18th - century venice, opera was the most popular musical entertainment. it proved most profitable for vivaldi. there were several theaters competing for the public ' s attention. vivaldi started his career as an opera composer as a sideline : his first opera, ottone in villa ( rv 729 ) was performed not in venice, but at the garzerie theater in vicenza in 1713. the following year, vivaldi became the impresario of the teatro san angelo in venice, where his opera orlando finto pazzo ( rv 727 ) was performed. the work was not to the public ' s taste, and it closed after a couple of weeks, being replaced with a repeat of a different work already given the previous year. in 1715, he presented nerone fatto cesare ( rv 724, now lost ), with music by seven different composers, of which he was the leader. the opera contained eleven arias and was a success. in the late season, vivaldi planned to put on an opera entirely of his own creation, arsilda, regina di ponto ( rv 700 ), but the state censor blocked the performance. the main character, arsilda, falls in love with another woman, lisea, who is pretending to be a man. vivaldi got the censor to accept the opera the following year, and it was a resounding success. during this period, the pieta commissioned several liturgical works. the most important were two oratorios. moyses deus pharaonis, ( rv 643 ) is now lost. the second, juditha triumphans ( rv 644 ), celebrates the victory of the republic of venice against the turks and the recapture of the island of corfu. composed in 1716, it is one of his sacred masterpieces. all eleven singing parts were performed by girls of the orphanage, both the female and male roles. many of the arias include parts for solo instruments — recorders, oboes, violas d ' amore, and mandolins — that showcased the range of talents of the girls. also in 1716, vivaldi wrote and produced two more operas, l ' incoronazione di dario ( rv 719 ) and la costanza trionfante degli amori