nonempty sets is nonempty. in other words, every family of nonempty sets has a choice function ( i. e. a function which maps each of the nonempty sets to one of its elements ). konig ' s theorem : colloquially, the sum of a sequence of cardinals is strictly less than the product of a sequence of larger cardinals. ( the reason for the term " colloquially " is that the sum or product of a " sequence " of cardinals cannot itself be defined without some aspect of the axiom of choice. ) well - ordering theorem : every set can be well - ordered. consequently, every cardinal has an initial ordinal. every element of a partially ordered set s is the minimal element of a well - ordered subset having no strict upper bound in s. zorn ' s lemma : every non - empty partially ordered set in which every chain ( i. e., totally ordered subset ) has an upper bound contains at least one maximal element. hausdorff maximal principle : every partially ordered set has a maximal chain. equivalently, in any partially ordered set, every chain can be extended to a maximal chain. tukey ' s lemma : every non - empty collection of finite character has a maximal element with respect to inclusion. antichain principle : every partially ordered set has a maximal antichain. equivalently, in any partially ordered set, every antichain can be extended to a maximal antichain. abstract algebra every vector space has a basis ( i. e., a linearly independent spanning subset ). in other words, vector spaces are equivalent to free modules. krull ' s theorem : every unital ring ( other than the trivial ring ) contains a maximal ideal. equivalently, in any nontrivial unital ring, every ideal can be extended to a maximal ideal. for every non - empty set s there is a binary operation defined on s that gives it a group structure. ( a cancellative binary operation is enough, see group structure and the axiom of choice. ) every free abelian group is projective. baer ' s criterion : every divisible abelian group is injective. every set is a projective object in the category set of sets. functional analysis the closed unit ball of the dual of a normed vector space over the reals has an extreme point. point - set topology the cartesian product of any family of connected topological spaces is connected. tychonoff ' s theorem : the cartesian product of