of stone. a second row of columns were added, obtaining the effect of an inner porch. selinus ( sicily ) : the doric temple c dates from 550 bc, and it was probably dedicated to apollo. the temple ' s stylobate measures 10. 48 x 41. 63 m and the number of pteron columns was 6 x 17. there was a portico with a second row of columns, which is also attested for the temple at syracuse. delphi : the first temple dedicated to apollo, was built in the 7th century bc. according to the legend, it was wooden made of laurel branches. the " temple of alcmeonidae " was built in and it is the oldest doric temple with significant marble elements. the temple ' s stylobate measures 21. 65 x 58. 00 m, and the number of pteron columns as 6 x 15. a fest similar with apollo ' s fest at thebes, greece was celebrated every nine years. a boy was sent to the temple, who walked on the sacred road and returned carrying a laurel branch ( dopnephoros ). the maidens participated with joyful songs. chios : an ionic temple of apollo phanaios was built at the end of the 6th century bc. only some small parts have been found and the capitals had floral ornament. abae ( phocis ). the temple was destroyed by the persians in the invasion of xerxes in 480 bc, and later by the boeotians. it was rebuilt by hadrian. the oracle was in use from early mycenaean times to the roman period, and shows the continuity of mycenaean and classical greek religion. bassae ( peloponnesus ) : a temple dedicated to apollo epikourios ( " apollo the helper " ), was built in 430 bc, designed by iktinos. it combined doric and ionic elements, and the earliest use of a column with a corinthian capital in the middle. the temple is of a relatively modest size, with the stylobate measuring 14. 5 x 38. 3 metres containing a doric peristyle of 6 x 15 columns. the roof left a central space open to admit light and air. delos : a temple probably dedicated to apollo and not peripteral, was built in the late 7th century bc, with a plan measuring 10, 00 x 15, 60 m. the doric great temple of apollo, was built