algorithm designed to be carried out by a machine. other historians reject this perspective and point out that babbage ' s personal notes from the years 1836 / 1837 contain the first programs for the engine. she also developed a vision of the capability of computers to go beyond mere calculating or number - crunching, while many others, including babbage himself, focused only on those capabilities. her mindset of " poetical science " led her to ask questions about the analytical engine ( as shown in her notes ) examining how individuals and society relate to technology as a collaborative tool. biography childhood lord byron expected his child to be a " glorious boy " and was disappointed when lady byron gave birth to a girl. the child was named after byron ' s half - sister, augusta leigh, and was called " ada " by byron himself. on 16 january 1816, at lord byron ' s command, lady byron left for her parents ' home at kirkby mallory, taking their five - week - old daughter with her. although english law at the time granted full custody of children to the father in cases of separation, lord byron made no attempt to claim his parental rights, but did request that his sister keep him informed of ada ' s welfare. on 21 april, lord byron signed the deed of separation, although very reluctantly, and left england for good a few days later. aside from an acrimonious separation, lady byron continued throughout her life to make allegations about her husband ' s immoral behaviour. this set of events made lovelace infamous in victorian society. ada did not have a relationship with her father. he died in 1824 when she was eight years old. her mother was the only significant parental figure in her life. lovelace was not shown the family portrait of her father until her 20th birthday. lovelace did not have a close relationship with her mother. she was often left in the care of her maternal grandmother judith, hon. lady milbanke, who doted on her. however, because of societal attitudes of the time — which favoured the husband in any separation, with the welfare of any child acting as mitigation — lady byron had to present herself as a loving mother to the rest of society. this included writing anxious letters to lady milbanke about her daughter ' s welfare, with a cover note saying to retain the letters in case she had to use them to show maternal concern. in one letter to lady milbanke, she referred to her daughter as " it " : " i talk to it for your satisfaction, not