( 40 ) ; england have won 32 and retained once ( 33 ). 1882 origins the first test match between england and australia was played in melbourne, australia, in 1877, though the ashes legend started later, after the ninth test, played in 1882. on their tour of england that year the australians played just one test, at the oval in london. it was a low - scoring affair on a difficult wicket. australia made a mere 63 runs in their first innings, and england, led by a. n. hornby, took a 38 - run lead with a total of 101. in their second innings, australia, boosted by a spectacular 55 runs off 60 deliveries from hugh massie, managed 122, which left england only 85 runs to win. the australians were greatly demoralised by the manner of their second - innings collapse, but fast bowler fred spofforth, spurred on by the gamesmanship of his opponents, in particular w. g. grace, refused to give in. " this thing can be done, " he declared. spofforth went on to devastate the english batting, taking his final four wickets for only two runs to leave england just eight runs short of victory. when ted peate, england ' s last batsman, came to the crease, his side needed just ten runs to win, but peate managed only two before he was bowled by harry boyle. an astonished oval crowd fell silent, struggling to believe that england could possibly have lost on home soil. when it finally sank in, the crowd swarmed onto the field, cheering loudly and chairing boyle and spofforth to the pavilion. when peate returned to the pavilion he was reprimanded by his captain for not allowing his partner, charles studd ( one of the best batsmen in england, having already hit two centuries that season against the colonists ), to get the runs. peate humorously replied, " i had no confidence in mr studd, sir, so thought i had better do my best. " the momentous defeat was widely recorded in the british press, which praised the australians for their plentiful " pluck " and berated the englishmen for their lack thereof. a celebrated poem appeared in punch on saturday, 9 september. the first verse, quoted most frequently, reads : well done, cornstalks! whipt us fair and square, was it luck that tript us? was it scare? kangaroo land ' s ' demon ', or our own want of ' devil ',