ultimately failed, as it met with the resistance of most of the warriors, who were opposed to the king ' s assassination. as a result, the lombard garrison in ticinum proclaimed duke cleph the new king, and helmichis, rather than going to war against overwhelming odds, escaped to ravenna with longinus ' assistance, taking with him his wife, his troops, the royal treasure and alboin ' s daughter albsuinda. in ravenna the two lovers became estranged and killed each other. subsequently, longinus sent albsuinda and the treasure to constantinople. cleph kept the throne for only 18 months before being assassinated by a slave. possibly he too was killed at the instigation of the byzantines, who had every interest in avoiding a hostile and solid leadership among the lombards. an important success for the byzantines was that no king was proclaimed to succeed cleph, opening a decade of interregnum, thus making them more vulnerable to attacks from franks and byzantines. it was only when faced with the danger of annihilation by the franks in 584 that the dukes elected a new king in the person of authari, son of cleph, who began the definitive consolidation and centralization of the lombard kingdom while the remaining imperial territories were reorganized under the control of an exarch in ravenna with the capacity to defend the country without the emperor ' s assistance. the consolidation of byzantine and lombard dominions had long - lasting consequences for italy, as the region was from that moment on fragmented among multiple rulers until italian unification in 1871. cultural references alboin, together with other tribal leaders is mentioned in the 10th century old english poem called widsith ( lines 70 – 75 ) : the historical period also formed the basis of the 1961 italian adventure film sword of the conqueror ( italian : rosmunda e alboino, german title alboin, konig der langobarden ), with jack palance as alboin. there have been several artistic depictions of events from alboin ' s life including peter paul rubens ' alboin and rosamunde ( 1615 ) ; charles landseer ' s assassination of alboin, king of the lombards ( 1856 ) ; and fortunino matania ' s illustration rosamund captive before king alboin of the lombards ( 1942 ). see also list of kings of the lombards notes references amory, patrick. people and identity in ostrogothic