the more harmonious the sounds. for example, a string of a certain length would sound particularly harmonious with a string of twice the length ( other factors being equal ). in modern parlance, if a string sounds the note c when plucked, a string twice as long will sound a c an octave lower. in one system of musical tuning, the tones in between are then given by 16 : 9 for d, 8 : 5 for e, 3 : 2 for f, 4 : 3 for g, 6 : 5 for a, and 16 : 15 for b, in ascending order. aristotle ( 384 – 322 bc ) understood that sound consisted of compressions and rarefactions of air which " falls upon and strikes the air which is next to it... ", a very good expression of the nature of wave motion. on things heard, generally ascribed to strato of lampsacus, states that the pitch is related to the frequency of vibrations of the air and to the speed of sound. in about 20 bc, the roman architect and engineer vitruvius wrote a treatise on the acoustic properties of theaters including discussion of interference, echoes, and reverberation — the beginnings of architectural acoustics. in book v of his de architectura ( the ten books of architecture ) vitruvius describes sound as a wave comparable to a water wave extended to three dimensions, which, when interrupted by obstructions, would flow back and break up following waves. he described the ascending seats in ancient theaters as designed to prevent this deterioration of sound and also recommended bronze vessels of appropriate sizes be placed in theaters to resonate with the fourth, fifth and so on, up to the double octave, in order to resonate with the more desirable, harmonious notes. during the islamic golden age, abu rayhan al - biruni ( 973 - 1048 ) is believed to have postulated that the speed of sound was much slower than the speed of light. the physical understanding of acoustical processes advanced rapidly during and after the scientific revolution. mainly galileo galilei ( 1564 – 1642 ) but also marin mersenne ( 1588 – 1648 ), independently, discovered the complete laws of vibrating strings ( completing what pythagoras and pythagoreans had started 2000 years earlier ). galileo wrote " waves are produced by the vibrations of a sonorous body, which spread through the air, bringing to the tympanum of the ear a stimulus which the mind interprets as sound ",