. an element of the earlier myth made actaeon the familiar hunting companion of artemis, no stranger. in an embroidered extension of the myth, the hounds were so upset with their master ' s death, that chiron made a statue so lifelike that the hounds thought it was actaeon. there are various other versions of his transgression : the hesiodic catalogue of women and pseudo - apollodoran bibliotheke state that his offense was that he was a rival of zeus for semele, his mother ' s sister, whereas in euripides ' bacchae he has boasted that he is a better hunter than artemis : further materials, including fragments that belong with the hesiodic catalogue of women and at least four attic tragedies, including a toxotides of aeschylus, have been lost. diodorus siculus ( 4. 81. 4 ), in a variant of actaeon ' s hubris that has been largely ignored, has it that actaeon wanted to marry artemis. other authors say the hounds were artemis ' own ; some lost elaborations of the myth seem to have given them all names and narrated their wanderings after his loss. according to the latin version of the story told by the roman ovid having accidentally seen diana ( artemis ) on mount cithaeron while she was bathing, he was changed by her into a stag, and pursued and killed by his fifty hounds. this version also appears in callimachus ' fifth hymn, as a mythical parallel to the blinding of tiresias after he sees athena bathing. the literary testimony of actaeon ' s myth is largely lost, but lamar ronald lacy, deconstructing the myth elements in what survives and supplementing it by iconographic evidence in late vase - painting, made a plausible reconstruction of an ancient actaeon myth that greek poets may have inherited and subjected to expansion and dismemberment. his reconstruction opposes a too - pat consensus that has an archaic actaeon aspiring to semele, a classical actaeon boasting of his hunting prowess and a hellenistic actaeon glimpsing artemis ' bath. lacy identifies the site of actaeon ' s transgression as a spring sacred to artemis at plataea where actaeon was a hero archegetes ( " hero - founder " ) the righteous hunter, the companion of artemis, seeing her bathing naked in the spring, was moved to try to make himself her consort, as di