captain ' s favour and he appeared to regain his fluency of yesteryear, scoring 187. australia promptly seized the initiative, won the first test convincingly and inaugurated a dominant post - war era. the controversy over the ikin catch was one of the biggest disputes of the era. in 1948, australia set new standards, completely outplaying its hosts to win 4 – 0 with one draw. this australian team, led by bradman, who turned 40 during his final tour of england, has gone down in history as the invincibles. playing 34 matches on tour — three of which were not first - class — and including the five tests, they remained unbeaten, winning 27 and drawing 7. bradman ' s men were greeted by packed crowds across the country, and records for test attendances in england were set in the second and fourth tests at lord ' s and headingley respectively. before a record attendance of spectators at headingley, australia set a world record by chasing down 404 on the last day for a seven - wicket victory. the 1948 series ended with one of the most poignant moments in cricket history, as bradman played his final innings for australia in the fifth test at the oval, needing to score only four runs to end with a career batting average of exactly 100. however, bradman made a second - ball duck, bowled by an eric hollies googly that sent him into retirement with a career average of 99. 94. bradman was succeeded as australian captain by lindsay hassett, who led the team to a 4 – 1 series victory in 1950 – 51. the series was not as one - sided as the number of wins suggest, with several tight matches. the tide finally turned in 1953 when england won the final test at the oval to take the series 1 – 0, having narrowly avoided defeat in the preceding test at headingley. this was the beginning of one of the greatest periods in english cricket history with players such as captain len hutton, batsmen denis compton, peter may, tom graveney, colin cowdrey, bowlers fred trueman, brian statham, alec bedser, jim laker, tony lock, wicket - keeper godfrey evans and all - rounder trevor bailey. 1954 to 1971 in 1954 – 55, australia ' s batsmen had no answer to the pace of frank tyson and statham. after winning the first test by an innings after being controversially sent in by hutton, australia lost its way and england took a hat - trick of victories to win the series 3 –