pope, without thereby expressing a judgement on his legitimacy. the catholic encyclopedia places him in its list of popes, but with the annotation : " considered by some to be an antipope ". other sources classify him as an antipope. as celestine ii resigned before being consecrated and enthroned in order to avoid a schism, oxford ' s a dictionary of popes ( 2010 ) considers he "... is classified, unfairly, as an antipope, " a position historian salvador miranda also shares. those with asterisks ( * ) were counted in subsequent papal numbering. quasi - cardinal - nephews many antipopes created cardinals, known as quasi - cardinals, and a few created cardinal - nephews, known as quasi - cardinal - nephews. modern minor claimants antipopes still exist today, but all are minor claimants, without the support of any cardinal. examples include palmarians, apostles of infinite love antipopes, and an unknown number of many other sedevacantist claimants. antipope of alexandria as the patriarch of alexandria, egypt, has historically also held the title of pope, a person who, in opposition to someone who is generally accepted as a legitimate pope of alexandria, claims to hold that position may also be considered an antipope. coptic lector max michel became an antipope of alexandria, calling himself maximos i. his claim to the alexandrine papacy was dismissed by both the coptic orthodox pope shenouda iii and pope theodore ii of the greek orthodox church of alexandria. the coptic pope of alexandria and the greek pope of alexandria currently view one another, not as antipopes, but rather as successors to differing lines of apostolic succession that formed as a result of christological disputes in the fifth century. in fiction antipopes have appeared as fictional characters. these may be either in historical fiction, as fictional portraits of well - known historical antipopes or as purely imaginary antipopes. jean raspail ' s novel l ' anneau du pecheur ( the fisherman ' s ring ), and gerard bavoux ' s le porteur de lumiere ( the light - bringer ). the fictional synth - pop artist zladko vladcik claims to be " the anti - pope " in one of his songs. dan simmons ' s novels endymion and the rise of endymion feature a father paul dure who is the routinely murdered antipope teilhard