the grande ordonnance and the garrison force known as the petite ordonnance. early modern first nation states lacked the funds needed to maintain standing forces, so they tended to hire mercenaries to serve in their armies during wartime. such mercenaries typically formed at the ends of periods of conflict, when men - at - arms were no longer needed by their respective governments. the veteran soldiers thus looked for other forms of employment, often becoming mercenaries. free companies would often specialize in forms of combat that required longer periods of training that was not available in the form of a mobilized militia. as late as the 1650s, most troops were mercenaries. however, after the 17th century, most states invested in better disciplined and more politically reliable permanent troops. for a time mercenaries became important as trainers and administrators, but soon these tasks were also taken by the state. the massive size of these armies required a large supporting force of administrators. the newly centralized states were forced to set up vast organized bureaucracies to manage these armies, which some historians argue is the basis of the modern bureaucratic state. the combination of increased taxes and increased centralization of government functions caused a series of revolts across europe such as the fronde in france and the english civil war. in many countries, the resolution of this conflict was the rise of absolute monarchy. only in england and the netherlands did representative government evolve as an alternative. from the late 17th century, states learned how to finance wars through long term low interest loans from national banking institutions. the first state to master this process was the dutch republic. this transformation in the armies of europe had great social impact. the defense of the state now rested on the commoners, not on the aristocrats. however, aristocrats continued to monopolize the officer corps of almost all early modern armies, including their high command. moreover, popular revolts almost always failed unless they had the support and patronage of the noble or gentry classes. the new armies, because of their vast expense, were also dependent on taxation and the commercial classes who also began to demand a greater role in society. the great commercial powers of the dutch and english matched much larger states in military might. as any man could be quickly trained in the use of a musket, it became far easier to form massive armies. the inaccuracy of the weapons necessitated large groups of massed soldiers. this led to a rapid swelling of the size of armies. for the first time huge masses of the population could enter combat, rather than just the