in the countryside. the relocation of the youths was originally intended to be permanent, but by the end of the cultural revolution, the communist party relented and some of those who had the capacity to return to the cities were allowed to do so. in imitation of mao ' s policies, the khmer rouge of cambodia ( who were heavily funded and supported by the people ' s republic of china ) created their own version of the great leap forward which was known as " maha lout ploh ". with the great leap forward as its model, it had similarly disastrous effects, contributing to what is now known as the cambodian genocide. as a part of the maha lout ploh, the khmer rouge sought to create an entirely agrarian socialist society by forcibly relocating 100, 000 people to move from cambodia ' s cities into newly created communes. the khmer rouge leader, pol pot sought to " purify " the country by setting it back to " year zero ", freeing it from " corrupting influences ". besides trying to completely de - urbanize cambodia, ethnic minorities were slaughtered along with anyone else who was suspected of being a " reactionary " or a member of the " bourgeoisie ", to the point that wearing glasses was seen as grounds for execution. the killings were only brought to an end when cambodia was invaded by the neighboring socialist nation of vietnam, whose army toppled the khmer rouge. however, with cambodia ' s entire society and economy in disarray, including its agricultural sector, the country still plunged into renewed famine due to vast food shortages. however, as international journalists began to report on the situation and send images of it out to the world, a massive international response was provoked, leading to one of the most concentrated relief efforts of its time. notable agrarian parties peasant parties first appeared across eastern europe between 1860 and 1910, when commercialized agriculture and world market forces disrupted traditional rural society, and the railway and growing literacy facilitated the work of roving organizers. agrarian parties advocated land reforms to redistribute land on large estates among those who work it. they also wanted village cooperatives to keep the profit from crop sales in local hands and credit institutions to underwrite needed improvements. many peasant parties were also nationalist parties because peasants often worked their land for the benefit of landlords of different ethnicity. peasant parties rarely had any power before world war i but some became influential in the interwar era, especially in bulgaria and czechoslovakia. for a while, in the 1920s and the 1930s, there was a green international ( international agrarian bureau )