united states appellate procedure involves the rules and regulations for filing appeals in state courts and federal courts. the nature of an appeal can vary greatly depending on the type of case and the rules of the court in the jurisdiction where the case was prosecuted. there are many types of standard of review for appeals, such as de novo and abuse of discretion. however, most appeals begin when a party files a petition for review to a higher court for the purpose of overturning the lower court ' s decision. an appellate court is a court that hears cases on appeal from another court. depending on the particular legal rules that apply to each circumstance, a party to a court case who is unhappy with the result might be able to challenge that result in an appellate court on specific grounds. these grounds typically could include errors of law, fact, procedure or due process. in different jurisdictions, appellate courts are also called appeals courts, courts of appeals, superior courts, or supreme courts. the specific procedures for appealing, including even whether there is a right of appeal from a particular type of decision, can vary greatly from state to state. the right to file an appeal can also vary from state to state ; for example, the new jersey constitution vests judicial power in a supreme court, a superior court, and other courts of limited jurisdiction, with an appellate court being part of the superior court. access to appellant status a party who files an appeal is called an " appellant ", " plaintiff in error ", " petitioner " or " pursuer ", and a party on the other side is called an " appellee ", " defendant in error ", " respondent ". a " cross - appeal " is an appeal brought by the respondent. for example, suppose at trial the judge found for the plaintiff and ordered the defendant to pay $ 50, 000. if the defendant files an appeal arguing that he should not have to pay any money, then the plaintiff might file a cross - appeal arguing that the defendant should have to pay $ 200, 000 instead of $ 50, 000. the appellant is the party who, having lost part or all their claim in a lower court decision, is appealing to a higher court to have their case reconsidered. this is usually done on the basis that the lower court judge erred in the application of law, but it may also be possible to appeal on the basis of court misconduct, or that a finding of fact was entirely unreasonable to make on the evidence. the appellant in the new case