##ldred was probably born in the west of england, and could be related to lyfing, his predecessor as bishop of worcester. his family, from devonshire, may have been well - to - do. another relative was wilstan or wulfstan, who under ealdred ' s influence became abbot of gloucester. ealdred was a monk in the cathedral chapter at winchester cathedral before becoming abbot of tavistock abbey about 1027, an office he held until about 1043. even after leaving the abbacy of tavistock, he continued to hold two properties from the abbey until his death. no contemporary documents relating to ealdred ' s time as abbot have been discovered. ealdred was made bishop of worcester in 1046, a position he held until his resignation in 1062. he may have acted as suffragan, or subordinate bishop, to his predecessor lyfing before formally assuming the bishopric, as from about 1043 ealdred witnessed as an episcopus, or bishop, and a charter from 1045 or early 1046 names sihtric as abbot of tavistock. lyfing died on 26 march 1046, and ealdred became bishop of worcester shortly after. however, ealdred did not receive the other two dioceses lyfing had held, crediton and cornwall ; king edward the confessor ( reigned 1043 – 1066 ) granted these to leofric, who combined the two sees at crediton in 1050. bishop and royal advisor ealdred was an advisor to king edward the confessor, and was often involved in the royal government. he was also a military leader, and in 1046 he led an unsuccessful expedition against the welsh. this was in retaliation for a raid led by the welsh rulers gruffydd ap rhydderch, rhys ap rhydderch, and gruffydd ap llywelyn. ealdred ' s expedition was betrayed by some welsh soldiers who were serving with the english, and ealdred was defeated. in 1050, ealdred went to rome " on the king ' s errand ", apparently to secure papal approval to move the seat, or centre, of the bishopric of crediton to exeter. it may also have been to secure the release of the king from a vow to go on pilgrimage, if sources from after the norman conquest are to be believed. while in rome, he attended a papal council, along with his fellow english bishop herman. that same year