##buda cuisine is a term used to describe the culinary traditions of the islands of antigua and barbuda in the caribbean. fungie, pronounced " foon - jee ", and pepperpot are the country ' s official dish and dish of pride. cornmeal is the main ingredient in fungie, which is a dish that is very similar to the italian dish polenta. other popular dishes from this region include ducana, saltfish, seasoned rice, and lobster ( from barbuda ). in addition, there are sweets that are made locally, such as peanut brittle, sugar cake, fudge, raspberry and tamarind stew, and other similar dishes. despite the fact that these foods are native to antigua and barbuda as well as to a number of other caribbean nations, the diet of the locals has become increasingly diverse and now also includes traditional dishes from jamaica and trinidad, such as jerk meats and roti, as well as specialties from a number of other caribbean nations. saltfish, eggs, eggplant ( also referred to as troba ), lettuce, and other vegetables are typically served for breakfast. lunches typically consist of a starch, such as rice, macaroni, or pasta, with vegetables or salad, an entree ( such as fish, chicken, pork, or beef ), and a side dish, such as macaroni pie, scalloped potatoes, or plantains. dinners typically consist of a protein, such as fish, chicken, pork, or beef. on sundays, the majority of people in the country attend religious services, and then they return home to prepare a wide variety of meals for their families. due to the fact that most people are off work on sundays, dinner is typically served earlier in the day ( around 2 : 00 pm ). dinners might consist of pork, chicken baked in the oven, stewed lamb, or turkey, served with rice ( prepared in a variety of ways ), macaroni pie, salads, and a local beverage. dessert options include ice cream and cake, apple pie ( or mango or pineapple pie when those fruits are in season ), gelatin, and cake. the soft, buttery loaf of bread known as antiguan butter bread does not require any additional butter to be added once it has been baked. this dish is another mainstay of antiguan cuisine. breakfast and other meals throughout the day often consist of fresh - baked butter bread and cheese for the community