60 billion was invested into azerbaijan ' s oil by major international oil companies in aioc consortium operated by bp. oil production under the first of these psas, with the azerbaijan international operating company, began in november 1997 and now is about 500, 000 barrels per day. people visit petroleum spas ( or " oil spas " ) to bathe in the local crude in naftalan. a leading caviar producer and exporter in the past, azerbaijan ' s fishing industry today is concentrated on the dwindling stocks of sturgeon and beluga in the caspian sea. azerbaijan shares all the problems of the former soviet republics in making the transition from a command to a market economy, but its energy resources brighten its long - term prospects. azerbaijan has begun making progress on economic reform, and old economic ties and structures are slowly being replaced. an obstacle to economic progress, including stepped up foreign investment, is the continuing conflict with armenia over the nagorno - karabakh region. in 1992, azerbaijan became member of the economic cooperation organization. in 2002, the azerbaijani merchant marine had 54 ships. in march 2001, azerbaijan concluded a natural gas agreement with turkey, providing a future export market for azerbaijan. azerbaijan has concluded 21 production - sharing agreements with various oil companies. an export pipeline that transports caspian oil to the mediterranean from baku through tbilisi, georgia to ceyhan, turkey ( the baku - tbilisi - ceyhan pipeline ) became operational in 2006. the pipeline is expected to generate as much as $ 160 billion in revenues for the country over the next 30 years. the recent high price of oil is highly beneficial to azerbaijan ' s economy as the nation is in the midst of an oil boom. eastern caspian producers in kazakhstan also have expressed interest in accessing this pipeline to transport a portion of their production. in 2010, azerbaijan entered into the top eight biggest oil suppliers to eu countries with €9. 46 billion. in 2011, the amount of foreign investments in azerbaijan was $ 20 billion, a 61 % increase from 2010. according to minister of economic development of azerbaijan, shahin mustafayev, in 2011, " $ 15. 7 billion was invested in the non - oil sector, while the restin the oil sector ". in 2012, because of its economic performance after the soviet breakup, azerbaijan was predicted to become " tiger of caucasus ". in 2012, globalization and world cities research network study ranked baku as a gamma - level global city. in 2015, turkey and azerbaijan agreed to boost mutual trade to us $ 15 billion