democritus ' s claim that the milky way was made up of " those stars which are shaded by the earth from the sun ' s rays, " pointing out partly correctly that if " the size of the sun is greater than that of the earth and the distance of the stars from the earth many times greater than that of the sun, then... the sun shines on all the stars and the earth screens none of them. " he also wrote descriptions of comets, including the great comet of 371 bc. geology and natural sciences aristotle was one of the first people to record any geological observations. he stated that geological change was too slow to be observed in one person ' s lifetime. the geologist charles lyell noted that aristotle described such change, including " lakes that had dried up " and " deserts that had become watered by rivers ", giving as examples the growth of the nile delta since the time of homer, and " the upheaving of one of the aeolian islands, previous to a volcanic eruption. " ' aristotle also made many observations about the hydrologic cycle and meteorology ( including his major writings " meteorologica " ). for example, he made some of the earliest observations about desalination : he observed early – and correctly – that when seawater is heated, freshwater evaporates and that the oceans are then replenished by the cycle of rainfall and river runoff ( " i have proved by experiment that salt water evaporated forms fresh and the vapor does not when it condenses condense into sea water again. " ) biology empirical research aristotle was the first person to study biology systematically, and biology forms a large part of his writings. he spent two years observing and describing the zoology of lesbos and the surrounding seas, including in particular the pyrrha lagoon in the centre of lesbos. his data in history of animals, generation of animals, movement of animals, and parts of animals are assembled from his own observations, statements given by people with specialized knowledge such as beekeepers and fishermen, and less accurate accounts provided by travellers from overseas. his apparent emphasis on animals rather than plants is a historical accident : his works on botany have been lost, but two books on plants by his pupil theophrastus have survived. aristotle reports on the sea - life visible from observation on lesbos and the catches of fishermen. he describes the catfish, electric ray, and frogfish in detail, as well as cephalopods such as the octopus and paper nautilus