a phony psychic turned amateur sleuth in family plot ( 1976 ), his final film. in the same film, the diamond smuggler played by karen black wears a long blonde wig in several scenes. hitchcock ' s films often feature characters struggling in their relationships with their mothers, such as norman bates in psycho. in north by northwest, roger thornhill ( cary grant ) is an innocent man ridiculed by his mother for insisting that shadowy, murderous men are after him. in the birds, the rod taylor character, an innocent man, finds his world under attack by vicious birds, and struggles to free himself from a clinging mother ( jessica tandy ). the killer in frenzy has a loathing of women but idolises his mother. the villain bruno in strangers on a train hates his father, but has an incredibly close relationship with his mother ( played by marion lorne ). sebastian ( claude rains ) in notorious has a clearly conflicting relationship with his mother, who is ( rightly ) suspicious of his new bride, alicia huberman ( ingrid bergman ). relationship with actors hitchcock became known for having remarked that " actors should be treated like cattle ". during the filming of mr. & mrs. smith ( 1941 ), carole lombard brought three cows onto the set wearing the name tags of lombard, robert montgomery, and gene raymond, the stars of the film, to surprise him. in an episode of the dick cavett show, originally broadcast on 8 june 1972, dick cavett stated as fact that hitchcock had once called actors cattle. hitchcock responded by saying that, at one time, he had been accused of calling actors cattle. " i said that i would never say such an unfeeling, rude thing about actors at all. what i probably said, was that all actors should be treated like cattle... in a nice way of course. " he then described carole lombard ' s joke, with a smile. hitchcock believed that actors should concentrate on their performances and leave work on script and character to the directors and screenwriters. he told bryan forbes in 1967 : " i remember discussing with a method actor how he was taught and so forth. he said, ' we ' re taught using improvisation. we are given an idea and then we are turned loose to develop in any way we want to. ' i said, ' that ' s not acting. that ' s writing. ' " recalling their experiences on lifeboat for charles chandler, author of it ' s only a movie : alfred hitchcock a personal biography, walter sleza