the blue ridge mountains to greeneville, tennessee. andrew johnson fell in love with the town at first sight, and when he became prosperous purchased the land where he had first camped and planted a tree in commemoration. in greeneville, johnson established a successful tailoring business in the front of his home. in 1827, at the age of 18, he married 16 - year - old eliza mccardle, the daughter of a local shoemaker. the pair were married by justice of the peace mordecai lincoln, first cousin of thomas lincoln, whose son would become president. the johnsons were married for almost 50 years and had five children : martha ( 1828 ), charles ( 1830 ), mary ( 1832 ), robert ( 1834 ), and andrew jr. ( 1852 ). though she had tuberculosis, eliza supported her husband ' s endeavors. she taught him mathematics skills and tutored him to improve his writing. shy and retiring by nature, eliza johnson usually remained in greeneville during johnson ' s political rise. she was not often seen during her husband ' s presidency ; their daughter martha usually served as official hostess. johnson ' s tailoring business prospered during the early years of the marriage, enabling him to hire help and giving him the funds to invest profitably in real estate. he later boasted of his talents as a tailor, " my work never ripped or gave way ". he was a voracious reader. books about famous orators aroused his interest in political dialogue, and he had private debates on the issues of the day with customers who held opposing views. he also took part in debates at greeneville college. johnson ' s slaves in 1843, johnson purchased his first slave, dolly, who was 14 years old at the time. dolly had three children — liz, florence and william. soon after his purchase of dolly, he purchased dolly ' s half - brother sam. sam johnson and his wife margaret had nine children. sam became a commissioner of the freedmen ' s bureau and was known for being a proud man who negotiated the nature of his work with the johnson family. notably, he received some monetary compensation for his labors and negotiated with andrew johnson to receive a tract of land which andrew johnson gave him for free in 1867. in 1857, andrew johnson purchased henry, who was 13 at the time and would later accompany the johnson family to the white house. ultimately, johnson owned at least ten slaves. andrew johnson freed his slaves on august 8, 1863 ; they remained with him as paid servants. a year later