best actor and best supporting actor. on february 9, 2020, parasite became the first foreign - language film to win best picture at the award ceremony of 92nd academy awards. tom hanks announced, at the 2020 oscar ceremony, the opening of the academy museum of motion pictures on december 14, 2020. the museum development started in 2017 under kerry brougher, but is now led by bill kramer. the industry - curated exhibits are geared toward the history of motion pictures and the art & science of film making, exhibiting trailblazing directors, actors, film - makers, sound editors and more, and the museum houses famous artifacts from acclaimed movies such as dorothy ' s ruby red slippers from the wizard of oz. the 93rd academy awards ceremony, honoring the best films of 2020 and early 2021, was held on april 25, 2021, after it was postponed from its original february 28, 2021, schedule due to the impact of the covid - 19 pandemic on cinema. as with the two previous ceremonies, there was no host. the ceremony was broadcast on abc. it took place at the dolby theatre in los angeles, california for the 19th consecutive year, along with satellite location taking place at the union station also in los angeles. because of the virus impact on films and tv industries, academy president david rubin and ceo dawn hudson announced that for the 2021 oscar ceremony, streaming movies with a previously planned theatrical release were eligible. the theatrical requirement was reinstated starting with the 95th academy awards. oscar statuette academy award of merit the best known award is the academy award of merit, more popularly known as the oscar statuette. made of gold - plated bronze on a black metal base, it is 13. 5 in ( 34. 3 cm ) tall, weighs 8. 5 lb ( 3. 856 kg ), and depicts a knight rendered in art deco style holding a sword standing on a reel of film with five spokes. the five spokes represent the original branches of the academy : actors, writers, directors, producers, and technicians. sculptor george stanley ( who also did the muse fountain at the hollywood bowl ) sculpted cedric gibbons ' design. the statuettes presented at the initial ceremonies were gold - plated solid bronze. within a few years, the bronze was abandoned in favor of britannia metal, a pewter - like alloy which is then plated in copper, nickel silver, and finally, 24 - karat gold. due to a metal shortage during world war ii, oscars were made of painted plaster for three