with a partner younger than 14 also takes this form. similar maturity other countries state that the sexual conduct with the minor is not to be punished if the partners are of a similar age and development : for instance, the age of consent in finland is 16, but the law states that the act will not be punished if " there is no great difference in the ages or the mental and physical maturity of the persons involved ". in slovenia, the age of consent is 15, but the activity is only deemed criminal if there is " a marked discrepancy between the maturity of the perpetrator and that of the victim ". homosexual and heterosexual age discrepancies some jurisdictions, such as the bahamas, uk overseas territory of the cayman islands, chile, paraguay and suriname have a higher age of consent for same - sex sexual activity. however, such discrepancies are increasingly being challenged. within bermuda for example ( since 1 november 2019 under section 177 of the criminal code act 1907 ) the age of consent for vaginal and oral sex is 16, but for anal sex it is 18. in canada, the united kingdom and western australia, for example, the age of consent was formerly 21 for same - sex sexual activity between males ( with no laws regarding lesbian sexual activities ), while it was 16 for heterosexual sexual activity ; this is no longer the case and the age of consent for all sexual activity is 16. in june 2019, the canadian government repealed the section of the criminal code that set a higher age of consent for anal intercourse. gender - age differentials in some jurisdictions ( such as indonesia ), there are different ages of consent for heterosexual sexual activity that are based on the gender of each person. in countries where there are gender - age differentials, the age of consent may be higher for girls — for example in papua new guinea, where the age of consent for heterosexual sex is 16 for girls and 14 for boys, or they may be higher for males, such as in indonesia, where males must be 19 years old and females must be 16 years old. there are also numerous jurisdictions — such as kuwait and the palestinian territories — in which marriage laws govern the gender - age differential. in these jurisdictions, it is illegal to have sexual intercourse outside of marriage, so the de facto age of consent is the marriageable age. in kuwait, this means that boys must be at least 17 and girls at least 15 years old. position of authority / trust in most jurisdictions where the age of consent is below 18 ( such as england and wales