eastern tennessee remained in confederate hands, and the ebb and flow of war during 1862 sometimes brought confederate control again close to nashville. however, the confederates allowed his wife and family to pass through the lines to join him. johnson undertook the defense of nashville as well as he could, though the city was continually harassed by cavalry raids led by general nathan bedford forrest. relief from union regulars did not come until general william s. rosecrans defeated the confederates at murfreesboro in early 1863. much of eastern tennessee was captured later that year. when lincoln issued the emancipation proclamation in january 1863, declaring freedom for all slaves in confederate - held areas, he exempted tennessee at johnson ' s request. the proclamation increased the debate over what should become of the slaves after the war, as not all unionists supported abolition. johnson finally decided that slavery had to end. he wrote, " if the institution of slavery... seeks to overthrow it [ the government ], then the government has a clear right to destroy it ". he reluctantly supported efforts to enlist former slaves into the union army, feeling that african - americans should perform menial tasks to release white americans to do the fighting. nevertheless, he succeeded in recruiting 20, 000 black soldiers to serve the union. vice presidency ( 1865 ) in 1860, lincoln ' s running mate had been senator hannibal hamlin of maine. although hamlin had served competently, was in good health, and was willing to run again, johnson emerged as running mate for lincoln ' s reelection bid in 1864. lincoln considered several war democrats for the ticket in 1864, and sent an agent to sound out general benjamin butler as a possible running mate. in may 1864, the president dispatched general daniel sickles to nashville on a fact - finding mission. although sickles denied that he was there either to investigate or interview the military governor, johnson biographer hans l. trefousse believes that sickles ' s trip was connected to johnson ' s subsequent nomination for vice president. according to historian albert castel in his account of johnson ' s presidency, lincoln was impressed by johnson ' s administration of tennessee. gordon - reed points out that while the lincoln - hamlin ticket might have been considered geographically balanced in 1860, " having johnson, the southern war democrat, on the ticket sent the right message about the folly of secession and the continuing capacity for union within the country. " another factor was the desire of secretary of state william seward to frustrate the vice - presidential candidacy of fellow new yorker and former senator daniel s