did not take his pleasure from women, responded that the man devoted to war needs the companionship of men not women. church relations the king quarrelled with the church, and particularly the cistercians, almost as violently as with his wife. as he defeated her, so he drove archbishop bernard into exile and replaced the abbot of sahagun with his brother. he was finally compelled to give way in castile and leon to his stepson, alfonso vii of castile, son of urraca and her first husband. the intervention of pope calixtus ii brought about an arrangement between the old man and his young namesake. in 1122 in belchite, he founded a confraternity of knights to fight against the almoravids. it was the start of the military orders in aragon. years later, he organised a branch of the militia christi of the holy land at monreal del campo. military expansion alfonso spent his first four years as king in near - constant war with the muslims. in 1105, he conquered ejea and tauste and refortified castellar and juslibol. in 1106, he defeated ahmad ii al - musta ' in of zaragoza at valtierra. in 1107, he took tamarite de litera and san esteban de litera. then followed a period dominated by his relations with castile and leon through his wife, urraca. he resumed his conquests in 1117 with fitero, corella, cintruenigo, murchante, monteagudo, and cascante. in 1118, the council of toulouse declared a crusade to assist in the conquest of zaragoza. many frenchmen consequently joined alfonso at ayerbe. they took almudevar, gurrea de gallego, and zuera, besieging zaragoza itself by the end of may. the city fell on 18 december, and the forces of alfonso occupied the azuda, the government tower. the great palace of the city was given to the monks of bernard. promptly, the city was made alfonso ' s capital. two years later, in 1120, he defeated a muslim army intent on reconquering his new capital at the battle of cutanda. he promulgated the fuero of tortum per tortum, facilitating taking the law into one ' s own hands, which among others reassumed the muslim right to dwell in the city and their right to keep their properties and practice their religion under their own jurisdiction