prized the blue stone lapis lazuli, which had to be imported from far - away afghanistan. egypt ' s mediterranean trade partners also included greece and crete, which provided, among other goods, supplies of olive oil. language historical development the egyptian language is a northern afro - asiatic language closely related to the berber and semitic languages. it has the longest known history of any language having been written from c. 3200bc to the middle ages and remaining as a spoken language for longer. the phases of ancient egyptian are old egyptian, middle egyptian ( classical egyptian ), late egyptian, demotic and coptic. egyptian writings do not show dialect differences before coptic, but it was probably spoken in regional dialects around memphis and later thebes. ancient egyptian was a synthetic language, but it became more analytic later on. late egyptian developed prefixal definite and indefinite articles, which replaced the older inflectional suffixes. there was a change from the older verb – subject – object word order to subject – verb – object. the egyptian hieroglyphic, hieratic, and demotic scripts were eventually replaced by the more phonetic coptic alphabet. coptic is still used in the liturgy of the egyptian orthodox church, and traces of it are found in modern egyptian arabic. sounds and grammar ancient egyptian has 25 consonants similar to those of other afro - asiatic languages. these include pharyngeal and emphatic consonants, voiced and voiceless stops, voiceless fricatives and voiced and voiceless affricates. it has three long and three short vowels, which expanded in late egyptian to about nine. the basic word in egyptian, similar to semitic and berber, is a triliteral or biliteral root of consonants and semiconsonants. suffixes are added to form words. the verb conjugation corresponds to the person. for example, the triconsonantal skeleton is the semantic core of the word ' hear ' ; its basic conjugation is, ' he hears '. if the subject is a noun, suffixes are not added to the verb :, ' the woman hears '. adjectives are derived from nouns through a process that egyptologists call nisbation because of its similarity with arabic. the word order is in verbal and adjectival sentences, and in nominal and adverbial sentences. the subject can be moved to the beginning of sentences if it is long and is followed by a resumptive pronoun. verbs and nouns are negated by the particle n, but nn is