in the diet, and is used as seasoning and preservative, such as for pickling and jerky ; most of it comes from processed foods. the dietary reference intake for sodium is 1. 5 grams per day, but most people in the united states consume more than 2. 3 grams per day, the minimum amount that promotes hypertension ; this in turn causes 7. 6 million premature deaths worldwide. potassium is the major cation ( positive ion ) inside animal cells, while sodium is the major cation outside animal cells. the concentration differences of these charged particles causes a difference in electric potential between the inside and outside of cells, known as the membrane potential. the balance between potassium and sodium is maintained by ion transporter proteins in the cell membrane. the cell membrane potential created by potassium and sodium ions allows the cell to generate an action potential — a " spike " of electrical discharge. the ability of cells to produce electrical discharge is critical for body functions such as neurotransmission, muscle contraction, and heart function. disruption of this balance may thus be fatal : for example, ingestion of large amounts of potassium compounds can lead to hyperkalemia strongly influencing the cardiovascular system. potassium chloride is used in the united states for lethal injection executions. due to their similar atomic radii, rubidium and caesium in the body mimic potassium and are taken up similarly. rubidium has no known biological role, but may help stimulate metabolism, and, similarly to caesium, replace potassium in the body causing potassium deficiency. partial substitution is quite possible and rather non - toxic : a 70 kg person contains on average 0. 36 g of rubidium, and an increase in this value by 50 to 100 times did not show negative effects in test persons. rats can survive up to 50 % substitution of potassium by rubidium. rubidium ( and to a much lesser extent caesium ) can function as temporary cures for hypokalemia ; while rubidium can adequately physiologically substitute potassium in some systems, caesium is never able to do so. there is only very limited evidence in the form of deficiency symptoms for rubidium being possibly essential in goats ; even if this is true, the trace amounts usually present in food are more than enough. caesium compounds are rarely encountered by most people, but most caesium compounds are mildly toxic. like rubidium, caesium tends to substitute potassium in the body, but is significantly larger and is therefore a poorer substitute. excess caesium can