dr. rieux. he is a seventy - five - year - old spaniard with a rugged face, who comments on events in oran that he hears about on the radio and in the newspapers. he sits in his bed all day and measures the passing of time by putting peas from one jug into another. louis : louis is one of the sentries who take part in the plan for rambert to escape. marcel : marcel, louis ' s brother, is also a sentry who is part of the escape plan for rambert. garcia : garcia is a man who knows the group of smugglers in oran. he introduces rambert to raoul. plot summary the book begins with an epigraph quoting daniel defoe, author of a journal of the plague year. part one in the town of oran, thousands of rats, initially unnoticed by the populace, begin to die in the streets. hysteria develops soon afterward, causing the local newspapers to report the incident. authorities responding to public pressure order the collection and cremation of the rats, unaware that the collection itself was the catalyst for the spread of the bubonic plague. the main character, dr. bernard rieux, lives comfortably in an apartment building when strangely the building ' s concierge, m. michel, a confidante, dies from a fever. dr. rieux consults his colleague, dr. castel, about the illness until they come to the conclusion that a plague is sweeping the town. they both approach fellow doctors and town authorities about their theory but are eventually dismissed on the basis of one death. however, as more deaths quickly ensue, it becomes apparent that there is an epidemic. meanwhile, rieux ' s wife has been sent to a sanatorium in another city, to be treated for an unrelated chronic illness. authorities, including the prefect, are slow to accept that the situation is serious and quibble over the appropriate action to take. official notices enacting control measures are posted, but the language used is optimistic and downplays the seriousness of the situation. a " special ward " is opened at the hospital, but its 80 beds are filled within three days. as the death toll begins to rise, more desperate measures are taken. homes are quarantined ; corpses and burials are strictly supervised. a supply of plague serum finally arrives, but there is enough to treat only existing cases, and the country ' s emergency reserves are depleted. when the daily number of deaths jumps to 30, the town