april 2013 and the rijksmuseum has remained the most visited museum in amsterdam with 2. 2 million visitors in 2016 and 2. 16 million in 2017. van gogh lived in amsterdam for a short while and there is a museum dedicated to his work. the museum is housed in one of the few modern buildings in this area of amsterdam. the building was designed by gerrit rietveld. this building is where the permanent collection is displayed. a new building was added to the museum in 1999. this building, known as the performance wing, was designed by japanese architect kisho kurokawa. its purpose is to house temporary exhibitions of the museum. some of van gogh ' s most famous paintings, like the potato eaters and sunflowers, are in the collection. the van gogh museum is the second most visited museum in amsterdam, not far behind the rijksmuseum in terms of the number of visits, being approximately 2. 1 million in 2016, for example. next to the van gogh museum stands the stedelijk museum. this is amsterdam ' s most important museum of modern art. the museum is as old as the square it borders and was opened in 1895. the permanent collection consists of works of art from artists like piet mondrian, karel appel, and kazimir malevich. after renovations lasting several years, the museum opened in september 2012 with a new composite extension that has been called ' the bathtub ' due to its resemblance to one. amsterdam contains many other museums throughout the city. they range from small museums such as the verzetsmuseum ( resistance museum ), the anne frank house, and the rembrandt house museum, to the very large, like the tropenmuseum ( museum of the tropics ), amsterdam museum ( formerly known as amsterdam historical museum ), hermitage amsterdam ( a dependency of the hermitage museum in saint petersburg ) and the joods historisch museum ( jewish historical museum ). the modern - styled nemo is dedicated to child - friendly science exhibitions. music amsterdam ' s musical culture includes a large collection of songs that treat the city nostalgically and lovingly. the 1949 song " aan de amsterdamse grachten " ( " on the canals of amsterdam " ) was performed and recorded by many artists, including john kraaijkamp sr. ; the best - known version is probably that by wim sonneveld ( 1962 ). in the 1950s johnny jordaan rose to fame with