and uncle of sayyida shirin. it was during his stay at attar ' s home that avicenna completed his book of healing, writing 50 pages a day. the buyid court in hamadan, particularly the kurdish vizier taj al - mulk, suspected avicenna of correspondence with ala al - dawla, and as result had the house of attar ransacked and avicenna imprisoned in the fortress of fardajan, outside hamadan. juzjani blames one of avicenna ' s informers for his capture. avicenna was imprisoned for four months, until ala al - dawla captured hamadan, thus putting an end to sama al - dawla ' s reign. in isfahan avicenna was subsequently released, and went to isfahan, where he was well received by ala al - dawla. in the words of juzjani, the kakuyid ruler gave avicenna " the respect and esteem which someone like him deserved. " adamson also says that avicenna ' s service under ala al - dawla " proved to be the most stable period of his life. " avicenna served as the advisor, if not vizier of ala al - dawla, accompanying him in many of his military expeditions and travels. avicenna dedicated two persian works to him, a philosophical treatise named danish - nama - yi ala ' i ( " book of science for ala " ), and a medical treatise about the pulse. during the brief occupation of isfahan by the ghaznavids in january 1030, avicenna and ala al - dawla relocated to the southwestern iranian region of khuzistan, where they stayed until the death of the ghaznavid ruler mahmud ( ), which occurred two months later. it was seemingly when avicenna returned to isfahan that he started writing his pointers and reminders. in 1037, while avicenna was accompanying ala al - dawla to a battle near isfahan, he contracted a severe colic, which he had been suffering from throughout his life. he died shortly afterwards in hamadan, where he was buried. philosophy avicenna wrote extensively on early islamic philosophy, especially the subjects logic, ethics and metaphysics, including treatises named logic and metaphysics. most of his works were written in arabic — then the language of science in the middle east — and some in persian.