, 1806, in washington county, and moved to elizabethtown, kentucky. they had three children : sarah, abraham, and thomas, who died as an infant. thomas lincoln bought or leased farms in kentucky before losing all but of his land in court disputes over property titles. in 1816, the family moved to indiana where the land surveys and titles were more reliable. indiana was a " free " ( non - slaveholding ) territory, and they settled in an " unbroken forest " in hurricane township, perry county, indiana. in 1860, lincoln noted that the family ' s move to indiana was " partly on account of slavery ", but mainly due to land title difficulties. in kentucky and indiana, thomas worked as a farmer, cabinetmaker, and carpenter. at various times, he owned farms, livestock, and town lots, paid taxes, sat on juries, appraised estates, and served on county patrols. thomas and nancy were members of a separate baptists church, which forbade alcohol, dancing, and slavery. overcoming financial challenges, thomas in 1827 obtained clear title to in indiana, an area which became the little pigeon creek community. mother ' s death on october 5, 1818, nancy lincoln died from milk sickness, leaving 11 - year - old sarah in charge of a household including her father, 9 - year - old abraham, and nancy ' s 19 - year - old orphan cousin, dennis hanks. ten years later, on january 20, 1828, sarah died while giving birth to a stillborn son, devastating lincoln. on december 2, 1819, thomas married sarah bush johnston, a widow from elizabethtown, kentucky, with three children of her own. abraham became close to his stepmother and called her " mother ". lincoln disliked the hard labor associated with farm life. his family even said he was lazy, for all his " reading, scribbling, writing, ciphering, writing poetry, etc. ". his stepmother acknowledged he did not enjoy " physical labor ", but loved to read. education and move to illinois lincoln was largely self - educated. his formal schooling was from itinerant teachers. it included two short stints in kentucky, where he learned to read but probably not to write, at age seven, and in indiana, where he went to school sporadically due to farm chores, for a total of fewer than 12 months in aggregate by the age of 15. he persisted as an avid reader and retained a lifelong interest in learning. family, neighbors, and schoolmates recalled that his reading included the