increase in the rate of melting ice sheet. same algae was found in the italian alps, after pink ice appeared on parts of the presena glacier. the various sorts of algae play significant roles in aquatic ecology. microscopic forms that live suspended in the water column ( phytoplankton ) provide the food base for most marine food chains. in very high densities ( algal blooms ), these algae may discolor the water and outcompete, poison, or asphyxiate other life forms. algae can be used as indicator organisms to monitor pollution in various aquatic systems. in many cases, algal metabolism is sensitive to various pollutants. due to this, the species composition of algal populations may shift in the presence of chemical pollutants. to detect these changes, algae can be sampled from the environment and maintained in laboratories with relative ease. on the basis of their habitat, algae can be categorized as : aquatic ( planktonic, benthic, marine, freshwater, lentic, lotic ), terrestrial, aerial ( subaerial ), lithophytic, halophytic ( or euryhaline ), psammon, thermophilic, cryophilic, epibiont ( epiphytic, epizoic ), endosymbiont ( endophytic, endozoic ), parasitic, calcifilic or lichenic ( phycobiont ). cultural associations in classical chinese, the word is used both for " algae " and ( in the modest tradition of the imperial scholars ) for " literary talent ". the third island in kunming lake beside the summer palace in beijing is known as the zaojian tang dao ( 堂 島 ), which thus simultaneously means " island of the algae - viewing hall " and " island of the hall for reflecting on literary talent ". cultivation seaweed farming bioreactors uses agar agar, a gelatinous substance derived from red algae, has a number of commercial uses. it is a good medium on which to grow bacteria and fungi, as most microorganisms cannot digest agar. alginates alginic acid, or alginate, is extracted from brown algae. its uses range from gelling agents in food, to medical dressings. alginic acid also has been used in the field of biotechnology as a biocompatible medium for cell encapsulation and cell immobilization. molecular cuisine is also a