anti - social, or tend to result in illegal activity, such as kleptomania, pedophilia, exhibitionism, voyeurism, etc. are excluded under the definition of " disability " in order to prevent abuse of the statute ' s purpose. additionally, sexual orientation is no longer considered a disorder and is also excluded under the definition of " disability ". however, in 2022, the united states court of appeals for the fourth circuit stated that the ada covers individuals with gender dysphoria, which may aid transgender people in accessing legal protections they otherwise may be unable to. titles title i — employment see also us labor law and. the ada states that a " covered entity " shall not discriminate against " a qualified individual with a disability ". this applies to job application procedures, hiring, advancement and discharge of employees, job training, and other terms, conditions, and privileges of employment. " covered entities " include employers with 15 or more employees, as well as employment agencies, labor organizations, and joint labor - management committees. there are strict limitations on when a covered entity can ask job applicants or employees disability - related questions or require them to undergo medical examination, and all medical information must be kept confidential. prohibited discrimination may include, among other things, firing or refusing to hire someone based on a real or perceived disability, segregation, and harassment based on a disability. covered entities are also required to provide reasonable accommodations to job applicants and employees with disabilities. a reasonable accommodation is a change in the way things are typically done that the person needs because of a disability, and can include, among other things, special equipment that allows the person to perform the job, scheduling changes, and changes to the way work assignments are chosen or communicated. an employer is not required to provide an accommodation that would involve undue hardship ( excessive difficulty or expense ), and the individual who receives the accommodation must still perform the essential functions of the job and meet the normal performance requirements. an employee or applicant who currently engages in the illegal use of drugs is not considered qualified when a covered entity takes adverse action based on such use. part of title i was found unconstitutional by the united states supreme court as it pertains to states in the case of board of trustees of the university of alabama v. garrett as violating the sovereign immunity rights of the several states as specified by the eleventh amendment to the united states constitution. the court determined that state employees cannot sue their employer for violating ada rules. state employees can, however, file complaints