##nhauer disliked. he did not regret his medicinal and scientific studies ; he claimed that they were necessary for a philosopher, and even in berlin he attended more lectures in sciences than in philosophy. during his days at gottingen, he spent considerable time studying, but also continued his flute playing and social life. his friends included friedrich gotthilf osann, karl witte, christian charles josias von bunsen, and william backhouse astor sr. he arrived at the newly founded university of berlin for the winter semester of 1811 – 12. at the same time, his mother had just begun her literary career ; she published her first book in 1810, a biography of her friend karl ludwig fernow, which was a critical success. arthur attended lectures by the prominent post - kantian philosopher johann gottlieb fichte, but quickly found many points of disagreement with his ; he also found fichte ' s lectures tedious and hard to understand. he later mentioned fichte only in critical, negative terms — seeing his philosophy as a lower - quality version of kant ' s and considering it useful only because fichte ' s poor arguments unintentionally highlighted some failings of kantianism. he also attended the lectures of the famous protestant theologian friedrich schleiermacher, whom he also quickly came to dislike. his notes and comments on schleiermacher ' s lectures show that schopenhauer was becoming very critical of religion and moving towards atheism. he learned by self - directed reading ; besides plato, kant and fichte he also read the works of schelling, fries, jacobi, bacon, locke, and much current scientific literature. he attended philological courses by august bockh and friedrich august wolf and continued his naturalistic interests with courses by martin heinrich klaproth, paul erman, johann elert bode, ernst gottfried fischer, johann horkel, friedrich christian rosenthal and hinrich lichtenstein ( lichtenstein was also a friend whom he met at one of his mother ' s parties in weimar ). early work schopenhauer left berlin in a rush in 1813, fearing that the city could be attacked and that he could be pressed into military service as prussia had just joined the war against france. he returned to weimar but left after less than a month, disgusted by the fact that his mother was now living with her supposed lover, georg friedrich konrad ludwig muller von gerstenbergk ( 1778 – 1838 ), a civil