there are four toll roads in the state : montgomery expressway in montgomery ; northport / tuscaloosa western bypass in tuscaloosa and northport ; emerald mountain expressway in wetumpka ; and beach express in orange beach. ports the port of mobile, alabama ' s only saltwater port, is a large seaport on the gulf of mexico with inland waterway access to the midwest by way of the tennessee – tombigbee waterway. the port of mobile was ranked 12th by tons of traffic in the united states during 2009. the newly expanded container terminal at the port of mobile was ranked as the 25th busiest for container traffic in the nation during 2011. the state ' s other ports are on rivers with access to the gulf of mexico. water ports of alabama, listed from north to south : see also index of alabama - related articles outline of alabama — organized list of topics about alabama uss alabama, 7 ships notes subnotes other notes references further reading atkins, leah rawls, wayne flynt, william warren rogers, and david ward. alabama : the history of a deep south state ( 1994 ). flynt, wayne. alabama in the twentieth century ( 2004 ). owen thomas m. history of alabama and dictionary of alabama biography ( 4 vols, 1921 ). jackson, harvey h. inside alabama : a personal history of my state ( 2004 ). mohl, raymond a. " latinization in the heart of dixie : hispanics in late - twentieth - century alabama " alabama review ( 2002, 55 ( 4 ) : 243 – 274 ). peirce, neal r. the deep south states of america : people, politics, and power in the seven deep south states ( 1974 ). williams, benjamin buford. a literary history of alabama : the nineteenth century ( 1979 ). wpa guide to alabama ( 1939 ). external links alabama state guide, from the library of congress your not so ordinary alabama tourist guide all about alabama, at the alabama department of archives and history code of alabama 1975 usgs real - time, geographic, and other scientific resources of alabama alabama quickfacts from the u. s. census bureau alabama state fact sheet 1819 establishments in the united states southern united states states and territories established in 1819 states of the confederate states of america states of the gulf coast of the united states states of the united states contiguous united states list of place names of choctaw origin in the united states