), whether the polarizers work by reflection or double refraction, and that all birefringent crystals produce both extraordinary refraction and polarization. as the corpuscularists started trying to explain these things in terms of polar " molecules " of light, the wave - theorists had no working hypothesis on the nature of polarization, prompting young to remark that malus ' s observations " present greater difficulties to the advocates of the undulatory theory than any other facts with which we are acquainted. " malus died in february 1812, at the age of 36, shortly after receiving the rumford medal for his work on polarization. in august 1811, francois arago reported that if a thin plate of mica was viewed against a white polarized backlight through a calcite crystal, the two images of the mica were of complementary colors ( the overlap having the same color as the background ). the light emerging from the mica was " depolarized " in the sense that there was no orientation of the calcite that made one image disappear ; yet it was not ordinary ( " unpolarized " ) light, for which the two images would be of the same color. rotating the calcite around the line of sight changed the colors, though they remained complementary. rotating the mica changed the saturation ( not the hue ) of the colors. this phenomenon became known as chromatic polarization. replacing the mica with a much thicker plate of quartz, with its faces perpendicular to the optic axis ( the axis of huygens ' s spheroid or malus ' s velocity function ), produced a similar effect, except that rotating the quartz made no difference. arago tried to explain his observations in corpuscular terms. in 1812, as arago pursued further qualitative experiments and other commitments, jean - baptiste biot reworked the same ground using a gypsum lamina in place of the mica, and found empirical formulae for the intensities of the ordinary and extraordinary images. the formulae contained two coefficients, supposedly representing colors of rays " affected " and " unaffected " by the plate — the " affected " rays being of the same color mix as those reflected by amorphous thin plates of proportional, but lesser, thickness. arago protested, declaring that he had made some of the same discoveries but had not had time to write them up. in fact the overlap between arago ' s work and biot ' s was minimal, arago ' s being only quali