' s communion with canterbury, expulsion would require the archbishop of canterbury ' s refusal to be in communion with the affected jurisdictions. in line with the suggestion of the windsor report, rowan williams ( the then archbishop of canterbury ) established a working group to examine the feasibility of an anglican covenant which would articulate the conditions for communion in some fashion. organisation provinces the anglican communion consists of forty - two autonomous provinces each with its own primate and governing structure. these provinces may take the form of national churches ( such as in canada, uganda, or japan ) or a collection of nations ( such as the west indies, central africa, or southeast asia ). extraprovincial churches in addition to the forty - two provinces, there are five extraprovincial churches under the metropolitical authority of the archbishop of canterbury. former provinces new provinces in formation at its autumn 2020 meeting, the provincial standing committee of the church of southern africa approved a plan to form the dioceses in mozambique and angola into a separate autonomous province of the anglican communion, to be named the anglican church of mozambique and angola ( iama ). the plans were also outlined to the mozambique and angola anglican association ( manna ) at its september 2020 annual general meeting. the new province is portuguese - speaking, and consists of twelve dioceses ( four in angola, and eight in mozambique ). the twelve proposed new dioceses have been defined and named, and each has a " task force committee " working towards its establishment as a diocese. the plan received the consent of the bishops and diocesan synods of all four existing dioceses in the two nations, and was submitted to the anglican consultative council. in september 2020, the archbishop of canterbury announced that he had asked the bishops of the church of ceylon to begin planning for the formation of an autonomous province of ceylon, so as to end his current position as metropolitan of the two dioceses in that country. churches in full communion in addition to other member churches, the churches of the anglican communion are in full communion with the old catholic churches of the union of utrecht and the scandinavian lutheran churches of the porvoo communion in europe, the india - based malankara mar thoma syrian and malabar independent syrian churches and the philippine independent church, also known as the aglipayan church. ecumenical relations historic episcopate the churches of the anglican communion have traditionally held that ordination in the historic episcopate is a core element in the validity of clerical ordinations. the roman catholic church, however, does not recognise anglican orders ( see apostolicae curae ). some