june. the council was replaced and new elections were held. the economic situation worsened, as the populace was divided over the – the " andorran question " in relation to the eastern question. the struggles continued between pro - bishops, pro - french, and nationalists based on the troubles of canillo in 1882 and 1885. andorra participated in the cultural movement of the catalan renaixenca. between 1882 and 1887, the first academic schools were formed where trilingualism coexisted with the official language, catalan. romantic authors from france and spain reported the awakening of the national consciousness of the country. jacint verdaguer lived in ordino during the 1880s where he wrote and shared works related to the renaixenca with writer and photographer joaquim de riba. in 1848, fromental halevy had premiered the opera le val d ' andorre to great success in europe, where the national consciousness of the valleys was exposed in the romantic work during the peninsular war. 20th and 21st century : modernisation of the country and the constitutional andorra in 1933 france occupied andorra following social unrest which occurred before elections due to the revolution of 1933 and the fhasa strikes ( vagues de fhasa ) ; the revolt led by joves andorrans ( a labour union group related to the spanish cnt and fai ) called for political reforms, the universal suffrage vote of all andorrans and acted in defense of the rights of local and foreign workers during the construction of fhasa ' s hydroelectric power station in encamp. on 5 april 1933 joves andorrans seized the andorran parliament. these actions were preceded by the arrival of colonel rene - jules baulard with 50 gendarmes and the mobilization of 200 local militias or sometent led by the sindic francesc cairat. on 6 july 1934, adventurer and nobleman boris skossyreff, with his promise of freedoms and modernization of the country and wealth through the establishment of a tax haven and foreign investments, received the support of the members of the general council to proclaim himself the sovereign of andorra. on 8 july 1934 boris issued a proclamation in urgell, declaring himself boris i, king of andorra, simultaneously declaring war on the bishop of urgell and approving the king ' s constitution on 10 july. he was arrested by the co - prince and bishop justi guitart i vilardebo and their authorities on 20 july and ultimately expelled from spain. from 1936 until 1940