to amines, amides are very weak bases. while the conjugate acid of an amine has a pka of about 9. 5, the conjugate acid of an amide has a pka around −0. 5. therefore, amides do not have as clearly noticeable acid – base properties in water. this relative lack of basicity is explained by the withdrawing of electrons from the amine by the carbonyl. on the other hand, amides are much stronger bases than carboxylic acids, esters, aldehydes, and ketones ( their conjugate acids ' pkas are between −6 and −10 ). the proton of a primary or secondary amide does not dissociate readily ; its pka is usually well above 15. conversely, under extremely acidic conditions, the carbonyl oxygen can become protonated with a pka of roughly −1. it is not only because of the positive charge on the nitrogen, but also because of the negative charge on the oxygen gained through resonance. hydrogen bonding and solubility because of the greater electronegativity of oxygen, the carbonyl ( c = o ) is a stronger dipole than the n – c dipole. the presence of a c = o dipole and, to a lesser extent a n – c dipole, allows amides to act as h - bond acceptors. in primary and secondary amides, the presence of n – h dipoles allows amides to function as h - bond donors as well. thus amides can participate in hydrogen bonding with water and other protic solvents ; the oxygen atom can accept hydrogen bonds from water and the n – h hydrogen atoms can donate h - bonds. as a result of interactions such as these, the water solubility of amides is greater than that of corresponding hydrocarbons. these hydrogen bonds are also have an important role in the secondary structure of proteins. the solubilities of amides and esters are roughly comparable. typically amides are less soluble than comparable amines and carboxylic acids since these compounds can both donate and accept hydrogen bonds. tertiary amides, with the important exception of n, n - dimethylformamide, exhibit low solubility in water. reactions amides undergo many chemical reactions, although they are less reactive than esters. amides hydrolyse in hot alkali as well as in strong acidic conditions. acidic conditions yield the carboxylic acid and the ammonium