in the uk, where the single hit number six and the album peaked at number 13. " sos " also became abba ' s second number - one single in germany, their third in australia and their first in france, plus reached number two in several other european countries, including italy. success was further solidified with " mamma mia " reaching number - one in the united kingdom, germany and australia and the top two in a few other western and northern european countries. in the united states, both " i do, i do, i do, i do, i do " and " sos " peaked at number 15 on the billboard hot 100 chart, with the latter picking up the bmi award along the way as one of the most played songs on american radio in 1975. " mamma mia ", however, stalled at number 32. in canada, the three songs rose to number 12, nine and 18, respectively. the success of the group in the united states had until that time been limited to single releases. by early 1976, the group already had four top 30 singles on the us charts, but the album market proved to be tough to crack. the eponymous abba album generated three american hits, but it only peaked at number 165 on the cashbox album chart and number 174 on the billboard 200 chart. opinions were voiced, by creem in particular, that in the us abba had endured " a very sloppy promotional campaign ". nevertheless, the group enjoyed warm reviews from the american press. cashbox went as far as saying that " there is a recurrent thread of taste and artistry inherent in abba ' s marketing, creativity and presentation that makes it almost embarrassing to critique their efforts ", while creem wrote : " sos is surrounded on this lp by so many good tunes that the mind boggles. " in australia, the airing of the music videos for " i do, i do, i do, i do, i do " and " mamma mia " on the nationally broadcast tv pop show countdown ( which premiered in november 1974 ) saw the band rapidly gain enormous popularity, and countdown become a key promoter of the group via their distinctive music videos. this started an immense interest for abba in australia, resulting in " i do, i do, i do, i do, i do " staying at number one for three weeks, then " sos " spending a week there, followed by " mamma mia " staying there for ten weeks, and the album holding down the number one position