thus being more wise as they advance in age. among the most broad of his portrayals is that of agrippina. he emphasizes their role in connecting genetically back to augustus, a significant factor in the marriages of the emperors and princes of the dynasty. the annals repeatedly has agrippina competing for influence with tiberius simply because she is related to augustus biologically. tacitus presents agrippina as being kindred to aristocratic males, and has her reversing gender roles, which showcases her assumption of male auctoritas ( " authority " ) with metaphors of her dressing and undressing. in an example of agrippina assuming auctoritas, he says : using the above epithet, " ( femina ) ingens animi " ( ".. [ a woman ], great for her courage " ), he assigns a haughty attitude to agrippina that compels her to explore the affairs of men. he records her as having reversed the natural order of things when she quelled the mutiny of the rhine in ad 14. in so doing, he describes her as having usurped her husband ' s power, a power rightfully belonging only to a general. portraiture portraits of roman women from the julio - claudian dynasty display a freer hair treatment than those of traditional roman men and are more keen on the sensitivity of recording on different textures. these changes in style served to make reproducing them more popular in the mid - first - century ad. reproductions of her image would continue to be made into that period. in the portrait, she is given a youthful face despite the fact that she lived to middle age. agrippina ' s hair is a mass of curls that covers both sides of her head and is long going down to her shoulders. her portraiture can be contrasted with that of livia who had a more austere augustan hairstyle. there are three different periods during the first - century ad when portraits were created for agrippina : at the time of her marriage to germanicus ( which made her the mother of a potential emperor ) ; when her son caligula came into power in ad 37, and collected her ashes from the island of pandateria for relocation to the mausoleum of augustus ; and at the time of claudius ' marriage to agrippina the younger, who wanted to connect himself to the lineage of augustus by evoking agrippina ' s image. coins and inscriptions cannot act as a method of discerning her age,