titus aelius hadrianus antoninus pius ( 19 september 86 – 7 march 161 ) was roman emperor from 138 to 161. he was the fourth of the five good emperors from the nerva – antonine dynasty. born into a senatorial family, antoninus held various offices during the reign of emperor hadrian. he married hadrian ' s niece faustina, and hadrian adopted him as his son and successor shortly before his death. antoninus acquired the cognomen pius after his accession to the throne, either because he compelled the senate to deify his adoptive father, or because he had saved senators sentenced to death by hadrian in his later years. his reign is notable for the peaceful state of the empire, with no major revolts or military incursions during this time. a successful military campaign in southern scotland early in his reign resulted in the construction of the antonine wall. antoninus was an effective administrator, leaving his successors a large surplus in the treasury, expanding free access to drinking water throughout the empire, encouraging legal conformity, and facilitating the enfranchisement of freed slaves. he died of illness in 161 and was succeeded by his adopted sons marcus aurelius and lucius verus as co - emperors. early life childhood and family antoninus pius was born titus aurelius fulvus boionius antoninus near lanuvium ( modern - day lanuvio ) in italy to titus aurelius fulvus, consul in 86, and wife arria fadilla. the aurelii fulvi were an aurelian family settled in nemausus ( modern nimes ). titus aurelius fulvus was the son of a senator of the same name, who, as legate of legio iii gallica, had supported vespasian in his bid to the imperial office and been rewarded with a suffect consulship, plus an ordinary one under domitian in 85. the aurelii fulvi were therefore a relatively new senatorial family from gallia narbonensis whose rise to prominence was supported by the flavians. the link between antoninus ' family and their home province explains the increasing importance of the post of proconsul of gallia narbonensis during the late second century. antoninus ' father had no other children and died shortly after his 89 ordinary consulship. antoninus was raised by his maternal grandfather gnaeus arrius antoninus, reputed by contemporaries to be a man of integrity and culture