november 2019, scientists reported detecting, for the first time, sugar molecules, including ribose, in meteorites, suggesting that chemical processes on asteroids can produce some fundamentally essential bio - ingredients important to life, and supporting the notion of an rna world prior to a dna - based origin of life on earth, and possibly, as well, the notion of panspermia. classification asteroids are commonly categorized according to two criteria : the characteristics of their orbits, and features of their reflectance spectrum. orbital classification many asteroids have been placed in groups and families based on their orbital characteristics. apart from the broadest divisions, it is customary to name a group of asteroids after the first member of that group to be discovered. groups are relatively loose dynamical associations, whereas families are tighter and result from the catastrophic break - up of a large parent asteroid sometime in the past. families are more common and easier to identify within the main asteroid belt, but several small families have been reported among the jupiter trojans. main belt families were first recognized by kiyotsugu hirayama in 1918 and are often called hirayama families in his honor. about 30 – 35 % of the bodies in the asteroid belt belong to dynamical families, each thought to have a common origin in a past collision between asteroids. a family has also been associated with the plutoid dwarf planet. some asteroids have unusual horseshoe orbits that are co - orbital with earth or another planet. examples are 3753 cruithne and. the first instance of this type of orbital arrangement was discovered between saturn ' s moons epimetheus and janus. sometimes these horseshoe objects temporarily become quasi - satellites for a few decades or a few hundred years, before returning to their earlier status. both earth and venus are known to have quasi - satellites. such objects, if associated with earth or venus or even hypothetically mercury, are a special class of aten asteroids. however, such objects could be associated with the outer planets as well. spectral classification in 1975, an asteroid taxonomic system based on color, albedo, and spectral shape was developed by chapman, morrison, and zellner. these properties are thought to correspond to the composition of the asteroid ' s surface material. the original classification system had three categories : c - types for dark carbonaceous objects ( 75 % of known asteroids ), s - types for stony ( silicaceous ) objects ( 17 % of known asteroids ) and u for those that did not fit into either c or s. this classification has since been expanded to include