after receiving little attention during the mid - to - late - 1980s, abba ' s music experienced a resurgence in the early 1990s due to the uk synth - pop duo erasure, who released abba - esque, a four track extended play release featuring cover versions of abba songs which topped several european charts in 1992. as u2 arrived in stockholm for a concert in june of that year, the band paid homage to abba by inviting bjorn ulvaeus and benny andersson to join them on stage for a rendition of " dancing queen ", playing guitar and keyboards. september 1992 saw the release of abba gold : greatest hits, a new compilation album. the single " dancing queen " received radio airplay in the uk in the middle of 1992 to promote the album. the song returned to the top 20 of the uk singles chart in august that year, this time peaking at number 16. with sales of 30 million, gold is the best - selling abba album, as well as one of the best - selling albums worldwide. with sales of 5. 5 million copies it is the second - highest selling album of all time in the uk, after queen ' s greatest hits. more abba gold : more abba hits, a follow - up to gold, was released in 1993. in 1994, two australian cult films caught the attention of the world ' s media, both focusing on admiration for abba : the adventures of priscilla, queen of the desert and muriel ' s wedding. the same year, thank you for the music, a four - disc box set comprising all the group ' s hits and stand - out album tracks, was released with the involvement of all four members. " by the end of the twentieth century, " american critic chuck klosterman wrote a decade later, " it was far more contrarian to hate abba than to love them. " abba were soon recognised and embraced by other acts : evan dando of the lemonheads recorded a cover version of " knowing me, knowing you " ; sinead o ' connor and boyzone ' s stephen gately have recorded " chiquitita " ; tanita tikaram, blancmange and steven wilson paid tribute to " the day before you came ". cliff richard covered " lay all your love on me ", while dionne warwick, peter cetera, frank sidebottom and celebrity skin recorded their versions of " sos ". us alternative - rock musician marshall crenshaw has also been known to play a version of " knowing me