in the two films with tarkovsky. an important influence on tarkovsky was the film director grigory chukhray, who was teaching at the vgik. impressed by the talent of his student, chukhray offered tarkovsky a position as assistant director for his film clear skies. tarkovsky initially showed interest but then decided to concentrate on his studies and his own projects. during his third year at the vgik, tarkovsky met andrei konchalovsky. they found much in common as they liked the same film directors and shared ideas on cinema and films. in 1959, they wrote the script antarctica – distant country, which was later published in the moskovsky komsomolets. tarkovsky submitted the script to lenfilm, but it was rejected. they were more successful with the script the steamroller and the violin, which they sold to mosfilm. this became tarkovsky ' s graduation project, earning him his diploma in 1960 and winning first prize at the new york student film festival in 1961. film career in the soviet union tarkovsky ' s first feature film was ivan ' s childhood in 1962. he had inherited the film from director eduard abalov, who had to abort the project. the film earned tarkovsky international acclaim and won the golden lion award at the venice film festival in the year 1962. in the same year, on 30 september, his first son arseny ( called senka in tarkovsky ' s diaries ) tarkovsky was born. in 1965, he directed the film andrei rublev about the life of andrei rublev, the fifteenth - century russian icon painter. andrei rublev was not, except for a single screening in moscow in 1966, immediately released after completion due to problems with soviet authorities. tarkovsky had to cut the film several times, resulting in several different versions of varying lengths. the film was widely released in the soviet union in a cut version in 1971. nevertheless, the film had a budget of more than 1 million rubles – a significant sum for that period. a version of the film was presented at the cannes film festival in 1969 and won the fipresci prize. he divorced his wife, irina, in june 1970. in the same year, he married larisa kizilova ( nee egorkina ), who had been a production assistant for the film andrei rublev ( they had been living together since 1965 ). their son, andrei andreyevich tarkovsky, ( nicknamed andriosha, meaning " little andre " or " andre junior "