based on remains from dinosaur national monument assigned to allosaurus or creosaurus ( a synonym of allosaurus ), and was to be described by paleontologist robert bakker as " madsenius trux ". however, " madsenius " is now seen as yet another synonym of allosaurus because bakker ' s action was predicated upon the false assumption of usnm 4734 being distinct from long - snouted allosaurus due to errors in gilmore ' s 1920 reconstruction of usnm 4734. " wyomingraptor " was informally coined by bakker for allosaurid remains from the morrison formation of the late jurassic. the remains unearthed are labeled as allosaurus and are housed in the tate geological museum. however, there has been no official description of the remains and " wyomingraptor " has been dismissed as a nomen nudum, with the remains referable to allosaurus. formerly assigned species and fossils several species initially classified within or referred to allosaurus do not belong within the genus. a. medius was named by marsh in 1888 for various specimens from the early cretaceous arundel formation of maryland, although most of the remains were removed by richard swann lull to the new ornithopod species dryosaurus grandis, except for a tooth. it was transferred to antrodemus by oliver hay in 1902, but hay later clarified that this was an inexplicable error on his part. gilmore considered the tooth nondiagnostic but transferred it to dryptosaurus, as d. medius. the referral was not accepted in the most recent review of basal tetanurans, and allosaurus medius was simply listed as a dubious species of theropod. it may be closely related to acrocanthosaurus. allosaurus valens is a new combination for antrodemus valens used by friedrich von huene in 1932 ; antrodemus valens itself may also pertain to allosaurus fragilis, as gilmore suggested in 1920. a. lucaris, another marsh name, was given to a partial skeleton in 1878. he later decided it warranted its own genus, labrosaurus, but this has not been accepted, and a. lucaris is also regarded as another specimen of a. fragilis. allosaurus lucaris, is known mostly from vertebrae, sharing characters with allosaurus. paul and carpenter stated that the type specimen of this species, ypm 1931, was from a younger age than allosaurus,