##ary ), the sacraments, daily prayer, the catechism, and apostolic succession in the context of the historic threefold ministry. for some low - church and evangelical anglicans, the 16th - century reformed thirty - nine articles form the basis of doctrine. distinctives of anglican belief the thirty - nine articles played a significant role in anglican doctrine and practice. following the passing of the 1604 canons, all anglican clergy had to formally subscribe to the articles. today, however, the articles are no longer binding, but are seen as a historical document which has played a significant role in the shaping of anglican identity. the degree to which each of the articles has remained influential varies. on the doctrine of justification, for example, there is a wide range of beliefs within the anglican communion, with some anglo - catholics arguing for a faith with good works and the sacraments. at the same time, however, some evangelical anglicans ascribe to the reformed emphasis on sola fide ( " faith alone " ) in their doctrine of justification ( see sydney anglicanism ). still other anglicans adopt a nuanced view of justification, taking elements from the early church fathers, catholicism, protestantism, liberal theology, and latitudinarian thought. arguably, the most influential of the original articles has been article vi on the " sufficiency of scripture ", which says that " scripture containeth all things necessary to salvation : so that whatsoever is not read therein, nor may be proved thereby, is not to be required of any man, that it should be believed as an article of the faith, or be thought requisite or necessary to salvation. " this article has informed anglican biblical exegesis and hermeneutics since earliest times. anglicans look for authority in their " standard divines " ( see below ). historically, the most influential of these – apart from cranmer – has been the 16th - century cleric and theologian richard hooker, who after 1660 was increasingly portrayed as the founding father of anglicanism. hooker ' s description of anglican authority as being derived primarily from scripture, informed by reason ( the intellect and the experience of god ) and tradition ( the practices and beliefs of the historical church ), has influenced anglican self - identity and doctrinal reflection perhaps more powerfully than any other formula. the analogy of the " three - legged stool " of scripture, reason, and tradition is often incorrectly attributed to hooker. rather, hooker ' s description is a hierarchy of authority, with scripture as foundational and reason