crystals, and by the 19th - century crystal hunting was common in alpine regions. david friedrich wiser amassed a collection of 8000 crystals that he studied and documented. in the 20th century robert parker wrote a well - known work about the rock crystals of the swiss alps ; at the same period a commission was established to control and standardize the naming of alpine minerals. glaciers in the miocene epoch the mountains underwent severe erosion because of glaciation, which was noted in the mid - 19th century by naturalist louis agassiz who presented a paper proclaiming the alps were covered in ice at various intervals — a theory he formed when studying rocks near his neuchatel home which he believed originated to the west in the bernese oberland. because of his work he came to be known as the " father of the ice - age concept " although other naturalists before him put forth similar ideas. agassiz studied glacier movement in the 1840s at the unteraar glacier where he found the glacier moved per year, more rapidly in the middle than at the edges. his work was continued by other scientists and now a permanent laboratory exists inside a glacier under the jungfraujoch, devoted exclusively to the study of alpine glaciers. glaciers pick up rocks and sediment with them as they flow. this causes erosion and the formation of valleys over time. the inn valley is an example of a valley carved by glaciers during the ice ages with a typical terraced structure caused by erosion. eroded rocks from the most recent ice age lie at the bottom of the valley while the top of the valley consists of erosion from earlier ice ages. glacial valleys have characteristically steep walls ( reliefs ) ; valleys with lower reliefs and talus slopes are remnants of glacial troughs or previously infilled valleys. moraines, piles of rock picked up during the movement of the glacier, accumulate at edges, centre, and the terminus of glaciers. alpine glaciers can be straight rivers of ice, long sweeping rivers, spread in a fan - like shape ( piedmont glaciers ), and curtains of ice that hang from vertical slopes of the mountain peaks. the stress of the movement causes the ice to break and crack loudly, perhaps explaining why the mountains were believed to be home to dragons in the medieval period. the cracking creates unpredictable and dangerous crevasses, often invisible under new snowfall, which causes the greatest danger to mountaineers. glaciers end in ice caves ( the rhone glacier ), by trailing into a lake or river, or by shedding snowmelt on a meadow. sometimes a piece of