of the f - holes. they are also thought to have pioneered the modern alto format of viola, in contrast to older tenor violas, but the widespread belief that they were the first ones to do so nicolo amati nicolo amati ( 3 december 159612 april 1684 ) was the son of girolamo amati. he was the most eminent of the family. he improved the model adopted by the rest of the amatis and produced instruments capable of yielding greater power of tone. his pattern was unusually small, but he also made a wider model now known as the " grand amati ", which have become his most sought - after violins. of his pupils, the most famous were antonio stradivari and andrea guarneri, the first of the guarneri family of violin makers. ( there is much controversy regarding the apprenticeship of antonio stradivari. while the label on stradivari ' s first known violin states that he was a pupil of amati, the validity of his statement is questioned. girolamo amati ( hieronymus ii ) the last maker of the family was nicolo ' s son, girolamo amati, known as hieronymus ii ( 26 february 164921 february 1740 ). he improved the arching of his father ' s instruments. extant amati instruments amati instruments include some of the oldest extant examples of the violin family, dating to as far back as the mid - 16th century., they are only occasionally played in public. united kingdom instruments in the uk include andrea amati violins from the set delivered to charles ix of france in 1564. amati instruments at the ashmolean museum, oxford. andrea amati violin, 1564 ( ex – french royal collection ) viola amati instruments at the royal academy of music museum, london amati instrument at the tullie house museum and art gallery, carlisle andrea amati violin, 1564 ( ex french royal collection ) nicolo amati double bass of 1631 played by chi - chi nwanoku united states amati instruments at the metropolitan museum of art ( new york ) andrea amati : violin, nicolo amati : violin, 1669 amati instruments at the national music museum ( university of south dakota ) : andrea amati : " the king ", circa 1545, the world ' s oldest extant cello viola, 1560 violin, 1560 violin, 1574 girolamo amati : double bass, 1680 violin, 1604 violin, 7 / 8 -