deposed by his brother at the battle of nimla ( 1809 ). mahmud shah durrani defeated shah shuja and forced him to flee, usurping the throne again. his second reign began on 3 may 1809. barakzai dynasty and british wars by the early 19th century, the afghan empire was under threat from the persians in the west and the sikh empire in the east. fateh khan, leader of the barakzai tribe, installed many of his brothers in positions of power throughout the empire. fateh khan was brutally murdered in 1818 by mahmud shah. as a result, the brothers of fateh khan and the barakzai tribe rebelled, and a civil war brewed. during this turbulent period, afghanistan fractured into many states, including the principality of qandahar, emirate of herat, khanate of qunduz, maimana khanate, and numerous other warring polities. the most prominent state was the emirate of kabul, ruled by dost mohammad khan. with the collapse of the durrani empire, and the exile of the sadozai dynasty to be left to rule in herat, punjab and kashmir were lost to ranjit singh, ruler of the sikh empire, who invaded khyber pakhtunkhwa in march 1823 and captured the city of peshawar following the battle of nowshera. in 1834, dost mohammad khan led numerous campaigns, firstly campaigning to jalalabad, and then allying with his rival brothers in kandahar to defeat shah shuja durrani and the british in the expedition of shuja ul - mulk. in 1837, dost mohammad khan attempted to conquer peshawar and sent a large force under his son wazir akbar khan, leading to the battle of jamrud. akbar khan and the afghan army failed to capture the jamrud fort from the sikh khalsa army, but killed sikh commander hari singh nalwa, thus ending the afghan - sikh wars. by this time the british were advancing from the east, capitalizing off of the decline of the sikh empire after it had its own period of turbulence following the death of ranjit singh, which engaged the emirate of kabul in the first major conflict during " the great game ". in 1839, a british expeditionary force marched into afghanistan, invading the principality of qandahar, and in august 1839, seized kabul. dost mohammad khan defeated the british in the parwan campaign, but surrendered following his victory. he was replaced with the former durrani ruler shah shuja durrani as the