in 1843, john lawes and henry gilbert began a set of long - term agronomy field experiments at rothamsted research station in england ; some of them, such as the park grass experiment, are still running. in america, the hatch act of 1887 provided funding for what it was the first to call " agricultural science ", driven by farmers ' interest in fertilizers. in agricultural entomology, the usda began to research biological control in 1881 ; it instituted its first large program in 1905, searching europe and japan for natural enemies of the spongy moth and brown - tail moth, establishing parasitoids ( such as solitary wasps ) and predators of both pests in the us. policy agricultural policy is the set of government decisions and actions relating to domestic agriculture and imports of foreign agricultural products. governments usually implement agricultural policies with the goal of achieving a specific outcome in the domestic agricultural product markets. some overarching themes include risk management and adjustment ( including policies related to climate change, food safety and natural disasters ), economic stability ( including policies related to taxes ), natural resources and environmental sustainability ( especially water policy ), research and development, and market access for domestic commodities ( including relations with global organizations and agreements with other countries ). agricultural policy can also touch on food quality, ensuring that the food supply is of a consistent and known quality, food security, ensuring that the food supply meets the population ' s needs, and conservation. policy programs can range from financial programs, such as subsidies, to encouraging producers to enroll in voluntary quality assurance programs. a 2021 report finds that globally, support to agricultural producers accounts for almost us $ 540 billion a year. this amounts to 15 percent of total agricultural production value, and is heavily biased towards measures that are leading to inefficiency, as well as are unequally distributed and harmful for the environment and human health. there are many influences on the creation of agricultural policy, including consumers, agribusiness, trade lobbies and other groups. agribusiness interests hold a large amount of influence over policy making, in the form of lobbying and campaign contributions. political action groups, including those interested in environmental issues and labor unions, also provide influence, as do lobbying organizations representing individual agricultural commodities. the food and agriculture organization of the united nations ( fao ) leads international efforts to defeat hunger and provides a forum for the negotiation of global agricultural regulations and agreements. samuel jutzi, director of fao ' s animal production and health division, states that lobbying