in the green dome at the al - masjid an - nabawi in medina, the second holiest site in islam. he died of illness after a reign of 2 years, 2 months and 14 days, the only rashidun caliph to die of natural causes. though the period of his caliphate was short, it included successful invasions of the two most powerful empires of the time, a remarkable achievement in its own right. he set in motion a historical trajectory that in a few decades would lead to one of the largest empires in history. his victory over the local rebel arab forces is a significant part of islamic history. abu bakr is widely honored among muslims. lineage and titles abu bakr ' s full name was abdullah ibn abi quhafa ibn amir ibn amr ibn ka ' b ibn sa ' d ibn taym ibn murrah ibn ka ' b ibn lu ' ayy ibn ghalib ibn fihr. his lineage meets the lineage of muhammad at the sixth generation up with murrah ibn ka ' b. he is mentioned in the qur ' an twice. abdullah in arabic, the name abd allah means " servant of allah ". this is his birth name. abu bakr this nickname ( kunya ) was given to him as a child when he grew up among a bedouin tribe and developed a fondness for camels. he played with the camel calves and goats, earning this nickname " abu bakr, " meaning " father of the young camel. " a " bakr " in arabic is a young but already fully grown camel. ateeq one of his early titles, preceding his conversion to islam, was ateeq, meaning " saved one ". in a weak narration in tirmidhi, the prophet muhammad later restated this title when he said that abu bakr is the " ateeq of allah from the fire " meaning " saved " or " secure " and the association with allah showing how close to and protected he is by allah. al - siddiq he was called al - siddiq ( the truthful ) by muhammad after he believed him in the event of isra and mi ' raj when other people didn ' t, and ali confirmed that title several times. he was also reportedly referred to in the quran as the " second of the two in the cave " in reference to the event of hijra, where with muhammad he hid in the cave in jabal thawr from the meccan party that was sent after them. al - sahib he was honor