65 ) was of the opinion that caesar ' s victory over pompey and the fall of cato the younger ( 95 bc – 46 bc ) marked the end of traditional liberty in rome ; historian chester starr writes of his avoidance of criticizing augustus, " perhaps augustus was too sacred a figure to accuse directly. " the anglo - irish writer jonathan swift ( 1667 – 1745 ), in his discourse on the contests and dissentions in athens and rome, criticized augustus for installing tyranny over rome, and likened what he believed great britain ' s virtuous constitutional monarchy to rome ' s moral republic of the 2nd century bc. in his criticism of augustus, the admiral and historian thomas gordon ( 1658 – 1741 ) compared augustus to the puritanical tyrant oliver cromwell ( 1599 – 1658 ). thomas gordon and the french political philosopher montesquieu ( 1689 – 1755 ) both remarked that augustus was a coward in battle. in his memoirs of the court of augustus, the scottish scholar thomas blackwell ( 1701 – 1757 ) deemed augustus a machiavellian ruler, " a bloodthirsty vindicative usurper ", " wicked and worthless ", " a mean spirit ", and a " tyrant ". revenue reforms augustus ' s public revenue reforms had a great impact on the subsequent success of the empire. augustus brought a far greater portion of the empire ' s expanded land base under consistent, direct taxation from rome, instead of exacting varying, intermittent, and somewhat arbitrary tributes from each local province as augustus ' s predecessors had done. this reform greatly increased rome ' s net revenue from its territorial acquisitions, stabilized its flow, and regularized the financial relationship between rome and the provinces, rather than provoking fresh resentments with each new arbitrary exaction of tribute. the measures of taxation in the reign of augustus were determined by population census, with fixed quotas for each province. citizens of rome and italy paid indirect taxes, while direct taxes were exacted from the provinces. indirect taxes included a 4 % tax on the price of slaves, a 1 % tax on goods sold at auction, and a 5 % tax on the inheritance of estates valued at over 100, 000 sesterces by persons other than the next of kin. an equally important reform was the abolition of private tax farming, which was replaced by salaried civil service tax collectors. private contractors who collected taxes for the state were the norm in the republican era. some of them were powerful enough to influence the number of votes for men running for offices in rome.