abraxas (, variant form romanized : ) is a word of mystic meaning in the system of the gnostic basilides, being there applied to the " great archon " ( ), the princeps of the 365 spheres ( ). the word is found in gnostic texts such as the holy book of the great invisible spirit, and also appears in the greek magical papyri. it was engraved on certain antique gemstones, called on that account abraxas stones, which were used as amulets or charms. as the initial spelling on stones was ( ), the spelling of seen today probably originates in the confusion made between the greek letters sigma ( σ ) and xi ( ξ ) in the latin transliteration. the seven letters spelling its name may represent each of the seven classic planets. the word may be related to abracadabra, although other explanations exist. there are similarities and differences between such figures in reports about basilides ' s teaching, ancient gnostic texts, the larger greco - roman magical traditions, and modern magical and esoteric writings. speculations have proliferated on abraxas in recent centuries, who has been claimed to be both an egyptian god and a demon. etymology gaius julius hyginus ( fab. 183 ) gives abrax aslo therbeeo as names of horses of the sun mentioned by ' homerus '. the passage is miserably corrupt : but it may not be accidental that the first three syllables make abraxas. the proper form of the name is evidently abrasax, as with the greek writers, hippolytus, epiphanius, didymus ( de trin. iii. 42 ), and theodoret ; also augustine and praedestinatus ; and in nearly all the legends on gems. by a probably euphonic inversion the translator of irenaeus and the other latin authors have abraxas, which is found in the magical papyri, and even, though most sparingly, on engraved stones. the attempts to discover a derivation for the name, greek, hebrew, coptic, or other, have not been entirely successful : egyptian claudius salmasius ( 1588 - 1653 ) thought it egyptian, but never gave the proofs which he promised. j. j. bellermann thinks it is a compound of the egyptian words and, meaning " the honorable and hallowed word ", or " the word is adorable ". samuel sharpe finds in it an egyptian invocation