##zo kikushima and hideo oguni, but very soon the project began to unravel. the director of the american sequences turned out not to be david lean, as originally planned, but american richard fleischer. the budget was also cut, and the screen time allocated for the japanese segment would now be no longer than 90 minutes — a major problem, considering that kurosawa ' s script ran over four hours. after numerous revisions with the direct involvement of darryl zanuck, a more or less finalized cut screenplay was agreed upon in may 1968. shooting began in early december, but kurosawa would last only a little over three weeks as director. he struggled to work with an unfamiliar crew and the requirements of a hollywood production, while his working methods puzzled his american producers, who ultimately concluded that the director must be mentally ill. kurosawa was examined at kyoto university hospital by a neuropsychologist, dr. murakami, whose diagnosis was forwarded to darryl zanuck and richard zanuck at fox studios indicating a diagnosis of neurasthenia stating that, " he is suffering from disturbance of sleep, agitated with feelings of anxiety and in manic excitement caused by the above mentioned illness. it is necessary for him to have rest and medical treatment for more than two months. " on christmas eve 1968, the americans announced that kurosawa had left the production due to " fatigue ", effectively firing him. he was ultimately replaced, for the film ' s japanese sequences, with two directors, kinji fukasaku and toshio masuda. tora! tora! tora!, finally released to unenthusiastic reviews in september 1970, was, as donald richie put it, an " almost unmitigated tragedy " in kurosawa ' s career. he had spent years of his life on a logistically nightmarish project to which he ultimately did not contribute a foot of film shot by himself. ( he had his name removed from the credits, though the script used for the japanese half was still his and his co - writers '. ) he became estranged from his longtime collaborator, writer ryuzo kikushima, and never worked with him again. the project had inadvertently exposed corruption in his own production company ( a situation reminiscent of his own movie, the bad sleep well ). his very sanity had been called into question. worst of all, the japanese film industry — and perhaps the man himself — began to suspect that he would never make another film.