of existentialism. camus was rejecting existentialism as a philosophy, but his critique was mostly focused on sartrean existentialism, and to a lesser extent on religious existentialism. he thought that the importance of history held by marx and sartre was incompatible with his belief in human freedom. david sherman and others also suggest the rivalry between sartre and camus also played a part in his rejection of existentialism. david simpson argues further that his humanism and belief in human nature set him apart from the existentialist doctrine that existence precedes essence. on the other hand, camus focused most of his philosophy around existential questions. the absurdity of life, the inevitable ending ( death ) is highlighted in his acts. his belief was that the absurd — life being void of meaning, or man ' s inability to know that meaning if it were to exist — was something that man should embrace. his anti - christianity, his commitment to individual moral freedom and responsibility are only a few of the similarities with other existential writers. more importantly, camus addressed one of the fundamental questions of existentialism : the problem of suicide. he wrote : " there is only one really serious philosophical question, and that is suicide. " camus viewed the question of suicide as arising naturally as a solution to the absurdity of life. absurdism many existentialist writers have addressed the absurd, each with their own interpretation of what it is and what makes it important. kierkegaard explains that the absurdity of religious truths prevents us from reaching god rationally. sartre recognizes the absurdity of individual experience. camus ' s thoughts on the absurd begin with his first cycle of books and the literary essay the myth of sisyphus, ( le mythe de sisyphe ), his major work on the subject. in 1942, he published the story of a man living an absurd life in the stranger. he also wrote a play about the roman emperor caligula, pursuing an absurd logic, which was not performed until 1945. his early thoughts appeared in his first collection of essays, l ' envers et l ' endroit ( betwixt and between ) in 1937. absurd themes were expressed with more sophistication in his second collection of essays, noces ( nuptials ) in 1938. in these essays, camus reflects on the experience of the absurd. aspects of the notion of the absurd can be found in the plague. camus follows sartre ' s definition of