science foundation ( nsf ). a team of european and indian scientists and engineers have set up six arsenic treatment plants in west bengal based on in - situ remediation method ( sar technology ). this technology does not use any chemicals and arsenic is left in an insoluble form ( + 5 state ) in the subterranean zone by recharging aerated water into the aquifer and developing an oxidation zone that supports arsenic oxidizing micro - organisms. this process does not produce any waste stream or sludge and is relatively cheap. another effective and inexpensive method to avoid arsenic contamination is to sink wells 500 feet or deeper to reach purer waters. a recent 2011 study funded by the us national institute of environmental health sciences ' superfund research program shows that deep sediments can remove arsenic and take it out of circulation. in this process, called adsorption, arsenic sticks to the surfaces of deep sediment particles and is naturally removed from the ground water. magnetic separations of arsenic at very low magnetic field gradients with high - surface - area and monodisperse magnetite ( fe3o4 ) nanocrystals have been demonstrated in point - of - use water purification. using the high specific surface area of fe3o4 nanocrystals, the mass of waste associated with arsenic removal from water has been dramatically reduced. epidemiological studies have suggested a correlation between chronic consumption of drinking water contaminated with arsenic and the incidence of all leading causes of mortality. the literature indicates that arsenic exposure is causative in the pathogenesis of diabetes. chaff - based filters have recently been shown to reduce the arsenic content of water to 3 µg / l. this may find applications in areas where the potable water is extracted from underground aquifers. san pedro de atacama for several centuries, the people of san pedro de atacama in chile have been drinking water that is contaminated with arsenic, and some evidence suggests they have developed some immunity. hazard maps for contaminated groundwater around one - third of the world ' s population drinks water from groundwater resources. of this, about 10 percent, approximately 300 million people, obtains water from groundwater resources that are contaminated with unhealthy levels of arsenic or fluoride. these trace elements derive mainly from minerals and ions in the ground. redox transformation of arsenic in natural waters arsenic is unique among the trace metalloids and oxyanion - forming trace metals ( e. g. as, se, sb, mo, v, cr, u,