alfonso i ( 7 september 1134 ), called the battler or the warrior ( ), was king of aragon and navarre from 1104 until his death in 1134. he was the second son of king sancho ramirez and successor of his brother peter i. with his marriage to urraca, queen regnant of castile, leon and galicia, in 1109, he began to use, with some justification, the grandiose title emperor of spain, formerly employed by his father - in - law, alfonso vi. alfonso the battler earned his sobriquet in the reconquista. he won his greatest military successes in the middle ebro, where he conquered zaragoza in 1118 and took ejea, tudela, calatayud, borja, tarazona, daroca, and monreal del campo. he died in september 1134 after an unsuccessful battle with the muslims at the battle of fraga. his nickname comes from the aragonese version of the chronicle of san juan de la pena ( c. 1370 ), which says that " they called him lord alfonso the battler because in spain there wasn ' t as good a knight who won twenty - nine battles " ( clamabanlo don alfonso batallador porque en espayna no ovo tan buen cavallero que veynte nueve batallas vencio ). early life his earliest years were passed in the monastery of siresa, learning to read and write and to practice the military arts under the tutelage of lope garces the pilgrim, who was repaid for his services by his former charge with the county of pedrola when alfonso came to the throne. during his brother ' s reign, he participated in the taking of huesca ( the battle of alcoraz, 1096 ), which became the largest city in the kingdom and the new capital. he also joined el cid ' s expeditions in valencia. his father gave him the lordships of biel, luna, ardenes, and bailo. a series of deaths put alfonso directly in line for the throne. his brother ' s children, isabella and peter ( who married maria rodriguez, daughter of el cid ), died in 1103 and 1104 respectively. matrimonial conflicts a passionate fighting - man ( he fought twenty - nine battles against christian or moor ), he was married ( when well over 30 years and a habitual bachelor ) in 1109 to the ambitious queen urraca