##eon, three artificial lakes, an aviary, a skating rink, rides, go - karts and more. the dolores olmedo house is located in the traditional downtown of acapulco and is noted for the murals by diego rivera that adorn it. olmedo and rivera had been friend since olmedo was a child and rivera spent the last two years of his life here. during that time, he painted nearly nonstop and created the outside walls with tile mosaics, featuring aztec deities such as quetzalcoatl. the interior of the home is covered in murals. the home is not a museum, so only the outside murals can be seen by the public. there is a small museum called casa de la mascara ( house of masks ) which is dedicated to masks, most of them from mexico, but there are examples from many parts of the world. the collection contains about one thousand examples and is divided into seven rooms called masks of the world, mexico across history, the huichols and the jaguar, alebrijes, dances of guerrero, devils and death, identity and fantasy, and afro - indian masks. the botanical garden of acapulco is a tropical garden located on lands owned by the universidad loyola del pacifico. most of the plants here are native to the region, and many, such as the peltogyne mexicana or purple stick tree, are in danger of extinction. one cultural event that is held yearly in acapulco is the festival internacional de la nao, which takes place in the fort of san diego, located near the zocalo in downtown of the city. the festival honors the remembrance of the city ' s interaction and trades with oriental territories which started back in the sixteenth century. the nao festival consists of cultural activities with the support of organizations and embassies from india, china, japan, philippines, thailand, indonesia and south korea. the variety of events go from film projections, musical interpretations and theatre to gastronomical classes, some of the events are specifically for kids. the annual french festival takes place throughout acapulco city and offers a multitude of events that cement cultural links between mexico and france. the main features are a fashion show and a gourmet food fair. the cinepolis galerias diana and the teatro juan ruiz de alarcon present french and french literary figures who give talks on their specialised subjects. even some of the local nightclubs feature french djs. other festivals celebrated here include carnival, the feast of