during broadcasts. since the taliban takeover, suicides among women have become more common, and the country could now be one of the few where the rate of suicide among women surpasses that among men. in may 2022, the taliban dissolved afghanistan ' s human rights commission along with four other government departments, citing the country ' s budget deficit. economy afghanistan ' s nominal gdp was $ 20. 1 billion in 2020, or $ 81 billion by purchasing power parity ( ppp ). its gdp per capita is $ 2, 459 ( ppp ) and $ 611 by nominal. despite having $ 1 trillion or more in mineral deposits, it remains one of the world ' s least developed countries. afghanistan ' s rough physical geography and its landlocked status has been cited as reasons why the country has always been among the least developed in the modern era – a factor where progress is also slowed by contemporary conflict and political instability. the country imports over $ 7 billion worth of goods but exports only $ 784 million, mainly fruits and nuts. it has $ 2. 8 billion in external debt. the service sector contributed the most to the gdp ( 55. 9 % ) followed by agriculture ( 23 % ) and industry ( 21. 1 % ). da afghanistan bank serves as the central bank of the nation and the afghani ( afn ) is the national currency, with an exchange rate of about 75 afghanis to 1 us dollar. a number of local and foreign banks operate in the country, including the afghanistan international bank, new kabul bank, azizi bank, pashtany bank, standard chartered bank, and the first micro finance bank. one of the main drivers for the current economic recovery is the return of over 5 million expatriates, who brought with them entrepreneurship and wealth - creating skills as well as much needed funds to start up businesses. many afghans are now involved in construction, which is one of the largest industries in the country. some of the major national construction projects include the $ 35 billion new kabul city next to the capital, the aino mena project in kandahar, and the ghazi amanullah khan town near jalalabad. similar development projects have also begun in herat, mazar - e - sharif, and other cities. an estimated 400, 000 people enter the labor market each year. several small companies and factories began operating in different parts of the country, which not only provide revenues to the government but also create new jobs. improvements to the business environment have resulted