the first house of the order was established at st botolph ' s priory, colchester, essex. the canons built very long naves to accommodate large congregations. the choirs were also long. sometimes, as at llanthony priory and christchurch, dorset ( twynham ), the choir was closed from the aisles. at other abbeys of the order, such as bolton abbey or kirkham priory, there were no aisles. the nave in the northern houses of the order often had only a north aisle ( this is the case at bolton, brinkburn priory and lanercost priory ). the arrangement of the monastic buildings followed the ordinary plan. the prior ' s lodge was usually attached to the southwest angle of the nave. the austin canons ' house at thornton, lincolnshire had a large and magnificent gatehouse. the upper floors of the gatehouse formed the guest - house. the chapter - house was octagonal in shape. augustinian abbeys premonstratensians ( norbertians ) the premonstratensian regular canons, or " white canons ", were of an order founded in 1119 ad by norbert of xanten. the order was a reformed branch of the augustinian canons. from a marshy area in the forest of coucy in the diocese of laon, the order spread widely. even in norbert ' s lifetime, the order had built abbeys in aleppo, syria, and in the kingdom of jerusalem. of the abbey of saint samuel, denys pringle wrote, " the premonstatensian abbey of saint samuel was a daughter house of premontre itself. its abbot had the status of a suffragan of the patriarch of jerusalem, with the right to a cross, but not to a mitre nor a ring. " it long maintained its rigid austerity, though in later years the abbey grew wealthier, and its members indulged in more frequent luxuries. just after 1140 ad, the premonstratensians were brought to england. their first settlement was at newhouse abbey, lincolnshire, near the humber tidal estuary. there were as many as thirty - five premonstratensian abbeys in england. the head abbey in england was at welbeck abbey but the best preserved are easby abbey in yorkshire, and bayham old abbey in kent. the layout of easby abbey is irregular due to its position on the edge of a steep river bank. the cloister is duly placed on the south side of the