' s successor, forcing helmichis and rosamund to flee to ravenna under imperial protection. alboin ' s death deprived the lombards of the only leader who could have kept the newborn germanic entity together, the last in the line of hero - kings who had led the lombards through their migrations from the vale of the elbe to italy. for many centuries following his death alboin ' s heroism and his success in battle were celebrated in saxon and bavarian epic poetry. etymology the name alboin derives from the proto - germanic roots * albiz ( " elf " ) and * winiz ( " friend " ) ; it is thus cognate with the old english name ælfwine. he was known in latin as alboinus and in greek as αλβοινος ( alboinos ). in modern italian he is alboino and in modern lombard albui. father ' s rule the lombards under king wacho had migrated towards the east into pannonia, taking advantage of the difficulties facing the ostrogothic kingdom in italy following the death of its founder, theodoric, in 526. wacho ' s death in about 540 brought his son walthari to the throne, but, as the latter was still a minor, the kingdom was governed in his stead by alboin ' s father, audoin, of the gausian clan. seven years later walthari died, giving audoin the opportunity to crown himself and overthrow the reigning lethings. alboin was probably born in the 530s in pannonia, the son of audoin and his wife, rodelinda. she may have been the niece of king theodoric and betrothed to audoin through the mediation of emperor justinian. like his father, alboin was raised a pagan, although audoin had at one point attempted to gain byzantine support against his neighbours by professing himself a christian. alboin took as his first wife the christian chlothsind, daughter of the frankish king chlothar. this marriage, which took place soon after the death of the frankish ruler theudebald in 555, is thought to reflect audoin ' s decision to distance himself from the byzantines, traditional allies of the lombards, who had been lukewarm when it came to supporting audoin against the gepids. the new frankish alliance was important because of the franks ' known hostility to the