walter ( french : les cahiers d ' andre walter ), in 1891, at the age of twenty - one. in 1893 and 1894, gide traveled in northern africa. there he came to accept his attraction to boys and youths. gide befriended irish playwright oscar wilde in paris, where the latter was in exile. in 1895 the two men met in algiers. wilde had the impression that he had introduced gide to homosexuality, but gide had already discovered this on his own. the middle years in 1895, after his mother ' s death, gide married his cousin madeleine rondeaux, but the marriage remained unconsummated. in 1896, he was elected mayor of la roque - baignard, a commune in normandy. in 1901, gide rented the property maderia in st. brelade ' s bay and lived there while residing on the island of jersey. this period, 1901 – 07, is commonly seen as a time of apathy and turmoil for him. in 1908, gide helped found the literary magazine nouvelle revue francaise ( the new french review ). during the great war, gide visited england. one of his friends there was artist william rothenstein. rothenstein described gide ' s visit to his gloucestershire home in his autobiography : in 1916, gide was about 47 years old when he took marc allegret, 15 years old, as a lover. marc was one of five children of elie allegret and his wife. gide had become friends with the senior allegret during his own school years, when gide ' s mother had hired allegret as a tutor for her son. elie allegret had been best man at gide ' s wedding. after gide fled with marc to london, his wife madeleine burned all his correspondence in retaliation – " the best part of myself, " gide later commented. in 1918, gide met and befriended dorothy bussy ; they were friends for more than thirty years and she translated many of his works into english. gide also became close friends with the critic charles du bos. together they were part of the foyer franco - belge, in which capacity they worked to find employment, food and housing for franco - belgian refugees who arrived in paris following the 1914 german invasion of belgium. their friendship later declined, due to du bos ' s perception that gide had disavowed or betrayed his spiritual faith, in contrast to du bos ' s own return to faith. du