k = = 10−30. combustion ammonia does not burn readily or sustain combustion, except under narrow fuel - to - air mixtures of 15 – 25 % air by volume. when mixed with oxygen, it burns with a pale yellowish - green flame. ignition occurs when chlorine is passed into ammonia, forming nitrogen and hydrogen chloride ; if chlorine is present in excess, then the highly explosive nitrogen trichloride ( ) is also formed. the combustion of ammonia to form nitrogen and water is exothermic :, δh°r = −1267. 20 kj ( or −316. 8 kj / mol if expressed per mol of ) the standard enthalpy change of combustion, δh°c, expressed per mole of ammonia and with condensation of the water formed, is −382. 81 kj / mol. dinitrogen is the thermodynamic product of combustion : all nitrogen oxides are unstable with respect to and, which is the principle behind the catalytic converter. nitrogen oxides can be formed as kinetic products in the presence of appropriate catalysts, a reaction of great industrial importance in the production of nitric acid : a subsequent reaction leads to : the combustion of ammonia in air is very difficult in the absence of a catalyst ( such as platinum gauze or warm chromium ( iii ) oxide ), due to the relatively low heat of combustion, a lower laminar burning velocity, high auto - ignition temperature, high heat of vapourization, and a narrow flammability range. however, recent studies have shown that efficient and stable combustion of ammonia can be achieved using swirl combustors, thereby rekindling research interest in ammonia as a fuel for thermal power production. the flammable range of ammonia in dry air is 15. 15 – 27. 35 % and in 100 % relative humidity air is 15. 95 – 26. 55 %. for studying the kinetics of ammonia combustion, knowledge of a detailed reliable reaction mechanism is required, but this has been challenging to obtain. formation of other compounds ammonia is a direct or indirect precursor to most manufactured nitrogen - containing compounds. in organic chemistry, ammonia can act as a nucleophile in substitution reactions. amines can be formed by the reaction of ammonia with alkyl halides or with alcohols. the resulting − group is also nucleophilic so secondary and tertiary amines are often formed. when such multiple substitution is not desired,