with a cover note saying to retain the letters in case she had to use them to show maternal concern. in one letter to lady milbanke, she referred to her daughter as " it " : " i talk to it for your satisfaction, not my own, and shall be very glad when you have it under your own. " lady byron had her teenage daughter watched by close friends for any sign of moral deviation. lovelace dubbed these observers the " furies " and later complained they exaggerated and invented stories about her. lovelace was often ill, beginning in early childhood. at the age of eight, she experienced headaches that obscured her vision. in june 1829, she was paralyzed after a bout of measles. she was subjected to continuous bed rest for nearly a year, something which may have extended her period of disability. by 1831, she was able to walk with crutches. despite the illnesses, she developed her mathematical and technological skills. ada byron had an affair with a tutor in early 1833. she tried to elope with him after she was caught, but the tutor ' s relatives recognised her and contacted her mother. lady byron and her friends covered the incident up to prevent a public scandal. lovelace never met her younger half - sister, allegra, the daughter of lord byron and claire clairmont. allegra died in 1822 at the age of five. lovelace did have some contact with elizabeth medora leigh, the daughter of byron ' s half - sister augusta leigh, who purposely avoided lovelace as much as possible when introduced at court. adult years lovelace became close friends with her tutor mary somerville, who introduced her to charles babbage in 1833. she had a strong respect and affection for somerville, and they corresponded for many years. other acquaintances included the scientists andrew crosse, sir david brewster, charles wheatstone, michael faraday and the author charles dickens. she was presented at court at the age of seventeen " and became a popular belle of the season " in part because of her " brilliant mind ". by 1834 ada was a regular at court and started attending various events. she danced often and was able to charm many people, and was described by most people as being dainty, although john hobhouse, byron ' s friend, described her as " a large, coarse - skinned young woman but with something of my friend ' s features, particularly the mouth ". this description followed their meeting on 24 february 1834 in which ada made it clear to hobhouse that she did