axis, leading upwards towards the heavens. there is debate between scholars over whether the gods were conceived of as living in the heavens, with some aligning their views with snorri, and others proposing that he at times presents the system in a christian framework and that this organisation is not seen in either eddic or skaldic poetry. the concept of attempting to create a spatial cosmological model has itself been criticised by scholars who argue that the oral traditions did not form a naturalistic, structured system that aimed to be internally geographically consistent. an alternative proposal is that the world should be conceived of as a number of realms connected by passages that cannot be typically traversed. this would explain how asgard can be located both to the east and west of the realm of men, over the sea and over bifrost. it has been noted that the tendency to link asgard to troy is part of a wider european cultural practice of claiming trojan origins for one ' s culture, first seen in the aeneid and also featuring in geoffrey of monmouth ' s historia regum britanniae for the founding of britain. depictions in popular culture thor first appeared in the marvel universe within comic series journey into mystery in the issues # 83 during august 1962. following this release, he becomes one of the central figures in the comics along with loki and odin. in the marvel cinematic universe, thor and loki make their first appearance together in the 2011 film thor. after that, thor becomes a regular character in the marvel cinematic universe and reappears in several films, including the avengers series. asgard becomes the central element of the film thor : ragnarok, where it is destroyed following the old norse mythos. these and other norse mythology elements also appear in video games, tv series, and books based in and on the marvel universe, although these depictions do not closely follow historical sources. asgard is an explorable realm in the video game god of war : ragnarok, a sequel to 2018 ' s norse - themed god of war. in the assassin ' s creed valhalla video game, asgard is featured as part of a " vision quest ". see also mount olympus - home of the olympian gods citations bibliography primary secondary external links myndir ( my norse digital image repository ) illustrations of asgard from victorian and edwardian retellings of norse mythology. clicking on the thumbnail will give you the full image and information concerning it. locations in norse mythology