should pass from the planter class to his beloved " plebeians ". johnson feared that the freedmen, many of whom were still economically bound to their former masters, might vote at their direction. johnson ' s third priority was election in his own right in 1868, a feat no one who had succeeded a deceased president had managed to accomplish, attempting to secure a democratic anti - congressional reconstruction coalition in the south. the republicans had formed a number of factions. the radical republicans sought voting and other civil rights for african americans. they believed that the freedmen could be induced to vote republican in gratitude for emancipation, and that black votes could keep the republicans in power and southern democrats, including former rebels, out of influence. they believed that top confederates should be punished. the moderate republicans sought to keep the democrats out of power at a national level, and prevent former rebels from resuming power. they were not as enthusiastic about the idea of african - american suffrage as their radical colleagues, either because of their own local political concerns, or because they believed that the freedman would be likely to cast his vote badly. northern democrats favored the unconditional restoration of the southern states. they did not support african - american suffrage, which might threaten democratic control in the south. presidential reconstruction johnson was initially left to devise a reconstruction policy without legislative intervention, as congress was not due to meet again until december 1865. radical republicans told the president that the southern states were economically in a state of chaos and urged him to use his leverage to insist on rights for freedmen as a condition of restoration to the union. but johnson, with the support of other officials including seward, insisted that the franchise was a state, not a federal matter. the cabinet was divided on the issue. johnson ' s first reconstruction actions were two proclamations, with the unanimous backing of his cabinet, on may 29. one recognized the virginia government led by provisional governor francis pierpont. the second provided amnesty for all ex - rebels except those holding property valued at $ 20, 000 or more ; it also appointed a temporary governor for north carolina and authorized elections. neither of these proclamations included provisions regarding black suffrage or freedmen ' s rights. the president ordered constitutional conventions in other former rebel states. as southern states began the process of forming governments, johnson ' s policies received considerable public support in the north, which he took as unconditional backing for quick reinstatement of the south. while he received such support from the white south, he underestimated the determination of