animation is the method that encompasses myriad filmmaking techniques, by which still images are manipulated to create moving images. in traditional animation, images are drawn or painted by hand on transparent celluloid sheets ( cels ) to be photographed and exhibited on film. animation has been recognized as an artistic medium, specifically within the entertainment industry. many animations are computer animations made with computer - generated imagery ( cgi ). stop motion animation, in particular claymation, has continued to exist alongside these other forms. animation is contrasted with live - action film, although the two do not exist in isolation. many moviemakers have produced films that are a hybrid of the two. as cgi increasingly approximates photographic imagery, filmmakers can easily composite 3d animations into their film rather than using practical effects for showy visual effects ( vfx ). general overview computer animation can be very detailed 3d animation, while 2d computer animation ( which may have the look of traditional animation ) can be used for stylistic reasons, low bandwidth, or faster real - time renderings. other common animation methods apply a stop motion technique to two - and three - dimensional objects like paper cutouts, puppets, or clay figures. a cartoon is an animated film, usually a short film, featuring an exaggerated visual style. the style takes inspiration from comic strips, often featuring anthropomorphic animals, superheroes, or the adventures of human protagonists. especially with animals that form a natural predator / prey relationship ( e. g. cats and mice, coyotes and birds ), the action often centers on violent pratfalls such as falls, collisions, and explosions that would be lethal in real life. the illusion of animation — as in motion pictures in general — has traditionally been attributed to the persistence of vision and later to the phi phenomenon and beta movement, but the exact neurological causes are still uncertain. the illusion of motion caused by a rapid succession of images that minimally differ from each other, with unnoticeable interruptions, is a stroboscopic effect. while animators traditionally used to draw each part of the movements and changes of figures on transparent cels that could be moved over a separate background, computer animation is usually based on programming paths between key frames to maneuver digitally created figures throughout a digitally created environment. analog mechanical animation media that rely on the rapid display of sequential images include the phenakisticope, zoetrope, flip book, praxinoscope, and film. television and video are popular electronic animation media that originally were analog and now operate digitally.