influences affecting us could help us to live our lives more in accord with christian precepts. the most comprehensive statement of his astrological beliefs is to be found in two separates works that he authored around 1260, known as the speculum astronomiae and the de fato. however, details of these beliefs can be found in almost everything he wrote, from his early de natura boni to his last work, the summa theologiae. his speculum was critiqued by gerard of silteo. matter and form albert believed that all natural things were compositions of matter and form, he referred to it as quod est and quo est. albert also believed that god alone is the absolute ruling entity. albert ' s version of hylomorphism is very similar to the aristotelian doctrine. music albert is known for his commentary on the musical practice of his times. most of his written musical observations are found in his commentary on aristotle ' s poetics. he rejected the idea of " music of the spheres " as ridiculous : movement of astronomical bodies, he supposed, is incapable of generating sound. he wrote extensively on proportions in music, and on the three different subjective levels on which plainchant could work on the human soul : purging of the impure ; illumination leading to contemplation ; and nourishing perfection through contemplation. of particular interest to 20th - century music theorists is the attention he paid to silence as an integral part of music. metaphysics of morals both of his early treatises, de natura boni and de bono, start with a metaphysical investigation into the concepts of the good in general and the physical good. albert refers to the physical good as bonum naturae. albert does this before directly dealing with the moral concepts of metaphysics. in albert ' s later works, he says in order to understand human or moral goodness, the individual must first recognize what it means to be good and do good deeds. this procedure reflects albert ' s preoccupations with neo - platonic theories of good as well as the doctrines of pseudo - dionysius. albert ' s view was highly valued by the catholic church and his peers. natural law albert devoted the last tractatus of de bono to a theory of justice and natural law. albert places god as the pinnacle of justice and natural law. god legislates and divine authority is supreme. up until his time, it was the only work specifically devoted to natural law written by a theologian or philosopher