two variances and comparing the ratio to a handbook value to determine statistical significance. calculating a treatment effect is then trivial : " the effect of any treatment is estimated by taking the difference between the mean of the observations which receive the treatment and the general mean ". partitioning of the sum of squares anova uses traditional standardized terminology. the definitional equation of sample variance is, where the divisor is called the degrees of freedom ( df ), the summation is called the sum of squares ( ss ), the result is called the mean square ( ms ) and the squared terms are deviations from the sample mean. anova estimates 3 sample variances : a total variance based on all the observation deviations from the grand mean, an error variance based on all the observation deviations from their appropriate treatment means, and a treatment variance. the treatment variance is based on the deviations of treatment means from the grand mean, the result being multiplied by the number of observations in each treatment to account for the difference between the variance of observations and the variance of means. the fundamental technique is a partitioning of the total sum of squares ss into components related to the effects used in the model. for example, the model for a simplified anova with one type of treatment at different levels. the number of degrees of freedom df can be partitioned in a similar way : one of these components ( that for error ) specifies a chi - squared distribution which describes the associated sum of squares, while the same is true for " treatments " if there is no treatment effect. the f - test the f - test is used for comparing the factors of the total deviation. for example, in one - way, or single - factor anova, statistical significance is tested for by comparing the f test statistic where ms is mean square, is the number of treatments and is the total number of cases to the f - distribution with being the numerator degrees of freedom and the denominator degrees of freedom. using the f - distribution is a natural candidate because the test statistic is the ratio of two scaled sums of squares each of which follows a scaled chi - squared distribution. the expected value of f is ( where is the treatment sample size ) which is 1 for no treatment effect. as values of f increase above 1, the evidence is increasingly inconsistent with the null hypothesis. two apparent experimental methods of increasing f are increasing the sample size and reducing the error variance by tight experimental controls. there are two methods of concluding the anova hypothesis test, both of