respondents expressed " a belief in god or a universal spirit ", whereas 41 % stated that they thought that they felt a tension " being non - religious in a society where most people are religious ". according to the 2021 australian bureau of statistics, 38. 9 % of australians have " no religion ", a category that includes agnostics. between 64 % and 65 % of japanese and up to 81 % of vietnamese are atheists, agnostics, or do not believe in a god. an official european union survey reported that 3 % of the eu population is unsure about their belief in a god or spirit. criticism agnosticism is criticized from a variety of standpoints. some atheists criticize the use of the term agnosticism as functionally indistinguishable from atheism ; this results in frequent criticisms of those who adopt the term as avoiding the atheist label. theistic theistic critics claim that agnosticism is impossible in practice, since a person can live only either as if god did not exist ( etsi deus non - daretur ), or as if god did exist ( etsi deus daretur ). christian according to pope benedict xvi, strong agnosticism in particular contradicts itself in affirming the power of reason to know scientific truth. he blames the exclusion of reasoning from religion and ethics for dangerous pathologies such as crimes against humanity and ecological disasters. " agnosticism ", said benedict, " is always the fruit of a refusal of that knowledge which is in fact offered to man... the knowledge of god has always existed ". he asserted that agnosticism is a choice of comfort, pride, dominion, and utility over truth, and is opposed by the following attitudes : the keenest self - criticism, humble listening to the whole of existence, the persistent patience and self - correction of the scientific method, a readiness to be purified by the truth. the catholic church sees merit in examining what it calls " partial agnosticism ", specifically those systems that " do not aim at constructing a complete philosophy of the unknowable, but at excluding special kinds of truth, notably religious, from the domain of knowledge ". however, the church is historically opposed to a full denial of the capacity of human reason to know god. the council of the vatican declares, " god, the beginning and end of all, can, by the natural light of human reason, be known with certainty from the works of creation ". blaise pascal argued