grandfather, along with many others of his generation, had moved to algeria for a better life during the first decades of the 19th century. hence, he was called — a slang term for people of french and other european descent born in algeria. his identity and poor background had a substantial effect on his later life. nevertheless, camus was a french citizen and enjoyed more rights than arab and berber algerians under indigenat. during his childhood, he developed a love for football and swimming. under the influence of his teacher louis germain, camus gained a scholarship in 1924 to continue his studies at a prestigious lyceum ( secondary school ) near algiers. in 1930, at the age of 17, he was diagnosed with tuberculosis. because it is a transmitted disease, he moved out of his home and stayed with his uncle gustave acault, a butcher, who influenced the young camus. it was at that time he turned to philosophy, with the mentoring of his philosophy teacher jean grenier. he was impressed by ancient greek philosophers and friedrich nietzsche. during that time, he was only able to study part - time. to earn money, he took odd jobs : as a private tutor, car parts clerk, and assistant at the meteorological institute. in 1933, camus enrolled at the university of algiers and completed his licence de philosophie ( ba ) in 1936 ; after presenting his thesis on plotinus. camus developed an interest in early christian philosophers, but nietzsche and arthur schopenhauer had paved the way towards pessimism and atheism. camus also studied novelist - philosophers such as stendhal, herman melville, fyodor dostoyevsky, and franz kafka. in 1933, he also met simone hie, then a partner of a friend of camus, who would become his first wife. camus played goalkeeper for the racing universitaire d ' alger junior team from 1928 to 1930. the sense of team spirit, fraternity, and common purpose appealed to him enormously. in match reports, he was often praised for playing with passion and courage. any football ambitions, however, disappeared when he contracted tuberculosis. camus drew parallels among football, human existence, morality, and personal identity. for him, the simplistic morality of football contradicted the complicated morality imposed by authorities such as the state and church. formative years in 1934, aged 20, camus was in a relationship with simone hie. simone had an addiction to morphine, a drug she used to