1916, the depleted municipalities of durgerdam, holysloot, zunderdorp and schellingwoude, all lying north of amsterdam, were, at their own request, annexed to the city. between the wars, the city continued to expand, most notably to the west of the jordaan district in the frederik hendrikbuurt and surrounding neighbourhoods. nazi germany invaded the netherlands on 10 may 1940 and took control of the country. some amsterdam citizens sheltered jews, thereby exposing themselves and their families to a high risk of being imprisoned or sent to concentration camps. more than 100, 000 dutch jews were deported to nazi concentration camps, of whom some 60, 000 lived in amsterdam. in response, the dutch communist party organized the february strike attended by 300, 000 people to protest against the raids. the most famous deportee was the young jewish girl anne frank, who died in the bergen - belsen concentration camp. at the end of the second world war, communication with the rest of the country broke down, and food and fuel became scarce. many citizens traveled to the countryside to forage. dogs, cats, raw sugar beets, and tulip bulbs — cooked to a pulp — were consumed to stay alive. many trees in amsterdam were cut down for fuel, and wood was taken from the houses, apartments and other buildings of deported jews. the city was finally liberated by canadian forces on 5 may 1945, shortly before the end of the war in europe. many new suburbs, such as osdorp, slotervaart, slotermeer and geuzenveld, were built in the years after the second world war. these suburbs contained many public parks and wide - open spaces, and the new buildings provided improved housing conditions with larger and brighter rooms, gardens, and balconies. because of the war and other events of the 20th century, almost the entire city centre had fallen into disrepair. as society was changing, politicians and other influential figures made plans to redesign large parts of it. there was an increasing demand for office buildings, and also for new roads, as the automobile became available to most people. a metro started operating in 1977 between the new suburb of bijlmermeer in the city ' s zuidoost ( southeast ) exclave and the centre of amsterdam. further plans were to build a new highway above the metro to connect amsterdam centraal and the city centre with other parts of the city. the required large - scale demolitions began in amsterdam ' s former jewish neighborhood