of genes as well as environments, for example using the intergenerational children - of - twins design. many studies in the past used a candidate gene approach to test whether single genes were associated with anxiety. these investigations were based on hypotheses about how certain known genes influence neurotransmitters ( such as serotonin and norepinephrine ) and hormones ( such as cortisol ) that are implicated in anxiety. none of these findings are well replicated, with the possible exception of tmem132d, comt and mao - a. the epigenetic signature of bdnf, a gene that codes for a protein called brain derived neurotrophic factor that is found in the brain, has also been associated with anxiety and specific patterns of neural activity. and a receptor gene for bdnf called ntrk2 was associated with anxiety in a large genome - wide investigation. the reason that most candidate gene findings have not replicated is that anxiety is a complex trait that is influenced by many genomic variants, each of which has a small effect on its own. increasingly, studies of anxiety are using a hypothesis - free approach to look for parts of the genome that are implicated in anxiety using big enough samples to find associations with variants that have small effects. the largest explorations of the common genetic architecture of anxiety have been facilitated by the uk biobank, the angst consortium and the crc fear, anxiety and anxiety disorders. epigenetics medical conditions many medical conditions can cause anxiety. this includes conditions that affect the ability to breathe, like copd and asthma, and the difficulty in breathing that often occurs near death. conditions that cause abdominal pain or chest pain can cause anxiety and may in some cases be a somatization of anxiety ; the same is true for some sexual dysfunctions. conditions that affect the face or the skin can cause social anxiety especially among adolescents, and developmental disabilities often lead to social anxiety for children as well. life - threatening conditions like cancer also cause anxiety. furthermore, certain organic diseases may present with anxiety or symptoms that mimic anxiety. these disorders include certain endocrine diseases ( hypo - and hyperthyroidism, hyperprolactinemia ), metabolic disorders ( diabetes ), deficiency states ( low levels of vitamin d, b2, b12, folic acid ), gastrointestinal diseases ( celiac disease, non - celiac gluten sensitivity, inflammatory bowel disease ), heart diseases, blood diseases