the ruling government, currently hold almost all of the parliament ' s 125 seats. during the 2010 parliamentary election, the opposition parties, musavat and azerbaijani popular front party, failed to win a single seat. european observers found numerous irregularities in the run - up to the election and on election day. the executive power is held by the president, who is elected for a seven - year term by direct elections, and the prime minister. the president is authorized to form the cabinet, a collective executive body accountable to both the president and the national assembly. the cabinet of azerbaijan consists primarily of the prime minister, his deputies, and ministers. the 8th government of azerbaijan is the administration in its current formation. the president does not have the right to dissolve the national assembly but has the right to veto its decisions. to override the presidential veto, the parliament must have a majority of 95 votes. the judicial power is vested in the constitutional court, supreme court, and the economic court. the president nominates the judges in these courts. azerbaijan ' s system of governance nominally can be called two - tiered. the top or highest tier of the government is the executive power headed by president. the president appoints the cabinet of ministers and other high - ranking officials. the local executive authority is merely a continuation of executive power. the provision determines the legal status of local state administration in azerbaijan on local executive authority ( yerli icra hakimiyati ), adopted 16 june 1999. in june 2012, the president approved the new regulation, which granted additional powers to local executive authorities, strengthening their dominant position in azerbaijan ' s local affairs the security council is the deliberative body under the president, and he organizes it according to the constitution. it was established on 10 april 1997. the administrative department is not a part of the president ' s office but manages the financial, technical and pecuniary activities of both the president and his office. foreign relations the short - lived azerbaijan democratic republic succeeded in establishing diplomatic relations with six countries, sending diplomatic representatives to germany and finland. the process of international recognition of azerbaijan ' s independence from the collapsing soviet union lasted roughly one year. the most recent country to recognize azerbaijan was bahrain, on 6 november 1996. full diplomatic relations, including mutual exchanges of missions, were first established with turkey, pakistan, the united states, iran and israel. azerbaijan has placed a particular emphasis on its " special relationship " with turkey. azerbaijan has diplomatic relations with 158 countries so far and holds membership in 38 international organizations. it holds observer status in