( feass ), which is structurally related to iron pyrite. many minor as - containing minerals are known. arsenic also occurs in various organic forms in the environment. in 2014, china was the top producer of white arsenic with almost 70 % world share, followed by morocco, russia, and belgium, according to the british geological survey and the united states geological survey. most arsenic refinement operations in the us and europe have closed over environmental concerns. arsenic is found in the smelter dust from copper, gold, and lead smelters, and is recovered primarily from copper refinement dust. on roasting arsenopyrite in air, arsenic sublimes as arsenic ( iii ) oxide leaving iron oxides, while roasting without air results in the production of gray arsenic. further purification from sulfur and other chalcogens is achieved by sublimation in vacuum, in a hydrogen atmosphere, or by distillation from molten lead - arsenic mixture. history the word arsenic has its origin in the syriac word zarnika, from arabic al - zarnik ' the orpiment ', based on persian zar ( " gold " ) from the word zarnikh, meaning " yellow " ( literally " gold - colored " ) and hence " ( yellow ) orpiment ". it was adopted into greek ( using folk etymology ) as arsenikon ( ) – a neuter form of the greek adjective arsenikos ( ), meaning " male ", " virile ". latin - speakers adopted the greek term as, which in french ultimately became, whence the english word " arsenic ". arsenic sulfides ( orpiment, realgar ) and oxides have been known and used since ancient times. zosimos ( ) describes roasting sandarach ( realgar ) to obtain cloud of arsenic ( arsenic trioxide ), which he then reduces to gray arsenic. as the symptoms of arsenic poisoning are not very specific, the substance was frequently used for murder until the advent in the 1830s of the marsh test, a sensitive chemical test for its presence. ( another less sensitive but more general test is the reinsch test. ) owing to its use by the ruling class to murder one another and its potency and discreetness, arsenic has been called the " poison of kings " and the " king of poisons ". arsenic became known as " the inheritance powder " due to its use in killing family members in the renaissance era. during the bronze age, arsenic was often included in the manufacture