longer c hexagonal axis. the enthalpy of dissolution of americium metal in hydrochloric acid at standard conditions is, from which the standard enthalpy change of formation ( δfh° ) of aqueous am3 + ion is. the standard potential am3 + / am0 is. chemical properties americium metal readily reacts with oxygen and dissolves in aqueous acids. the most stable oxidation state for americium is + 3. the chemistry of americium ( iii ) has many similarities to the chemistry of lanthanide ( iii ) compounds. for example, trivalent americium forms insoluble fluoride, oxalate, iodate, hydroxide, phosphate and other salts. compounds of americium in oxidation states 2, 4, 5, 6 and 7 have also been studied. this is the widest range that has been observed with actinide elements. the color of americium compounds in aqueous solution is as follows : am3 + ( yellow - reddish ), am4 + ( yellow - reddish ), ; ( yellow ), ( brown ) and ( dark green ). the absorption spectra have sharp peaks, due to f - f transitions ' in the visible and near - infrared regions. typically, am ( iii ) has absorption maxima at ca. 504 and 811 nm, am ( v ) at ca. 514 and 715 nm, and am ( vi ) at ca. 666 and 992 nm. americium compounds with oxidation state + 4 and higher are strong oxidizing agents, comparable in strength to the permanganate ion ( ) in acidic solutions. whereas the am4 + ions are unstable in solutions and readily convert to am3 +, compounds such as americium dioxide ( amo2 ) and americium ( iv ) fluoride ( amf4 ) are stable in the solid state. the pentavalent oxidation state of americium was first observed in 1951. in acidic aqueous solution the ion is unstable with respect to disproportionation. the reaction is typical. the chemistry of am ( v ) and am ( vi ) is comparable to the chemistry of uranium in those oxidation states. in particular, compounds like and are comparable to uranates and the ion is comparable to the uranyl ion,. such compounds can be prepared by oxidation of am ( iii ) in dilute nitric acid with ammonium persulfat