literature and the arts. etymology the word alchemy comes from old french alquemie, alkimie, used in medieval latin as. this name was itself adopted from the arabic word ( ). the arabic in turn was a borrowing of the late greek term khemeia ( ), also spelled khumeia ( ) and khemia ( ), with al - being the arabic definite article ' the '. together this association can be interpreted as ' the process of transmutation by which to fuse or reunite with the divine or original form '. several etymologies have been proposed for the greek term. the first was proposed by zosimos of panopolis ( 3rd – 4th centuries ), who derived it from the name of a book, the khemeu. hermann diels argued in 1914 that it rather derived from χυμα, used to describe metallic objects formed by casting. others trace its roots to the egyptian name ( hieroglyphic ), meaning ' black earth ', which refers to the fertile and auriferous soil of the nile valley, as opposed to red desert sand. according to the egyptologist wallis budge, the arabic word ʾ actually means " the egyptian [ science ] ", borrowing from the coptic word for " egypt ", ( or its equivalent in the mediaeval bohairic dialect of coptic, ). this coptic word derives from demotic, itself from ancient egyptian. the ancient egyptian word referred to both the country and the colour " black " ( egypt was the " black land ", by contrast with the " red land ", the surrounding desert ). history alchemy encompasses several philosophical traditions spanning some four millennia and three continents. these traditions ' general penchant for cryptic and symbolic language makes it hard to trace their mutual influences and " genetic " relationships. one can distinguish at least three major strands, which appear to be mostly independent, at least in their earlier stages : chinese alchemy, centered in china ; indian alchemy, centered on the indian subcontinent ; and western alchemy, which occurred around the mediterranean and whose center shifted over the millennia from greco - roman egypt to the islamic world, and finally medieval europe. chinese alchemy was closely connected to taoism and indian alchemy with the dharmic faiths. in contrast, western alchemy developed its philosophical system mostly independent of but influenced by various western religions. it is still an open question whether these three strands share a common origin, or to what extent they