ashbury hippie community. on january 17, 1967, ginsberg helped plan and organize a reception for bhaktivedanta swami at san francisco international airport, where fifty to a hundred hippies greeted the swami, chanting hare krishna in the airport lounge with flowers in hands. to further support and promote bhaktivendata swami ' s message and chanting in san francisco, allen ginsberg agreed to attend the mantra - rock dance, a musical event 1967 held at the avalon ballroom by the san francisco hare krishna temple. it featured some leading rock bands of the time : big brother and the holding company with janis joplin, the grateful dead, and moby grape, who performed there along with the hare krishna founder bhaktivedanta swami and donated proceeds to the krishna temple. ginsberg introduced bhaktivedanta swami to some three thousand hippies in the audience and led the chanting of the hare krishna mantra. music and chanting were both important parts of ginsberg ' s live delivery during poetry readings. he often accompanied himself on a harmonium, and was often accompanied by a guitarist. it is believed that the hindi and buddhist poet nagarjun had introduced ginsberg to the harmonium in banaras. according to malay roy choudhury, ginsberg refined his practice while learning from his relatives, including his cousin savitri banerjee. when ginsberg asked if he could sing a song in praise of lord krishna on william f. buckley, jr. ' s tv show firing line on september 3, 1968, buckley acceded and the poet chanted slowly as he played dolefully on a harmonium. according to richard brookhiser, an associate of buckley ' s, the host commented that it was " the most unharried krishna i ' ve ever heard. " at the 1967 human be - in in san francisco ' s golden gate park, the 1968 democratic national convention in chicago, and the 1970 black panther rally at yale campus allen chanted " om " repeatedly over a sound system for hours on end. ginsberg further brought mantras into the world of rock and roll when he recited the heart sutra in the song " ghetto defendant. " the song appears on the 1982 album combat rock by british first wave punk band the clash. ginsberg came in touch with the hungryalist poets of bengal, especially malay roy choudhury, who introduced ginsberg to the three fish with one head of indian emperor jalaluddin mohammad akbar. the three fish symbolised coexistence of all