a disease by the reading of a few pages from quintus curtius rufus ' history of alexander the great. although this reputed erudition attracted scholars to his court, alfonso apparently enjoyed pitting them against each other in spectacles of bawdy latin rhetoric. after his conquest of naples in 1442, alfonso ruled primarily through his mercenaries and political lackeys. in his italian kingdom, he maintained the former political and administrative institutions. his holdings in spain were governed by his wife maria. a unified general chancellorship for the whole aragonese realm was set up in naples, although the main functionaries were of aragonese nationality. apart from financial, administrative and artistic improvements, his other accomplishments in the sicilian kingdom include the restoration of the aqueducts, the drainage of marshy areas, and the paving of streets. alfonso founded the first university of sicily, the siciliae studium generale. later life alfonso was also a powerful and faithful supporter of skanderbeg, whom he decided to take under his protection as a vassal in 1451, shortly after the latter had scored his second victory against murad ii. in addition to financial assistance, he supplied the albanian leader with troops, military equipment, and sanctuary for himself and his family if such a need should arise. this was because in 1448, while skanderbeg was fighting off the turkish invasions, three military columns, commanded by demetrio reres along with his sons giorgio and basilio, had been dispatched to help alfonso v defeat the barons of naples who had rebelled against him. he also supported bosnian duke, stjepan vukcic kosaca, who turned to the king for help in his affairs in bosnia. alfonso made him " knight of the virgin ", but did not provide any troops. on 15 february 1444, stjepan signed a treaty with the king of aragon and naples, becoming his vassal in exchange for alfonso ' s help against his enemies — stephen thomas and ivanis pavlovic ( 1441 – 1450 ) of the pavlovic noble family as well as the republic of venice. in the same treaty, stjepan promised to pay alfonso regular tribute instead of paying the ottoman sultan as he had done until then. alfonso, by formally submitting his reign to the papacy, obtained the consent of pope eugene iv that the kingdom of naples would go to his illegitimate son, ferdinand. he died in castel dell ' ovo in 1458, while he was planning the conquest of genoa. at the time, alfonso