##tel pay tv service is also available via cable or satellite to the entire metropolitan area. all the major broadcasting networks also operate online on - demand television services, alongside internet - only services such as stan, fetch tv, netflix, youtube, disney +, and kayo sports. radio there are 20 radio stations that serve the metropolitan area, as well as four stations that serve only parts of the metropolitan area ; six commercial stations, six community stations, six national stations and two narrowcast stations. dab + digital radio has been broadcasting in metropolitan adelaide since 20 may 2009, and currently offers a choice of 41 stations all operated by the existing licensed radio broadcasters, which includes high - quality simulcast of all am and fm stations. sport the main sports played professionally in adelaide are australian rules football, soccer, cricket, netball, and basketball. adelaide is the home of two australian football league teams : the adelaide football club and port adelaide football club, and one a - league soccer team, adelaide united. a local australian rules football league, the south australian national football league ( sanfl ), is made up of 10 teams from around adelaide. the sanfl has been in operation since 1877 when it began as the south australian football association ( safa ) before changing its name to the sanfl in 1927. the sanfl is the oldest surviving football league of any code played in australia. adelaide has developed a strong culture of attracting crowds to major sporting events. until the completion of the 2012 – 14 renovation and upgrade of the adelaide oval, most large sporting events took place at either football park ( the then home base of the adelaide crows, and the then port adelaide home game venue ), or the historic adelaide oval, home of the south australia redbacks and the adelaide strikers cricket teams. since completion of the upgrade, home games for adelaide crows and port adelaide now take place at adelaide oval. since 1884, adelaide oval has also hosted an international cricket test every summer, along with a number of one day international cricket matches. memorial drive park, adjacent to the adelaide oval, used to host davis cup and other major tennis events, including the australian open and the adelaide international. adelaide ' s professional association football team, adelaide united, play in the a - league. founded in 2003, their home ground is hindmarsh stadium, which has a capacity of 17, 000 and is one of the few purpose - built soccer stadia in australia. prior to united ' s foundation, adelaide city and west adelaide represented the city in the national soccer league. the two sides, which