breed and less athletic vs more athletic would probably be somewhat more successful ( fair fit ). the heaviest show dogs are likely to be big, strong, working breeds, while breeds kept as pets tend to be smaller and thus lighter. as shown by the second illustration, the distributions have variances that are considerably smaller than in the first case, and the means are more distinguishable. however, the significant overlap of distributions, for example, means that we cannot distinguish x1 and x2 reliably. grouping dogs according to a coin flip might produce distributions that look similar. an attempt to explain weight by breed is likely to produce a very good fit. all chihuahuas are light and all st bernards are heavy. the difference in weights between setters and pointers does not justify separate breeds. the analysis of variance provides the formal tools to justify these intuitive judgments. a common use of the method is the analysis of experimental data or the development of models. the method has some advantages over correlation : not all of the data must be numeric and one result of the method is a judgment in the confidence in an explanatory relationship. classes of models there are three classes of models used in the analysis of variance, and these are outlined here. fixed - effects models the fixed - effects model ( class i ) of analysis of variance applies to situations in which the experimenter applies one or more treatments to the subjects of the experiment to see whether the response variable values change. this allows the experimenter to estimate the ranges of response variable values that the treatment would generate in the population as a whole. random - effects models random - effects model ( class ii ) is used when the treatments are not fixed. this occurs when the various factor levels are sampled from a larger population. because the levels themselves are random variables, some assumptions and the method of contrasting the treatments ( a multi - variable generalization of simple differences ) differ from the fixed - effects model. mixed - effects models a mixed - effects model ( class iii ) contains experimental factors of both fixed and random - effects types, with appropriately different interpretations and analysis for the two types. example teaching experiments could be performed by a college or university department to find a good introductory textbook, with each text considered a treatment. the fixed - effects model would compare a list of candidate texts. the random - effects model would determine whether important differences exist among a list of randomly selected texts. the mixed - effects model would compare the ( fixed ) incumbent texts to randomly selected alternatives. defining fixed and random effects has proven elusive