second - hand evidence suggests that he might have been born at another uncle ' s home in north carolina. when jackson was young, elizabeth thought he might become a minister and paid to have him schooled by a local clergyman. he learned to read, write, work with numbers, and was exposed to greek and latin, but he was too strong - willed and hot - tempered for the ministry. revolutionary war jackson and his older brothers, hugh and robert, served on the patriot side against british forces during the american revolutionary war. hugh served under colonel william richardson davie, dying from heat exhaustion after the battle of stono ferry in june 1779. after anti - british sentiment intensified in the southern colonies following the waxhaws massacre in may 1780, elizabeth encouraged andrew and robert to participate in militia drills. they served as couriers and scouts, and participated with davie in the battle of hanging rock in august 1780. andrew and robert were captured in april 1781 when the british occupied the home of a crawford relative. a british officer demanded to have his boots polished. andrew refused, and the major slashed him with a sword, leaving him with scars on his left hand and head. robert also refused and was struck a blow on the head. the brothers were taken to a prisoner - of - war camp in camden, south carolina, where they became malnourished and contracted smallpox. in late spring, the brothers were released to their mother in a prisoner exchange. robert died two days after arriving home, but elizabeth was able to nurse andrew back to health. once he recovered, elizabeth volunteered to nurse american prisoners of war housed in british prison ships in the harbor of charleston, south carolina. she contracted cholera and died soon afterwards. the war not only made jackson an orphan at age 14, but led him to despise values he associated with britain, in particular aristocracy and political privilege. early career legal career and marriage after the american revolutionary war, jackson worked as a saddler, briefly returned to school, and taught reading and writing to children. in 1784, he left the waxhaws region for salisbury, north carolina, where he studied law under attorney spruce macay. he completed his training under john stokes, and was admitted to the north carolina bar in september 1787. shortly thereafter, his friend john mcnairy helped him get appointed as a prosecuting attorney in the western district of north carolina, which would later become the state of tennessee. while traveling to assume his new position, jackson stopped in jonesborough. while there, he bought his first slave