articles to indicate that their states had ratified. new jersey, delaware and maryland could not, since their states had not ratified. north carolina and georgia also were unable to sign that day, since their delegations were absent. after the first signing, some delegates signed at the next meeting they attended. for example, john wentworth of new hampshire added his name on august 8. john penn was the first of north carolina ' s delegates to arrive ( on july 10 ), and the delegation signed the articles on july 21, 1778. the other states had to wait until they ratified the articles and notified their congressional delegation. georgia signed on july 24, new jersey on november 26, and delaware on february 12, 1779. maryland refused to ratify the articles until every state had ceded its western land claims. chevalier de la luzerne, french minister to the united states, felt that the articles would help strengthen the american government. in 1780, when maryland requested france provide naval forces in the chesapeake bay for protection from the british ( who were conducting raids in the lower part of the bay ), he indicated that french admiral destouches would do what he could but la luzerne also " sharply pressed " maryland to ratify the articles, thus suggesting the two issues were related. on february 2, 1781, the much - awaited decision was taken by the maryland general assembly in annapolis. as the last piece of business during the afternoon session, " among engrossed bills " was " signed and sealed by governor thomas sim lee in the senate chamber, in the presence of the members of both houses... an act to empower the delegates of this state in congress to subscribe and ratify the articles of confederation " and perpetual union among the states. the senate then adjourned " to the first monday in august next. " the decision of maryland to ratify the articles was reported to the continental congress on february 12. the confirmation signing of the articles by the two maryland delegates took place in philadelphia at noon time on march 1, 1781, and was celebrated in the afternoon. with these events, the articles were entered into force and the united states of america came into being as a sovereign federal state. congress had debated the articles for over a year and a half, and the ratification process had taken nearly three and a half years. many participants in the original debates were no longer delegates, and some of the signers had only recently arrived. the articles of confederation and perpetual union were signed by a group of men who were never present in the congress at