runoff from farms. when subsequently harvested, the enriched algae can be used as fertilizer. aquaria and ponds can be filtered using algae, which absorb nutrients from the water in a device called an algae scrubber, also known as an algae turf scrubber. agricultural research service scientists found that 60 – 90 % of nitrogen runoff and 70 – 100 % of phosphorus runoff can be captured from manure effluents using a horizontal algae scrubber, also called an algal turf scrubber ( ats ). scientists developed the ats, which consists of shallow, 100 - foot raceways of nylon netting where algae colonies can form, and studied its efficacy for three years. they found that algae can readily be used to reduce the nutrient runoff from agricultural fields and increase the quality of water flowing into rivers, streams, and oceans. researchers collected and dried the nutrient - rich algae from the ats and studied its potential as an organic fertilizer. they found that cucumber and corn seedlings grew just as well using ats organic fertilizer as they did with commercial fertilizers. algae scrubbers, using bubbling upflow or vertical waterfall versions, are now also being used to filter aquaria and ponds. polymers various polymers can be created from algae, which can be especially useful in the creation of bioplastics. these include hybrid plastics, cellulose - based plastics, poly - lactic acid, and bio - polyethylene. several companies have begun to produce algae polymers commercially, including for use in flip - flops and in surf boards. bioremediation the alga stichococcus bacillaris has been seen to colonize silicone resins used at archaeological sites ; biodegrading the synthetic substance. pigments the natural pigments ( carotenoids and chlorophylls ) produced by algae can be used as alternatives to chemical dyes and coloring agents. the presence of some individual algal pigments, together with specific pigment concentration ratios, are taxon - specific : analysis of their concentrations with various analytical methods, particularly high - performance liquid chromatography, can therefore offer deep insight into the taxonomic composition and relative abundance of natural algae populations in sea water samples. stabilizing substances carrageenan, from the red alga chondrus crispus, is used as a stabilizer in milk products. additional images see also algaebase algaeparc eutrophication iron fertilization marimo algae microbiofuels microphyte photo