federations of azerbaijan with 9, 122 registered players, is the largest sporting association in the country. the national football team of azerbaijan demonstrates relatively low performance in the international arena compared to the nation football clubs. the most successful azerbaijani football clubs are neftci, qarabag, and gabala. in 2012, neftchi baku became the first azerbaijani team to advance to the group stage of a european competition, beating apoel of cyprus 4 – 2 on aggregate in the play - off round of the 2012 – 13 uefa europa league. in 2014, qarabag became the second azerbaijani club advancing to the group stage of uefa europa league. in 2017, after beating copenhagen 2 – 2 ( a ) in the play - off round of the uefa champions league, qarabag became the first azerbaijani club to reach the group stage. futsal is another popular sport in azerbaijan. the azerbaijan national futsal team reached fourth place in the 2010 uefa futsal championship, while domestic club araz naxcivan clinched bronze medals at the 2009 – 10 uefa futsal cup and 2013 – 14 uefa futsal cup. azerbaijan was the main sponsor of spanish football club atletico de madrid during seasons 2013 / 2014 and 2014 / 2015, a partnership that the club described should ' promote the image of azerbaijan in the world '. azerbaijan is one of the traditional powerhouses of world chess, having hosted many international chess tournaments and competitions and became european team chess championship winners in 2009, 2013 and 2017. notable chess players from the country ' s chess schools that have made a great impact on the game include teimour radjabov, shahriyar mammadyarov, vladimir makogonov, vugar gashimov and former world chess champion garry kasparov., country ' s home of shamkir chess a category 22 event and one of the highest rated tournaments of all time. backgammon also plays a major role in azerbaijani culture. the game is very popular in azerbaijan and is widely played among the local public. there are also different variations of backgammon developed and analyzed by azerbaijani experts. azerbaijan women ' s volleyball super league is one of the strongest women leagues in the world. its women ' s national team came fourth at the 2005 european championship. over the last years, clubs like rabita baku and azerrail baku achieved great success at european cups. azerbaijani volleyball players include likes of valeriya korotenko, oksana parkhomenko, inessa korkmaz, natalya mammadova, and alla hasan