##rs support predefined macros, and others support programmer - defined ( and repeatedly re - definable ) macros involving sequences of text lines in which variables and constants are embedded. the macro definition is most commonly a mixture of assembler statements, e. g., directives, symbolic machine instructions, and templates for assembler statements. this sequence of text lines may include opcodes or directives. once a macro has been defined its name may be used in place of a mnemonic. when the assembler processes such a statement, it replaces the statement with the text lines associated with that macro, then processes them as if they existed in the source code file ( including, in some assemblers, expansion of any macros existing in the replacement text ). macros in this sense date to ibm autocoders of the 1950s. macro assemblers typically have directives to, e. g., define macros, define variables, set variables to the result of an arithmetic, logical or string expression, iterate, conditionally generate code. some of those directives may be restricted to use within a macro definition, e. g., mexit in hlasm, while others may be permitted within open code ( outside macro definitions ), e. g., aif and copy in hlasm. in assembly language, the term " macro " represents a more comprehensive concept than it does in some other contexts, such as the pre - processor in the c programming language, where its # define directive typically is used to create short single line macros. assembler macro instructions, like macros in pl / i and some other languages, can be lengthy " programs " by themselves, executed by interpretation by the assembler during assembly. since macros can have ' short ' names but expand to several or indeed many lines of code, they can be used to make assembly language programs appear to be far shorter, requiring fewer lines of source code, as with higher level languages. they can also be used to add higher levels of structure to assembly programs, optionally introduce embedded debugging code via parameters and other similar features. macro assemblers often allow macros to take parameters. some assemblers include quite sophisticated macro languages, incorporating such high - level language elements as optional parameters, symbolic variables, conditionals, string manipulation, and arithmetic operations, all usable during the execution of a given macro, and allowing macros to save context or exchange information. thus a macro might generate numerous assembly language instructions or