. these epigenetic events have been studied in vitro using human kidney cells and in vivo using rat liver cells and peripheral blood leukocytes in humans. inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry ( icp - ms ) is used to detect precise levels of intracellular arsenic and other arsenic bases involved in epigenetic modification of dna. studies investigating arsenic as an epigenetic factor can be used to develop precise biomarkers of exposure and susceptibility. the chinese brake fern ( pteris vittata ) hyperaccumulates arsenic from the soil into its leaves and has a proposed use in phytoremediation. biomethylation inorganic arsenic and its compounds, upon entering the food chain, are progressively metabolized through a process of methylation. for example, the mold scopulariopsis brevicaulis produces trimethylarsine if inorganic arsenic is present. the organic compound arsenobetaine is found in some marine foods such as fish and algae, and also in mushrooms in larger concentrations. the average person ' s intake is about 10 – 50 µg / day. values about 1000 µg are not unusual following consumption of fish or mushrooms, but there is little danger in eating fish because this arsenic compound is nearly non - toxic. environmental issues exposure naturally occurring sources of human exposure include volcanic ash, weathering of minerals and ores, and mineralized groundwater. arsenic is also found in food, water, soil, and air. arsenic is absorbed by all plants, but is more concentrated in leafy vegetables, rice, apple and grape juice, and seafood. an additional route of exposure is inhalation of atmospheric gases and dusts. during the victorian era, arsenic was widely used in home decor, especially wallpapers. occurrence in drinking water extensive arsenic contamination of groundwater has led to widespread arsenic poisoning in bangladesh and neighboring countries. it is estimated that approximately 57 million people in the bengal basin are drinking groundwater with arsenic concentrations elevated above the world health organization ' s standard of 10 parts per billion ( ppb ). however, a study of cancer rates in taiwan suggested that significant increases in cancer mortality appear only at levels above 150 ppb. the arsenic in the groundwater is of natural origin, and is released from the sediment into the groundwater, caused by the anoxic conditions of the subsurface. this groundwater was used after local and western ngos and the bangladeshi government undertook a massive shallow tube well drinking - water program in the late twentieth century. this program was designed to prevent