, and fear of kennedy ' s support for webb. nasa announced the selection of grumman as the lem contractor in november 1962. space historian james hansen concludes that : the lor method had the advantage of allowing the lander spacecraft to be used as a " lifeboat " in the event of a failure of the command ship. some documents prove this theory was discussed before and after the method was chosen. in 1964 an msc study concluded, " the lm [ as lifeboat ]... was finally dropped, because no single reasonable csm failure could be identified that would prohibit use of the sps. " ironically, just such a failure happened on apollo 13 when an oxygen tank explosion left the csm without electrical power. the lunar module provided propulsion, electrical power and life support to get the crew home safely. spacecraft faget ' s preliminary apollo design employed a cone - shaped command module, supported by one of several service modules providing propulsion and electrical power, sized appropriately for the space station, cislunar, and lunar landing missions. once kennedy ' s moon landing goal became official, detailed design began of a command and service module ( csm ) in which the crew would spend the entire direct - ascent mission and lift off from the lunar surface for the return trip, after being soft - landed by a larger landing propulsion module. the final choice of lunar orbit rendezvous changed the csm ' s role to the translunar ferry used to transport the crew, along with a new spacecraft, the lunar excursion module ( lem, later shortened to lm ( lunar module ) but still pronounced ) which would take two individuals to the lunar surface and return them to the csm. command and service module the command module ( cm ) was the conical crew cabin, designed to carry three astronauts from launch to lunar orbit and back to an earth ocean landing. it was the only component of the apollo spacecraft to survive without major configuration changes as the program evolved from the early apollo study designs. its exterior was covered with an ablative heat shield, and had its own reaction control system ( rcs ) engines to control its attitude and steer its atmospheric entry path. parachutes were carried to slow its descent to splashdown. the module was tall, in diameter, and weighed approximately. a cylindrical service module ( sm ) supported the command module, with a service propulsion engine and an rcs with propellants, and a fuel cell power generation system with liquid hydrogen and liquid oxygen reactants. a high - gain s - band antenna was used for long -