called the " poison of kings " and the " king of poisons ". arsenic became known as " the inheritance powder " due to its use in killing family members in the renaissance era. during the bronze age, arsenic was often included in the manufacture of bronze, making the alloy harder ( so - called " arsenical bronze " ). jabir ibn hayyan described the isolation of arsenic before 815 ad. albertus magnus ( albert the great, 1193 – 1280 ) later isolated the element from a compound in 1250, by heating soap together with arsenic trisulfide. in 1649, johann schroder published two ways of preparing arsenic. crystals of elemental ( native ) arsenic are found in nature, although rarely. cadet ' s fuming liquid ( impure cacodyl ), often claimed as the first synthetic organometallic compound, was synthesized in 1760 by louis claude cadet de gassicourt through the reaction of potassium acetate with arsenic trioxide. in the victorian era, women would eat " arsenic " ( " white arsenic " or arsenic trioxide ) mixed with vinegar and chalk to improve the complexion of their faces, making their skin paler ( to show they did not work in the fields ). the accidental use of arsenic in the adulteration of foodstuffs led to the bradford sweet poisoning in 1858, which resulted in 21 deaths. from the late - 18th century wallpaper production began to use dyes made from arsenic, which was thought to increase the pigment ' s brightness. one account of the illness and 1821 death of napoleon i implicates arsenic poisoning involving wallpaper. two arsenic pigments have been widely used since their discovery – paris green in 1814 and scheele ' s green in 1775. after the toxicity of arsenic became widely known, these chemicals were used less often as pigments and more often as insecticides. in the 1860s, an arsenic byproduct of dye production, london purple, was widely used. this was a solid mixture of arsenic trioxide, aniline, lime, and ferrous oxide, insoluble in water and very toxic by inhalation or ingestion but it was later replaced with paris green, another arsenic - based dye. with better understanding of the toxicology mechanism, two other compounds were used starting in the 1890s. arsenite of lime and arsenate of lead were used widely as insecticides until the discovery of ddt in 1942. applications agricultural the toxicity of arsenic to insects, bacteria, and fungi led to