pallium, the symbol of an archbishop ' s authority. journeying with him was tostig, another son of earl godwin, who was now earl of northumbria. william of malmesbury says that ealdred, by " amusing the simplicity of king edward and alleging the custom of his predecessors, had acquired, more by bribery than by reason, the archbishopric of york while still holding his former see. " on his arrival in rome, however, charges of simony, or the buying of ecclesiastical office, and lack of learning were brought against him, and his elevation to york was refused by pope nicholas ii, who also deposed him from worcester. the story of ealdred being deposed comes from the vita edwardi, a life of edward the confessor, but the vita wulfstani, an account of the life of ealdred ' s successor at worcester, wulfstan, says nicholas refused the pallium until a promise to find a replacement for worcester was given by ealdred. yet another chronicler, john of worcester, mentions nothing of any trouble in rome, and when discussing the appointment of wulfstan, says wulfstan was elected freely and unanimously by the clergy and people. john of worcester also claims that at wulfstan ' s consecration, stigand, the archbishop of canterbury extracted a promise from ealdred that neither he nor his successors would lay claim to any jurisdiction over the diocese of worcester. given that john of worcester wrote his chronicle after the eruption of the canterbury – york supremacy struggle, the story of ealdred renouncing any claims to worcester needs to be considered suspect. for whatever reason, ealdred gave up the see of worcester in 1062, when papal legates arrived in england to hold a council and make sure ealdred relinquished worcester. this happened at easter in 1062. ealdred was succeeded by wulfstan, chosen by ealdred, but john of worcester relates that ealdred had a hard time deciding between wulfstan and æthelwig. the legates had urged the selection of wulfstan because of his saintliness. because the position of stigand, the archbishop of canterbury, was irregular, wulfstan sought and received consecration as a bishop from ealdred. normally, wulfstan would have gone to the archbishop of canterbury, as the see of worcester was within canterbury ' s province. although ealdred gave up the bishopric, the appointment of wulfstan was one that allowed