the carbon cycle, with carbon being released back into the atmosphere after having been fixed by photosynthesis. it is probable that our current deposits of natural gas were formed in a similar way. fungi and plants alkanes also play a role, if a minor role, in the biology of the three eukaryotic groups of organisms : fungi, plants, and animals. some specialized yeasts, e. g., candida tropicale, pichia sp., rhodotorula sp., can use alkanes as a source of carbon or energy. the fungus amorphotheca resinae prefers the longer - chain alkanes in aviation fuel, and can cause serious problems for aircraft in tropical regions. in plants, the solid long - chain alkanes are found in the plant cuticle and epicuticular wax of many species, but are only rarely major constituents. they protect the plant against water loss, prevent the leaching of important minerals by the rain, and protect against bacteria, fungi, and harmful insects. the carbon chains in plant alkanes are usually odd - numbered, between 27 and 33 carbon atoms in length, and are made by the plants by decarboxylation of even - numbered fatty acids. the exact composition of the layer of wax is not only species - dependent but also changes with the season and such environmental factors as lighting conditions, temperature or humidity. more volatile short - chain alkanes are also produced by and found in plant tissues. the jeffrey pine is noted for producing exceptionally high levels of n - heptane in its resin, for which reason its distillate was designated as the zero point for one octane rating. floral scents have also long been known to contain volatile alkane components, and n - nonane is a significant component in the scent of some roses. emission of gaseous and volatile alkanes such as ethane, pentane, and hexane by plants has also been documented at low levels, though they are not generally considered to be a major component of biogenic air pollution. edible vegetable oils also typically contain small fractions of biogenic alkanes with a wide spectrum of carbon numbers, mainly 8 to 35, usually peaking in the low to upper 20s, with concentrations up to dozens of milligrams per kilogram ( parts per million by weight ) and sometimes over a hundred for the total alkane fraction. animals alkanes are found in animal products, although they are less important than unsatura