( adls ), rest and sleep, education, work, play, leisure and social participation. occupational therapists have the specialized skill of employing assistive technology ( at ) in the improvement and maintenance of optimal, functional participation in occupations. the application of at enables an individual to adapt aspects of the environment, that may otherwise be challenging, to the user in order to optimize functional participation in those occupations. as a result, occupational therapists may educate, recommend, and promote the use of at to improve the quality of life for their clients. mobility impairments wheelchairs wheelchairs are devices that can be manually propelled or electrically propelled, and that include a seating system and are designed to be a substitute for the normal mobility that most people have. wheelchairs and other mobility devices allow people to perform mobility - related activities of daily living which include feeding, toileting, dressing, grooming, and bathing. the devices come in a number of variations where they can be propelled either by hand or by motors where the occupant uses electrical controls to manage motors and seating control actuators through a joystick, sip - and - puff control, head switches or other input devices. often there are handles behind the seat for someone else to do the pushing or input devices for caregivers. wheelchairs are used by people for whom walking is difficult or impossible due to illness, injury, or disability. people with both sitting and walking disability often need to use a wheelchair or walker. newer advancements in wheelchair design enable wheelchairs to climb stairs, go off - road or propel using segway technology or additional add - ons like handbikes or power assists. transfer devices patient transfer devices generally allow patients with impaired mobility to be moved by caregivers between beds, wheelchairs, commodes, toilets, chairs, stretchers, shower benches, automobiles, swimming pools, and other patient support systems ( i. e., radiology, surgical, or examining tables ). the most common devices are transfer benches, stretcher or convertible chairs ( for lateral, supine transfer ), sit - to - stand lifts ( for moving patients from one seated position to another i. e., from wheelchairs to commodes ), air bearing inflatable mattresses ( for supine transfer i. e., transfer from a gurney to an operating room table ), gait belts ( or transfer belt ) and a slider board ( or transfer board ), usually used for transfer from a bed to a wheelchair or