, 687, 837 ( gbp ) at the time. in 2012, the capital was worth around sek 3. 1 billion ( us $ 472 million, eur 337 million ), which is almost twice the amount of the initial capital, taking inflation into account. the first three of these prizes are awarded for eminence in physical science, in chemistry and in medical science or physiology ; the fourth is for literary work " in an ideal direction " and the fifth prize is to be given to the person or society that renders the greatest service to the cause of international fraternity, in the suppression or reduction of standing armies, or in the establishment or furtherance of peace congresses. the formulation for the literary prize being given for a work " in an ideal direction " ( in swedish ), is cryptic and has caused much confusion. for many years, the swedish academy interpreted " ideal " as " idealistic " ( ) and used it as a reason not to give the prize to important but less romantic authors, such as henrik ibsen and leo tolstoy. this interpretation has since been revised, and the prize has been awarded to, for example, dario fo and jose saramago, who do not belong to the camp of literary idealism. there was room for interpretation by the bodies he had named for deciding on the physical sciences and chemistry prizes, given that he had not consulted them before making the will. in his one - page testament, he stipulated that the money go to discoveries or inventions in the physical sciences and to discoveries or improvements in chemistry. he had opened the door to technological awards, but had not left instructions on how to deal with the distinction between science and technology. since the deciding bodies he had chosen were more concerned with the former, the prizes went to scientists more often than engineers, technicians or other inventors. sweden ' s central bank sveriges riksbank celebrated its 300th anniversary in 1968 by donating a large sum of money to the nobel foundation to be used to set up a sixth prize in the field of economics in honor of alfred nobel. in 2001, alfred nobel ' s great - great - nephew, peter nobel ( born 1931 ), asked the bank of sweden to differentiate its award to economists given " in alfred nobel ' s memory " from the five other awards. this request added to the controversy over whether the bank of sweden prize in economic sciences in memory of alfred nobel is actually a legitimate " nobel prize ". death nobel was accused of high treason against france for selling ball