an initial, unstressed, reduced minor syllable followed by a stressed, full syllable. this reduction of presyllables has led to a variety of phonological shapes of the same original proto - austroasiatic prefixes, such as the causative prefix, ranging from cvc syllables to consonant clusters to single consonants among the modern languages. as for word formation, most austroasiatic languages have a variety of derivational prefixes, many have infixes, but suffixes are almost completely non - existent in most branches except munda, and a few specialized exceptions in other austroasiatic branches. the austroasiatic languages are further characterized as having unusually large vowel inventories and employing some sort of register contrast, either between modal ( normal ) voice and breathy ( lax ) voice or between modal voice and creaky voice. languages in the pearic branch and some in the vietic branch can have a three - or even four - way voicing contrast. however, some austroasiatic languages have lost the register contrast by evolving more diphthongs or in a few cases, such as vietnamese, tonogenesis. vietnamese has been so heavily influenced by chinese that its original austroasiatic phonological quality is obscured and now resembles that of south chinese languages, whereas khmer, which had more influence from sanskrit, has retained a more typically austroasiatic structure. proto - language much work has been done on the reconstruction of proto - mon – khmer in harry l. shorto ' s mon – khmer comparative dictionary. little work has been done on the munda languages, which are not well documented. with their demotion from a primary branch, proto - mon – khmer becomes synonymous with proto - austroasiatic. paul sidwell ( 2005 ) reconstructs the consonant inventory of proto - mon – khmer as follows : this is identical to earlier reconstructions except for. is better preserved in the katuic languages, which sidwell has specialized in. internal classification linguists traditionally recognize two primary divisions of austroasiatic : the mon – khmer languages of southeast asia, northeast india and the nicobar islands, and the munda languages of east and central india and parts of bangladesh and nepal. however, no evidence for this classification has ever been published. each of the families that is written in boldface type below is accepted as a valid clade. by contrast, the relationships between these families within austroasiatic are debated. in addition to the traditional classification, two recent proposals are given, neither of which