fort ticonderoga. under cover of darkness, on march 5, washington placed these on dorchester heights, from where they could fire on the town and british ships in boston harbor. fearing another bunker hill, howe evacuated the city on march 17 without further loss and sailed to halifax, nova scotia, while washington moved south to new york city. beginning in august 1775, american privateers raided towns in nova scotia, including saint john, charlottetown, and yarmouth. in 1776, john paul jones and jonathan eddy attacked canso and fort cumberland respectively. british officials in quebec began negotiating with the iroquois for their support, while us envoys urged them to remain neutral. aware of native american leanings toward the british and fearing an anglo - indian attack from canada, congress authorized a second invasion in april 1775. after defeat at the battle of quebec on december 31, the americans maintained a loose blockade of the city until they retreated on may 6, 1776. a second defeat at trois - rivieres on june 8 ended operations in quebec. british pursuit was initially blocked by american naval vessels on lake champlain until victory at valcour island on october 11 forced the americans to withdraw to fort ticonderoga, while in december an uprising in nova scotia sponsored by massachusetts was defeated at fort cumberland. these failures impacted public support for the patriot cause, and aggressive anti - loyalist policies in the new england colonies alienated the canadians. in virginia, an attempt by governor lord dunmore to seize militia stores on april 20, 1775, led to an increase in tension, although conflict was avoided for the time being. this changed after the publication of dunmore ' s proclamation on november 7, 1775, promising freedom to any slaves who fled their patriot masters and agreed to fight for the crown. british forces were defeated at great bridge on december 9 and took refuge on british ships anchored near the port of norfolk. when the third virginia convention refused to disband its militia or accept martial law, dunmore ordered the burning of norfolk on january 1, 1776. the siege of savage ' s old fields began on november 19 in south carolina between loyalist and patriot militias, and the loyalists were subsequently driven out of the colony in the snow campaign. loyalists were recruited in north carolina to reassert british rule in the south, but they were decisively defeated in the battle of moore ' s creek bridge. a british expedition sent to reconquer south carolina launched an attack on charleston in the battle of sullivan ' s island on june 28, 1776, but it failed and left