mosque. the church of the holy trinity ( built in 1870 ) stands at the southern end of the rue d ' isly near the site of the demolished fort bab azoun باب عزون. the interior is richly decorated with various coloured marbles. many of these marbles contain memorial inscriptions relating to the british residents ( voluntary and involuntary ) of algiers from the time of john tipton, the first english consul, in 1580 ( nb some sources give 1585 ). one tablet records that in 1631 two algerine pirate crews landed in ireland, sacked baltimore, and enslaved its inhabitants. the ketchaoua mosque ( djamaa ketchaoua جامع كتشاوة ), at the foot of the casbah, was before independence in 1962 the cathedral of st philippe, itself made in 1845 from a mosque dating from 1612. the principal entrance, reached by a flight of 23 steps, is ornamented with a portico supported by four black - veined marble columns. the roof of the nave is of moorish plaster work. it rests on a series of arcades supported by white marble columns. several of these columns belonged to the original mosque. in one of the chapels was a tomb containing the bones of geronimo. the building seems a curious blend of moorish and byzantine styles. algiers possesses a college with schools of law, medicine, science and letters. the college buildings are large and handsome. the bardo museum holds some of the ancient sculptures and mosaics discovered in algeria, together with medals and algerian money. the port of algiers is sheltered from all winds. there are two harbours, both artificial — the old or northern harbour and the southern or agha harbour. the northern harbour covers an area of. an opening in the south jetty affords an entrance into agha harbour, constructed in agha bay. agha harbour has also an independent entrance on its southern side. the inner harbour was begun in 1518 by khair - ad - din barbarossa ( see history, below ), who, to accommodated his pirate vessels, caused the island on which was fort penon to be connected with the mainland by a mole. the lighthouse which occupies the site of fort penon was built in 1544. algiers was a walled city from the time of the deys until the close of the 19th century. the french, after their occupation of the city ( 1830 ), built a rampart, parapet and ditch, with two terminal forts,