period was their separateness in the greek cities, the poleis. bohak has argued, however, that early animosity against the jews cannot be regarded as being anti - judaic or antisemitic unless it arose from attitudes that were held against the jews alone, and that many greeks showed animosity toward any group they regarded as barbarians. statements exhibiting prejudice against jews and their religion can be found in the works of many pagan greek and roman writers. edward flannery writes that it was the jews ' refusal to accept greek religious and social standards that marked them out. hecataetus of abdera, a greek historian of the early third century bce, wrote that moses " in remembrance of the exile of his people, instituted for them a misanthropic and inhospitable way of life. " manetho, an egyptian historian, wrote that the jews were expelled egyptian lepers who had been taught by moses " not to adore the gods. " edward flannery describes antisemitism in ancient times as essentially " cultural, taking the shape of a national xenophobia played out in political settings. " there are examples of hellenistic rulers desecrating the temple and banning jewish religious practices, such as circumcision, shabbat observance, the study of jewish religious books, etc. examples may also be found in anti - jewish riots in alexandria in the 3rd century bce. the jewish diaspora on the nile island elephantine, which was founded by mercenaries, experienced the destruction of its temple in 410 bce. relationships between the jewish people and the occupying roman empire were at times antagonistic and resulted in several rebellions. according to suetonius, the emperor tiberius expelled from rome jews who had gone to live there. the 18th - century english historian edward gibbon identified a more tolerant period in roman - jewish relations beginning in about 160 ce. however, when christianity became the state religion of the roman empire, the state ' s attitude towards the jews gradually worsened. james carroll asserted : " jews accounted for 10 % of the total population of the roman empire. by that ratio, if other factors such as pogroms and conversions had not intervened, there would be 200 million jews in the world today, instead of something like 13 million. " persecutions during the middle ages in the late 6th century ce, the newly catholicised visigothic kingdom in hispania issued a series of anti - jewish edicts which forbade jews from marrying christians, practicing circumcision,