moritz steinschneider to the views of ernest renan. as alex bein writes : " the compound anti - semitism appears to have been used first by steinschneider, who challenged renan on account of his ' anti - semitic prejudices ' [ i. e., his derogation of the " semites " as a race ]. " avner falk similarly writes : " the german word was first used in 1860 by the austrian jewish scholar moritz steinschneider ( 1816 – 1907 ) in the phrase antisemitische vorurteile ( antisemitic prejudices ). steinschneider used this phrase to characterise the french philosopher ernest renan ' s false ideas about how ' semitic races ' were inferior to ' aryan races. pseudoscientific theories concerning race, civilization, and " progress " had become quite widespread in europe in the second half of the 19th century, especially as prussian nationalistic historian heinrich von treitschke did much to promote this form of racism. he coined the phrase " the jews are our misfortune " which would later be widely used by nazis. according to avner falk, treitschke uses the term " semitic " almost synonymously with " jewish ", in contrast to renan ' s use of it to refer to a whole range of peoples, based generally on linguistic criteria. according to jonathan m. hess, the term was originally used by its authors to " stress the radical difference between their own ' antisemitism ' and earlier forms of antagonism toward jews and judaism. " in 1879, german journalist wilhelm marr published a pamphlet, ( the victory of the jewish spirit over the germanic spirit. observed from a non - religious perspective ) in which he used the word semitismus interchangeably with the word judentum to denote both " jewry " ( the jews as a collective ) and " jewishness " ( the quality of being jewish, or the jewish spirit ). this use of semitismus was followed by a coining of " antisemitismus " which was used to indicate opposition to the jews as a people and opposition to the jewish spirit, which marr interpreted as infiltrating german culture. his next pamphlet, ( the way to victory of the germanic spirit over the jewish spirit, 1880 ), presents a development of marr ' s ideas further and may present the first published use of the german word, " antisemitism ". the pamphlet became very popular,