. the arrangement mirrors the one designed by bernini for the tomb of urban viii ( 1628 – 47 ), with a central hieratic sculpture of the pope seated in full regalia and offering a hand of blessing, while at his feet, two allegorical female figures flank his sarcophagus. however, in bernini ' s tomb, the vigorous upraised arm and posture of the pope is counterbalanced by an active drama below, wherein the figures of charity and justice are either distracted by putti or lost in contemplation, while skeletal death actively writes the epitaph. algardi ' s tomb is much less dynamic. the allegorical figures of magnanimity and liberality have an impassive, ethereal dignity. some have identified the helmeted figure of magnanimity with that of athena and iconic images of wisdom. liberality resembles duquesnoy ' s famous santa susanna, but rendered more elegant. the tomb is somberly monotone and lacks the polychromatic excitement that detracts from the elegiac mood of urban viii ' s tomb. in 1635 – 38, pietro boncompagni commissioned from algardi a colossal statue of philip neri with kneeling angels for santa maria in vallicella, completed in 1640. immediately after this, algardi produced a sculptural group of the beheading of saint paul with two figures : a kneeling, resigned saint and the executioner poised to strike the sword - blow, for the church of san paolo, bologna. these works established his reputation, alongside two reliefs of the martyrdom of st paul and the rest on the flight into egypt ( a contemporary replica of the latter is now in the victoria and albert museum ). like bernini ' s characteristic works, they often express the baroque aesthetic of depicting dramatic attitudes and emotional expressions, yet algardi ' s sculpture has a restraining sobriety in contrast to those of his rival. papal favour under innocent x and spanish commissions with the death of the barberini pope urban viii in 1644 and the accession of the pamphilj pope innocent x, the barberini family and fell into disrepute, resulting in fewer commissions for bernini. algardi, on the other hand, was embraced by the new pope and the pope ' s nephew, camillo pamphilj. algardi ' s portraits were highly prized, and their formal severity contrasts with bernini ' s more vivacious expression. a large hieratic bronze of innocent x