. he argues that art is not only a way of expressing the element of truth in a culture, but the means of creating it and providing a springboard from which " that which is " can be revealed. works of art are not merely representations of the way things are, but actually produce a community ' s shared understanding. each time a new artwork is added to any culture, the meaning of what it is to exist is inherently changed. historically, art and artistic skills and ideas have often been spread through trade. an example of this is the silk road, where hellenistic, iranian, indian and chinese influences could mix. greco buddhist art is one of the most vivid examples of this interaction. the meeting of different cultures and worldviews also influenced artistic creation. an example of this is the multicultural port metropolis of trieste at the beginning of the 20th century, where james joyce met writers from central europe and the artistic development of new york city as a cultural melting pot. forms, genres, media, and styles the creative arts are often divided into more specific categories, typically along perceptually distinguishable categories such as media, genre, styles, and form. art form refers to the elements of art that are independent of its interpretation or significance. it covers the methods adopted by the artist and the physical composition of the artwork, primarily non - semantic aspects of the work ( i. e., figurae ), such as color, contour, dimension, medium, melody, space, texture, and value. form may also include visual design principles, such as arrangement, balance, contrast, emphasis, harmony, proportion, proximity, and rhythm. in general there are three schools of philosophy regarding art, focusing respectively on form, content, and context. extreme formalism is the view that all aesthetic properties of art are formal ( that is, part of the art form ). philosophers almost universally reject this view and hold that the properties and aesthetics of art extend beyond materials, techniques, and form. unfortunately, there is little consensus on terminology for these informal properties. some authors refer to subject matter and content — i. e., denotations and connotations — while others prefer terms like meaning and significance. extreme intentionalism holds that authorial intent plays a decisive role in the meaning of a work of art, conveying the content or essential main idea, while all other interpretations can be discarded. it defines the subject as the persons or idea represented, and the content as the artist ' s experience of that subject. for example, the composition