a molecule / atom for every angstrom of travel by the alpha particle. the rbe has been set at the value of 20 for alpha radiation by various government regulations. the rbe is set at 10 for neutron irradiation, and at 1 for beta radiation and ionizing photons. however, the recoil of the parent nucleus ( alpha recoil ) gives it a significant amount of energy, which also causes ionization damage ( see ionizing radiation ). this energy is roughly the weight of the alpha ( ) divided by the weight of the parent ( typically about 200 da ) times the total energy of the alpha. by some estimates, this might account for most of the internal radiation damage, as the recoil nucleus is part of an atom that is much larger than an alpha particle, and causes a very dense trail of ionization ; the atom is typically a heavy metal, which preferentially collect on the chromosomes. in some studies, this has resulted in an rbe approaching 1, 000 instead of the value used in governmental regulations. the largest natural contributor to public radiation dose is radon, a naturally occurring, radioactive gas found in soil and rock. if the gas is inhaled, some of the radon particles may attach to the inner lining of the lung. these particles continue to decay, emitting alpha particles, which can damage cells in the lung tissue. the death of marie curie at age 66 from aplastic anemia was probably caused by prolonged exposure to high doses of ionizing radiation, but it is not clear if this was due to alpha radiation or x - rays. curie worked extensively with radium, which decays into radon, along with other radioactive materials that emit beta and gamma rays. however, curie also worked with unshielded x - ray tubes during world war i, and analysis of her skeleton during a reburial showed a relatively low level of radioisotope burden. the russian defector alexander litvinenko ' s 2006 murder by radiation poisoning is thought to have been carried out with polonium - 210, an alpha emitter. references alpha emitters by increasing energy ( appendix 1 ) notes external links the livechart of nuclides - iaea with filter on alpha decay alpha decay with 3 animated examples showing the recoil of daughter see also beta decay gamma decay helium nuclear physics radioactivity