##ple and miller " always expected the worst of everyone and everything, and were, with almost frightening accuracy, usually proved right ". marple appeared in 12 novels and 20 stories. during the second world war, christie wrote two novels, curtain and sleeping murder, featuring hercule poirot and miss marple, respectively. both books were sealed in a bank vault, and she made over the copyrights by deed of gift to her daughter and her husband to provide each with a kind of insurance policy. christie had a heart attack and a serious fall in 1974, after which she was unable to write. her daughter authorised the publication of curtain in 1975, and sleeping murder was published posthumously in 1976. these publications followed the success of the 1974 film version of murder on the orient express. shortly before the publication of curtain, poirot became the first fictional character to have an obituary in the new york times, which was printed on page one on 6 august 1975. christie never wrote a novel or short story featuring both poirot and miss marple. in a recording discovered and released in 2008, christie revealed the reason for this : " hercule poirot, a complete egoist, would not like being taught his business or having suggestions made to him by an elderly spinster lady. hercule poirota professional sleuthwould not be at home at all in miss marple ' s world. " in 2013, the christie family supported the release of a new poirot story, the monogram murders, written by british author sophie hannah. hannah later published three more poirot mysteries, closed casket in 2016, the mystery of three quarters in 2018., and the killings at kingfisher hill in 2020. formula and plot devices christie has been called the " duchess of death ", the " mistress of mystery ", and the " queen of crime ". early in her career, a reporter noted that " her plots are possible, logical, and always new. " according to hannah, " at the start of each novel, she shows us an apparently impossible situation and we go mad wondering ' how can this be happening? ' then, slowly, she reveals how the impossible is not only possible but the only thing that could have happened. " christie developed her storytelling techniques during what has been called the " golden age " of detective fiction. author dilys winn called christie " the doyenne of coziness ", a sub - genre which " featured a small village setting, a hero with faintly aristocratic family connections