novels by expanding previously published short stories ; works of this type include the darkness on diamondia ( 1972 ) and future glitter ( also known as tyranopolis ; 1973 ). novels that were written simply as novels, and not serialized magazine pieces or fix - ups, had been very rare in van vogt ' s oeuvre, but began to appear regularly beginning in the 1970s. van vogt ' s original novels included children of tomorrow ( 1970 ), the battle of forever ( 1971 ) and the anarchistic colossus ( 1977 ). over the years, many sequels to his classic works were promised, but only one appeared : null - a three ( 1984 ; originally published in french ). several later books were initially published in europe, and at least one novel only ever appeared in foreign language editions and was never published in its original english. final years when the 1979 film alien appeared, it was noted that the plot closely matched the plots of both black destroyer and discord in scarlet, both published in astounding magazine in 1939, and then later published in the 1950 book voyage of the space beagle. van vogt sued the production company for plagiarism, and eventually collected an out - of - court settlement of $ 50, 000 from 20th century fox. in increasingly frail health, van vogt published his final short story in 1986. personal life van vogt ' s first wife, edna mayne hull, died in 1975. van vogt married lydia bereginsky in 1979 ; they remained together until his death. death on january 26, 2000, a. e. van vogt died in los angeles from alzheimer ' s disease. he was survived by his second wife. critical reception critical opinion about the quality of van vogt ' s work is sharply divided. an early and articulate critic was damon knight. in a 1945 chapter - long essay reprinted in in search of wonder, entitled " cosmic jerrybuilder : a. e. van vogt ", knight described van vogt as " no giant ; he is a pygmy who has learned to operate an overgrown typewriter ". knight described the world of null - a as " one of the worst allegedly adult science fiction stories ever published ". concerning van vogt ' s writing, knight said : about empire of the atom knight wrote : knight also expressed misgivings about van vogt ' s politics. he noted that van vogt ' s stories almost invariably present absolute monarchy in a favorable light. in 1974, knight retracted some