pioneer species, it helps provide additional nitrogen for the successional species to follow. because of its abundance, red alder delivers large amounts of nitrogen to enrich forest soils. red alder stands have been found to supply between of nitrogen annually to the soil. from alaska to oregon, alnus viridis subsp. sinuata ( a. sinuata, sitka alder or slide alder ), characteristically pioneer fresh, gravelly sites at the foot of retreating glaciers. studies show that sitka alder, a more shrubby variety of alder, adds nitrogen to the soil at an average rate of per year, helping convert the sterile glacial terrain to soil capable of supporting a conifer forest. alders are common among the first species to colonize disturbed areas from floods, windstorms, fires, landslides, etc. alder groves often serve as natural firebreaks since these broad - leaved trees are much less flammable than conifers. their foliage and leaf litter does not carry a fire well, and their thin bark is sufficiently resistant to protect them from light surface fires. in addition, the light weight of alder seedsnumbering allows for easy dispersal by the wind. although it outgrows coastal douglas - fir for the first 25 years, it is very shade intolerant and seldom lives more than 100 years. red alder is the pacific northwest ' s largest alder and the most plentiful and commercially important broad - leaved tree in the coastal northwest. groves of red alder in diameter intermingle with young douglas - fir forests west of the cascades, attaining a maximum height of in about sixty years and then are afflicted by heart rot. alders largely help create conditions favorable for giant conifers that replace them. parasites alder roots are parasitized by northern groundcone. uses the catkins of some alder species have a degree of edibility, and may be rich in protein. reported to have a bitter and unpleasant taste, they are more useful for survival purposes. the wood of certain alder species is often used to smoke various food items such as coffee, salmon, and other seafood. most of the pilings that form the foundation of venice were made from alder trees. alder bark contains the anti - inflammatory salicin, which is metabolized into salicylic acid in the body. some native american cultures use red alder bark ( alnus rubra ) to treat poison oak, insect bites