##zuli ' s unique genres as well ashik poetry were taken up by prominent poets and writers such as qovsi of tabriz, shah abbas sani,, nishat, molla vali vidadi, molla panah vagif, amani, zafar and others. along with turks, turkmens and uzbeks, azerbaijanis also celebrate the epic of koroglu ( from for blind man ' s son ), a legendary folk hero. several documented versions of koroglu epic remain at the institute for manuscripts of the national academy of sciences of azerbaijan. modern azerbaijani literature in azerbaijan is based on the shirvani dialect mainly, while in iran it is based on the tabrizi one. the first newspaper in azerbaijani, akinchi was published in 1875. in the mid - 19th century, it was taught in the schools of baku, ganja, shaki, tbilisi, and yerevan. since 1845, it was also taught in the university of saint petersburg in russia. folk art azerbaijanis have a rich and distinctive culture, a major part of which is decorative and applied art. this art form is represented by a wide range of handicrafts, such as chasing, jeweling, engraving in metal, carving in wood, stone, bone, carpet - making, lasing, pattern weaving and printing, and knitting and embroidery. each of these types of decorative art, evidence of the endowments of the azerbaijan nation, is very much in favor here. many interesting facts pertaining to the development of arts and crafts in azerbaijan were reported by numerous merchants, travelers, and diplomats who had visited these places at different times. the azerbaijani carpet is a traditional handmade textile of various sizes, with a dense texture and a pile or pile - less surface, whose patterns are characteristic of azerbaijan ' s many carpet - making regions. in november 2010 the azerbaijani carpet was proclaimed a masterpiece of intangible heritage by unesco. azerbaijan has been since ancient times known as a center of a large variety of crafts. the archeological dig on the territory of azerbaijan testifies to the well - developed agriculture, stock raising, metalworking, pottery, ceramics, and carpet - weaving that date as far back as to the 2nd millennium bc. archeological sites in dashbulaq, hasansu, zayamchai, and tovuzchai uncovered from the btc pipeline have revealed early iron age artifacts. azerbaijani carpets can be categorized under several large groups and a multitude of subgroups. scientific research of the azerbaijani carpet is connected with