by the royal college of surgeons in london, showed aspirin suppressed the production of prostaglandins and thromboxanes. for this discovery he was awarded the 1982 nobel prize in physiology or medicine, jointly with sune bergstrom and bengt ingemar samuelsson. prostaglandins and thromboxanes aspirin ' s ability to suppress the production of prostaglandins and thromboxanes is due to its irreversible inactivation of the cyclooxygenase ( cox ; officially known as prostaglandin - endoperoxide synthase, ptgs ) enzyme required for prostaglandin and thromboxane synthesis. aspirin acts as an acetylating agent where an acetyl group is covalently attached to a serine residue in the active site of the ptgs enzyme ( suicide inhibition ). this makes aspirin different from other nsaids ( such as diclofenac and ibuprofen ), which are reversible inhibitors. low - dose aspirin use irreversibly blocks the formation of thromboxane a2 in platelets, producing an inhibitory effect on platelet aggregation during the lifetime of the affected platelet ( 8 – 9 days ). this antithrombotic property makes aspirin useful for reducing the incidence of heart attacks in people who have had a heart attack, unstable angina, ischemic stroke or transient ischemic attack. 40mg of aspirin a day is able to inhibit a large proportion of maximum thromboxane a2 release provoked acutely, with the prostaglandin i2 synthesis being little affected ; however, higher doses of aspirin are required to attain further inhibition. prostaglandins, local hormones produced in the body, have diverse effects, including the transmission of pain information to the brain, modulation of the hypothalamic thermostat, and inflammation. thromboxanes are responsible for the aggregation of platelets that form blood clots. heart attacks are caused primarily by blood clots, and low doses of aspirin are seen as an effective medical intervention to prevent a second acute myocardial infarction. cox - 1 and cox - 2 inhibition at least two different types of cyclooxygenases, cox - 1 and cox - 2, are acted on by aspirin. aspirin irreversibly inhibits cox - 1