by space probes made it possible to obtain precise measurements of the relative positions of the inner planets and other objects by means of radar and telemetry. as with all radar measurements, these rely on measuring the time taken for photons to be reflected from an object. because all photons move at the speed of light in vacuum, a fundamental constant of the universe, the distance of an object from the probe is calculated as the product of the speed of light and the measured time. however, for precision the calculations require adjustment for things such as the motions of the probe and object while the photons are transiting. in addition, the measurement of the time itself must be translated to a standard scale that accounts for relativistic time dilation. comparison of the ephemeris positions with time measurements expressed in barycentric dynamical time ( tdb ) leads to a value for the speed of light in astronomical units per day ( of ). by 2009, the iau had updated its standard measures to reflect improvements, and calculated the speed of light at ( tdb ). in 1983, the cipm modified the international system of units ( si ) to make the metre defined as the distance travelled in a vacuum by light in 1 / second. this replaced the previous definition, valid between 1960 and 1983, which was that the metre equalled a certain number of wavelengths of a certain emission line of krypton - 86. ( the reason for the change was an improved method of measuring the speed of light. ) the speed of light could then be expressed exactly as c0 =, a standard also adopted by the iers numerical standards. from this definition and the 2009 iau standard, the time for light to traverse an astronomical unit is found to be τa =, which is slightly more than 8 minutes 19 seconds. by multiplication, the best iau 2009 estimate was a = c0τa =, based on a comparison of jet propulsion laboratory and iaa – ras ephemerides. in 2006, the bipm reported a value of the astronomical unit as. in the 2014 revision of the si brochure, the bipm recognised the iau ' s 2012 redefinition of the astronomical unit as. this estimate was still derived from observation and measurements subject to error, and based on techniques that did not yet standardize all relativistic effects, and thus were not constant for all observers. in 2012, finding that the equalization of relativity alone would make the definition overly complex, the iau