##soc ( english socialism ), minitrue ( ministry of truth ), miniplenty ( ministry of plenty ) — are described by orwell as similar to real examples of german ( q. v. ) and russian contractions ( q. v. ) in the 20th century. like nazi ( nationalsozialismus ) and gestapo ( geheime staatspolizei ), politburo ( political bureau of the central committee of the communist party of the soviet union ), comintern ( communist international ), kolkhoz ( collective farm ), and komsomol ( young communists ' league ), the contractions in newspeak are supposed to have a political function by virtue of their abbreviated structure itself : nice sounding and easily pronounceable, their purpose is to mask all ideological content from the speaker. a more recent syllabic abbreviation has emerged with the disease covid - 19 ( corona virus disease 2019 ) caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 ( itself frequently abbreviated to sars - cov - 2, partly an initialism ). german syllabic abbreviations were and are common in german ; much like acronyms in english, they have a distinctly modern connotation, although contrary to popular belief, many date back to before 1933, if not the end of the great war. kriminalpolizei, literally criminal police but idiomatically the criminal investigation department of any german police force, begat kripo ( variously capitalised ), and likewise schutzpolizei ( protection police or uniform department ) begat schupo. along the same lines, the swiss federal railways ' transit police — the transportpolizei — are abbreviated as the trapo. with the national socialist german workers ' party gaining power came a frenzy of government reorganisation, and with it a series of entirely new syllabic abbreviations. the single national police force amalgamated from the schutzpolizeien of the various states became the orpo ( ordnungspolizei, " order police " ) ; the state kripos together formed the " sipo " (, " security police " ) ; and there was also the gestapo ( geheime staatspolizei, " secret state police " ). the new order of the german democratic republic in the east brought about a conscious denazification, but also a repudiation of earlier turns of phrase in favour of neologisms such as stasi for