##rcho - capitalism with anti - state classical liberalism, neo - classical liberalism, radical neoliberalism and right - libertarianism. paul dragos aligica writes that there is a " foundational difference between the classical liberal and the anarcho - capitalist positions ". classical liberalism, while accepting critical arguments against collectivism, acknowledges a certain level of public ownership and collective governance as necessary to provide practical solutions to political problems. in contrast anarcho - capitalism, according to aligica, denies any requirement for any form of public administration, and allows no meaningful role for the public sphere, which is seen as sub - optimal and illegitimate. individualist anarchism murray rothbard, a student of ludwig von mises, stated that he was influenced by the work of the 19th - century american individualist anarchists. in the winter of 1949, rothbard decided to reject minimal state laissez - faire and embrace his interpretation of individualist anarchism. in 1965, rothbard wrote that " lysander spooner and benjamin r. tucker were unsurpassed as political philosophers and nothing is more needed today than a revival and development of the largely forgotten legacy they left to political philosophy ". however, rothbard thought that they had a faulty understanding of economics as the 19th - century individualist anarchists had a labor theory of value as influenced by the classical economists, while rothbard was a student of austrian school economics which does not agree with the labor theory of value. rothbard sought to meld 19th - century american individualist anarchists ' advocacy of economic individualism and free markets with the principles of austrian school economics, arguing that " [ t ] here is, in the body of thought known as ' austrian economics ', a scientific explanation of the workings of the free market ( and of the consequences of government intervention in that market ) which individualist anarchists could easily incorporate into their political and social weltanschauung ". rothbard held that the economic consequences of the political system they advocate would not result in an economy with people being paid in proportion to labor amounts, nor would profit and interest disappear as they expected. tucker thought that unregulated banking and money issuance would cause increases in the money supply so that interest rates would drop to zero or near to it. peter marshall states that " anarcho - capitalism overlooks the egalitarian implications of traditional individualist anarchists like spooner and tucker ". stephanie silberstein states that " while spooner was no free