the arecibo observatory in puerto rico ( 305 meter dish ) and goldstone observatory in california ( 70 meter dish ). radar observations can also be used for accurate determination of the orbital and rotational dynamics of observed objects. space - based observations both space and ground - based observatories conducted asteroid search programs ; the space - based searches are expected to detect more objects because there is no atmosphere to interfere and because they can observe larger portions of the sky. neowise observed more than 100, 000 asteroids of the main belt, spitzer space telescope observed more than 700 near - earth asteroids. these observations determined rough sizes of the majority of observed objects, but provided limited detail about surface properties ( such as regolith depth and composition, angle of repose, cohesion, and porosity ). asteroids were also studied by the hubble space telescope, such as tracking the colliding asteroids in the main belt, break - up of an asteroid, observing an active asteroid with six comet - like tails, and observing asteroids that were chosen as targets of dedicated missions. space probe missions according to patrick michel the internal structure of asteroids is inferred only from indirect evidence : bulk densities measured by spacecraft, the orbits of natural satellites in the case of asteroid binaries, and the drift of an asteroid ' s orbit due to the yarkovsky thermal effect. a spacecraft near an asteroid is perturbed enough by the asteroid ' s gravity to allow an estimate of the asteroid ' s mass. the volume is then estimated using a model of the asteroid ' s shape. mass and volume allow the derivation of the bulk density, whose uncertainty is usually dominated by the errors made on the volume estimate. the internal porosity of asteroids can be inferred by comparing their bulk density with that of their assumed meteorite analogues, dark asteroids seem to be more porous ( > 40 % ) than bright ones. the nature of this porosity is unclear. dedicated missions the first asteroid to be photographed in close - up was 951 gaspra in 1991, followed in 1993 by 243 ida and its moon dactyl, all of which were imaged by the galileo probe en route to jupiter. other asteroids briefly visited by spacecraft en route to other destinations include 9969 braille ( by deep space 1 in 1999 ), 5535 annefrank ( by stardust in 2002 ), 2867 steins and 21 lutetia ( by the rosetta probe in 2008 ), and 4179 toutatis ( china ' s lunar orbiter