lb ) female, nicknamed " ardi ", and includes most of the skull and teeth, as well as the pelvis, hands, and feet. it was discovered in ethiopia ' s harsh afar desert at a site called aramis in the middle awash region. radiometric dating of the layers of volcanic ash encasing the deposits suggest that ardi lived about 4. 3 - 4. 5 million years ago. this date, however, has been questioned by others. fleagle and kappelman suggest that the region in which ardi was found is difficult to date radiometrically, and they argue that ardi should be dated at 3. 9 million years. the fossil is regarded by its describers as shedding light on a stage of human evolution about which little was known, more than a million years before lucy ( australopithecus afarensis ), the iconic early human ancestor candidate who lived 3. 2 million years ago, and was discovered in 1974 just away from ardi ' s discovery site. however, because the " ardi " skeleton is no more than 200, 000 years older than the earliest fossils of australopithecus, and may in fact be younger than they are, some researchers doubt that it can represent a direct ancestor of australopithecus. some researchers infer from the form of her pelvis and limbs and the presence of her abductable hallux, that " ardi " was a facultative biped : bipedal when moving on the ground, but quadrupedal when moving about in tree branches. a. ramidus had a more primitive walking ability than later hominids, and could not walk or run for long distances. the teeth suggest omnivory, and are more generalised than those of modern apes. ardipithecus kadabba ardipithecus kadabba is " known only from teeth and bits and pieces of skeletal bones ", and is dated to approximately 5. 6 million years ago. it has been described as a " probable chronospecies " ( i. e. ancestor ) of a. ramidus. although originally considered a subspecies of a. ramidus, in 2004 anthropologists yohannes haile - selassie, gen suwa, and tim d. white published an article elevating a. kadabba to species level on the basis of newly discovered teeth from ethiopia. these teeth show " primitive morphology and wear pattern " which