##renology. early in his career, he experimented with hypnosis, then known as mesmerism, managing to hypnotise some of his students in leicester. when he began these experiments, the topic was very controversial : early experimenters, such as john elliotson, had been harshly criticised by the medical and scientific establishment. wallace drew a connection between his experiences with mesmerism and spiritualism, arguing that one should not deny observations on " a priori grounds of absurdity or impossibility ". wallace began investigating spiritualism in the summer of 1865, possibly at the urging of his older sister fanny sims. after reviewing the literature and attempting to test what he witnessed at seances, he came to believe in it. for the rest of his life, he remained convinced that at least some seance phenomena were genuine, despite accusations of fraud and evidence of trickery. one biographer suggested that the emotional shock when his first fiancee broke their engagement contributed to his receptiveness to spiritualism. other scholars have emphasised his desire to find scientific explanations for all phenomena. in 1874, wallace visited the spirit photographer frederick hudson. he declared that a photograph of him with his deceased mother was genuine. others reached a different conclusion : hudson ' s photographs had previously been exposed as fraudulent in 1872. wallace ' s public advocacy of spiritualism and his repeated defence of spiritualist mediums against allegations of fraud in the 1870s damaged his scientific reputation. in 1875 he published the evidence he believed proved his position in on miracles and modern spiritualism. his attitude permanently strained his relationships with previously friendly scientists such as henry bates, thomas huxley, and even darwin. others, such as the physiologist william benjamin carpenter and zoologist e. ray lankester became publicly hostile to wallace over the issue. wallace was heavily criticised by the press ; the lancet was particularly harsh. when, in 1879, darwin first tried to rally support among naturalists to get a civil pension awarded to wallace, joseph hooker responded that " wallace has lost caste considerably, not only by his adhesion to spiritualism, but by the fact of his having deliberately and against the whole voice of the committee of his section of the british association, brought about a discussion on spiritualism at one of its sectional meetings... this he is said to have done in an underhanded manner, and i well remember the indignation it gave rise to in the b. a. council. " hooker eventually relented and agreed to support the pension request.