a partaker in the suffering ; the [ tormented ], in that he believes he is not a partaker in the guilt. " suffering is the moral outcome of our attachment to pleasure. schopenhauer deemed that this truth was expressed by the christian dogma of original sin and, in eastern religions, by the dogma of rebirth. quietism he who sees through the principium individuationis and comprehends suffering in general as his own will see suffering everywhere and, instead of fighting for the happiness of his individual manifestation, will abhor life itself since he knows that it is inseparably connected with suffering. for him, a happy individual life in a world of suffering is like a beggar who dreams one night that he is a king. those who have experienced this intuitive knowledge cannot affirm life, but exhibit asceticism and quietism, meaning that they are no longer sensitive to motives, are not concerned about their individual welfare, and accept without resistance the evil that others inflict on them. they welcome poverty and neither seek nor flee death. schopenhauer referred to asceticism as the denial of the will to live. human life is a ceaseless struggle for satisfaction and, instead of continuing their struggle, ascetics break it. it does not matter if these ascetics adhere to the dogmata of christianity or to dharmic religions, since their way of living is the result of intuitive knowledge. psychology philosophers have not traditionally been impressed by the necessity of sex, but schopenhauer addressed sex and related concepts forthrightly : he named a force within man that he felt took invariable precedence over reason : the will to live or will to life ( wille zum leben ), defined as an inherent drive within human beings, and all creatures, to stay alive ; a force that inveigles us into reproducing. schopenhauer refused to conceive of love as either trifling or accidental, but rather understood it as an immensely powerful force that lay unseen within man ' s psyche, guaranteeing the quality of the human race : it has often been argued that schopenhauer ' s thoughts on sexuality foreshadowed the theory of evolution, a claim met with satisfaction by darwin as he included a quotation from schopenhauer in his descent of man. this has also been noted about freud ' s concepts of the libido and the unconscious mind, and evolutionary psychology in general. political and social