different perspectives on altruism. in simple terms, altruism is caring about the welfare of other people and acting to help them. scientific viewpoints anthropology marcel mauss ' s essay the gift contains a passage called " note on alms ". this note describes the evolution of the notion of alms ( and by extension of altruism ) from the notion of sacrifice. in it, he writes : evolutionary explanations in the science of ethology ( the study of animal behaviour ), and more generally in the study of social evolution, altruism refers to behavior by an individual that increases the fitness of another individual while decreasing the fitness of the actor. in evolutionary psychology this term may be applied to a wide range of human behaviors such as charity, emergency aid, help to coalition partners, tipping, courtship gifts, production of public goods, and environmentalism. theories of apparently altruistic behavior were by the need to produce ideas compatible with evolutionary origins. two related strands of research on altruism have emerged from traditional evolutionary analyses and evolutionary game theory : a mathematical model and analysis of behavioral strategies. some of the proposed mechanisms are : kin selection. that animals and humans are more altruistic towards close kin than to distant kin and non - kin has been confirmed in numerous studies across many different cultures. even subtle cues indicating kinship may unconsciously increase altruistic behavior. one kinship cue is facial resemblance. one study found that slightly altering photographs to resemble the faces of study participants more closely increased the trust the participants expressed regarding depicted persons. another cue is having the same family name, especially if rare, which has been found to increase helpful behavior. another study found more cooperative behavior, the greater the number of perceived kin in a group. using kinship terms in political speeches increased audience agreement with the speaker in one study. this effect was powerful for firstborns, who are typically close to their families. vested interests. people are likely to suffer if their friends, allies and those from similar social ingroups suffer or disappear. helping such group members may, therefore, also benefit the altruist. making ingroup membership more noticeable increases cooperativeness. extreme self - sacrifice towards the ingroup may be adaptive if a hostile outgroup threatens the entire ingroup. reciprocal altruism. see also reciprocity ( evolution ). direct reciprocity. research shows that it can be beneficial to help others if there is a chance that they will reciprocate the help. the effective tit for tat strategy is one game theo