the cerebellum and the brain. indeed, an ouabain block of - pumps in the cerebellum of a live mouse results in it displaying ataxia and dystonia. ataxia is observed for lower ouabain concentrations, dystonia is observed at higher ouabain concentrations. cerebellar ataxia associated with anti - gad antibodies antibodies against the enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase ( gad : enzyme changing glutamate into gaba ) cause cerebellar deficits. the antibodies impair motor learning and cause behavioral deficits. gad antibodies related ataxia is part of the group called immune - mediated cerebellar ataxias. the antibodies induce a synaptopathy. the cerebellum is particularly vulnerable to autoimmune disorders. cerebellar circuitry has capacities to compensate and restore function thanks to cerebellar reserve, gathering multiple forms of plasticity. ltdpathies gather immune disorders targeting long - term depression ( ltd ), a form of plasticity. diagnosis imaging studies - a ct scan or mri of the brain might help determine potential causes. an mri can sometimes show shrinkage of the cerebellum and other brain structures in people with ataxia. it may also show other treatable findings, such as a blood clot or benign tumour, that could be pressing on the cerebellum. lumbar puncture ( spinal tap ) - a needle is inserted into the lower back ( lumbar region ) between two lumbar vertebrae to obtain a sample of cerebrospinal fluid for testing. genetic testing - determines whether the mutation that causes one of the hereditary ataxic conditions is present. tests are available for many but not all of the hereditary ataxias. treatment the treatment of ataxia and its effectiveness depend on the underlying cause. treatment may limit or reduce the effects of ataxia, but it is unlikely to eliminate them entirely. recovery tends to be better in individuals with a single focal injury ( such as stroke or a benign tumour ), compared to those who have a neurological degenerative condition. a review of the management of degenerative ataxia was published in 2009. a small number of rare conditions presenting with prominent cerebellar ataxia are amenable to specific treatment and recognition of these disorders is critical. diseases include vitamin e deficiency, abetalipoproteinemia, cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis