no interest in working outside the film world. nevertheless, the hard - drinking director did agree to appear in a series of television ads for suntory whiskey, which aired in 1976. while fearing that he might never be able to make another film, the director nevertheless continued working on various projects, writing scripts and creating detailed illustrations, intending to leave behind a visual record of his plans in case he would never be able to film his stories. two epics ( 1978 – 1986 ) in 1977, american director george lucas released star wars, a wildly successful science fiction film influenced by kurosawa ' s the hidden fortress, among other works. lucas, like many other new hollywood directors, revered kurosawa and considered him a role model, and was shocked to discover that the japanese film - maker was unable to secure financing for any new work. the two met in san francisco in july 1978 to discuss the project kurosawa considered most financially viable :, the epic story of a thief hired as the double of a medieval japanese lord of a great clan. lucas, enthralled by the screenplay and kurosawa ' s illustrations, leveraged his influence over 20th century fox to coerce the studio that had fired kurosawa just ten years earlier to produce, then recruited fellow fan francis ford coppola as co - producer. production began the following april, with kurosawa in high spirits. shooting lasted from june 1979 through march 1980 and was plagued with problems, not the least of which was the firing of the original lead actor, shintaro katsu — known for portraying the popular character zatoichi — due to an incident in which the actor insisted, against the director ' s wishes, on videotaping his own performance. ( he was replaced by tatsuya nakadai, in his first of two consecutive leading roles in a kurosawa movie. ) the film was completed only a few weeks behind schedule and opened in tokyo in april 1980. it quickly became a massive hit in japan. the film was also a critical and box office success abroad, winning the coveted at the 1980 cannes film festival in may, though some critics, then and now, have faulted the film for its alleged coldness. kurosawa spent much of the rest of the year in europe and america promoting, collecting awards and accolades, and exhibiting as art the drawings he had made to serve as storyboards for the film. the international success of allowed kurosawa to proceed with his next project,, another epic in a similar vein. the script