##2 was first released for cms and tso in 1984. the apl2 workstation edition ( windows, os / 2, aix, linux, and solaris ) followed later. as other vendors were busy developing apl interpreters for new hardware, notably unix - based microcomputers, apl2 was almost always the standard chosen for new apl interpreter developments. even today, most apl vendors or their users cite apl2 compatibility as a selling point for those products. ibm cites its use for problem solving, system design, prototyping, engineering and scientific computations, expert systems, for teaching mathematics and other subjects, visualization and database access. modern implementations various implementations of apl by aplx, dyalog, et al., include extensions for object - oriented programming, support for. net, xml - array conversion primitives, graphing, operating system interfaces, and lambda calculus expressions. freeware versions include gnu apl for linux and nars2000 for windows ( which runs on linux under wine ). both of these are fairly complete versions of apl2 with various language extensions. derivative languages apl has formed the basis of, or influenced, the following languages : a and a +, an alternative apl, the latter with graphical extensions. fp, a functional programming language. ivy, an interpreter for an apl - like language developed by rob pike, and which uses ascii as input. j, which was also designed by iverson, and which uses ascii with digraphs instead of special symbols. k, a proprietary variant of apl developed by arthur whitney. matlab, a numerical computation tool. nial, a high - level array programming language with a functional programming notation. polymorphic programming language, an interactive, extensible language with a similar base language. s, a statistical programming language ( usually now seen in the open - source version known as r ). snap!, a low - code block - based programming language, born as an extended reimplementation of scratch speakeasy, a numerical computing interactive environment. wolfram language, the programming language of mathematica. language characteristics character set apl has been criticized and praised for its choice of a unique, non - standard character set. in the 1960s and 1970s, few terminal devices or even displays could reproduce the apl character set. the most popular ones employed the ibm selectric print mechanism used with a special apl type element. one of the early apl