on campaign in wales against gruffudd ap cynan of gwynedd. alexander ' s marriage with henry ' s illegitimate daughter sybilla of normandy may have occurred as early as 1107, or as late as 1114. william of malmesbury ' s account attacks sybilla, but the evidence argues that alexander and sybilla were a devoted but childless couple and sybilla was of noteworthy piety. sybilla died in unrecorded circumstances at eilean nam ban ( kenmore on loch tay ) in july 1122 and was buried at dunfermline abbey. alexander did not remarry and walter bower wrote that he planned an augustinian priory at the eilean nam ban dedicated to sybilla ' s memory, and he may have taken steps to have her venerated. alexander had at least one illegitimate child, mael coluim mac alaxandair, who was later involved in a revolt against david i in the 1130s. he was imprisoned at roxburgh for many years afterwards, perhaps until his death sometime after 1157. alexander was, like his brothers edgar and david, a notably pious king. he was responsible for foundations at scone and inchcolm, the latter founded in thanks for his survival of a tempest at sea nearby. he had the two towers built which flanked the great western entrance of dunfermline abbey, where his mother was buried. his mother ' s chaplain and hagiographer thurgot was named bishop of saint andrews ( or cell rigmonaid ) in 1107, presumably by alexander ' s order. the case of thurgot ' s would - be successor eadmer shows that alexander ' s wishes were not always accepted by the religious community, perhaps because eadmer had the backing of the archbishop of canterbury, ralph d ' escures, rather than thurstan of york. alexander also patronised saint andrews, granting lands intended for an augustinian priory, which may have been the same as that intended to honour his wife. for all his religiosity, alexander was not remembered as a man of peace. john of fordun says of him : he manifested the terrible aspect of his character in his reprisals in the province of moray. andrew of wyntoun ' s orygynale cronykil of scotland says that alexander was holding court at invergowrie when he was attacked by " men of the isles ". walter bower says the