cb? 11 where the cb is the conditional branch instruction or " combination card " used to make the control flow jump, in this case backward by 11 cards. influence predicted influence babbage understood that the existence of an automatic computer would kindle interest in the field now known as algorithmic efficiency, writing in his passages from the life of a philosopher, " as soon as an analytical engine exists, it will necessarily guide the future course of the science. whenever any result is sought by its aid, the question will then arise — by what course of calculation can these results be arrived at by the machine in the shortest time? " computer science from 1872 henry continued diligently with his father ' s work and then intermittently in retirement in 1875. percy ludgate wrote about the engine in 1914 and published his own design for an analytical engine in 1909. it was drawn up in detail, but never built, and the drawings have never been found. ludgate ' s engine would be much smaller ( about, which corresponds to cube of side length ) than babbage ' s, and hypothetically would be capable of multiplying two 20 - decimal - digit numbers in about six seconds. in his work essays on automatics ( 1914 ) leonardo torres quevedo, inspired by babbage, designed a theoretical electromechanical calculating machine which was to be controlled by a read - only program. the paper also contains the idea of floating - point arithmetic. in 1920, to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the invention of the arithmometer, torres presented in paris the electromechanical arithmometer, which consisted of an arithmetic unit connected to a ( possibly remote ) typewriter, on which commands could be typed and the results printed automatically. vannevar bush ' s paper instrumental analysis ( 1936 ) included several references to babbage ' s work. in the same year he started the rapid arithmetical machine project to investigate the problems of constructing an electronic digital computer. despite this groundwork, babbage ' s work fell into historical obscurity, and the analytical engine was unknown to builders of electromechanical and electronic computing machines in the 1930s and 1940s when they began their work, resulting in the need to re - invent many of the architectural innovations babbage had proposed. howard aiken, who built the quickly - obsoleted electromechanical calculator, the harvard mark i, between 1937 and 1945, praised babbage ' s work likely as a way of enhancing his own