polymath, his reading embraced history, travels, poetry, philosophy, and the natural sciences. his mother was a devout catholic, so ampere was also initiated into the catholic faith along with enlightenment science. the french revolution ( 1789 – 99 ) that began during his youth was also influential : ampere ' s father was called into public service by the new revolutionary government, becoming a justice of the peace in a small town near lyon. when the jacobin faction seized control of the revolutionary government in 1792, his father jean - jacques ampere resisted the new political tides, and he was guillotined on 24 november 1793, as part of the jacobin purges of the period. in 1796, ampere met julie carron and, in 1799, they were married. ampere took his first regular job in 1799 as a mathematics teacher, which gave him the financial security to marry carron and father his first child, jean - jacques ( named after his father ), the next year. ( jean - jacques ampere eventually achieved his own fame as a scholar of languages. ) ampere ' s maturation corresponded with the transition to the napoleonic regime in france, and the young father and teacher found new opportunities for success within the technocratic structures favoured by the new french first consul. in 1802, ampere was appointed a professor of physics and chemistry at the ecole centrale in bourg - en - bresse, leaving his ailing wife and infant son jean - jacques antoine ampere in lyon. he used his time in bourg to research mathematics, producing considerations sur la theorie mathematique du jeu ( 1802 ; " considerations on the mathematical theory of games " ), a treatise on mathematical probability that he sent to the paris academy of sciences in 1803. teaching career after the death of his wife in july 1803, ampere moved to paris, where he began a tutoring post at the new ecole polytechnique in 1804. despite his lack of formal qualifications, ampere was appointed a professor of mathematics at the school in 1809. as well as holding positions at this school until 1828, in 1819 and 1820 ampere offered courses in philosophy and astronomy, respectively, at the university of paris, and in 1824 he was elected to the prestigious chair in experimental physics at the college de france. in 1814, ampere was invited to join the class of mathematicians in the new institut imperial, the umbrella under which the reformed state academy of sciences would sit. ampere engaged in a diverse array of scientific inquiries during the years