##o, pereira, popayan, sogamoso, tunja, and villavicencio in colombia ; and barquisimeto, la grita, merida, san cristobal, tovar, trujillo, and valera in venezuela. the cities of caracas, valencia, and maracay are in the venezuelan coastal range, which is a debatable extension of the andes at the northern extremity of south america. transportation cities and large towns are connected with asphalt - paved roads, while smaller towns are often connected by dirt roads, which may require a four - wheel - drive vehicle. the rough terrain has historically put the costs of building highways and railroads that cross the andes out of reach of most neighboring countries, even with modern civil engineering practices. for example, the main crossover of the andes between argentina and chile is still accomplished through the paso internacional los libertadores. only recently the ends of some highways that came rather close to one another from the east and the west have been connected. much of the transportation of passengers is done via aircraft. however, there is one railroad that connects chile with peru via the andes, and there are others that make the same connection via southern bolivia. see railroad maps of that region. there are multiple highways in bolivia that cross the andes. some of these were built during a period of war between bolivia and paraguay, in order to transport bolivian troops and their supplies to the war front in the lowlands of southeastern bolivia and western paraguay. for decades, chile claimed ownership of land on the eastern side of the andes. however, these claims were given up in about 1870 during the war of the pacific between chile and the allied bolivia and peru, in a diplomatic deal to keep peru out of the war. the chilean army and chilean navy defeated the combined forces of bolivia and peru, and chile took over bolivia ' s only province on the pacific coast, some land from peru that was returned to peru decades later. bolivia has been a completely landlocked country ever since. it mostly uses seaports in eastern argentina and uruguay for international trade because its diplomatic relations with chile have been suspended since 1978. because of the tortuous terrain in places, villages and towns in the mountains — to which travel via motorized vehicles is of little use — are still located in the high andes of chile, bolivia, peru, and ecuador. locally, the relatives of the camel, the llama, and the alpaca continue to carry out important uses as pack animals, but this use has generally diminished in modern times