were diminished, and he restored the baths of nero in 227 or 229 ; consequently, they are sometimes also known as the baths of alexander after him. he extended the imperial residence at the horti lamiani with elaborate buildings and created the nymphaeum of alexander ( known as the trophies of marius ), which still stands in the piazza vittorio emanuele. this was the great fountain he built at the end of the aqua claudia aqueduct. upon his accession he reduced the silver purity of the denarius from 46. 5 % to 43 % the actual silver weight dropped from 1. 41 grams to 1. 30 grams ; however, in 229 he revalued the denarius, increasing the silver purity and weight to 45 % and 1. 46 grams. the following year he decreased the amount of base metal in the denarius while adding more silver, raising the silver purity and weight again to 50. 5 % and 1. 50 grams. additionally, during his reign taxes were lightened ; literature, art and science were encouraged ; and, for the convenience of the people, loan offices were instituted for lending money at a moderate rate of interest. in religious matters, alexander preserved an open mind. according to the historia augusta, he wished to erect a temple to jesus but was dissuaded by the pagan priests ; however, this claim is unreliable as the historia augusta is considered untrustworthy by historians, containing significant amounts of information that is false and even invented, extending to when it was written and the number of authors it was written by. he allowed a synagogue to be built in rome, and he gave as a gift to this synagogue a scroll of the torah known as the severus scroll. in legal matters, alexander did much to aid the rights of his soldiers. he confirmed that soldiers could name anyone as heirs in their will, whereas civilians had strict restrictions over who could become heirs or receive a legacy. he also confirmed that soldiers could free their slaves in their wills, protected the rights of soldiers to their property when they were on campaign, and reasserted that a soldier ' s property acquired in or because of military service ( his castrense peculium ) could be claimed by no one else, not even the soldier ' s father. persian war on the whole, alexander ' s reign was prosperous until the rise of the sassanids under ardashir i. in 231 ad, ardashir invaded the roman provinces of the east, overrunning mesopotamia and penetrating possibly as far as syria and cappad