of five senators called the curatores locorum publicorum iudicandorum ( translated as " supervisors of public property " ) was put in charge of maintaining public buildings and temples of the state cult. augustus created the senatorial group of the curatores viarum ( translated as " supervisors for roads " ) for the upkeep of roads ; this senatorial commission worked with local officials and contractors to organize regular repairs. the corinthian order of architectural style originating from ancient greece was the dominant architectural style in the age of augustus and the imperial phase of rome. suetonius once commented that rome was unworthy of its status as an imperial capital, yet augustus and agrippa set out to dismantle this sentiment by transforming the appearance of rome upon the classical greek model. residences the official residence of augustus was the domus augusti on the palatine which he made into a palace after buying it in 41 / 40 bc. he had other residences such as the horti maecenati in rome where augustus preferred to stay whenever he became ill and which maecenas left to him in his will in 8 bc. the great villa of vedius pollio at posilipo near naples was beqeathed ( probably forced ) to him in 15 bc. augustus built the palazzo a mare palace on capri. he also built the immense villa giulia on the island of ventotene as a summer residence early in his reign. the family home of augustus was probably the villa at somma vesuviana, nola. this was the location where he died and where his father also died. physical appearance and official images his biographer suetonius, writing about a century after augustus ' s death, described his appearance as : "... unusually handsome and exceedingly graceful at all periods of his life, though he cared nothing for personal adornment. he was so far from being particular about the dressing of his hair, that he would have several barbers working in a hurry at the same time, and as for his beard he now had it clipped and now shaved, while at the very same time he would either be reading or writing something... he had clear, bright eyes... his teeth were wide apart, small, and ill - kept ; his hair was slightly curly and inclined to golden ; his eyebrows met. his ears were of moderate size, and his nose projected a little at the top and then bent ever so slightly inward. his complexion was between dark and fair. he was short