and other areas reinforced a vision of ireland of communities living in harmony with the land. he lived in achill for almost a decade with his wife, artist grace henry and, while using similar subject - matter, the pair developed very different styles. this relationship of artists with achill was particularly intense in the early decades of the twentieth century when eva o ' flaherty ( 1874 - 1963 ) became a focal point for artistic networking on the island. a network of over 200 artists linked to achill is charted in " achill painters - an island history " and includes painters such as the belgian marie howet, the american robert henri, the modernist painter mainie jellett and contemporary artist camille souter. the 2018 coming home art & the great hunger exhibition, in partnership with the great hunger museum of quinnipiac university, usa, featured achill ' s deserted village and the island lazy beds prominently in works by geraldine o ' reilly and alanna o ' kelly ; also included was an 1873 painting, ' cottage, achill island ' by alexander williams - one of the first artists to open up the island to a wider audience. education hedge schools existed in most villages of achill in various periods of history. a university was started by the missions to achill in mweelin. in the modern age, there used to be two secondary schools in achill, mc hale college and scoil damhnait. however, in august 2011, the two schools amalgamated to form colaiste pobail acla. for primary education, there are eight national schools including bullsmouth ns, valley ns, bunnacurry ns, dookinella ns, dooagh ns, saula ns, achill sound ns and tonragee ns. national schools closed down include dooega ns, crumpaun ns, ashleam ns and currane ns. transport rail achill railway station, still on the mainland and not on the island, was opened by the midland great western railway on 13 may 1895, the terminus of its line from westport via newport and mulranny. the station, and the line, were closed by the great southern railways on 1 october 1937. the great western greenway, created during 2010 and 2011, follows the line ' s route and has proved to be very successful in attracting visitors to achill and the surrounding areas. road the r319 road is the main road onto the island. bus bus eireann ' s route 450 operates several times daily to westport and louisburgh from the