not touched. the reason trash winds up in the bay is that it is common in the city to throw it in streets, rivers and the bay itself. the most common items cleaned out of the bay are beer bottles and car tires. acapulco has seen some success in this area, having several beaches receiving the high " blue flag " certifications for cleanliness and water quality. cuisine acapulco ' s cuisine is very rich. the following are typical dishes from the region : relleno is baked pork with a variety of vegetables and fruits such as potatoes, raisins, carrots and chiles. it is eaten with bread called bolillo. pozole is a soup with a salsa base ( it can be white, red or green ), hominy, meat that can be either pork or chicken and it is accompanied with antojitos ( snacks ) like tostadas, tacos and tamales. this dish is served as part of a weekly thursday event in the city and the state, with many restaurants offering the meal with special entertainment, from bands to dancers to celebrity impersonators. attractions acapulco ' s main attraction is its nightlife, as it has been for many decades. nightclubs change names and owners frequently. for example, baby ' o has been open to the national and international public since 1976 and different celebrities have visited their installations such as mexican singer luis miguel, bono from u2 and sylvester stallone. another nightclub is palladium, located in the escenica avenue, the location gives the nightclub a view of the santa lucia bay at night. various djs have had performances in palladium among them dvbbs, tom swoon, nervo and junkie kid. informal lobby or poolside cocktail bars often offer free live entertainment. in addition, there is the beach bar zone, where younger crowds go. these are located along the costera road, face the ocean and feature techno or alternative rock. most are concentrated between the fiesta americana and continental plaza hotels. these places tend to open earlier and have more informal dress. there is a bungee jump in this area as well. another attraction at acapulco is the la quebrada cliff divers. the tradition started in the 1930s when young men casually competed against each other to see who could dive from the highest point into the sea below. eventually, locals began to ask for tips for those coming to see the men dive. today the divers are professionals, diving from heights of into an