can be esterified with alcohols, to produce esters. acids are often used to remove rust and other corrosion from metals in a process known as pickling. they may be used as an electrolyte in a wet cell battery, such as sulfuric acid in a car battery. in food tartaric acid is an important component of some commonly used foods like unripened mangoes and tamarind. natural fruits and vegetables also contain acids. citric acid is present in oranges, lemon and other citrus fruits. oxalic acid is present in tomatoes, spinach, and especially in carambola and rhubarb ; rhubarb leaves and unripe carambolas are toxic because of high concentrations of oxalic acid. ascorbic acid ( vitamin c ) is an essential vitamin for the human body and is present in such foods as amla ( indian gooseberry ), lemon, citrus fruits, and guava. many acids can be found in various kinds of food as additives, as they alter their taste and serve as preservatives. phosphoric acid, for example, is a component of cola drinks. acetic acid is used in day - to - day life as vinegar. citric acid is used as a preservative in sauces and pickles. carbonic acid is one of the most common acid additives that are widely added in soft drinks. during the manufacturing process, co2 is usually pressurized to dissolve in these drinks to generate carbonic acid. carbonic acid is very unstable and tends to decompose into water and co2 at room temperature and pressure. therefore, when bottles or cans of these kinds of soft drinks are opened, the soft drinks fizz and effervesce as co2 bubbles come out. certain acids are used as drugs. acetylsalicylic acid ( aspirin ) is used as a pain killer and for bringing down fevers. in human bodies acids play important roles in the human body. the hydrochloric acid present in the stomach aids digestion by breaking down large and complex food molecules. amino acids are required for synthesis of proteins required for growth and repair of body tissues. fatty acids are also required for growth and repair of body tissues. nucleic acids are important for the manufacturing of dna and rna and transmitting of traits to offspring through genes. carbonic acid is important for maintenance of ph equilibrium in the body. human bodies contain a variety of organic and inorganic compounds, among those dicar