church ; accusing this of being an excuse not to undertake systematic doctrine at all. contrariwise, sykes notes a high degree of commonality in anglican liturgical forms and in the doctrinal understandings expressed within those liturgies. he proposes that anglican identity might rather be found within a shared consistent pattern of prescriptive liturgies, established and maintained through canon law, and embodying both a historic deposit of formal statements of doctrine, and also framing the regular reading and proclamation of scripture. sykes nevertheless agrees with those heirs of maurice who emphasise the incompleteness of anglicanism as a positive feature, and quotes with qualified approval the words of michael ramsey : doctrine " catholic and reformed " the distinction between reformed and catholic, and the coherence of the two, is a matter of debate within the anglican communion. the oxford movement of the mid - 19th century revived and extended doctrinal, liturgical, and pastoral practices similar to those of roman catholicism. this extends beyond the ceremony of high church services to even more theologically significant territory, such as sacramental theology ( see anglican sacraments ). while anglo - catholic practices, particularly liturgical ones, have become more common within the tradition over the last century, there are also places where practices and beliefs resonate more closely with the evangelical movements of the 1730s ( see sydney anglicanism ). guiding principles for high - church anglicans, doctrine is neither established by a magisterium, nor derived from the theology of an eponymous founder ( such as calvinism ), nor summed up in a confession of faith beyond the ecumenical creeds ( such as the lutheran book of concord ). for them, the earliest anglican theological documents are its prayer books, which they see as the products of profound theological reflection, compromise, and synthesis. they emphasise the book of common prayer as a key expression of anglican doctrine. the principle of looking to the prayer books as a guide to the parameters of belief and practice is called by the latin name lex orandi, lex credendi ( " the law of prayer is the law of belief " ). within the prayer books are the fundamentals of anglican doctrine : the apostles ' and nicene creeds, the athanasian creed ( now rarely used ), the scriptures ( via the lectionary ), the sacraments, daily prayer, the catechism, and apostolic succession in the context of the historic threefold ministry. for some low - church and evangelical anglicans, the 16th - century reformed thirty - nine articles form the basis