the us version, so that the tale would end on a darker note, with alex becoming his old, ultraviolent self again – an ending which the publisher insisted would be " more realistic " and appealing to a us audience. the film adaptation, directed by stanley kubrick, is based on the american edition of the book, and is considered to be " badly flawed " by burgess. kubrick called chapter 21 " an extra chapter " and claimed that he had not read the original version until he had virtually finished the screenplay and that he had never given serious consideration to using it. in kubrick ' s opinion – as in the opinion of other readers, including the original american editor – the final chapter was unconvincing and inconsistent with the book. kubrick ' s stance was unusual when compared to the standard hollywood practice of producing films with the familiar tropes of resolving moral messages and good triumphing over evil before the film ' s end. characters alex : the novel ' s protagonist and leader among his droogs. he often refers to himself as " your humble narrator ". having coaxed two ten - year - old girls into his bedroom, alex refers to himself as " alexander the large " while raping them ; this was later the basis for alex ' s claimed surname delarge in the 1971 film. george, georgie or georgie boy : effectively alex ' s greedy second - in - command. georgie attempts to undermine alex ' s status as leader of the gang and take over their gang as the new leader. he is later killed during a botched robbery while alex is in prison. pete : the only one who does not take particular sides when the droogs fight among themselves. he later meets and marries a girl named georgina, renouncing his violent ways and even losing his former ( nadsat ) speech patterns. a chance encounter with pete in the final chapter influences alex to realise that he has grown bored with violence and recognise that human energy is better expended on creation than destruction. dim : an idiotic and thoroughly gormless member of the gang, persistently condescended to by alex, but respected to some extent by his droogs for his formidable fighting abilities, his weapon of choice being a length of bike chain. he later becomes a police officer, exacting his revenge on alex for the abuse he once suffered under his command. p. r. deltoid : a criminal rehabilitation social worker assigned the task of keeping alex on the straight and narrow. he seemingly has no clue about