##olithic. neolithic settlements include catalhoyuk, cayonu, nevali cori, asıklı hoyuk, boncuklu hoyuk, hacilar, gobekli tepe, norsuntepe, kosk hoyuk, and yumuktepe. catalhoyuk ( 7. 000 bce ) is considered the most advanced of these. neolithic anatolia has been proposed as the homeland of the indo - european language family, although linguists tend to favour a later origin in the steppes north of the black sea. however, it is clear that the anatolian languages, the earliest attested branch of indo - european, have been spoken in anatolia since at least the 19th century bce. recent advances in archaeogenetics have confirmed that the spread of agriculture from the middle east to europe was strongly correlated with the migration of early farmers from anatolia about 9, 000 years ago, and was not just a cultural exchange. anatolian neolithic farmers derived a significant portion of their ancestry from the anatolian hunter - gatherers, suggesting that agriculture was adopted in site by these hunter - gatherers and not spread by demic diffusion into the region. ancient anatolia the earliest historical data related to anatolia appear during the bronze age and continue throughout the iron age. the most ancient period in the history of anatolia spans from the emergence of ancient hattians, up to the conquest of anatolia by the achaemenid empire in the 6th century bce. hattians and hurrians the earliest historically attested populations of anatolia were the hattians in central anatolia, and hurrians further to the east. the hattians were an indigenous people, whose main center was the city of hattush. affiliation of hattian language remains unclear, while hurrian language belongs to a distinctive family of hurro - urartian languages. all of those languages are extinct ; relationships with indigenous languages of the caucasus have been proposed, but are not generally accepted. the region became famous for exporting raw materials. organized trade between anatolia and mesopotamia started to emerge during the period of the akkadian empire, and was continued and intensified during the period of the old assyrian empire, between the 21st and the 18th centuries bce. assyrian traders were bringing tin and textiles in exchange for copper, silver or gold. cuneiform records, dated, found in anatolia at the assyrian colony of kanesh, use an advanced system of trading computations and credit lines. hittite anatolia ( 18th – 12th