pringle. there has been recent development in the republicanism movement in antigua and barbuda, following barbados becoming a republic in 2021 and following the death of elizabeth ii in 2022, with an opinion poll showing majority support for the change. elections the last election was held on 21 march 2018. the antigua barbuda labour party ( ablp ) led by prime minister gaston browne won 15 of the 17 seats in the house of representatives. the previous election was on 12 june 2014, during which the antigua labour party won 14 seats, and the united progressive party 3 seats. since 1951, elections have been won by the populist antigua labour party. however, in the antigua and barbuda legislative election of 2004 saw the defeat of the longest - serving elected government in the caribbean. vere bird was prime minister from 1981 to 1994 and chief minister of antigua from 1960 to 1981, except for the 1971 – 1976 period when the progressive labour movement ( plm ) defeated his party. bird, the nation ' s first prime minister, is credited with having brought antigua and barbuda and the caribbean into a new era of independence. prime minister lester bryant bird succeeded the elder bird in 1994. party elections gaston browne defeated his predecessor lester bryant bird at the antigua labour party ' s biennial convention in november 2012 held to elect a political leader and other officers. the party then altered its name from the antigua labour party ( alp ) to the antigua and barbuda labour party ( ablp ). this was done to officially include the party ' s presence on the sister island of barbuda in its organisation, the only political party on the mainland to have a physical branch in barbuda. judiciary the eastern caribbean supreme court is the highest court in the region ' s judicial system ( based in saint lucia ; one judge of the supreme court is a resident of the islands and presides over the high court of justice ). the caribbean court of justice counts antigua as one of its member states. its highest court of appeal is the judicial committee of the privy council, which acts in that capacity. foreign relations antigua and barbuda is a member of the united nations, the bolivarian alliance for the americas, the commonwealth of nations, the caribbean community, the organization of eastern caribbean states, the organization of american states, the world trade organization and the eastern caribbean ' s regional security system. antigua and barbuda is also a member of the international criminal court ( with a bilateral immunity agreement of protection for the us military as covered under