s texts, that surround theseus ' abduction of queen antiope and the amazons ' attack on athens. an accurate and detailed portrayal of the archaic greek world, its life, people, weapons etc. dramatized as real as the sky. william moulton marston, alongside his wife and their lover olive byrne, created their rendition of the mythical amazons, whose members included the superheroine wonder woman, for dc comics. marston ' s amazons are noteworthy for not just being physically superior to mortal men but also technologically superior, being able to create healing rays and undetectable jet planes that can be controlled through brain waves alone, although this element of amazon society is applied inconsistently in appearances written after marston ' s death. in rick riordan ' s the heroes of olympus, the amazons appear in the son of neptune and the blood of olympus. they are the founders and owners of the amazon corporation. in philip armstrong ' s historical - fantasy series, the chronicles of tupiluliuma, the amazons appear as the am ' azzi. in the stieg larsson novel the girl who kicked the hornets ' nest, the amazons appear as the transitional topics between sections of the book. garci rodriguez de montalvo created the fictional queen calafia, who ruled over a kingdom of black women, living in the style of amazons, on the mythical island of california. amazon gazonga is a short comic series created by the waltrip brothers in 1995. the comic centres around on a young amazon named gazonga living in the amazon rainforest. gastrophobia is a webcomic by daisy mcguire, about the adventures of an exiled amazon warrior and her son living in ancient greece, roughly 3408 years ago. film and television franchises involving several tarzan releases, that have featured amazon tribes ( tarzan and the amazons, tarzan, lord of the jungle ) in the animated series the mysterious cities of gold, a tribe of amazons appeared in two episodes. frank hart, portraying a misogynist, is kidnapped by amazons in the 1980 film 9 to 5. amazons appear in the movies the loves of hercules ( 1960 ), battle of the amazons ( 1970 ), war goddess ( 1973 ), hundra ( 1983 ), amazons ( 1986 ), deathstalker ii ( 1987 ), ronal the barbarian ( 2011 ), hercules ( 2014 ) and dc extended universe films : wonder woman ( 2017 ), justice league ( 2017 ), wonder woman 1984 ( 2020 )