open for him, believing that, although invisible to them, he was fighting for and among them. the story of ajax was frequently made use of by ancient poets and artists, and the hero who appears on some locrian coins with the helmet, shield, and sword is probably this ajax. other accounts of ajax ' s death are offered by philostratus and the scholiast on lycophron. art the abduction of cassandra by ajax was frequently represented in greek works of art, such as the chest of cypselus described by pausanias and in extant works. notes references apollodorus, the library with an english translation by sir james george frazer, f. b. a., f. r. s. in 2 volumes, cambridge, ma, harvard university press ; london, william heinemann ltd. 1921.. online version at the perseus digital library. greek text available from the same website. conon, fifty narrations, surviving as one - paragraph summaries in the bibliotheca ( library ) of photius, patriarch of constantinople translated from the greek by brady kiesling. online version at the topos text project. dictys cretensis, from the trojan war. the chronicles of dictys of crete and dares the phrygian translated by richard mcilwaine frazer, jr. indiana university press. 1966. online version at the topos text project. gaius julius hyginus, fabulae from the myths of hyginus translated and edited by mary grant. university of kansas publications in humanistic studies. online version at the topos text project. graves, robert, the greek myths, harmondsworth, london, england, penguin books, 1960. graves, robert, the greek myths : the complete and definitive edition. penguin books limited. 2017. homer, the iliad with an english translation by a. t. murray, ph. d. in two volumes. cambridge, ma., harvard university press ; london, william heinemann, ltd. 1924.. online version at the perseus digital library. homer, homeri opera in five volumes. oxford, oxford university press. 1920.. greek text available at the perseus digital library. homer, the odyssey with an english translation by a. t. murray, ph. d. in two volumes. cambridge, ma., harvard university press ; london, william heinemann, ltd. 1919.. online