also called for full civil and religious liberties, peace and disarmament, and an end to all wars. the aga khan opposed sectarianism, which he believed to sap the strength and unity of the muslim community. in specific, he called for a rapprochement between sunnism and shiʿism. this did not mean that he thought religious differences would go away, and he himself instructed his ismaʿili followers to be dedicated to their own teachings. however, he believed in unity through accepting diversity, and by respecting differences of opinion. on his view, there was strength to be found in the diversity of muslim traditions. the aga khan called for social reform in muslim society, and he was able to implement them within his own ismaʿili community. as he believed islam to essentially be a humanitarian religion, the aga khan called for the reduction and eradication of poverty. like sir sayyid, the aga khan was concerned that muslims had fallen behind the hindu community in terms of education. according to him, education was the path to progress. he was a tireless advocate for compulsory and universal primary education, and also for the creation of higher institutions of learning. in terms of women ' s rights, the aga khan was more progressive in his views than sir sayyid and many other islamic modernists of his time. the aga khan framed his pursuit of women ' s rights not simply in the context of women being better mothers or wives, but rather, for women ' s own benefit. he endorsed the spiritual equality of men and women in islam, and he also called for full political equality. this included the right to vote and the right to an education. in regards to the latter issue, he endorsed compulsory primary education for girls. he also encouraged women to pursue higher university - level education, and saw nothing wrong with co - educational institutions. whereas sir sayyid prioritized the education of boys over girls, the aga khan instructed his followers that if they had a son and daughter, and if they could only afford to send one of them to school, they should send the daughter over the boy. the aga khan campaigned against the institution of purda and zenana, which he felt were oppressive and un - islamic institutions. he completely banned the purda and the face veil for his ismaʿili followers. the aga khan also restricted polygamy, encouraged marriage to widows, and banned child marriage. he also made marriage and divorce laws more equitable to women.