was almost a samurai myself! " federico fellini considered kurosawa to be " the greatest living example of all that an author of the cinema should be ". steven spielberg cited kurosawa ' s cinematic vision as being important to shaping his own cinematic vision. satyajit ray, who was posthumously awarded the akira kurosawa award for lifetime achievement in directing at the san francisco international film festival in 1992, had said earlier of rashomon : roman polanski considered kurosawa to be among the three film - makers he favored most, along with fellini and orson welles, and picked seven samurai, throne of blood and the hidden fortress for praise. bernardo bertolucci considered kurosawa ' s influence to be seminal : " kurosawa ' s movies and la dolce vita of fellini are the things that pushed me, sucked me into being a film director. " andrei tarkovsky cited kurosawa as one of his favorites and named seven samurai as one of his ten favorite films. sidney lumet called kurosawa the " beethoven of movie directors ". werner herzog reflected on film - makers with whom he feels kinship and the movies that he admires : according to an assistant, stanley kubrick considered kurosawa to be " one of the great film directors " and spoke of him " consistently and admiringly ", to the point that a letter from him " meant more than any oscar " and caused him to agonize for months over drafting a reply. robert altman upon first seeing rashomon was so impressed by the sequence of frames of the sun that he began to shoot the same sequences in his work the very next day, he claimed. george lucas cited the movie the hidden fortress as the main inspiration for his film star wars. he also cited other films of kurosawa as his favorites including seven samurai, yojimbo, and. he also said, " i had never seen anything that powerful or cinematographic. the emotions were so strong that it didn ' t matter that i did not understand the culture or the traditions. from that moment on, kurosawa ' s films have served as one of my strongest sources of creative inspiration. " wes anderson ' s animated film isle of dogs is partially inspired by kurosawa ' s filming techniques. at the 64th sydney film festival, there was a retrospective of akira kurosawa where films of his were screened to remember the great legacy he has created from his work. zack snyder cited him as one of his influences for his under