##rius. theodotus of ancyra is also venerated as a saint. however, the persecution proved unsuccessful and in 314 ancyra was the center of an important council of the early church ; its 25 disciplinary canons constitute one of the most important documents in the early history of the administration of the sacrament of penance. the synod also considered ecclesiastical policy for the reconstruction of the christian church after the persecutions, and in particular the treatment of lapsi — christians who had given in to forced paganism ( sacrifices ) to avoid martyrdom during these persecutions. though paganism was probably tottering in ancyra in clement ' s day, it may still have been the majority religion. twenty years later, christianity and monotheism had taken its place. ancyra quickly turned into a christian city, with a life dominated by monks and priests and theological disputes. the town council or senate gave way to the bishop as the main local figurehead. during the middle of the 4th century, ancyra was involved in the complex theological disputes over the nature of christ, and a form of arianism seems to have originated there. in 362 – 363, emperor julian passed through ancyra on his way to an ill - fated campaign against the persians, and according to christian sources, engaged in a persecution of various holy men. the stone base for a statue, with an inscription describing julian as " lord of the whole world from the british ocean to the barbarian nations ", can still be seen, built into the eastern side of the inner circuit of the walls of ankara castle. the column of julian which was erected in honor of the emperor ' s visit to the city in 362 still stands today. in 375, arian bishops met at ancyra and deposed several bishops, among them st. gregory of nyssa. in the late 4th century, ancyra became something of an imperial holiday resort. after constantinople became the east roman capital, emperors in the 4th and 5th centuries would retire from the humid summer weather on the bosporus to the drier mountain atmosphere of ancyra. theodosius ii ( 408 – 450 ) kept his court in ancyra in the summers. laws issued in ancyra testify to the time they spent there. the metropolis of ancyra continued to be a residential see of the eastern orthodox church until the 20th century, with about 40, 000 faithful, mostly turkish - speaking, but that situation ended as a result of the 1923 convention concerning the exchange of greek