%, a figure that she later revised to 1 %. the next element below francium ( eka - francium ) in the periodic table would be ununennium ( uue ), element 119. the synthesis of ununennium was first attempted in 1985 by bombarding a target of einsteinium - 254 with calcium - 48 ions at the superhilac accelerator at the lawrence berkeley national laboratory in berkeley, california. no atoms were identified, leading to a limiting yield of 300 nb. + → * → no atoms it is highly unlikely that this reaction will be able to create any atoms of ununennium in the near future, given the extremely difficult task of making sufficient amounts of einsteinium - 254, which is favoured for production of ultraheavy elements because of its large mass, relatively long half - life of 270 days, and availability in significant amounts of several micrograms, to make a large enough target to increase the sensitivity of the experiment to the required level ; einsteinium has not been found in nature and has only been produced in laboratories, and in quantities smaller than those needed for effective synthesis of superheavy elements. however, given that ununennium is only the first period 8 element on the extended periodic table, it may well be discovered in the near future through other reactions, and indeed an attempt to synthesise it is currently ongoing in japan. currently, none of the period 8 elements has been discovered yet, and it is also possible, due to drip instabilities, that only the lower period 8 elements, up to around element 128, are physically possible. no attempts at synthesis have been made for any heavier alkali metals : due to their extremely high atomic number, they would require new, more powerful methods and technology to make. occurrence in the solar system the oddo – harkins rule holds that elements with even atomic numbers are more common that those with odd atomic numbers, with the exception of hydrogen. this rule argues that elements with odd atomic numbers have one unpaired proton and are more likely to capture another, thus increasing their atomic number. in elements with even atomic numbers, protons are paired, with each member of the pair offsetting the spin of the other, enhancing stability. all the alkali metals have odd atomic numbers and they are not as common as the elements with even atomic numbers adjacent to them ( the noble gases and the alkaline earth metals ) in the solar system. the heavier alkali metals are also less abundant than the lighter ones as