anarchism is a political philosophy and movement that is skeptical of all justifications for authority and seeks to abolish the institutions it claims maintain unnecessary coercion and hierarchy, typically including nation - states, and capitalism. anarchism advocates for the replacement of the state with stateless societies and voluntary free associations. as a historically left - wing movement, this reading of anarchism is placed on the farthest left of the political spectrum, usually described as the libertarian wing of the socialist movement ( libertarian socialism ). humans have lived in societies without formal hierarchies long before the establishment of states, realms, or empires. with the rise of organised hierarchical bodies, scepticism toward authority also rose. although traces of anarchist ideas are found all throughout history, modern anarchism emerged from the enlightenment. during the latter half of the 19th and the first decades of the 20th century, the anarchist movement flourished in most parts of the world and had a significant role in workers ' struggles for emancipation. various anarchist schools of thought formed during this period. anarchists have taken part in several revolutions, most notably in the paris commune, the russian civil war and the spanish civil war, whose end marked the end of the classical era of anarchism. in the last decades of the 20th and into the 21st century, the anarchist movement has been resurgent once more, growing in popularity and influence within anti - capitalist, anti - war and anti - globalisation movements. anarchists employ diverse approaches, which may be generally divided into revolutionary and evolutionary strategies ; there is significant overlap between the two. evolutionary methods try to simulate what an anarchist society might be like, but revolutionary tactics, which have historically taken a violent turn, aim to overthrow authority and the state. many facets of human civilization have been influenced by anarchist theory, critique, and praxis. etymology, terminology, and definition the etymological origin of anarchism is from the ancient greek anarkhia, meaning " without a ruler ", composed of the prefix an - ( " without " ) and the word arkhos ( " leader " or " ruler " ). the suffix - ism denotes the ideological current that favours anarchy. anarchism appears in english from 1642 as anarchisme and anarchy from 1539 ; early english usages emphasised a sense of disorder. various factions within the french revolution labelled their opponents as anarchists, although few such accused shared many views with later anarchists. many revolutionaries of the 19th century such as william godwin (