##ogical schemes that would purportedly solve social and economic ills. swift was especially attacking projects that tried to fix population and labour issues with a simple cure - all solution. a memorable example of these sorts of schemes " involved the idea of running the poor through a joint - stock company ". in response, swift ' s modest proposal was " a burlesque of projects concerning the poor " that were in vogue during the early 18th century. a modest proposal also targets the calculating way people perceived the poor in designing their projects. the pamphlet targets reformers who " regard people as commodities ". in the piece, swift adopts the " technique of a political arithmetician " to show the utter ridiculousness of trying to prove any proposal with dispassionate statistics. critics differ about swift ' s intentions in using this faux - mathematical philosophy. edmund wilson argues that statistically " the logic of the ' modest proposal ' can be compared with defence of crime ( arrogated to marx ) in which he argues that crime takes care of the superfluous population ". wittkowsky counters that swift ' s satiric use of statistical analysis is an effort to enhance his satire that " springs from a spirit of bitter mockery, not from the delight in calculations for their own sake ". rhetoric author charles k. smith argues that swift ' s rhetorical style persuades the reader to detest the speaker and pity the irish. swift ' s specific strategy is twofold, using a " trap " to create sympathy for the irish and a dislike of the narrator who, in the span of one sentence, " details vividly and with rhetorical emphasis the grinding poverty " but feels emotion solely for members of his own class. swift ' s use of gripping details of poverty and his narrator ' s cool approach towards them create " two opposing points of view " that " alienate the reader, perhaps unconsciously, from a narrator who can view with ' melancholy ' detachment a subject that swift has directed us, rhetorically, to see in a much less detached way. " swift has his proposer further degrade the irish by using language ordinarily reserved for animals. lewis argues that the speaker uses " the vocabulary of animal husbandry " to describe the irish. once the children have been commodified, swift ' s rhetoric can easily turn " people into animals, then meat, and from meat, logically, into tonnage worth a price per pound ". swift uses the proposer ' s serious tone to highlight the absurdity of his