s minister, olympius. stilicho ' s small escort of goths and huns was commanded by a goth, sarus, whose gothic troops massacred the hun contingent in their sleep, and then withdrew towards the cities in which their own families were billeted. stilicho ordered that sarus ' s goths should not be admitted, but, now without an army, he was forced to flee for sanctuary. agents of olympius promised stilicho his life, but instead betrayed and killed him. alaric was again declared an enemy of the emperor. olympius ' s men then massacred the families of the federate troops ( as presumed supporters of stilicho, although they had probably rebelled against him ), and the troops defected en masse to alaric. many thousands of barbarian auxiliaries, along with their wives and children, joined alaric in noricum. the conspirators seem to have let their main army disintegrate and had no policy except hunting down supporters of stilicho. italy was left without effective indigenous defence forces thereafter. as a declared ' enemy of the emperor ', alaric was denied the legitimacy that he needed to collect taxes and hold cities without large garrisons, which he could not afford to detach. he again offered to move his men, this time to pannonia, in exchange for a modest sum of money and the modest title of comes, but he was refused because olympius ' s regime regarded him as a supporter of stilicho. first siege of rome, agreed ransom when alaric was rebuffed, he led his force of around 30, 000 men — many newly enlisted and understandably motivated — on a march toward rome to avenge their murdered families. he moved across the julian alps into italy, probably using the route and supplies arranged for him by stilicho, bypassing the imperial court in ravenna which was protected by widespread marshland and had a port, and in september 408 he menaced the city of rome, imposing a strict blockade. no blood was shed this time ; alaric relied on hunger as his most powerful weapon. when the ambassadors of the senate, entreating for peace, tried to intimidate him with hints of what the despairing citizens might accomplish, he laughed and gave his celebrated answer : " the thicker the hay, the easier mowed! " after much bargaining, the famine - stricken citizens agreed to pay a ransom of 5, 000 pounds