announced on 2 september. on that date, voyage, their first new album in 40 years, was announced to be released on 5 november 2021, along with abba voyage, a concert residency in a custom - built venue at queen elizabeth olympic park in london featuring the motion capture digital avatars of the four band members alongside a 10 - piece live band, starting 27 may 2022. faltskog stated that the voyage album and tour are likely to be their last. the announcement of the new album was accompanied by the release of the singles " i still have faith in you " and " don ' t shut me down ". the music video for " i still have faith in you ", featuring footage of the band during their performing years and a first look at the abbatars, earned over a million views in its first three hours. " don ' t shut me down " became the first abba release since october 1978 to top the singles chart in sweden. in october 2021, the third single " just a notion " was released, and it was announced that abba would split for good after the release of voyage. however, in an interview with bbc radio 2 on 11 november, lyngstad stated " don ' t be too sure " that voyage is the final abba album. also, in an interview with bbc news on 5 november, andersson stated " if they [ the ladies ] twist my arm i might change my mind. " the fourth single from the album, " little things ", was released on 3 december. in may 2022, after the premiere of abba voyage, andersson stated in an interview with variety that " nothing is going to happen after this ", confirming the residency as abba ' s final group collaboration. in april 2023, longtime abba guitarist lasse wellander died at the age of 70 ; wellander played on seven of the group ' s nine studio albums, including voyage. artistry recording process abba were perfectionists in the studio, working on tracks until they got them right rather than leaving them to come back to later on. they spent the bulk of their time within the studio ; in separate 2021 interviews ulvaeus stated they may have toured for only 6 months while andersson said they played fewer than 100 shows during the band ' s career. the band created a basic rhythm track with a drummer, guitarist and bass player, and overlaid other arrangements and instruments. vocals were then added, and orchestra overdubs were usually left until last. faltskog and l