coupled device ( ccd ) camera to record a long, deep exposure, allowing a more sensitive image to be created because the light is added over time. before ccds, photographic plates were a common method of observation. modern astronomers spend relatively little time at telescopes usually just a few weeks per year. analysis of observed phenomena, along with making predictions as to the causes of what they observe, takes the majority of observational astronomers ' time. astronomers who serve as faculty spend much of their time teaching undergraduate and graduate classes. most universities also have outreach programs including public telescope time and sometimes planetariums as a public service to encourage interest in the field. those who become astronomers usually have a broad background in maths, sciences and computing in high school. taking courses that teach how to research, write, and present papers are also invaluable. in college / university most astronomers get a phd in astronomy or physics. amateur astronomers while there is a relatively low number of professional astronomers, the field is popular among amateurs. most cities have amateur astronomy clubs that meet on a regular basis and often host star parties. the astronomical society of the pacific is the largest general astronomical society in the world, comprising both professional and amateur astronomers as well as educators from 70 different nations. like any hobby, most people who think of themselves as amateur astronomers may devote a few hours a month to stargazing and reading the latest developments in research. however, amateurs span the range from so - called " armchair astronomers " to the very ambitious, who own science - grade telescopes and instruments with which they are able to make their own discoveries and assist professional astronomers in research. see also list of astronomers list of women astronomers list of muslim astronomers list of french astronomers list of hungarian astronomers list of russian astronomers and astrophysicists list of slovenian astronomers references sources external links american astronomical society european astronomical society international astronomical union astronomical society of the pacific space ' s astronomy news astronomy science occupations