with a point - source of light made by focusing sunlight with a drop of honey, a crude micrometer of his own construction, and supporting apparatus made by a local locksmith — he began his own experiments. his technique was novel : whereas earlier investigators had projected the fringes onto a screen, fresnel soon abandoned the screen and observed the fringes in space, through a lens with the micrometer at its focus, allowing more accurate measurements while requiring less light. later in july, after napoleon ' s final defeat, fresnel was reinstated with the advantage of having backed the winning side. he requested a two - month leave of absence, which was readily granted because roadworks were in abeyance. on 23 september he wrote to arago, beginning " i think i have found the explanation and the law of colored fringes which one notices in the shadows of bodies illuminated by a luminous point. " in the same paragraph, however, fresnel implicitly acknowledged doubt about the novelty of his work : noting that he would need to incur some expense in order to improve his measurements, he wanted to know " whether this is not useless, and whether the law of diffraction has not already been established by sufficiently exact experiments. " he explained that he had not yet had a chance to acquire the items on his reading lists, with the apparent exception of " young ' s book ", which he could not understand without his brother ' s help. not surprisingly, he had retraced many of young ' s steps. in a memoir sent to the institute on 15 october 1815, fresnel mapped the external and internal fringes in the shadow of a wire. he noticed, like young before him, that the internal fringes disappeared when the light from one side was blocked, and concluded that " the vibrations of two rays that cross each other under a very small angle can contradict each other … " but, whereas young took the disappearance of the internal fringes as confirmation of the principle of interference, fresnel reported that it was the internal fringes that first drew his attention to the principle. to explain the diffraction pattern, fresnel constructed the internal fringes by considering the intersections of circular wavefronts emitted from the two edges of the obstruction, and the external fringes by considering the intersections between direct waves and waves reflected off the nearer edge. for the external fringes, to obtain tolerable agreement with observation, he had to suppose that the reflected wave was inverted ; and he noted that the predicted