##nt genes in the mycobiont. trentepohlia is an example of a common green alga genus worldwide that can grow on its own or be lichenised. lichen thus share some of the habitat and often similar appearance with specialized species of algae ( aerophytes ) growing on exposed surfaces such as tree trunks and rocks and sometimes discoloring them. coral reefs coral reefs are accumulated from the calcareous exoskeletons of marine invertebrates of the order scleractinia ( stony corals ). these animals metabolize sugar and oxygen to obtain energy for their cell - building processes, including secretion of the exoskeleton, with water and carbon dioxide as byproducts. dinoflagellates ( algal protists ) are often endosymbionts in the cells of the coral - forming marine invertebrates, where they accelerate host - cell metabolism by generating sugar and oxygen immediately available through photosynthesis using incident light and the carbon dioxide produced by the host. reef - building stony corals ( hermatypic corals ) require endosymbiotic algae from the genus symbiodinium to be in a healthy condition. the loss of symbiodinium from the host is known as coral bleaching, a condition which leads to the deterioration of a reef. sea sponges endosymbiontic green algae live close to the surface of some sponges, for example, breadcrumb sponges ( halichondria panicea ). the alga is thus protected from predators ; the sponge is provided with oxygen and sugars which can account for 50 to 80 % of sponge growth in some species. life cycle rhodophyta, chlorophyta, and heterokontophyta, the three main algal divisions, have life cycles which show considerable variation and complexity. in general, an asexual phase exists where the seaweed ' s cells are diploid, a sexual phase where the cells are haploid, followed by fusion of the male and female gametes. asexual reproduction permits efficient population increases, but less variation is possible. commonly, in sexual reproduction of unicellular and colonial algae, two specialized, sexually compatible, haploid gametes make physical contact and fuse to form a zygote. to ensure a successful mating, the development and release of gametes is highly synchronized and regulated ; pheromones may play a key role in these processes. sexual reproduction allows