on the road surfaces, leaving many severely potholed, littered with broken asphalt. in many areas drivers have established alternative tracks to avoid the worst parts of the surface, although careful attention must be paid to the presence or absence of landmine warning markers by the side of the road. the angolan government has contracted the restoration of many of the country ' s roads. the road between lubango and namibe, for example, was completed recently with funding from the european union, and is comparable to many european main routes. completing the road infrastructure is likely to take some decades, but substantial efforts are already being made. telecommunications the telecommunications industry is considered one of the main strategic sectors in angola. in october 2014, the building of an optic fiber underwater cable was announced. this project aims to turn angola into a continental hub, thus improving internet connections both nationally and internationally. on 11 march 2015, the first angolan forum of telecommunications and information technology was held in luanda under the motto " the challenges of telecommunications in the current context of angola ", to promote debate on topical issues on telecommunications in angola and worldwide. a study of this sector, presented at the forum, said angola had the first telecommunications operator in africa to test lte – with speeds up to 400 mbit / s – and mobile penetration of about 75 % ; there are about 3. 5 million smartphones in the angolan market ; there are about of optical fibre installed in the country. the first angolan satellite, angosat - 1, was launched into orbit on 26 december 2017. it was launched from the baikonur space center in kazakhstan on board a zenit 3f rocket. the satellite was built by russia ' s rsc energia, a subsidiary of the state - run space industry player roscosmos. the satellite payload was supplied by airbus defence & space. due to an on - board power failure during solar panel deployment, on 27 december, rsc energia revealed that they lost communications contact with the satellite. although, subsequent attempts to restore communications with the satellite were successful, the satellite eventually stopped sending data and rsc energia confirmed that angosat - 1 was inoperable. the launch of angosat - 1 was aimed at ensuring telecommunications throughout the country. according to aristides safeca, secretary of state for telecommunications, the satellite was aimed at providing telecommunications services, tv, internet and e - government and was expected to remain in orbit " at best " for 18 years. a replacement satellite named angosa