early anglican divines of the 16th and 17th centuries, the names of thomas cranmer, john jewel, matthew parker, richard hooker, lancelot andrewes, and jeremy taylor predominate. the influential character of hooker ' s of the laws of ecclesiastical polity cannot be overestimated. published in 1593 and subsequently, hooker ' s eight - volume work is primarily a treatise on church - state relations, but it deals comprehensively with issues of biblical interpretation, soteriology, ethics, and sanctification. throughout the work, hooker makes clear that theology involves prayer and is concerned with ultimate issues and that theology is relevant to the social mission of the church. the 17th century saw the rise of two important movements in anglicanism : cambridge platonism, with its mystical understanding of reason as the " candle of the lord ", and the evangelical revival, with its emphasis on the personal experience of the holy spirit. the cambridge platonist movement evolved into a school called latitudinarianism, which emphasised reason as the barometer of discernment and took a stance of indifference towards doctrinal and ecclesiological differences. the evangelical revival, influenced by such figures as john wesley and charles simeon, re - emphasised the importance of justification through faith and the consequent importance of personal conversion. some in this movement, such as wesley and george whitefield, took the message to the united states, influencing the first great awakening and creating an anglo - american movement called methodism that would eventually break away, structurally, from the anglican churches after the american revolution. by the 19th century, there was a renewed interest in pre - reformation english religious thought and practice. theologians such as john keble, edward bouverie pusey, and john henry newman had widespread influence in the realm of polemics, homiletics and theological and devotional works, not least because they largely repudiated the old high - church tradition and replaced it with a dynamic appeal to antiquity which looked beyond the reformers and anglican formularies. their work is largely credited with the development of the oxford movement, which sought to reassert catholic identity and practice in anglicanism. in contrast to this movement, clergy such as the bishop of liverpool, j. c. ryle, sought to uphold the distinctly reformed identity of the church of england. he was not a servant of the status quo, but argued for a lively religion which emphasised grace, holy and charitable living, and the plain use of the 1662 book of common prayer (