; in any case, it appears to be strongly related to adem diagnosis. differential diagnosis multiple sclerosis while adem and ms both involve autoimmune demyelination, they differ in many clinical, genetic, imaging, and histopathological aspects. some authors consider ms and its borderline forms to constitute a spectrum, differing only in chronicity, severity, and clinical course, while others consider them discretely different diseases. typically, adem appears in children following an antigenic challenge and remains monophasic. nevertheless, adem does occur in adults, and can also be clinically multiphasic. problems for differential diagnosis increase due to the lack of agreement for a definition of multiple sclerosis. if ms were defined only by the separation in time and space of the demyelinating lesions as mcdonald did, it would not be enough to make a difference, as some cases of adem satisfy these conditions. therefore, some authors propose to establish the dividing line as the shape of the lesions around the veins, being therefore " perivenous vs. confluent demyelination ". the pathology of adem is very similar to that of ms with some differences. the pathological hallmark of adem is perivenous inflammation with limited " sleeves of demyelination ". nevertheless, ms - like plaques ( confluent demyelination ) can appear plaques in the white matter in ms are sharply delineated, while the glial scar in adem is smooth. axons are better preserved in adem lesions. inflammation in adem is widely disseminated and ill - defined, and finally, lesions are strictly perivenous, while in ms they are disposed around veins, but not so sharply. nevertheless, the co - occurrence of perivenous and confluent demyelination in some individuals suggests pathogenic overlap between acute disseminated encephalomyelitis and multiple sclerosis and misclassification even with biopsy or even postmortem adem in adults can progress to ms multiphasic disseminated encephalomyelitis when the person has more than one demyelinating episode of adem, the disease is then called recurrent disseminated encephalomyelitis or multiphasic disseminated encephalomyelitis ( mdem ). it has been found that anti - mog auto - antibodies are related to this kind of adem another variant of ad