successively built on one site at abydos. the first was an enclosure, about, enclosed by a thin wall of unbaked bricks. incorporating one wall of this first structure, the second temple of about square was built with walls about thick. an outer temenos ( enclosure ) wall surrounded the grounds. this outer wall was made wider some time around the second or third dynasty. the old temple entirely vanished in the fourth dynasty, and a smaller building was erected behind it, enclosing a wide hearth of black ashes. pottery models of offerings are found in these ashes and were probably the substitutes for live sacrifices decreed by khufu ( or cheops ) in his temple reforms. at an undetermined date, a great clearance of temple offerings had been made and the modern discovery of a chamber into which they were gathered yielded the fine ivory carvings and the glazed figures and tiles that demonstrate the splendid work of the first dynasty. a vase of menes with purple hieroglyphs inlaid into a green glaze and tiles with relief figures are the most important pieces found. the khufu statuette in ivory, found in the stone chamber of the temple, gives the only portrait of this great pharaoh. the temple was entirely rebuilt on a larger scale by pepi i in the sixth dynasty. he placed a great stone gateway to the temenos, an outer wall and gateway, with a colonnade between the gates. his temple was about inside, with stone gateways front and back, showing that it was of the processional type. in the eleventh dynasty mentuhotep ii added a colonnade and altars. soon after, mentuhotep iii entirely rebuilt the temple, laying a stone pavement over the area, about square. he also added subsidiary chambers. soon thereafter, in the twelfth dynasty, senusret i laid massive foundations of stone over the pavement of his predecessor. a great temenos was laid out enclosing a much larger area and the new temple itself was about three times the earlier size. brewery on 14 february 2021, egyptian and american archaeologists discovered what could be the oldest brewery in the world dating from around 3100 bce at the reign of king narmer. dr. matthew adams, one of the leaders of the mission, stated that it was used to make beer for royal rituals. main sites temple of seti i the temple of seti i was built on entirely new ground half a mile to the south of the long series of temples just described. this surviving building is