january 1998 ; this agreement prevents development and provides for the protection of the antarctic environment through five specific annexes on marine pollution, fauna and flora, environmental impact assessments, waste management, and protected areas. it prohibits all activities relating to mineral resources except scientific. a sixth annex on liability arising from environmental emergencies was adopted in 2005, but is yet to enter into force. bilateral treaties exchange of notes constituting an agreement between the governments of australia, new zealand and the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland, and the government of the french republic, regarding aerial navigation in the antarctic ( paris, 25 october 1938 ) treaty between the government of australia and the government of the french republic on cooperation in the maritime areas adjacent to the french southern and antarctic territories ( taaf ), heard island and the mcdonald islands ( canberra, 24 november 2003 ) agreement on cooperative enforcement of fisheries laws between the government of australia and the government of the french republic in the maritime areas adjacent to the french southern and antarctic territories, heard island and the mcdonald islands ( paris, 8 january 2007 ) meetings the antarctic treaty system ' s yearly antarctic treaty consultative meetings ( atcm ) are the international forum for the administration and management of the region. only 29 of the 56 parties to the agreements have the right to participate in decision - making at these meetings, though the other 27 are still allowed to attend. the decision - making participants are the consultative parties and, in addition to the 12 original signatories, including 17 countries that have demonstrated their interest in antarctica by carrying out substantial scientific activity there. the antarctic treaty also has special antarctic treaty consultative meetings ( satcm ), which are generally summoned to treat more important topics but are less frequents and meetings of experts. parties as of 2023, there are 56 states party to the treaty, 29 of which, including all 12 original signatories to the treaty, have consultative ( voting ) status. the consultative members include the 7 countries that claim portions of antarctica as their territory. the 49 non - claimant countries do not recognize the claims of others. 42 parties to the antarctic treaty have also ratified the " protocol on environmental protection to the antarctic treaty ". overview of parties to the antarctic treaty system * has an overlapping claim with another one or two claimants. † reserved the right to make a claim. antarctic treaty secretariat the antarctic treaty secretariat was established in buenos aires, argentina in september 2004 by the antarctic treaty consultative meeting ( atcm ). jan huber ( the netherlands ) served as the first executive secretary for five years until 31 august