have made a significant contribution to the city. the tollbooth museum on the castlegate ( currently closed to visitors ) is a former jail, which first opened as a public museum in 1995. the aberdeen treasure hub is a storage facility for aberdeen museums and galleries containing over 100, 000 items. the store is open for infrequent tours, for example as part of doors open day. marischal museum holds the principal collections of the university of aberdeen, comprising some 80, 000 items in the areas of fine art, scottish history and archaeology, and european, mediterranean and near eastern archaeology. the permanent displays and reference collections are augmented by regular temporary exhibitions, and since its closure to the public it now has a virtual online presence it closed to the public in 2008. the king ' s museum acts as the main museum of the university now. festivals and performing arts aberdeen is home to a number of events and festivals including the aberdeen international youth festival ( the world ' s largest arts festival for young performers ), aberdeen jazz festival, aberdeen alternative festival, rootin ' aboot ( a folk and roots music event ), triptych, the university of aberdeen ' s annual may fest ( formerly the word festival ) and dancelive, scotland ' s only festival of contemporary dance, produced by the city ' s citymoves dance organisation. the aberdeen student show, performed annually without interruption since 1921, under the auspices of the aberdeen students ' charities campaign, is the longest - running of its kind in the united kingdom. it is written, produced and performed by students and graduates of aberdeen ' s universities and higher education institutions. since 1929 — other than on a handful of occasions — it has been staged at his majesty ' s theatre. national festivals which visited aberdeen in 2012 included the british science festival in september, hosted by the university of aberdeen but with events also taking place at robert gordon university and at other venues across the city. in february 2012 the university of aberdeen also hosted the inter varsity folk dance festival, the longest - running folk festival in the united kingdom. aberdeen is home to spectra, an annual light festival hosted in different locations across the city. aberdeen is home to nuart, a festival showcasing street art around the city. the festival has run since 2017. music and film music venues include aberdeen music hall and the p & j live. dialect the local dialect of lowland scots is often known as doric and is spoken not just in the city, but across the northeast of scotland. it differs somewhat from other scots dialects : most noticeable are the