the tariff of 1828, which had been passed in the last year of adams ' administration, set a protective tariff at a very high rate to prevent the manufacturing industries in the northern states from having to compete with lower - priced imports from britain. the tariff reduced the income of southern cotton planters : it propped up consumer prices, but not the price of cotton which had severely declined in the previous decade. immediately after the tariff ' s passage, the south carolina exposition and protest was sent to the u. s. senate. this document, which had been anonymously written by john c. calhoun, asserted that the constitution was a compact of individual states and when the federal government went beyond its delegated duties, such as enacting a protective tariff, a state had a right to declare this action unconstitutional and make the act null and void with the borders of that state. jackson suspected calhoun of writing the exposition and protest, and opposed his interpretation. jackson argued that congress as a whole had full authority to enact tariffs and that a dissenting state was denying the will of the majority. he also needed the tariff, which generated 90 % of the federal revenue, to achieve another of his presidential goals, eliminating the national debt. the issue developed into a personal rivalry between the two men. for example, during a celebration of thomas jefferson ' s birthday on april 13, 1830, the attendees gave after - dinner toasts. jackson toasted : " our federal union : it must be preserved! " – a clear challenge to nullification. calhoun whose toast immediately followed, rebutted : " the union : next to our liberty, the most dear! " as a compromise, jackson supported the tariff of 1832, which reduced the duties from the tariff of 1828 by almost half. the bill was signed on july 9, but failed to satisfy extremists on either side. on november 24, south carolina had passed the ordinance of nullification, declaring both tariffs null and void and threatening to secede from the united states if the federal government tried to use force to collect the duties. in response, jackson sent warships to charleston harbor, and threatened to hang any man who worked to support nullification or secession. on december 10, jackson issued a proclamation against the " nullifiers ", stating that he considered " the power to annul a law of the united states, assumed by one state, incompatible with the existence of the union, contradicted expressly by the letter of the constitution, unauthorized by its spirit, inconsistent with every principle on which it was