on anal sex and incorporated it into the syllabus for those o. t. o. members who had been initiated into the eleventh degree. in march 1913, crowley acted as producer for the ragged ragtime girls, a group of female violinists led by waddell, as they performed at london ' s old tivoli theatre. they subsequently performed in moscow for six weeks, where crowley had a sadomasochistic relationship with the hungarian anny ringler. in moscow, crowley continued to write plays and poetry, including " hymn to pan ", and the gnostic mass, a thelemic ritual that became a key part of o. t. o. liturgy. churton suggested that crowley had travelled to moscow on the orders of british intelligence to spy on revolutionary elements in the city. in january 1914, crowley and neuburg settled into an apartment in paris, where the former was involved in the controversy surrounding jacob epstein ' s new monument to oscar wilde. together crowley and neuburg performed the six - week " paris working ", a period of intense ritual involving strong drug use in which they invoked the gods mercury and jupiter. as part of the ritual, the couple performed acts of sex magic together, at times being joined by journalist walter duranty. inspired by the results of the working, crowley wrote liber agape, a treatise on sex magic. following the paris working, neuburg began to distance himself from crowley, resulting in an argument in which crowley cursed him. united states : 1914 – 1919 by 1914, crowley was living a hand - to - mouth existence, relying largely on donations from members and dues payments made to o. t. o. in may, he transferred ownership of boleskine house to the mmm for financial reasons, and in july he went mountaineering in the swiss alps. during this time the first world war broke out. after recuperating from a bout of phlebitis, crowley set sail for the united states aboard the rms lusitania in october 1914. arriving in new york city, he moved into a hotel and began earning money writing for the american edition of vanity fair and undertaking freelance work for the famed astrologer evangeline adams. in the city, he continued experimenting with sex magic, through the use of masturbation, female prostitutes, and male clients of a turkish bathhouse ; all of these encounters were documented in his diaries. professing to be of irish ancestry and a supporter of irish independence from great britain,