in 1714, alexei brought his long - time finnish serf mistress afrosinia to live in the palace. some historians speculate that it was his conservative powerbase ' s disapproval of his foreign, non - orthodox bride, more so than her appearance, that caused alexei to spurn charlotte. another influence was alexander kikin, a high - placed official who had fallen out with the tsar and had been deprived of his estates. flight immediately on his return from finland, alexei was dispatched by his father to staraya russa and lake ladoga to see to the building of new ships. this was the last commission entrusted to him, since peter had not been satisfied with his son ' s performance and his lack of enthusiasm. when peter asked alexei to show his progress in mechanics and mathematics, the son responded by shooting himself in the right hand, and peter took no more interest in him. nevertheless, peter made one last effort to reclaim his son. on 22 october 1715 ( o. s. ), charlotte died, after giving birth to a son, the grand - duke peter, the future emperor peter ii. on the day of the funeral, peter sent alexei a stern letter, urging him to take interest in the affairs of the state. peter threatened to cut him off if he did not acquiesce in his father ' s plans. alexei wrote a pitiful reply to his father, offering to renounce the succession in favour of his infant son peter. peter would agree but on the condition that alexei remove himself as a dynastic threat and become a monk. while alexei was pondering his options, on 26 august 1716 peter wrote from abroad, urging him, if he desired to remain tsarevich, to join him and the army without delay. rather than face this ordeal, alexei fled to vienna and placed himself under the protection of his brother - in - law, the emperor charles vi, who sent him for safety first to the tirolean fortress of ehrenberg ( near reutte ), and finally to the castle of sant ' elmo at naples. he was accompanied throughout his journey by afrosinia. that the emperor sincerely sympathized with alexei, and suspected peter of harbouring murderous designs against his son, is plain from his confidential letter to george i of great britain, whom he consulted on this delicate affair. peter felt insulted : the flight of the tsarevich to a foreign potentate was a reproach and a scandal, and he had to be recovered and brought back to russia at all costs.