word has since been loaned to refer to spinach, in a different genus ). in the philippines, the ilocano word for the plant is ; the tagalog word for the plant is or. in uttar pradesh and bihar in india, it is called and is a popular red leafy vegetable ( referred to in the class of vegetable preparations called ). it is called chua in kumaun area of uttarakhand, where it is a popular red - green vegetable. in karnataka in india, it is called ( ). it is used to prepare curries such as hulee, palya, majjigay - hulee, and so on. in kerala, it is called cheera and is consumed by stir - frying the leaves with spices and red chili peppers to make a dish called cheera thoran. in tamil nadu, it is called and is regularly consumed as a favourite dish, where the greens are steamed and mashed with light seasoning of salt, red chili pepper, and cumin. it is called. in the states of andhra pradesh and telangana and other telugu speaking regions of the country, this leaf is called as " thotakura " and is cooked as a standalone curry, added as a part of mix leafy vegetable curry or added in preparation of a popular dal called in ( telugu ). in maharashtra, it is called and is available in both red and white colour. in orissa, it is called, it is used to prepare, in which the leaf is fried with chili and onions. in west bengal, the green variant is called ( ) and the red variant is called ( ). in china, the leaves and stems are used as a stir - fry vegetable, or in soups. in vietnam, it is called and is used to make soup. two species are popular as edible vegetable in vietnam : ( amaranthus tricolor ) and or ( amaranthus viridis ). africa a traditional food plant in africa, amaranth has the potential to improve nutrition, boost food security, foster rural development and support sustainable land care. in bantu regions of uganda and western kenya, it is known as doodo or litoto. it is also known among the kalenjin as a drought crop ( chepkerta ). in lingala ( spoken in the congo ), it is known as or. in nigeria, it is a common vegetable and goes with all nigerian starch dishes. it is known in yoruba as, a short form of