speculations : thus, plato believed that athena ' s name was derived from greek, — which the later greeks rationalised as from the deity ' s (, ) mind (, ). the second - century ad orator aelius aristides attempted to derive natural symbols from the etymological roots of athena ' s names to be aether, air, earth, and moon. origins athena was originally the aegean goddess of the palace, who presided over household crafts and protected the king. a single mycenaean greek inscription appears at knossos in the linear b tablets from the late minoan ii - era " room of the chariot tablets " ; these comprise the earliest linear b archive anywhere. although athana potnia is often translated as " mistress athena ", it could also mean " the potnia of athana ", or the lady of athens. however, any connection to the city of athens in the knossos inscription is uncertain. a sign series appears in the still undeciphered corpus of linear a tablets, written in the unclassified minoan language. this could be connected with the linear b mycenaean expressions and or ( diwia, " of zeus " or, possibly, related to a homonymous goddess ), resulting in a translation " athena of zeus " or " divine athena ". similarly, in the greek mythology and epic tradition, athena figures as a daughter of zeus ( ; cfr. dyeus ). however, the inscription quoted seems to be very similar to " ", quoted as sy za 1 by jan best. best translates the initial, which is recurrent in line beginnings, as " i have given ". a mycenean fresco depicts two women extending their hands towards a central figure, who is covered by an enormous figure - eight shield ; this may depict the warrior - goddess with her palladium, or her palladium in an aniconic representation. in the " procession fresco " at knossos, which was reconstructed by the mycenaeans, two rows of figures carrying vessels seem to meet in front of a central figure, which is probably the minoan precursor to athena. the early twentieth - century scholar martin persson nilsson argued that the minoan snake goddess figurines are early representations of athena. nilsson and others have claimed that, in early times, athena was either an owl herself or a bird goddess in general. in the third book of the odyssey, she takes the form of a sea - eagle.