##urh, who was of royal mercian descent. their children were æthelflæd, who married æthelred, lord of the mercians ; edward the elder, alfred ' s successor as king ; æthelgifu, abbess of shaftesbury ; ælfthryth, who married baldwin, count of flanders ; and æthelweard. background alfred ' s grandfather, ecgberht, became king of wessex in 802, and in the view of the historian richard abels, it must have seemed very unlikely to contemporaries that he would establish a lasting dynasty. for 200 years, three families had fought for the west saxon throne, and no son had followed his father as king. no ancestor of ecgberht had been a king of wessex since ceawlin in the late sixth century, but he was believed to be a paternal descendant of cerdic, the founder of the west saxon dynasty. this made ecgberht an ætheling – a prince eligible for the throne. but after ecgberht ' s reign, descent from cerdic was no longer sufficient to make a man an ætheling. when ecgberht died in 839, he was succeeded by his son æthelwulf ; all subsequent west saxon kings were descendants of ecgberht and æthelwulf, and were also sons of kings. at the beginning of the ninth century, england was almost wholly under the control of the anglo - saxons. mercia dominated southern england, but its supremacy came to an end in 825 when it was decisively defeated by ecgberht at the battle of ellendun. the two kingdoms became allies, which was important in the resistance to viking attacks. in 853, king burgred of mercia requested west saxon help to suppress a welsh rebellion, and æthelwulf led a west saxon contingent in a successful joint campaign. in the same year burgred married æthelwulf ' s daughter, æthelswith. in 825, ecgberht sent æthelwulf to invade the mercian sub - kingdom of kent, and its sub - king, baldred, was driven out shortly afterwards. by 830, essex, surrey and sussex had submitted to ecgberht, and he had appointed æthelwulf to rule the south - eastern territories as king of kent. the vikings ravaged the isle of sheppey in 835, and the following