alexander jannaeus ( ; yannaʾy ; born jonathan ) was the second king of the hasmonean dynasty, who ruled over an expanding kingdom of judaea from 103 to 76 bce. a son of john hyrcanus, he inherited the throne from his brother aristobulus i, and married his brother ' s widow, queen salome alexandra. from his conquests to expand the kingdom to a bloody civil war, alexander ' s reign has been generalised as cruel and oppressive with never - ending conflict. the major historical sources of alexander ' s life are josephus ' s antiquities of the jews and the jewish war. the kingdom of alexander jannaeus was the largest and strongest known jewish state outside of biblical sources, having conquered most of palestine ' s mediterranean coastline and regions surrounding the jordan river. alexander also had many of his subjects killed for their disapproval of his handling of state affairs. due to his territorial expansion and interactions with his subjects, he was continuously embroiled with foreign wars and domestic turmoil. family alexander jannaeus was the third son of john hyrcanus by his second wife. when aristobulus i, hyrcanus ' son by his first wife, became king, he deemed it necessary for his own security to imprison his half - brother. aristobulus died after a reign of one year. upon his death, his widow, salome alexandra had alexander and his brothers released from prison. one of these brothers is said to have unsuccessfully sought the throne. alexander, as the oldest living brother, had the right not only to the throne, but also to salome, the widow of his deceased brother, who had died childless ; and, although she was thirteen years older than him, he married her in accordance with the jewish law of levirate marriage. by her he had two sons : the eldest, hyrcanus ii, became high - priest in 62 bce ; and aristobulus ii, who was high - priest from 66 - 62 bce and started a bloody civil war with his brother, ending in his capture by pompey the great. like his brother, alexander was an avid supporter of the aristocratic priestly faction known as the sadducees. his wife salome on the other hand, came from a pharisaic family ( her brother was simeon ben shetach, a famous pharisee leader ) and was more sympathetic to their cause and protected them throughout his turbulent reign. like his father, alexander also served