but they submitted and they became tributary in the reign of esar - haddon. their hostility to judah is shown in their joining the chaldeans to destroy it. their cruelty is denounced by the prophet amos and their destruction ( with their return in the future ) by jeremiah ; ezekiel ; and zephaniah. their murder of gedaliah was a dastardly act. they may have regained their old territory when tiglath - pileser carried off the israelites east of the jordan into captivity. tobiah the ammonite united with sanballat to oppose nehemiah, and their opposition to the jews did not cease with the establishment of the latter in judea. the ammonites presented a serious problem to the pharisees because many marriages between israelite men and ammonite ( and moabite ) women had taken place in the days of nehemiah. the men had married women of the various nations without conversion, which made the children not jewish. they also joined the syrians in their wars with the maccabees and were defeated by judas. the " sons of ammon " would be subject to israel during the time of the messiah ' s rulership according to the prophet isaiah ( ). the book of zephaniah states that " moab will assuredly be like sodom, and the sons of ammon like gomorrah — ground overgrown with weeds and full of salt mines, and a permanent desolation. " ( ). rabbinic literature the ammonites, still numerous in the south of palestine in the second century ce according to justin martyr, presented a serious problem to the pharisaic scribes because many marriages with ammonite and moabite wives had taken place in the days of nehemiah ( ). still later, it is not improbable that when judas maccabeus had inflicted a crushing defeat upon the ammonites, jewish warriors took ammonite women as wives, and their sons, sword in hand, claimed recognition as jews notwithstanding the law ( ) that " an ammonite or a moabite shall not enter into the congregation of the lord. " such a condition or a similar incident is reflected in the story told in the talmud that in the days of king saul, the legitimacy of david ' s claim to royalty was disputed on account of his descent from ruth, the moabite ; whereupon ithra, the israelite, girt with his sword, strode like an ishmaeli