from 34 % at 50m down to 3 – 4 % at 600m with no significant differences between weapons at each range. russian method the following table represents the russian circular error probable method for determining accuracy, which involves drawing two circles on the target, one for the maximum vertical dispersion of hits and one for the maximum horizontal dispersion of hits. they then disregard the hits on the outer part of the target and only count half of the hits ( 50 % or r50 ) on the inner part of the circles. this significantly reduces the overall diameter of the groups. they then use both the vertical and horizontal measurements of the reduced groups to measure accuracy. when the r50 results are doubled, the hit probability increases to 93. 7 %. r50 means the closest 50 percent of the shot group will all be within a circle of the mentioned diameter. the vertical and horizontal mean ( r50 ) deviations with service ammunition at for ak platforms are. users : type 56 variant. : used by pro - russian separatists : ekam : the counter - terrorist unit of the hellenic police. : used by pro - russian separatists : type 58 variant. – locally made as well as being in service with the army used by thahan phran former users : mpi - k ( ak - 47 ) and mpi - km ( akm ). : replaced by the akm in 1959 and the ak - 74 in 1974. : replaced by the akm and ak - 74. : captured from pavn and vietcong illicit trade throughout the world, the ak and its variants are commonly used by governments, revolutionaries, terrorists, criminals, and civilians alike. in some countries, such as somalia, rwanda, mozambique, congo, and tanzania, the prices for black market aks are between $ 30 and $ 125 per weapon and prices have fallen in the last few decades due to mass counterfeiting. in kenya, " an ak - 47 fetches five head of cattle ( about 10, 000 kenya shillings or 100 u. s. dollars ) when offered for barter, but costs almost half that price when cash is paid ". there are places around the world where ak - type weapons can be purchased on the black market " for as little as $ 6, or traded for a chicken or a sack of grain ". the ak - 47 has also spawned a cottage industry of sorts and has been copied and manufactured ( one gun at a time ) in small shops around the world ( see khyber pass copy ). the