time preference. bohm - bawerk ' s theory equates capital intensity with the degree of roundaboutness of production processes. bohm - bawerk also argued that the law of marginal utility necessarily implies the classical law of costs. some austrian economists therefore entirely reject the notion that interest rates are affected by liquidity preference. inflation in mises ' s definition, inflation is an increase in the supply of money : hayek pointed out that inflationary stimulation exploits the lag between an increase in money supply and the consequent increase in the prices of goods and services : economic calculation problem the economic calculation problem refers to a criticism of planned economies which was first stated by max weber in 1920. mises subsequently discussed weber ' s idea with his student friedrich hayek, who developed it in various works including the road to serfdom. what the calculation problem essentially states is that without price signals, the factors of production cannot be allocated in the most efficient way possible, rendering planned economies inefficacious. austrian theory emphasizes the organizing power of markets. hayek stated that market prices reflect information, the totality of which is not known to any single individual, which determines the allocation of resources in an economy. because socialist systems lack the individual incentives and price discovery processes by which individuals act on their personal information, hayek argued that socialist economic planners lack all of the knowledge required to make optimal decisions. those who agree with this criticism view it as a refutation of socialism, showing that socialism is not a viable or sustainable form of economic organization. the debate rose to prominence in the 1920s and 1930s and that specific period of the debate has come to be known by historians of economic thought as the socialist calculation debate. mises argued in a 1920 essay " economic calculation in the socialist commonwealth " that the pricing systems in socialist economies were necessarily deficient because if the government owned the means of production, then no prices could be obtained for capital goods as they were merely internal transfers of goods in a socialist system and not " objects of exchange ", unlike final goods. therefore, they were unpriced and hence the system would be necessarily inefficient since the central planners would not know how to allocate the available resources efficiently. this led him to write " that rational economic activity is impossible in a socialist commonwealth ". business cycles the austrian theory of the business cycle ( abct ) focuses on banks ' issuance of credit as the cause of economic fluctuations. although later elaborated by hayek and others, the theory was first set forth by