their publications have contributed to anthropology, along the way correcting against the systemic biases beginning with the " patriarchal origins of anthropology ( and ( academia ) " and note that from 1891 to 1930 doctorates in anthropology went to males more than 85 %, more than 81 % were under 35, and only 7. 2 % to anyone over 40 years old, thus reflecting an age gap in the pursuit of anthropology by first - wave feminists until later in life. this correction of systemic bias may include mainstream feminist theory, history, linguistics, archaeology, and anthropology. feminist anthropologists are often concerned with the construction of gender across societies. gender constructs are of particular interest when studying sexism. according to st. clair drake, vera mae green was, until " [ w ] ell into the 1960s ", the only african - american female anthropologist who was also a caribbeanist. she studied ethnic and family relations in the caribbean as well as the united states, and thereby tried to improve the way black life, experiences, and culture were studied. however, zora neale hurston, although often primarily considered to be a literary author, was trained in anthropology by franz boas, and published tell my horse about her " anthropological observations " of voodoo in the caribbean ( 1938 ). feminist anthropology is inclusive of the anthropology of birth as a specialization, which is the anthropological study of pregnancy and childbirth within cultures and societies. medical, nutritional, psychological, cognitive and transpersonal medical medical anthropology is an interdisciplinary field which studies " human health and disease, health care systems, and biocultural adaptation ". it is believed that william caudell was the first to discover the field of medical anthropology. currently, research in medical anthropology is one of the main growth areas in the field of anthropology as a whole. it focuses on the following six basic fields : other subjects that have become central to medical anthropology worldwide are violence and social suffering ( farmer, 1999, 2003 ; beneduce, 2010 ) as well as other issues that involve physical and psychological harm and suffering that are not a result of illness. on the other hand, there are fields that intersect with medical anthropology in terms of research methodology and theoretical production, such as cultural psychiatry and transcultural psychiatry or ethnopsychiatry. nutritional nutritional anthropology is a synthetic concept that deals with the interplay between economic systems, nutritional status and food security, and how changes in the former affect the latter. if economic and environmental changes in a community affect access to food, food security, and dietary health, then this