the northern and western coasts of the aegean. the byzantines later regained control. the second bulgarian empire achieved similar success along, again, the northern and western coasts, under ivan asen ii of bulgaria. the seljuq turks, under the seljuk empire, invaded the byzantine empire in 1068, from which they annexed almost all the territories of anatolia, including the east coast of the aegean sea, during the reign of alp arslan, the second sultan of the seljuk empire. after the death of his successor, malik shah i, the empire was divided, and malik shah was succeeded in anatolia by kilij arslan i, who founded the sultanate of rum. the byzantines yet again recaptured the eastern coast of the aegean. after constantinople was occupied by western european and venetian forces during the fourth crusade, the area around the aegean sea was fragmented into multiple entities, including the latin empire, the kingdom of thessalonica, the empire of nicaea, the principality of achaea, and the duchy of athens. the venetians created the maritime state of the duchy of the archipelago, which included all the cyclades except mykonos and tinos. the empire of nicaea, a byzantine rump state, managed to effect the recapture of constantinople from the latins in 1261 and defeat epirus. byzantine successes were not to last ; the ottomans would conquer the area around the aegean coast, but before their expansion the byzantine empire had already been weakened from internal conflict. by the late 14th century the byzantine empire had lost all control of the coast of the aegean sea and could exercise power around their capital, constantinople. the ottoman empire then gained control of all the aegean coast with the exception of crete, which was a venetian colony until 1669. modern period the greek war of independence allowed a greek state on the coast of the aegean from 1829 onward. the ottoman empire held a presence over the sea for over 500 years until its dissolution following world war i, when it was replaced by modern turkey. during the war, greece gained control over the area around the northern coast of the aegean. by the 1930s, greece and turkey had about resumed their present - day borders. in the italo - turkish war of 1912, italy captured the dodecanese islands, and had occupied them since, reneging on the 1919 venizelos – tittoni agreement to cede them to greece. the greco - italian war took place from october 1940 to april 1941 as part of the balkans campaign of world