, 000 words, it is by some accounts the world ' s longest constitution and is roughly forty times the length of the united states constitution. there has been a significant movement to rewrite and modernize alabama ' s constitution. critics argue that alabama ' s constitution maintains highly centralized power with the state legislature, leaving practically no power in local hands. most counties do not have home rule. any policy changes proposed in different areas of the state must be approved by the entire alabama legislature and, frequently, by state referendum. one criticism of the current constitution claims that its complexity and length intentionally codify segregation and racism. alabama ' s government is divided into three coequal branches. the legislative branch is the alabama legislature, a bicameral assembly composed of the alabama house of representatives, with 105 members, and the alabama senate, with 35 members. the legislature is responsible for writing, debating, passing, or defeating state legislation. the republican party currently holds a majority in both houses of the legislature. the legislature has the power to override a gubernatorial veto by a simple majority ( most state legislatures require a two - thirds majority to override a veto ). until 1964, the state elected state senators on a geographic basis by county, with one per county. it had not redistricted congressional districts since passage of its constitution in 1901 ; as a result, urbanized areas were grossly underrepresented. it had not changed legislative districts to reflect the decennial censuses, either. in reynolds v. sims ( 1964 ), the u. s. supreme court implemented the principle of " one man, one vote ", ruling that congressional districts had to be reapportioned based on censuses ( as the state already included in its constitution but had not implemented. ) further, the court ruled that both houses of bicameral state legislatures had to be apportioned by population, as there was no constitutional basis for states to have geographically based systems. at that time, alabama and many other states had to change their legislative districting, as many across the country had systems that underrepresented urban areas and districts. this had caused decades of underinvestment in such areas. for instance, birmingham and jefferson county taxes had supplied one - third of the state budget, but jefferson county received only 1 / 67th of state services in funding. through the legislative delegations, the alabama legislature kept control of county governments. the executive branch is responsible for the execution and oversight of laws. it is headed by the governor of alabama. other members of