great britain, whom he consulted on this delicate affair. peter felt insulted : the flight of the tsarevich to a foreign potentate was a reproach and a scandal, and he had to be recovered and brought back to russia at all costs. this difficult task was accomplished by count peter tolstoi, the most subtle and unscrupulous of peter ' s servants. return alexei would only consent to return if his father swore that if he came back, he would not be punished and would be allowed to live quietly on his estates and marry afrosinia. on 31 january 1718, the tsarevich reached moscow. peter had already determined to institute an inquisition in order to understand the reasons for alexei ' s flight. on 18 february a confession was extorted from alexei which implicated most of his friends, and he then publicly renounced the succession to the throne in favour of the baby grand - duke peter alexeyevich. a brutal reign of terror ensued, in the course of which the ex - tsaritsa eudoxia was dragged from her monastery and publicly tried for alleged adultery. friends of alexei were impaled, broken on the wheel, or otherwise tortured to death. alexei ' s servants were beheaded or had their tongues cut out. all this was done to terrorize the reactionaries and isolate the tsarevich. in april 1718 fresh confessions were extorted from, and in regard to, alexei. this included the words of afrosinia, who had turned state ' s evidence. " i shall bring back the old people... ", alexei is reported to have told her, and choose myself new ones according to my will ; when i become sovereign i shall live in moscow and leave saint petersburg simply as any other town ; i won ' t launch any ships ; i shall maintain troops only for defense, and won ' t make war on anyone ; i shall be content with the old domains. in winter i shall live in moscow, and in summer in iaroslavl. despite this and other hearsay evidence, there was no direct evidence. the worst that could be brought against him was that he had wished his father ' s death. in the eyes of peter, his son was now a self - convicted and dangerous traitor, whose life was forfeit. however, his father had sworn to pardon him and let him live in peace if he returned to russia. the whole matter was solemnly submitted to a grand council of prelates, senators, ministers and other dignitaries on 13 june 1718 ( o. s.