of war, navy ( combined in 1947 to become the department of defense or dod ) and commerce to join in founding a national standards organization. according to adam stanton, the first permanent secretary and head of staff in 1919, aesc started as an ambitious program and little else. staff for the first year consisted of one executive, clifford b. lepage, who was on loan from a founding member, asme. an annual budget of $ 7, 500 was provided by the founding bodies. in 1931, the organization ( renamed asa in 1928 ) became affiliated with the u. s. national committee of the international electrotechnical commission ( iec ), which had been formed in 1904 to develop electrical and electronics standards. members ansi ' s members are government agencies, organizations, academic and international bodies, and individuals. in total, the institute represents the interests of more than 270, 000 companies and organizations and 30 million professionals worldwide. ansi ' s market - driven, decentralized approach has been criticized in comparison with more planned and organized international approaches to standardization. an underlying issue is the difficulty of balancing " the interests of both the nation ' s industrial and commercial sectors and the nation as a whole. " process although ansi itself does not develop standards, the institute oversees the development and use of standards by accrediting the procedures of standards developing organizations. ansi accreditation signifies that the procedures used by standards developing organizations meet the institute ' s requirements for openness, balance, consensus, and due process. ansi also designates specific standards as american national standards, or ans, when the institute determines that the standards were developed in an environment that is equitable, accessible and responsive to the requirements of various stakeholders. voluntary consensus standards quicken the market acceptance of products while making clear how to improve the safety of those products for the protection of consumers. there are approximately 9, 500 american national standards that carry the ansi designation. the american national standards process involves : consensus by a group that is open to representatives from all interested parties broad - based public review and comment on draft standards consideration of and response to comments incorporation of submitted changes that meet the same consensus requirements into a draft standard availability of an appeal by any participant alleging that these principles were not respected during the standards - development process. international activities in addition to facilitating the formation of standards in the united states, ansi promotes the use of u. s. standards internationally, advocates u. s. policy and technical positions in international and regional standards organizations, and encourages the adoption of international standards as national