##zation also spurred trade between the east and west. for example, greek astronomical instruments dating to the 3rd century bc were found in the greco - bactrian city of ai khanoum in modern - day afghanistan, while the greek concept of a spherical earth surrounded by the spheres of planets eventually supplanted the long - standing indian cosmological belief of a disc consisting of four continents grouped around a central mountain ( mount meru ) like the petals of a flower. the yavanajataka ( lit. greek astronomical treatise ) and paulisa siddhanta texts depict the influence of greek astronomical ideas on indian astronomy. following the conquests of alexander the great in the east, hellenistic influence on indian art was far - ranging. in the area of architecture, a few examples of the ionic order can be found as far as pakistan with the jandial temple near taxila. several examples of capitals displaying ionic influences can be seen as far as patna, especially with the pataliputra capital, dated to the 3rd century bc. the corinthian order is also heavily represented in the art of gandhara, especially through indo - corinthian capitals. influence on rome alexander and his exploits were admired by many romans, especially generals, who wanted to associate themselves with his achievements. polybius began his histories by reminding romans of alexander ' s achievements, and thereafter roman leaders saw him as a role model. pompey the great adopted the epithet " magnus " and even alexander ' s anastole - type haircut, and searched the conquered lands of the east for alexander ' s 260 - year - old cloak, which he then wore as a sign of greatness. julius caesar dedicated a lysippean equestrian bronze statue but replaced alexander ' s head with his own, while octavian visited alexander ' s tomb in alexandria and temporarily changed his seal from a sphinx to alexander ' s profile. the emperor trajan also admired alexander, as did nero and caracalla. the macriani, a roman family that in the person of macrinus briefly ascended to the imperial throne, kept images of alexander on their persons, either on jewellery, or embroidered into their clothes. on the other hand, some roman writers, particularly republican figures, used alexander as a cautionary tale of how autocratic tendencies can be kept in check by republican values. alexander was used by these writers as an example of ruler values such as ( friendship ) and ( clemency ), but also ( anger ) and ( over - desire for glory )