was based on a comparison of 477 morphological characteristics across 81 different dinosaur individuals. among the many notable differences are the widerand presumably strongerneck of apatosaurus species compared to b. excelsus. other species previously assigned to apatosaurus, such as elosaurus parvus and eobrontosaurus yahnahpin were also reclassified as brontosaurus. some features proposed to separate brontosaurus from apatosaurus include : posterior dorsal vertebrae with the centrum longer than wide ; the scapula rear to the acromial edge and the distal blade being excavated ; the acromial edge of the distal scapular blade bearing a rounded expansion ; and the ratio of the proximodistal length to transverse breadth of the astragalus 0. 55 or greater. sauropod expert michael d ' emic pointed out that the criteria chosen were to an extent arbitrary and that they would require abandoning the name brontosaurus again if newer analyses obtained different results. mammal paleontologist donald prothero criticized the mass media reaction to this study as superficial and premature, concluding that he would keep " brontosaurus " in quotes and not treat the name as a valid genus. valid species many species of apatosaurus have been designated from scant material. marsh named as many species as he could, which resulted in many being based upon fragmentary and indistinguishable remains. in 2005, paul upchurch and colleagues published a study that analyzed the species and specimen relationships of apatosaurus. they found that a. louisae was the most basal species, followed by fmnhp25112, and then a polytomy of a. ajax, a. parvus, and a. excelsus. their analysis was revised and expanded with many additional diplodocid specimens in 2015, which resolved the relationships of apatosaurus slightly differently, and also supported separating brontosaurus from apatosaurus. apatosaurus ajax was named by marsh in 1877 after ajax, a hero from greek mythology. marsh designated the incomplete, juvenile skeleton ypm1860 as its holotype. the species is less studied than brontosaurus and a. louisae, especially because of the incomplete nature of the holotype. in 2005, many specimens in addition to the holotype were found assignable to a. ajax, ypm1840, nsmt - pv 20375, ypm1861, and amnh460. the specimens date from the late kimmeridgian