to babylon to build its gigantic fortification wall. from the greek, the word passed into late latin, and thence into french ( asphalte ) and english ( " asphaltum " and " asphalt " ). in french, the term asphalte is used for naturally occurring asphalt - soaked limestone deposits, and for specialised manufactured products with fewer voids or greater bitumen content than the " asphaltic concrete " used to pave roads. modern terminology bitumen mixed with clay was usually called " asphaltum ", but the term is less commonly used today. in american english, " asphalt " is equivalent to the british " bitumen ". however, " asphalt " is also commonly used as a shortened form of " asphalt concrete " ( therefore equivalent to the british " asphalt " or " tarmac " ). in canadian english, the word " bitumen " is used to refer to the vast canadian deposits of extremely heavy crude oil, while " asphalt " is used for the oil refinery product. diluted bitumen ( diluted with naphtha to make it flow in pipelines ) is known as " dilbit " in the canadian petroleum industry, while bitumen " upgraded " to synthetic crude oil is known as " syncrude ", and syncrude blended with bitumen is called " synbit ". " bitumen " is still the preferred geological term for naturally occurring deposits of the solid or semi - solid form of petroleum. " bituminous rock " is a form of sandstone impregnated with bitumen. the oil sands of alberta, canada are a similar material. neither of the terms " asphalt " or " bitumen " should be confused with tar or coal tars. tar is the thick liquid product of the dry distillation and pyrolysis of organic hydrocarbons primarily sourced from vegetation masses, whether fossilized as with coal, or freshly harvested. the majority of bitumen, on the other hand, was formed naturally when vast quantities of organic animal materials were deposited by water and buried hundreds of metres deep at the diagenetic point, where the disorganized fatty hydrocarbon molecules joined in long chains in the absence of oxygen. bitumen occurs as a solid or highly viscous liquid. it may even be mixed in with coal deposits. bitumen, and coal using the bergius process, can be refined into petrols such as gasoline, and bitumen may be distilled into tar, not the other way around. composition normal composition the components of bitumen include four main classes of