ada is a structured, statically typed, imperative, and object - oriented high - level programming language, inspired by pascal and other languages. it has built - in language support for design by contract ( dbc ), extremely strong typing, explicit concurrency, tasks, synchronous message passing, protected objects, and non - determinism. ada improves code safety and maintainability by using the compiler to find errors in favor of runtime errors. ada is an international technical standard, jointly defined by the international organization for standardization ( iso ), and the international electrotechnical commission ( iec )., the standard, called ada 2012 informally, is iso / iec 8652 : 2012. ada was originally designed by a team led by french computer scientist jean ichbiah of honeywell under contract to the united states department of defense ( dod ) from 1977 to 1983 to supersede over 450 programming languages used by the dod at that time. ada was named after ada lovelace ( 1815 – 1852 ), who has been credited as the first computer programmer. features ada was originally designed for embedded and real - time systems. the ada 95 revision, designed by s. tucker taft of intermetrics between 1992 and 1995, improved support for systems, numerical, financial, and object - oriented programming ( oop ). features of ada include : strong typing, modular programming mechanisms ( packages ), run - time checking, parallel processing ( tasks, synchronous message passing, protected objects, and nondeterministic select statements ), exception handling, and generics. ada 95 added support for object - oriented programming, including dynamic dispatch. the syntax of ada minimizes choices of ways to perform basic operations, and prefers english keywords ( such as " or else " and " and then " ) to symbols ( such as " | | " and " & & " ). ada uses the basic arithmetical operators " + ", " - ", " * ", and " / ", but avoids using other symbols. code blocks are delimited by words such as " declare ", " begin ", and " end ", where the " end " ( in most cases ) is followed by the identifier of the block it closes ( e. g., if... end if, loop... end loop ). in the case of conditional blocks this avoids a dangling else that could pair with the wrong nested if - expression in other languages like c or java. ada is designed for developing very large