to the modulating message signal. angle modulation provides two methods of modulation, frequency modulation and phase modulation. in amplitude modulation, the angle term is held constant and the first term, a ( t ), of the equation has a functional relationship to the modulating message signal. the modulating message signal may be analog in nature, or it may be a digital signal, in which case the technique is generally called amplitude - shift keying. for example, in am radio communication, a continuous wave radio - frequency signal has its amplitude modulated by an audio waveform before transmission. the message signal determines the envelope of the transmitted waveform. in the frequency domain, amplitude modulation produces a signal with power concentrated at the carrier frequency and two adjacent sidebands. each sideband is equal in bandwidth to that of the modulating signal, and is a mirror image of the other. standard am is thus sometimes called " double - sideband amplitude modulation " ( dsbam ). a disadvantage of all amplitude modulation techniques, not only standard am, is that the receiver amplifies and detects noise and electromagnetic interference in equal proportion to the signal. increasing the received signal - to - noise ratio, say, by a factor of 10 ( a 10 decibel improvement ), thus would require increasing the transmitter power by a factor of 10. this is in contrast to frequency modulation ( fm ) and digital radio where the effect of such noise following demodulation is strongly reduced so long as the received signal is well above the threshold for reception. for this reason am broadcast is not favored for music and high fidelity broadcasting, but rather for voice communications and broadcasts ( sports, news, talk radio etc. ). am is also inefficient in power usage ; at least two - thirds of the power is concentrated in the carrier signal. the carrier signal contains none of the original information being transmitted ( voice, video, data, etc. ). however its presence provides a simple means of demodulation using envelope detection, providing a frequency and phase reference to extract the modulation from the sidebands. in some modulation systems based on am, a lower transmitter power is required through partial or total elimination of the carrier component, however receivers for these signals are more complex because they must provide a precise carrier frequency reference signal ( usually as shifted to the intermediate frequency ) from a greatly reduced " pilot " carrier ( in reduced - carrier transmission or dsb - rc ) to use in the demodulation process. even with the carrier totally eliminated in double - side