and buildings both public and private were constructed in accordance with these styles. localities with a great number of such buildings include kolonaki, and some areas of the centre of the city ; neighbourhoods developed in this period include kypseli. in the 1950s and 1960s during the extension and development of athens, other modern movements such as the international style played an important role. the centre of athens was largely rebuilt, leading to the demolition of a number of neoclassical buildings. the architects of this era employed materials such as glass, marble and aluminium, and many blended modern and classical elements. after world war ii, internationally known architects to have designed and built in the city included walter gropius, with his design for the us embassy, and, among others, eero saarinen, in his postwar design for the east terminal of the ellinikon airport. urban sculpture across the city numerous statues or busts are to be found. apart from the neoclassicals by leonidas drosis at the academy of athens ( plato, socrates, apollo and athena ), others in notable categories include the statue of theseus by georgios fytalis at thiseion ; depictions of philhellenes such as lord byron, george canning, and william gladstone ; the equestrian statue of theodoros kolokotronis by lazaros sochos in front of the old parliament ; statues of ioannis kapodistrias, rigas feraios and adamantios korais at the university ; of evangelos zappas and konstantinos zappas at the zappeion ; ioannis varvakis at the national garden ; the " woodbreaker " by dimitrios filippotis ; the equestrian statue of alexandros papagos in the papagou district ; and various busts of fighters of greek independence at the pedion tou areos. a significant landmark is also the tomb of the unknown soldier in syntagma. entertainment and performing arts athens is home to 148 theatrical stages, more than any other city in the world, including the ancient odeon of herodes atticus, home to the athens festival, which runs from may to october each year. in addition to a large number of multiplexes, athens plays host to open air garden cinemas. the city also supports music venues, including the athens concert hall ( megaro moussikis ), which attracts world class artists. the athens planetarium, located in andrea syngrou avenue, in palaio faliro is one of the largest and best equipped digital