its production, transmission, and effects, including biological and psychological effects. ( b ) those qualities of a room that, together, determine its character with respect to auditory effects. " the study of acoustics revolves around the generation, propagation and reception of mechanical waves and vibrations. the steps shown in the above diagram can be found in any acoustical event or process. there are many kinds of cause, both natural and volitional. there are many kinds of transduction process that convert energy from some other form into sonic energy, producing a sound wave. there is one fundamental equation that describes sound wave propagation, the acoustic wave equation, but the phenomena that emerge from it are varied and often complex. the wave carries energy throughout the propagating medium. eventually this energy is transduced again into other forms, in ways that again may be natural and / or volitionally contrived. the final effect may be purely physical or it may reach far into the biological or volitional domains. the five basic steps are found equally well whether we are talking about an earthquake, a submarine using sonar to locate its foe, or a band playing in a rock concert. the central stage in the acoustical process is wave propagation. this falls within the domain of physical acoustics. in fluids, sound propagates primarily as a pressure wave. in solids, mechanical waves can take many forms including longitudinal waves, transverse waves and surface waves. acoustics looks first at the pressure levels and frequencies in the sound wave and how the wave interacts with the environment. this interaction can be described as either a diffraction, interference or a reflection or a mix of the three. if several media are present, a refraction can also occur. transduction processes are also of special importance to acoustics. fundamental concepts wave propagation : pressure levels in fluids such as air and water, sound waves propagate as disturbances in the ambient pressure level. while this disturbance is usually small, it is still noticeable to the human ear. the smallest sound that a person can hear, known as the threshold of hearing, is nine orders of magnitude smaller than the ambient pressure. the loudness of these disturbances is related to the sound pressure level ( spl ) which is measured on a logarithmic scale in decibels. wave propagation : frequency physicists and acoustic engineers tend to discuss sound pressure levels in terms of frequencies, partly because this is how our ears interpret sound. what we experience as " higher pitched " or " lower pitched " sounds are pressure vibrations having a