in. the creation of hangul was planned by the government of the day, and it places individual letters in syllable clusters with equal dimensions, in the same way as chinese characters. this change allows for mixed - script writing, where one syllable always takes up one type space no matter how many letters get stacked into building that one sound - block. zhuyin zhuyin, sometimes referred to as bopomofo, is a semi - syllabary. it transcribes mandarin phonetically in the republic of china. after the later establishment of the people ' s republic of china and its adoption of hanyu pinyin, the use of zhuyin today is limited. however, it is still widely used in taiwan. zhuyin developed from a form of chinese shorthand based on chinese characters in the early 1900s and has elements of both an alphabet and a syllabary. like an alphabet, the phonemes of syllable initials are represented by individual symbols, but like a syllabary, the phonemes of the syllable finals are not ; each possible final ( excluding the medial glide ) has its own character, an example being luan written as ( l - u - an ). the last symbol takes place as the entire final - an. while zhuyin is not a mainstream writing system, it is still often used in ways similar to a romanization system, for aiding pronunciation and as an input method for chinese characters on computers and cellphones. romanization european alphabets, especially latin and cyrillic, have been adapted for many languages of asia. arabic is also widely used, sometimes as an abjad, as with urdu and persian, and sometimes as a complete alphabet, as with kurdish and uyghur. types the term " alphabet " is used by linguists and paleographers in both a wide and a narrow sense. in a broader sense, an alphabet is a segmental script at the phoneme level — that is, it has separate glyphs for individual sounds and not for larger units such as syllables or words. in the narrower sense, some scholars distinguish " true " alphabets from two other types of segmental script, abjads, and abugidas. these three differ in how they treat vowels. abjads have letters for consonants and leave most vowels unexpressed. abugidas are also consonant - based but indicate vowels with diacritics, a systematic graphic modification of the consonants. the earliest known alphabet using this sense is the wadi el - hol script, believed to be an