of the nascent caliphate as well as the religious authority of islam with the acclamation of rival ideologies, headed by political leaders who claimed the mantle of prophethood in the manner that muhammad had done. these rebellions include : that of the banu asad ibn khuzaymah headed by tulayha ibn khuwaylid that of the banu hanifa headed by musaylimah those from among the banu taghlib and the bani tamim headed by sajah that of the al - ansi headed by al - aswad al - ansi these leaders are all denounced in islamic histories as " false prophets ". the second form of opposition movement was more strictly political in character. some of the revolts of this type took the form of tax rebellions in najd among tribes such as the banu fazara and banu tamim. other dissenters, while initially allied to the muslims, used muhammad ' s death as an opportunity to attempt to restrict the growth of the new islamic state. they include some of the rabiʿa in bahrayn, the azd in oman, as well as among the kindah and khawlan in yemen. abu bakr, likely understanding that maintaining firm control over the disparate tribes of arabia was crucial to ensuring the survival of the state, suppressed the insurrections with military force. he dispatched khalid ibn walid and a body of troops to subdue the uprisings in najd as well as that of musaylimah, who posed the most serious threat. concurrent to this, shurahbil ibn hasana and al - ala ' a al - hadrami were sent to bahrayn, while ikrimah ibn abi jahl, hudhayfah al - bariqi and arfaja al - bariqi were instructed to conquer oman. finally, al - muhajir ibn abi umayya and khalid ibn asid were sent to yemen to aid the local governor in re - establishing control. abu bakr also made use of diplomatic means in addition to military measures. like muhammad before him, he used marriage alliances and financial incentives to bind former enemies to the caliphate. for instance, a member of the banu hanifa who had sided with the muslims was rewarded with the granting of a land estate. similarly, a kindah rebel named al - ash ' ath ibn qays, after repenting and re - joining islam, was later given land in medina