police officer, exacting his revenge on alex for the abuse he once suffered under his command. p. r. deltoid : a criminal rehabilitation social worker assigned the task of keeping alex on the straight and narrow. he seemingly has no clue about dealing with young people, and is devoid of empathy or understanding for his troublesome charge. indeed, when alex is arrested for murdering an old woman and then ferociously beaten by several police officers, deltoid simply spits on him. prison chaplain : the character who first questions whether it is moral to turn a violent person into a behavioural automaton who can make no choice in such matters. this is the only character who is truly concerned about alex ' s welfare ; he is not taken seriously by alex, though. he is nicknamed by alex " prison charlie " or " chaplin ", a pun on charlie chaplin. billyboy : a rival of alex ' s. early on in the story, alex and his droogs battle billyboy and his droogs, which ends abruptly when the police arrive. later, after alex is released from prison, billyboy ( along with dim, who like billyboy has become a police officer ) rescues alex from a mob, then subsequently beats him in a location out of town. prison governor : the man who decides to let alex " choose " to be the first reformed by the ludovico technique. the minister of the interior : the government high - official who determined that the ludovico ' s technique will be used to cut recidivism. he is referred to as the inferior by alex. dr branom : a scientist, co - developer of the ludovico technique. he appears friendly and almost paternal towards alex at first, before forcing him into the theatre and what alex calls the " chair of torture ". dr brodsky : branom ' s colleague and co - developer of the ludovico technique. he seems much more passive than branom and says considerably less. f. alexander : an author who was in the process of typing his magnum opus a clockwork orange when alex and his droogs broke into his house, beat him, tore up his work and then brutally gang - raped his wife, which caused her subsequent death. he is left deeply scarred by these events and when he encounters alex two years later, he uses him as a guinea pig in a sadistic experiment intended to prove the ludovico technique unsound. the government imprisons him afterwards. he