that have limited high - level language options such as the atari 2600, commodore 64, and graphing calculators. programs for these computers of the 1970s and 1980s are often written in the context of demoscene or retrogaming subcultures. code that must interact directly with the hardware, for example in device drivers and interrupt handlers. in an embedded processor or dsp, high - repetition interrupts require the shortest number of cycles per interrupt, such as an interrupt that occurs 1000 or 10000 times a second. programs that need to use processor - specific instructions not implemented in a compiler. a common example is the bitwise rotation instruction at the core of many encryption algorithms, as well as querying the parity of a byte or the 4 - bit carry of an addition. a stand - alone executable of compact size is required that must execute without recourse to the run - time components or libraries associated with a high - level language. examples have included firmware for telephones, automobile fuel and ignition systems, air - conditioning control systems, security systems, and sensors. programs with performance - sensitive inner loops, where assembly language provides optimization opportunities that are difficult to achieve in a high - level language. for example, linear algebra with blas or discrete cosine transformation ( e. g. simd assembly version from x264 ). programs that create vectorized functions for programs in higher - level languages such as c. in the higher - level language this is sometimes aided by compiler intrinsic functions which map directly to simd mnemonics, but nevertheless result in a one - to - one assembly conversion specific for the given vector processor. real - time programs such as simulations, flight navigation systems, and medical equipment. for example, in a fly - by - wire system, telemetry must be interpreted and acted upon within strict time constraints. such systems must eliminate sources of unpredictable delays, which may be created by ( some ) interpreted languages, automatic garbage collection, paging operations, or preemptive multitasking. however, some higher - level languages incorporate run - time components and operating system interfaces that can introduce such delays. choosing assembly or lower - level languages for such systems gives programmers greater visibility and control over processing details. cryptographic algorithms that must always take strictly the same time to execute, preventing timing attacks. video encoders and decoders such as rav1e ( an encoder for av1 ) and dav1d ( the reference decoder for av1 ) contain assembly