an axiom, postulate, or assumption is a statement that is taken to be true, to serve as a premise or starting point for further reasoning and arguments. the word comes from the ancient greek word ( ), meaning ' that which is thought worthy or fit ' or ' that which commends itself as evident '. the precise definition varies across fields of study. in classic philosophy, an axiom is a statement that is so evident or well - established, that it is accepted without controversy or question. in modern logic, an axiom is a premise or starting point for reasoning. in mathematics, an axiom may be a " logical axiom " or a " non - logical axiom ". logical axioms are taken to be true within the system of logic they define and are often shown in symbolic form ( e. g., ( a and b ) implies a ), while non - logical axioms ( e. g., ) are substantive assertions about the elements of the domain of a specific mathematical theory, such as arithmetic. non - logical axioms may also be called " postulates " or " assumptions ". in most cases, a non - logical axiom is simply a formal logical expression used in deduction to build a mathematical theory, and might or might not be self - evident in nature ( e. g., the parallel postulate in euclidean geometry ). to axiomatize a system of knowledge is to show that its claims can be derived from a small, well - understood set of sentences ( the axioms ), and there are typically many ways to axiomatize a given mathematical domain. any axiom is a statement that serves as a starting point from which other statements are logically derived. whether it is meaningful ( and, if so, what it means ) for an axiom to be " true " is a subject of debate in the philosophy of mathematics. etymology the word axiom comes from the greek word ( axioma ), a verbal noun from the verb ( axioein ), meaning " to deem worthy ", but also " to require ", which in turn comes from ( axios ), meaning " being in balance ", and hence " having ( the same ) value ( as ) ", " worthy ", " proper ". among the ancient greek philosophers an axiom was a claim which could be seen to be self - evidently true without any need for proof. the root meaning of the word postulate is to " demand " ; for