the family alligatoridae of crocodylians includes alligators, caimans and their extinct relatives. phylogeny the superfamily alligatoroidea includes all crocodilians ( fossil and extant ) that are more closely related to the american alligator than to either the nile crocodile or the gharial. this is a stem - based definition for alligators, and is more inclusive than the crown group alligatoridae. as a crown group, alligatoridae only includes the last common ancestor of all extant ( living ) alligators, caimans, and their descendants ( living or extinct ), whereas alligatoroidea, as a stem - based group, also includes more basal extinct alligator ancestors that are more closely related to living alligators than to crocodiles or gavialids. when considering only living taxa ( neontology ), this makes alligatoroidea and alligatoridae redundant. the simplified cladogram below shows alligatoridae ' s relationships to other extant ( living ) crocodilians. the below detailed cladogram shows one proposal for the internal relationships within alligatoridae ( although the exact alligatoroid phylogeny is still disputed ). evolution the superfamily alligatoroidea is thought to have split from the crocodile - gharial lineage in the late cretaceous, about 87 million years ago. leidyosuchus of alberta is the earliest known genus. fossil alligatoroids have been found throughout eurasia as land bridges across both the north atlantic and the bering strait have connected north america to eurasia during the cretaceous, paleogene, and neogene periods. alligators and caimans split in north america during the early tertiary or late cretaceous ( about 53 million to about 65 million years ago ) and the latter reached south america by the paleogene, before the closure of the isthmus of panama during the neogene period. the chinese alligator split from the american alligator about 33 million years ago and likely descended from a lineage that crossed the bering land bridge during the neogene. the modern american alligator is well represented in the fossil record of the pleistocene. the alligator ' s full mitochondrial genome was sequenced in the 1990s. the full genome, published in 2014, suggests that the alligator evolved much more slowly than mammals and birds. true alligators the lineage including alligators proper ( alligatorinae ) occurs in the fluvial deposits of the age of the upper chalk in europe, where they did not die out until the pliocene age. the true alligators are today represented by two species, a. mississippiensis