, 1865, more directly stating the premise that the war was almost at an end ( " armed resistance... may be regarded as virtually at an end " ) and that insurgent cruisers still at sea and prepared to attack u. s. ships should not have rights to do so through use of safe foreign ports or waters and warned nations which continued to do so that their government vessels would be denied access to u. s. ports. he also " enjoined " u. s. officers to arrest the cruisers and their crews so " that they may be prevented from committing further depredations on commerce and that the persons on board of them may no longer enjoy impunity for their crimes ". britain finally responded on june 6, 1865, by transmitting a june 2, 1865 letter from foreign secretary john russell, 1st earl russell to the lords of the admiralty withdrawing rights to confederate warships to enter british ports and waters but with exceptions for a limited time to allow a captain to enter a port to " divest his vessel of her warlike character " and for u. s. ships to be detained in british ports or waters to allow confederate cruisers twenty - four hours to leave first. u. s. secretary of state william seward welcomed the withdrawal of concessions to the confederates but objected to the exceptions. finally, on october 18, 1865, russell advised the admiralty that the time specified in his june 2, 1865 message had elapsed and " all measures of a restrictive nature on vessels of war of the united states in british ports, harbors, and waters, are now to be considered as at an end ". nonetheless, the final confederate surrender was in liverpool, england where james iredell waddell, the captain of the css shenandoah, surrendered the cruiser to british authorities on november 6, 1865. legally, the war did not end until august 20, 1866, when president andrew johnson issued a proclamation that declared " that the said insurrection is at an end and that peace, order, tranquillity, and civil authority now exist in and throughout the whole of the united states of america ". union victory and aftermath the causes of the war, the reasons for its outcome, and even the name of the war itself are subjects of lingering contention today. the north and west grew rich while the once - rich south became poor for a century. the national political power of the slaveowners and rich southerners ended. historians are less sure about the results of the postwar reconstruction, especially regarding the second - class citizenship