" blew my mind. " his interest piqued, ginsberg traveled to meet the dalai lama as well as the karmapa at rumtek monastery. continuing on his journey, ginsberg met dudjom rinpoche in kalimpong, who taught him : " if you see something horrible, don ' t cling to it, and if you see something beautiful, don ' t cling to it. " after returning to the united states, a chance encounter on a new york city street with chogyam trungpa rinpoche ( they both tried to catch the same cab ), a kagyu and nyingma tibetan buddhist master, led to trungpa becoming his friend and lifelong teacher. ginsberg helped trungpa and new york poet anne waldman in founding the jack kerouac school of disembodied poetics at naropa university in boulder, colorado. ginsberg was also involved with krishnaism. he had started incorporating chanting the hare krishna mantra into his religious practice in the mid - 1960s. after learning that a. c. bhaktivedanta swami prabhupada, the founder of the hare krishna movement in the western world had rented a store front in new york, he befriended him, visiting him often and suggesting publishers for his books, and a fruitful relationship began. this relationship is documented by satsvarupa dasa goswami in his biographical account srila prabhupada lilamrta. ginsberg donated money, materials, and his reputation to help the swami establish the first temple, and toured with him to promote his cause. despite disagreeing with many of bhaktivedanta swami ' s required prohibitions, ginsberg often sang the hare krishna mantra publicly as part of his philosophy and declared that it brought a state of ecstasy. he was glad that bhaktivedanta swami, an authentic swami from india, was now trying to spread the chanting in america. along with other counterculture ideologists like timothy leary, gary snyder, and alan watts, ginsberg hoped to incorporate bhaktivedanta swami and his chanting into the hippie movement, and agreed to take part in the mantra - rock dance concert and to introduce the swami to the haight - ashbury hippie community. on january 17, 1967, ginsberg helped plan and organize a reception for bhaktivedanta swami at san francisco international airport, where fifty to a hundred hippies greeted the swami, chanting hare krishna in the airport