, damaged by rheumatic fever, could be repaired. when lindbergh saw the crudeness of carrel ' s machinery, he offered to build new equipment for the scientist. eventually they built the first perfusion pump, an invention instrumental to the development of organ transplantation and open heart surgery. lindbergh considered carrel his closest friend, and said he would preserve and promote carrel ' s ideals after his death. due to his close proximity with jacques doriot ' s fascist parti populaire francais ( ppf ) during the 1930s and his role in implementing eugenics policies during vichy france, he was accused after the liberation of collaboration, but died before the trial. in his later life he returned to his catholic roots. in 1939, he met with trappist monk alexis presse on a recommendation. although carrel was skeptical about meeting with a priest, presse ended up having a profound influence on the rest of carrel ' s life. in 1942, he said " i believe in the existence of god, in the immortality of the soul, in revelation and in all the catholic church teaches. " he summoned presse to administer the catholic sacraments on his death bed in november 1944. for much of his life, carrel and his wife spent their summers on the which they owned. after he and lindbergh became close friends, carrel persuaded him to also buy a neighboring island, the ile illiec, where the lindberghs often resided in the late 1930s. contributions to science vascular suture carrel was a young surgeon who was deeply affected by the 1894 assassination of the french president, sadi carnot, who died from a severed portal vein that surgeons believed was irreparable. this tragedy inspired carrel to develop new techniques for suturing blood vessels, such as the " triangulation " technique using three stay - sutures to minimize damage to the vascular wall during suturing. carrel learned this technique from an embroideress, and later incorporated it into his work. according to julius comroe, carrel performed every feat and developed every technique in vascular surgery using experimental animals between 1901 and 1910, leading to his great success in reconnecting arteries and veins and performing surgical grafts. these achievements earned him the nobel prize in 1912. wound antisepsis during world war i ( 1914 – 1918 ), carrel and the english chemist henry drysdale dakin developed the carrel – dakin method of treating wounds with an antiseptic solution based on ch