. they commonly have basal and / or apical appendages. pollen is released inside the tube and is collected around the growing style, and then, as the style elongates, is pushed out of the tube ( nudelspritze ). the pistil consists of two connate carpels. the style has two lobes. stigmatic tissue may be located in the interior surface or form two lateral lines. the ovary is inferior and has only one ovule, with basal placentation. fruits and seeds in members of the asteraceae the fruit is achene - like, and is called a cypsela ( plural cypselae ). although there are two fused carpels, there is only one locule, and only one seed per fruit is formed. it may sometimes be winged or spiny because the pappus, which is derived from calyx tissue often remains on the fruit ( for example in dandelion ). in some species, however, the pappus falls off ( for example in helianthus ). cypsela morphology is often used to help determine plant relationships at the genus and species level. the mature seeds usually have little endosperm or none. pollen the pollen of composites is typically echinolophate, a morphological term meaning " with elaborate systems of ridges and spines dispersed around and between the apertures. " metabolites in asteraceae, the energy store is generally in the form of inulin rather than starch. they produce iso / chlorogenic acid, sesquiterpene lactones, pentacyclic triterpene alcohols, various alkaloids, acetylenes ( cyclic, aromatic, with vinyl end groups ), tannins. they have terpenoid essential oils that never contain iridoids. asteraceae produce secondary metabolites, such as flavonoids and terpenoids. some of these molecules can inhibit protozoan parasites such as plasmodium, trypanosoma, leishmania and parasitic intestinal worms, and thus have potential in medicine. taxonomy history compositae, the original name for asteraceae, were first described in 1740 by dutch botanist adriaan van royen. traditionally, two subfamilies were recognised : asteroideae ( or tubuliflorae ) and cichorioideae ( or liguliflorae ). the latter has been shown to be extensively paraphyletic, and has