salt. all of the stable alkali metal halides have the formula mx where m is an alkali metal and x is a halogen. they are all white ionic crystalline solids that have high melting points. all the alkali metal halides are soluble in water except for lithium fluoride ( lif ), which is insoluble in water due to its very high lattice enthalpy. the high lattice enthalpy of lithium fluoride is due to the small sizes of the li + and f− ions, causing the electrostatic interactions between them to be strong : a similar effect occurs for magnesium fluoride, consistent with the diagonal relationship between lithium and magnesium. the alkali metals also react similarly with hydrogen to form ionic alkali metal hydrides, where the hydride anion acts as a pseudohalide : these are often used as reducing agents, producing hydrides, complex metal hydrides, or hydrogen gas. other pseudohalides are also known, notably the cyanides. these are isostructural to the respective halides except for lithium cyanide, indicating that the cyanide ions may rotate freely. ternary alkali metal halide oxides, such as na3clo, k3bro ( yellow ), na4br2o, na4i2o, and k4br2o, are also known. the polyhalides are rather unstable, although those of rubidium and caesium are greatly stabilised by the feeble polarising power of these extremely large cations. coordination complexes alkali metal cations do not usually form coordination complexes with simple lewis bases due to their low charge of just + 1 and their relatively large size ; thus the li + ion forms most complexes and the heavier alkali metal ions form less and less ( though exceptions occur for weak complexes ). lithium in particular has a very rich coordination chemistry in which it exhibits coordination numbers from 1 to 12, although octahedral hexacoordination is its preferred mode. in aqueous solution, the alkali metal ions exist as octahedral hexahydrate complexes ( [ m ( h2o ) 6 ) ] + ), with the exception of the lithium ion, which due to its small size forms tetrahedral tetrahydrate complexes ( [ li ( h2o ) 4 ) ] + ) ; the alkali metals form these complexes because their ions are attracted by electrostatic forces of attraction