##o henriques ' s right by blood, as one of two grandsons of the emperor of hispania. afonso then turned his arms against the persistent problem of the moors in the south. his campaigns were successful and, on 25 july 1139, he obtained an overwhelming victory in the battle of ourique, and straight after was ( possibly unanimously ) proclaimed king of the portuguese by his soldiers, establishing his equality in rank to the other realms of the peninsula, although the first reference to his royal title dates from 1140. the first assembly of the portuguese cortes convened at lamego ( wherein he would have been given the crown from the archbishop of braga, to confirm his independence ) is a 17th - century embellishment of portuguese history. kingship complete independence from alfonso vii of leon ' s suzerainty, however, could not be achieved by military means alone. the county of portugal still had to be acknowledged diplomatically by the neighboring lands as a kingdom and, most importantly, by the catholic church and the pope. afonso wed mafalda of savoy, daughter of count amadeus iii of savoy, and sent ambassadors to rome to negotiate with the pope. he succeeded in renouncing the suzerainty of his cousin, alfonso vii of leon, becoming instead a vassal of the papacy, as the kings of sicily and aragon had done before him. in portugal he built several monasteries and convents and bestowed important privileges to religious orders. he is notably the builder of alcobaca monastery, to which he called the cistercian order of his uncle bernard of clairvaux of burgundy. in 1143, he wrote to pope innocent ii to declare himself and the kingdom servants of the church, swearing to pursue driving the moors out of the iberian peninsula. bypassing any king of leon, afonso declared himself the direct liege man of the papacy. afonso continued to distinguish himself by his exploits against the moors, from whom he wrested santarem ( see conquest of santarem ) and lisbon in 1147 ( see siege of lisbon ). he also conquered an important part of the land south of the tagus river, although this was lost again to the moors in the following years. meanwhile, king alfonso vii of leon regarded the independent ruler of portugal as nothing but a rebel. conflict between the two was constant and bitter in the following years. afonso became involved in a war, taking the side of the aragonese king, an enemy of castile. to ensure the alliance, his son