, this broad line of products comprises about 11 % of the company ' s revenues. at wwdc 2023, apple introduced its new vr headset, vision pro, along with visionos. apple announced that it will be partnering with unity to bring existing 3d apps to vision pro using unity ' s polyspatial technology. services apple also offers a broad line of services that it earns revenue on, including advertising in the app store and apple news app, the applecare + extended warranty plan, the icloud + cloud - based data storage service, payment services through the apple card credit card and the apple pay processing platform, a digital content services including apple books, apple fitness +, apple music, apple news +, apple tv +, and the itunes store., services comprise about 19 % of the company ' s revenue. many of the services have been launched when apple announced it would be making a concerted effort to expand its service revenues. marketing branding according to steve jobs, the company ' s name was inspired by his visit to an apple farm while he was on a fruitarian diet. jobs thought the name " apple " was " fun, spirited and not intimidating. " steve jobs and steve wozniak were fans of the beatles, but apple inc. had name and logo trademark issues with apple corps ltd., a multimedia company started by the beatles in 1968. this resulted in a series of lawsuits and tension between the two companies. these issues ended with the settling of their lawsuit in 2007. apple ' s first logo, designed by ron wayne, depicts sir isaac newton sitting under an apple tree. it was almost immediately replaced by rob janoff ' s " rainbow apple ", the now - familiar rainbow - colored silhouette of an apple with a bite taken out of it. on august 27, 1999, apple officially dropped the rainbow scheme and began to use monochromatic logos nearly identical in shape to the previous rainbow incarnation. apple evangelists were actively engaged by the company at one time, but this was after the phenomenon had already been firmly established. apple evangelist guy kawasaki has called the brand fanaticism " something that was stumbled upon, " while ive claimed in 2014 that " people have an incredibly personal relationship " with apple ' s products. fortune magazine named apple the most admired company in the united states in 2008, and in the world from 2008 to 2012. on september 30, 2013, apple surpassed coca - cola to become the world ' s most valuable brand in the omnicom group ' s "