in case of suspected sudden intake of a large amount of aluminium, the only treatment is deferoxamine mesylate which may be given to help eliminate aluminium from the body by chelation. however, this should be applied with caution as this reduces not only aluminium body levels, but also those of other metals such as copper or iron. environmental effects high levels of aluminium occur near mining sites ; small amounts of aluminium are released to the environment at the coal - fired power plants or incinerators. aluminium in the air is washed out by the rain or normally settles down but small particles of aluminium remain in the air for a long time. acidic precipitation is the main natural factor to mobilize aluminium from natural sources and the main reason for the environmental effects of aluminium ; however, the main factor of presence of aluminium in salt and freshwater are the industrial processes that also release aluminium into air. in water, aluminium acts as a toxiс agent on gill - breathing animals such as fish when the water is acidic, in which aluminium may precipitate on gills, which causes loss of plasma - and hemolymph ions leading to osmoregulatory failure. organic complexes of aluminium may be easily absorbed and interfere with metabolism in mammals and birds, even though this rarely happens in practice. aluminium is primary among the factors that reduce plant growth on acidic soils. although it is generally harmless to plant growth in ph - neutral soils, in acid soils the concentration of toxic al3 + cations increases and disturbs root growth and function. wheat has developed a tolerance to aluminium, releasing organic compounds that bind to harmful aluminium cations. sorghum is believed to have the same tolerance mechanism. aluminium production possesses its own challenges to the environment on each step of the production process. the major challenge is the greenhouse gas emissions. these gases result from electrical consumption of the smelters and the byproducts of processing. the most potent of these gases are perfluorocarbons from the smelting process. released sulfur dioxide is one of the primary precursors of acid rain. biodegradation of metallic aluminium is extremely rare ; most aluminium - corroding organisms do not directly attack or consume the aluminium, but instead produce corrosive wastes. the fungus geotrichum candidum can consume the aluminium in compact discs. the bacterium pseudomonas aeruginosa and the fungus cladosporium resinae are commonly detected in aircraft fuel tanks that use kerosene - based fuels ( not avgas ), and laboratory