upholstery. warhol was dressed in a black cashmere suit, a paisley tie, a platinum wig, and sunglasses. he was laid out holding a small prayer book and a red rose. the funeral liturgy was held at the holy ghost byzantine catholic church on pittsburgh ' s north side on february 27, 1987. the eulogy was given by monsignor peter tay. yoko ono and john richardson were speakers. the coffin was covered with white roses and asparagus ferns. after the liturgy, the coffin was driven to st. john the baptist byzantine catholic cemetery in bethel park, a south suburb of pittsburgh, where warhol was buried near his parents. the priest said a brief prayer at the graveside and sprinkled holy water on the casket. before the coffin was lowered, warhol ' s close friend and associate publisher of interview, paige powell, dropped a copy of the magazine and a bottle of beautiful eau de parfum by estee lauder into the grave. a memorial service was held in manhattan for warhol at st. patrick ' s cathedral on april 1, 1987. art works paintings by the beginning of the 1960s, pop art was an experimental form that several artists were independently adopting ; some of these pioneers, such as roy lichtenstein, would later become synonymous with the movement. warhol, who would become famous as the " pope of pop ", turned to this new style, where popular subjects could be part of the artist ' s palette. his early paintings show images taken from cartoons and advertisements, hand - painted with paint drips. those drips emulated the style of successful abstract expressionists such as willem de kooning. from these beginnings, he developed his later style and subjects. instead of working on a signature subject matter, as he started out to do, he worked more and more on a signature style, slowly eliminating the handmade from the artistic process. warhol frequently used silk - screening ; his later drawings were traced from slide projections. at the height of his fame as a painter, warhol had several assistants, including notable artist george condo, who produced his silk - screen multiples, following his directions to make different versions and variations. warhol ' s first pop art paintings were displayed in april 1961, serving as the backdrop for new york department store bonwit teller ' s window display. this was the same stage his pop art contemporaries jasper johns, james rosenquist and robert rauschenberg had also once graced. it was the gallerist muriel la