eventually realised to be a poor location for a base. at socotra, they parted ways : tristao da cunha sailed for india, where he would relieve the portuguese besieged at cannanore, while afonso took seven ships and 500 men to ormuz in the persian gulf, one of the chief eastern centers of commerce. on his way, he conquered the cities of curiati ( kuryat ), muscat in july 1507, and khor fakkan, accepting the submission of the cities of kalhat and sohar. he arrived at hormuz on 25 september and soon captured the city, which agreed to become a tributary state of the portuguese king. ormuz was then a tributary state of shah ismail of persia. in a famous episode, shortly after its conquest, albuquerque was confronted by persian envoys, who demanded the payment of the due tribute from him instead. he ordered them to be given a stock of cannonballs, arrows and weapons, retorting that " such was the currency struck in portugal to pay the tribute demanded from the dominions of king manuel ". according to bras de albuquerque, it was shah ismael who first addressed albuquerque as " lion of the seas ". afonso began building the fort of our lady of victory ( later renamed fort of our lady of the conception ) on hormuz island, engaging his men of all ranks in the work. however, some of his officers, claiming that afonso was exceeding his orders, revolted against the heavy work and climate and departed for india. with his fleet reduced to two ships and left without supplies, he was unable to maintain his position. in january 1508, he was forced to abandon ormuz. he raided coastal villages to resupply the settlement of socotra, returned to ormuz, and then headed to india. arrest at cannanore, 1509 afonso arrived at cannanore on the malabar coast in december 1508, where he opened the sealed letter that he had received from the king before the viceroy, dom francisco de almeida, which named him as governor to succeed almeida. the viceroy, supported by the officers who had abandoned afonso at ormuz, had a matching royal order but declined to yield. he protested that his term ended only in january and stated his intention to avenge his son ' s death by fighting the mamluk fleet of mirocem, refusing afonso ' s offer to fight the