that the artist carles mani i roig was to sculpt. the statue was not made although the words " ave gratia m plena dominus tecum " were written at the top of the facade. continuing disagreements led gaudi to take mila to court over his fees. the lawsuit was won by gaudi in 1916, and he gave the 105, 000 pesetas he won in the case to charity, stating that " the principles mattered more than money. " mila was having to pay the mortgage. after gaudi ' s death in 1926, segimon got rid of most of the furniture that gaudi had designed and covered over parts of gaudi ' s designs with new decorations in the style of louis xvi. la pedrera was acquired in 1986 by and when restoration was done four years later, some of the original decorations re - emerged. when the civil war broke out in july 1936, the milas were on vacation. part of the building was collectivized by the unified socialist party of catalonia ; the milas fled the area with some artwork. in media and literature a scene in the passenger ( italian : professione : reporter ), a film directed by michelangelo antonioni and starring jack nicholson and maria schneider, was filmed on the roof of the building. a scene filmed on the roof in vicky cristina barcelona, directed by woody allen. a major part in the story " a murderer is born " in the novel seiobo there below by laszlo krasznahorkai happens here mentioned in the book by eoin colfer : artemis fowl and the lost colony mentioned in the book by trudi alexy ' the mezuzah in the madonna ' s foot ' mentioned in the ' ballrooms and biscotti ' episode ( season 4, episode 1 ) of gilmore girls several scenes in the movie, gaudi afternoon a scale model exhibited at the catalunya en miniatura park. featured in the music video for deep forest ' s ' sweet lullaby ' the home of edmond kirsch in dan brown ' s novel origin, the 5th book featuring robert langdon. gallery see also list of modernisme buildings in barcelona references rainer zervst. gaudi, 1852 – 1926, antoni gaudi i cornet – a life devoted to architecture. cologne : benedikt taschen verlag gmbh & co. kg., 1988. p176. external links la pedrera official website virtual tour immersive photographies of casa mila