reproduced audio level stays in a fixed proportion to the original modulation. on the other hand, with suppressed - carrier transmissions there is no transmitted power during pauses in the modulation, so the agc must respond to peaks of the transmitted power during peaks in the modulation. this typically involves a so - called fast attack, slow decay circuit which holds the agc level for a second or more following such peaks, in between syllables or short pauses in the program. this is very acceptable for communications radios, where compression of the audio aids intelligibility. however it is absolutely undesired for music or normal broadcast programming, where a faithful reproduction of the original program, including its varying modulation levels, is expected. itu type designations in 1982, the international telecommunication union ( itu ) designated the types of amplitude modulation : history amplitude modulation was used in experiments of multiplex telegraph and telephone transmission in the late 1800s. however, the practical development of this technology is identified with the period between 1900 and 1920 of radiotelephone transmission, that is, the effort to send audio signals by radio waves. the first radio transmitters, called spark gap transmitters, transmitted information by wireless telegraphy, using pulses of the carrier wave to spell out text messages in morse code. they could not transmit audio because the carrier consisted of strings of damped waves, pulses of radio waves that declined to zero, and sounded like a buzz in receivers. in effect they were already amplitude modulated. continuous waves the first am transmission was made by canadian researcher reginald fessenden on 23 december 1900 using a spark gap transmitter with a specially designed high frequency 10 khz interrupter, over a distance of one mile ( 1. 6 km ) at cobb island, maryland, us. his first transmitted words were, " hello. one, two, three, four. is it snowing where you are, mr. thiessen? ". the words were barely intelligible above the background buzz of the spark. fessenden was a significant figure in the development of am radio. he was one of the first researchers to realize, from experiments like the above, that the existing technology for producing radio waves, the spark transmitter, was not usable for amplitude modulation, and that a new kind of transmitter, one that produced sinusoidal continuous waves, was needed. this was a radical idea at the time, because experts believed the impulsive spark was necessary to produce radio frequency waves, and fessenden was ridiculed. he invented and helped develop one of the first continuous wave transmitters –