##rman would not be swayed. anders finally agreed under the condition that borman would set up the camera to continue to take automatic pictures of the moon. borman also remembered that there was a second television broadcast planned, and with so many people expected to be watching, he wanted the crew to be alert. for the next two orbits, anders and lovell slept while borman sat at the helm. as they rounded the moon for the ninth time, the astronauts began the second television transmission. borman introduced the crew, followed by each man giving his impression of the lunar surface and what it was like to be orbiting the moon. borman described it as being " a vast, lonely, forbidding expanse of nothing ". then, after talking about what they were flying over, anders said that the crew had a message for all those on earth. each man on board read a section from the biblical creation story from the book of genesis. borman finished the broadcast by wishing a merry christmas to everyone on earth. his message appeared to sum up the feelings that all three crewmen had from their vantage point in lunar orbit. borman said, " and from the crew of apollo8, we close with good night, good luck, a merry christmas and god bless all of you — all of you on the good earth. " the only task left for the crew at this point was to perform the trans - earth injection ( tei ), which was scheduled for hours after the end of the television transmission. the tei was the most critical burn of the flight, as any failure of the sps to ignite would strand the crew in lunar orbit, with little hope of escape. as with the previous burn, the crew had to perform the maneuver above the far side of the moon, out of contact with earth. the burn occurred exactly on time. the spacecraft telemetry was reacquired as it re - emerged from behind the moon at 89 hours, 28 minutes, and 39 seconds, the exact time calculated. when voice contact was regained, lovell announced, " please be informed, there is a santa claus ", to which ken mattingly, the current capcom, replied, " that ' s affirmative, you are the best ones to know. " the spacecraft began its journey back to earth on december 25, christmas day. unplanned manual realignment later, lovell used some otherwise idle time to do some navigational sightings, maneuvering the module to view various stars by using the computer keyboard. he accidentally erased