. william barry, an education futurist and former visiting west point professor of philosophy and ethical reasoning at the united states military academy, created an ai android character named " maria bot ". this interface ai android was named after the infamous fictional robot maria in the 1927 film metropolis, as a well - behaved distant relative. maria bot is the first ai android teaching assistant at the university level. maria bot has appeared as a keynote speaker as a duo with barry for a tedx talk in everett, washington in february 2020. resembling a human from the shoulders up, maria bot is a virtual being android that has complex facial expressions and head movement and engages in conversation about a variety of subjects. she uses ai to process and synthesize information to make her own decisions on how to talk and engage. she collects data through conversations, direct data inputs such as books or articles, and through internet sources. maria bot was built by an international high - tech company for barry to help improve education quality and eliminate education poverty. maria bot is designed to create new ways for students to engage and discuss ethical issues raised by the increasing presence of robots and artificial intelligence. barry also uses maria bot to demonstrate that programming a robot with life - affirming, ethical framework makes them more likely to help humans to do the same. maria bot is an ambassador robot for good and ethical ai technology. hanson robotics, inc., of texas and kaist produced an android portrait of albert einstein, using hanson ' s facial android technology mounted on kaist ' s life - size walking bipedal robot body. this einstein android, also called " albert hubo ", thus represents the first full - body walking android in history. hanson robotics, the fedex institute of technology, and the university of texas at arlington also developed the android portrait of sci - fi author philip k. dick ( creator of do androids dream of electric sheep?, the basis for the film blade runner ), with full conversational capabilities that incorporated thousands of pages of the author ' s works. in 2005, the pkd android won a first - place artificial intelligence award from aaai. use in fiction androids are a staple of science fiction. isaac asimov pioneered the fictionalization of the science of robotics and artificial intelligence, notably in his 1950s series i, robot. one thing common to most fictional androids is that the real - life technological challenges associated with creating thoroughly human - like robots — such as the creation of strong artificial intelligence — are assumed to have been solved. fictional androids are often