and rigor. this same study found one subject, a 71 - year - old man who had not responded to steroids, that responded to an ivig treatment 58 days after disease onset. prognosis full recovery is seen in 50 to 70 % of cases, ranging to 70 to 90 % recovery with some minor residual disability ( typically assessed using measures such as mrs or edss ), average time to recover is one to six months. the mortality rate may be as high as 5 – 10 %. poorer outcomes are associated with unresponsiveness to steroid therapy, unusually severe neurological symptoms, or sudden onset. children tend to have more favorable outcomes than adults, and cases presenting without fevers tend to have poorer outcomes. the latter effect may be due to either protective effects of fever, or that diagnosis and treatment is sought more rapidly when fever is present. adem can progress to ms. it will be considered ms if some lesions appear in different times and brain areas motor deficits residual motor deficits are estimated to remain in about 8 to 30 % of cases, the range in severity from mild clumsiness to ataxia and hemiparesis. neurocognitive patients with demyelinating illnesses, such as ms, have shown cognitive deficits even when there is minimal physical disability. research suggests that similar effects are seen after adem, but that the deficits are less severe than those seen in ms. a study of six children with adem ( mean age at presentation 7. 7 years ) were tested for a range of neurocognitive tests after an average of 3. 5 years of recovery. all six children performed in the normal range on most tests, including verbal iq and performance iq, but performed at least one standard deviation below age norms in at least one cognitive domain, such as complex attention ( one child ), short - term memory ( one child ) and internalizing behaviour / affect ( two children ). group means for each cognitive domain were all within one standard deviation of age norms, demonstrating that, as a group, they were normal. these deficits were less severe than those seen in similar aged children with a diagnosis of ms. another study compared nineteen children with a history of adem, of which 10 were five years of age or younger at the time ( average age 3. 8 years old, tested an average of 3. 9 years later ) and nine were older ( mean age 7. 7y at time of adem, tested an average of 2. 2 years later )