corners " ). types strong agnosticism ( also called " hard ", " closed ", " strict ", or " permanent agnosticism " ) the view that the question of the existence or nonexistence of a deity or deities, and the nature of ultimate reality is unknowable by reason of our natural inability to verify any experience with anything but another subjective experience. a strong agnostic would say, " i cannot know whether a deity exists or not, and neither can you. " weak agnosticism ( also called " soft ", " open ", " empirical ", " hopeful " or " temporal agnosticism " ) the view that the existence or nonexistence of any deities is currently unknown but is not necessarily unknowable ; therefore, one will withhold judgment until evidence, if any, becomes available. a weak agnostic would say, " i don ' t know whether any deities exist or not, but maybe one day, if there is evidence, we can find something out. " apathetic agnosticism the view that no amount of debate can prove or disprove the existence of one or more deities, and if one or more deities exist, they do not appear to be concerned about the fate of humans. therefore, their existence has little to no impact on personal human affairs and should be of little interest. an apathetic agnostic would say, " i don ' t know whether any deity exists or not, and i don ' t care if any deity exists or not. " history hindu philosophy throughout the history of hinduism there has been a strong tradition of philosophic speculation and skepticism. the rig veda takes an agnostic view on the fundamental question of how the universe and the gods were created. nasadiya sukta ( creation hymn ) in the tenth chapter of the rig veda says : hume, kant, and kierkegaard aristotle, anselm, aquinas, descartes, and godel presented arguments attempting to rationally prove the existence of god. the skeptical empiricism of david hume, the antinomies of immanuel kant, and the existential philosophy of søren kierkegaard convinced many later philosophers to abandon these attempts, regarding it impossible to construct any unassailable proof for the existence or non - existence of god. in his 1844 book, philosophical fragments, kierkegaard writes : hume was huxley ' s favourite philosopher, calling him " the prince of ag