stadium being built for the 1936 summer olympics. he added a stone exterior that pleased hitler. speer designed the german pavilion for the 1937 international exposition in paris. berlin ' s general building inspector ( 1937 – 1942 ) on 30 january 1937, hitler appointed speer as general building inspector for the reich capital. this carried with it the rank of state secretary in the reich government and gave him extraordinary powers over the berlin city government. he was to report directly to hitler, and was independent of both the mayor and the gauleiter of berlin. hitler ordered speer to develop plans to rebuild berlin. these centered on a three - mile - long grand boulevard running from north to south, which speer called the prachtstrasse, or street of magnificence ; he also referred to it as the " north – south axis ". at the northern end of the boulevard, speer planned to build the volkshalle, a huge domed assembly hall over high, with floor space for 180, 000 people. at the southern end of the avenue, a great triumphal arch, almost high and able to fit the arc de triomphe inside its opening, was planned. the existing berlin railroad termini were to be dismantled, and two large new stations built. speer hired wolters as part of his design team, with special responsibility for the prachtstrasse. the outbreak of world war ii in 1939 led to the postponement, and later the abandonment, of these plans, which, after nazi capitulation, speer himself considered as “ awful ”. plans to build a new reich chancellery had been underway since 1934. land had been purchased by the end of 1934 and starting in march 1936 the first buildings were demolished to create space at voßstraße. speer was involved virtually from the beginning. in the aftermath of the night of the long knives, he had been commissioned to renovate the borsig palace on the corner of voßstraße and wilhelmstraße as headquarters of the sturmabteilung ( sa ). he completed the preliminary work for the new chancellery by may 1936. in june 1936 he charged a personal honorarium of 30, 000 reichsmark and estimated the chancellery would be completed within three to four years. detailed plans were completed in july 1937 and the first shell of the new chancellery was complete on 1 january 1938. on 27 january 1938, speer received plenipotentiary powers from hitler to finish the new chancellery by 1