as a political purge to cement his power and reduce the influence of the dos santos family, lourenco subsequently sacked the chief of the national police, ambrosio de lemos, and the head of the intelligence service, apolinario jose pereira. both are considered allies of former president dos santos. he also removed isabel dos santos, daughter of the former president, as head of the country ' s state oil company sonangol. in august 2020, jose filomeno dos santos, son of angola ' s former president, was sentenced for five years in jail for fraud and corruption. constitution the constitution of 2010 establishes the broad outlines of government structure and delineates the rights and duties of citizens. the legal system is based on portuguese law and customary law but is weak and fragmented, and courts operate in only 12 of more than 140 municipalities. a supreme court serves as the appellate tribunal ; a constitutional court does not hold the powers of judicial review. governors of the 18 provinces are appointed by the president. after the end of the civil war, the regime came under pressure from within as well as from the international community to become more democratic and less authoritarian. its reaction was to implement a number of changes without substantially changing its character. the new constitution, adopted in 2010, did away with presidential elections, introducing a system in which the president and the vice - president of the political party that wins the parliamentary elections automatically become president and vice - president. directly or indirectly, the president controls all other organs of the state, so there is de facto no separation of powers. in the classifications used in constitutional law, this government falls under the category of authoritarian regime. armed forces the angolan armed forces ( forcas armadas angolanas, faa ) are headed by a chief of staff who reports to the minister of defence. there are three divisions — the army ( exercito ), navy ( marinha de guerra, mga ) and national air force ( forca aerea nacional, fan ). total manpower is 107, 000 ; plus paramilitary forces of 10, 000 ( 2015 est. ). its equipment includes russian - manufactured fighters, bombers and transport planes. there are also brazilian - made emb - 312 tucanos for training, czech - made l - 39s for training and bombing, and a variety of western - made aircraft such as the c - 212 \ aviocar, sud aviation alouette iii, etc. a small number of faa personnel are stationed in the democratic republic of the congo ( kinshasa )