is not commonly eaten outside ainu communities. only a few restaurants in japan serve traditional ainu dishes, mainly in tokyo and hokkaido. the functions of judgeship were not entrusted to chiefs. rather, an indefinite number of a community ' s members sat in judgment upon its criminals. capital punishment did not exist, nor did the community resort to imprisonment. beating was considered a sufficient and final penalty. however, in the case of murder, the nose and ears of the culprit were cut off, or the tendons of his feet severed. hunting the ainu traditionally hunt from late autumn to early summer. the reasons for this are in part because in late autumn, plant gathering, salmon fishing, and other activities of securing food come to an end, and hunters readily find game in fields and mountains in which plants withered. a village typically possesses a hunting ground of its own, or several villages use a joint hunting territory, called an iwor. heavy penalties were imposed on any outsiders trespassing on such hunting grounds or joint hunting territory. the ainu traditionally hunt ussuri brown bears, asian black bears, ezo deer ( a subspecies of sika deer ), hares, red foxes, japanese raccoon dogs, and other animals. ezo deer are a particularly important food resource for the ainu, as are salmon. they also hunt sea eagles, such as white - tailed sea eagles, along with ravens and other birds. the ainu hunted eagles for their tail feathers, which they used in trade with the japanese. the ainu hunted with arrows and spears with poison - coated points. they obtained the poison, called surku, from the roots and stalks of aconites. the recipe for this poison was a household secret that differed from family to family. they enhanced the poison with mixtures of roots and stalks of dog ' s bane, boiled juice of mekuragumo ( a type of harvestman ), matsumomushi ( notonecta triguttata, a species of backswimmer ), tobacco, and other ingredients. they also used stingray stingers or skin covering stingers. they traditionally hunt in groups with dogs. before hunting, particularly for bear and similar animals, they may pray to the kamuy - huci, the house guardian goddess, to convey their wishes for a large catch, and to the god of mountains for safe hunting. the ainu traditionally hunt bears during the spring thaw. at that time, bears are weak because they haven ' t eaten during