##entry. the computer would control the reentry, and all the crew had to do was put the spacecraft in the correct attitude, with the blunt end forward. in the event of computer failure, borman was ready to take over. separation from the service module prepared the command module for reentry by exposing the heat shield and shedding unneeded mass. the service module would burn up in the atmosphere as planned. six minutes before they hit the top of the atmosphere, the crew saw the moon rising above the earth ' s horizon, just as had been calculated by the trajectory specialists. as the module hit the thin outer atmosphere, the crew noticed that it was becoming hazy outside as glowing plasma formed around the spacecraft. the spacecraft started slowing down, and the deceleration peaked at. with the computer controlling the descent by changing the attitude of the spacecraft, apollo8 rose briefly like a skipping stone before descending to the ocean. at, the drogue parachute deployed, stabilizing the spacecraft, followed at by the three main parachutes. the spacecraft splashdown position was officially reported as in the north pacific ocean, southwest of hawaii at 15 : 51 : 42 utc on december 27, 1968. when the spacecraft hit the water, the parachutes dragged it over and left it upside down, in what was termed stable2 position. as they were buffeted by a swell, borman was sick, waiting for the three flotation balloons to right the spacecraft. about six minutes after splashdown, the command module was righted into a normal apex - up ( stable 1 ) orientation by its inflatable bag uprighting system. the first frogman from aircraft carrier arrived 43 minutes after splashdown. forty - five minutes later, the crew was safe on the flight deck of the yorktown. legacy historical importance apollo 8 came at the end of 1968, a year that had seen much upheaval in the united states and most of the world. even though the year saw political assassinations, political unrest in the streets of europe and america, and the prague spring, time magazine chose the crew of apollo8 as its men of the year for 1968, recognizing them as the people who most influenced events in the preceding year. they had been the first people ever to leave the gravitational influence of the earth and orbit another celestial body. they had survived a mission that even the crew themselves had rated as having only a fifty - fifty chance of fully succeeding. the effect of apollo8 was summed up in a telegram from a stranger,