fell in himself, killing him. this was supposedly the origin of calling athena ' s sacred olive tree moria, for halirrhotius ' s attempt at revenge proved fatal ( moros in greek ). poseidon in fury accused ares of murder, and the matter was eventually settled on the areopagus ( " hill of ares " ) in favour of ares, which was thereafter named after the event. pseudo - apollodorus records an archaic legend, which claims that hephaestus once attempted to rape athena, but she pushed him away, causing him to ejaculate on her thigh. athena wiped the semen off using a tuft of wool, which she tossed into the dust, impregnating gaia and causing her to give birth to erichthonius. athena adopted erichthonius as her son and raised him. the roman mythographer hyginus records a similar story in which hephaestus demanded zeus to let him marry athena since he was the one who had smashed open zeus ' s skull, allowing athena to be born. zeus agreed to this and hephaestus and athena were married, but, when hephaestus was about to consummate the union, athena vanished from the bridal bed, causing him to ejaculate on the floor, thus impregnating gaia with erichthonius. the geographer pausanias records that athena placed the infant erichthonius into a small chest ( cista ), which she entrusted to the care of the three daughters of cecrops : herse, pandrosos, and aglauros of athens. she warned the three sisters not to open the chest, but did not explain to them why or what was in it. aglauros, and possibly one of the other sisters, opened the chest. differing reports say that they either found that the child itself was a serpent, that it was guarded by a serpent, that it was guarded by two serpents, or that it had the legs of a serpent. in pausanias ' s story, the two sisters were driven mad by the sight of the chest ' s contents and hurled themselves off the acropolis, dying instantly, but an attic vase painting shows them being chased by the serpent off the edge of the cliff instead. erichthonius was one of the most important founding heroes of athens and the legend of the daughters of cecrops was a cult myth linked to the rituals of the arrhephoria festival.