or rod mounted on a horizontal plane. the position of its shadow on the plane indicated the time of day. as it moves through its apparent course, the sun draws a curve with the tip of the projected shadow, which is shortest at noon, when pointing due south. the variation in the tip ' s position at noon indicates the solar time and the seasons ; the shadow is longest on the winter solstice and shortest on the summer solstice. the invention of the gnomon itself cannot be attributed to anaximander because its use, as well as the division of days into twelve parts, came from the babylonians. it is they, according to herodotus ' histories ( ii, 109 ), who gave the greeks the art of time measurement. it is likely that he was not the first to determine the solstices, because no calculation is necessary. on the other hand, equinoxes do not correspond to the middle point between the positions during solstices, as the babylonians thought. as the suda seems to suggest, it is very likely that with his knowledge of geometry, he became the first greek to determine accurately the equinoxes. prediction of an earthquake in his philosophical work de divinatione ( i, 50, 112 ), cicero states that anaximander convinced the inhabitants of lacedaemon to abandon their city and spend the night in the country with their weapons because an earthquake was near. the city collapsed when the top of the taygetus split like the stern of a ship. pliny the elder also mentions this anecdote ( ii, 81 ), suggesting that it came from an " admirable inspiration ", as opposed to cicero, who did not associate the prediction with divination. scientific method rovelli credits anaximander with pioneering the " first great scientific revolution in history " by introducing the naturalistic approach to understanding the universe, according to which the universe operates by inviolable laws, without recourse to supernatural explanations. according to rovelli, anaximander not only paved the way for modern science, but revolutionized the process for how we form our worldview, by constantly questioning and rejecting certainty. rovelli further states that anaximander has not been given his due credit, largely because his naturalistic approach was strongly opposed in antiquity ( among others by aristotle ) and had yet to yield the tangible benefits it has today. legacy in the 2017 essay collection anaximander in context : new