as an unreliable historian, in the century following their deaths. theodosius ' s predecessors constantine ( ), constantius ( ), and valens had all been semi - arians. therefore, it fell to the orthodox theodosius to receive from christian literary tradition most of the credit for the final triumph of christianity. modern scholars see this as an interpretation of history by orthodox christian writers more than as a representation of actual history. the view of a pious theodosius submitting meekly to the authority of the church, represented by ambrose, is part of the myth that evolved within a generation of their deaths. later years and death in april 393 arbogast ( magister militum of the west ) and his puppet emperor eugenius marched into italy to consolidate their position in regard to theodosius i and his son, honorius, whom theodosius had appointed augustus to govern the western portion of the empire. arbogast and eugenius courted ambrose ' s support by very obliging letters ; but before they arrived at milan, he had retired to bologna, where he assisted at the translation of the relics of saints vitalis and agricola. from there he went to florence, where he remained until eugenius withdrew from milan to meet theodosius in the battle of the frigidus in early september 394. soon after acquiring the undisputed possession of the roman empire, theodosius died at milan in 395, and ambrose gave the eulogy. two years later ( 4 april 397 ) ambrose also died. he was succeeded as bishop of milan by simplician. ambrose ' s body may still be viewed in the church of saint ambrogio in milan, where it has been continuously venerated – along with the bodies identified in his time as being those of saints gervase and protase. ambrose is remembered in the calendar of the roman rite of the catholic church on 7 december, and is also honored in the church of england and in the episcopal church on 7 december. character in 1960, neil b. mclynn wrote a complex study of ambrose that focused on his politics and intended to " demonstrate that ambrose viewed community as a means to acquire personal political power ". subsequent studies of how ambrose handled his episcopal responsibilities, his nicene theology and his dealings with the arians in his episcopate, his pastoral care, his commitment to community, and his personal asceticism, have mitigated this view. all of ambrose ' writings are