and / or psychological well - being. when a threat signal occurs, it signifies either that danger is present or near in space and time or that it might be coming in the future. nonconscious threats processing by the brain activates defensive survival circuits, resulting in changes in information processing in the brain, controlled in part by increases in arousal and behavioral and physiological responses in the body that then produce signals that feed back to the brain and complement the physiological changes there, intensifying them and extending their duration. when you notice body sensations, you worry about what they might mean for your physical and / or psychological well - being. the trigger stimulus does not have to be an external stimulus but can be an internal one, as some people are particularly sensitive to body signals. thoughts and memories may lead to you to worry about your physical and / or psychological well - being. we do not need to be in the presence of an external or internal stimulus to be anxious. an episodic memory of a past trauma or of a panic attack in the past is sufficient to activate the defence circuits. thoughts and memories may result in existential dread, such as worry about leading a meaningful life or the eventuality of death. examples are contemplations of whether one ' s life has been meaningful, the inevitability of death, or the difficulty of making decisions that have a moral value. these do not necessarily activate defensive systems ; they are more or less pure forms of cognitive anxiety. co - morbidity anxiety disorders often occur with other mental health disorders, particularly major depressive disorder, bipolar disorder, eating disorders, or certain personality disorders. it also commonly occurs with personality traits such as neuroticism. this observed co - occurrence is partly due to genetic and environmental influences shared between these traits and anxiety. it is common for those with obsessive – compulsive disorder to experience anxiety. anxiety is also commonly found in those who experience panic disorders, phobic anxiety disorders, severe stress, dissociative disorders, somatoform disorders, and some neurotic disorders. anxiety has also been linked to the experience of intrusive thoughts. studies have revealed that individuals who experience high levels of anxiety ( also known as clinical anxiety ) are highly vulnerable to the experience of intense intrusive thoughts or psychological disorders that are characterised by intrusive thoughts. risk factors anxiety disorders are partly genetic, with twin studies suggesting 30 - 40 % genetic influence on individual differences in anxiety. environmental factors are also important. twin