the american civil war. the entry considers what would have happened if the north had been victorious ( in other words, a character from an alternate world imagines a world more like the real one we live in, although it is not identical in every detail ). speculative work that narrates from the point of view of an alternate history is variously known as " recursive alternate history ", a " double - blind what - if ", or an " alternate - alternate history ". churchill ' s essay was one of the influences behind ward moore ' s alternate history novel bring the jubilee in which general robert e. lee won the battle of gettysburg and paved the way for the eventual victory of the confederacy in the american civil war ( named the " war of southron independence " in this timeline ). the protagonist, the autodidact hodgins backmaker, travels back to the aforementioned battle and inadvertently changes history, which results in the emergence of our own timeline and the consequent victory of the union instead. the american humorist author james thurber parodied alternate history stories about the american civil war in his 1930 story " if grant had been drinking at appomattox ", which he accompanied with this very brief introduction : " scribner ' s magazine is publishing a series of three articles : ' if booth had missed lincoln ', ' if lee had won the battle of gettysburg ', and ' if napoleon had escaped to america '. this is the fourth ". another example of alternate history from this period ( and arguably the first that explicitly posited cross - time travel from one universe to another as anything more than a visionary experience ) is h. g. wells ' men like gods ( 1923 ) in which the london - based journalist mr. barnstable, along with two cars and their passengers, is mysteriously teleported into " another world ", which the " earthlings " call utopia. being far more advanced than earth, utopia is some 3000 years ahead of humanity in its development. wells describes a multiverse of alternative worlds, complete with the paratime travel machines that would later become popular with american pulp writers. however, since his hero experiences only a single alternate world, the story is not very different from conventional alternate history. in the 1930s, alternate history moved into a new arena. the december 1933 issue of astounding published nat schachner ' s " ancestral voices ", which was quickly followed by murray leinster ' s " sidewise in time ". while earlier alternate histories examined reasonably