applications and the lack of a mineral rich in rubidium limit the production of rubidium compounds to 2 to 4 tonnes per year. caesium, however, is not produced from the above reaction. instead, the mining of pollucite ore is the main method of obtaining pure caesium, extracted from the ore mainly by three methods : acid digestion, alkaline decomposition, and direct reduction. both metals are produced as by - products of lithium production : after 1958, when interest in lithium ' s thermonuclear properties increased sharply, the production of rubidium and caesium also increased correspondingly. pure rubidium and caesium metals are produced by reducing their chlorides with calcium metal at 750 °c and low pressure. as a result of its extreme rarity in nature, most francium is synthesised in the nuclear reaction 197au + 18o → 210fr + 5 n, yielding francium - 209, francium - 210, and francium - 211. the greatest quantity of francium ever assembled to date is about 300, 000 neutral atoms, which were synthesised using the nuclear reaction given above. when the only natural isotope francium - 223 is specifically required, it is produced as the alpha daughter of actinium - 227, itself produced synthetically from the neutron irradiation of natural radium - 226, one of the daughters of natural uranium - 238. applications lithium, sodium, and potassium have many applications, while rubidium and caesium are very useful in academic contexts but do not have many applications yet. lithium is often used in lithium - ion batteries, and lithium oxide can help process silica. lithium stearate is a thickener and can be used to make lubricating greases ; it is produced from lithium hydroxide, which is also used to absorb carbon dioxide in space capsules and submarines. lithium chloride is used as a brazing alloy for aluminium parts. metallic lithium is used in alloys with magnesium and aluminium to give very tough and light alloys. sodium compounds have many applications, the most well - known being sodium chloride as table salt. sodium salts of fatty acids are used as soap. pure sodium metal also has many applications, including use in sodium - vapour lamps, which produce very efficient light compared to other types of lighting, and can help smooth the surface of other metals. being a strong reducing agent, it is often used to reduce many other metals, such as titanium and zirconium, from their chlorides.