a result, he is often compared to jose raul capablanca, the third world champion. karpov himself describes his style as follows : let us say the game may be continued in two ways : one of them is a beautiful tactical blow that gives rise to variations that don ' t yield to precise calculations ; the other is clear positional pressure that leads to an endgame with microscopic chances of victory.... i would choose [ the latter ] without thinking twice. if the opponent offers keen play i don ' t object ; but in such cases i get less satisfaction, even if i win, than from a game conducted according to all the rules of strategy with its ruthless logic. notable games viktor korchnoi vs. anatoly karpov, moscow 1973 karpov sacrifices a pawn for a strong center and attack. anatoly karpov vs. gyula sax, linares 1983 karpov sacrifices for an attack that wins the game 20 moves later, after another spectacular sacrifice from karpov and counter - sacrifice from sax. it won the tournament ' s first. this was not the first time karpov used the sharp keres attack ( 6. g4 ) – see his win in anatoly karpov vs. vlastimil hort, alekhine memorial tournament, moscow 1971. anatoly karpov vs. veselin topalov, dos hermanas 1994 this game features a sham sacrifice of two pieces, which karpov regains with a variation, culminating in the win of an exchange with a technically won endgame. hobbies karpov ' s extensive stamp collection of belgian philately and belgian congo stamps and postal history covering mail from 1742 through 1980 was sold by david feldman ' s auction company between december 2011 and 2012. he is also known to have large chess stamp and chess book collections. his private chess library consists of 9, 000 books. honours and awards order of merit for the fatherland, 3rd class ( 2001 ) – for outstanding contribution to the implementation of charitable programmes, the strengthening of peace and friendship between the peoples order of friendship ( 2011 ) – for his great contribution to strengthening peace and friendship between peoples and productive social activities order of lenin ( 1981 ) order of the red banner of labour ( 1978 ) order of merit, 2nd class ( ukraine ) ( november 13, 2006 ) – for his contribution to the victims of the chernobyl disaster order of holy prince daniel of moscow, 2nd class ( 1996 ) order