one of whom is being raped and strangled ; donald spoto called the latter " one of the most repellent examples of a detailed murder in the history of film ". both actors, barbara leigh - hunt and anna massey, refused to do the scenes, so models were used instead. biographers have noted that hitchcock had always pushed the limits of film censorship, often managing to fool joseph breen, the head of the motion picture production code. hitchcock would add subtle hints of improprieties forbidden by censorship until the mid - 1960s. yet, patrick mcgilligan wrote that breen and others often realised that hitchcock was inserting such material and were actually amused, as well as alarmed by hitchcock ' s " inescapable inferences ". family plot ( 1976 ) was hitchcock ' s last film. it relates the escapades of " madam " blanche tyler, played by barbara harris, a fraudulent spiritualist, and her taxi - driver lover bruce dern, making a living from her phony powers. while family plot was based on the victor canning novel the rainbird pattern ( 1972 ), the novel ' s tone is more sinister. screenwriter ernest lehman originally wrote the film, under the working title deception, with a dark tone but was pushed to a lighter, more comical tone by hitchcock where it took the name deceit, then finally, family plot. knighthood and death toward the end of his life, hitchcock was working on the script for a spy thriller, the short night, collaborating with james costigan, ernest lehman and david freeman. despite preliminary work, it was never filmed. hitchcock ' s health was declining and he was worried about his wife, who had suffered a stroke. the screenplay was eventually published in freeman ' s book the last days of alfred hitchcock ( 1999 ). having refused a cbe in 1962, hitchcock was appointed a knight commander of the most excellent order of the british empire ( kbe ) in the 1980 new year honours. he was too ill to travel to london — he had a pacemaker and was being given cortisone injections for his arthritis — so on 3 january 1980 the british consul general presented him with the papers at universal studios. asked by a reporter after the ceremony why it had taken the queen so long, hitchcock quipped, " i suppose it was a matter of carelessness. " cary grant, janet leigh and others attended a luncheon afterwards. his last public appearance was on 16 march 1980, when he introduced the next year ' s winner of the american film institute award