catherine and jean, in 1945. camus was now a celebrated writer known for his role in the resistance. he gave lectures at various universities in the united states and latin america during two separate trips. he also visited algeria once more, only to leave disappointed by the continued oppressive colonial policies, which he had warned about many times. during this period he completed the second cycle of his work, with the essay l ' homme revolte ( the rebel ). camus attacked totalitarian communism while advocating libertarian socialism and anarcho - syndicalism. upsetting many of his colleagues and contemporaries in france with his rejection of communism, the book brought about the final split with sartre. his relations with the marxist left deteriorated further during the algerian war. camus was a strong supporter of european integration in various marginal organisations working towards that end. in 1944, he founded the comite francais pour la federation europeenne — ( cffe ( french committee for the european federation ) ) — declaring that europe " can only evolve along the path of economic progress, democracy, and peace if the nation - states become a federation. " in 1947 – 48, he founded the groupes de liaison internationale ( gli ) a trade union movement in the context of revolutionary syndicalism ( syndicalisme revolutionnaire ). his main aim was to express the positive side of surrealism and existentialism, rejecting the negativity and the nihilism of andre breton. camus also raised his voice against the soviet invasion of hungary and the totalitarian tendencies of franco ' s regime in spain. camus had numerous affairs, particularly an irregular and eventually public affair with the spanish - born actress maria casares, with whom he had extensive correspondence. faure did not take this affair lightly. she had a mental breakdown and needed hospitalisation in the early 1950s. camus, who felt guilty, withdrew from public life and was slightly depressed for some time. in 1957, camus received the news that he was to be awarded the nobel prize in literature. this came as a shock to him. he was anticipating andre malraux would win the prestigious award. at age 44, he was the second - youngest recipient of the prize, after rudyard kipling, who was 42. after this he began working on his autobiography le premier homme ( the first man ) in an attempt to examine " moral learning ". he also turned to the theatre once more. financed by the money he received with his nobel prize, he adapted and directed for the stage dos