- pol - co, and means " where the reeds were destroyed or washed away " or " at the big reeds ", which inspired the city ' s seal, which is an aztec - type glyph showing two hands breaking reeds. the " de juarez " was added to the official name in 1885 to honor benito juarez, former president of mexico ( 1806 – 1872 ). the island and municipality of capul, in the philippines, derives its name from acapulco. acapulco was the eastern end of the trans - pacific sailing route from acapulco to manila, in what was then a spanish colony. history pre - columbian by the 8th century around the acapulco bay area, there was a small culture which would first be dominated by the olmecs, then by a number of others during the pre - hispanic period before it ended in the 1520s. at acapulco bay itself, there were two olmec sites, one by playa larga and the other on a hill known as el guitarron. olmec influence caused the small spread - out villages here to coalesce into larger entities and build ceremonial centers. later, teotihuacan influence came to the area via cuernavaca and chilpancingo. then mayan influence arrived from the isthmus of tehuantepec and through what is now oaxaca. this history is known through the archaeological artifacts that have been found here, especially at playa hornos, pie de la cuesta, and tambuco. in the 11th century, new waves of migration of nahuas and coixas came through here. these people were the antecedents of the aztecs. in the later 15th century, after four years of military struggle, acapulco became part of the aztec empire during the reign of ahuizotl ( 1486 – 1502 ). it was annexed to a tributary province named tepecuacuilco. however, this was only transitory, as the aztecs could only establish an unorganized military post at the city ' s outskirts. the city was in territory under control of the yopes, who continued defending it and living there until the arrival of the spanish in the 1520s. 16th century there are two stories about how acapulco bay was discovered by europeans. the first states that two years after the spanish conquest of the aztec empire, hernan cortes sent explorers west to find gold. the explorers had