ceylon ). after his first public lecture in tokyo, he met emperor yoshihito and his wife at the imperial palace, with thousands of spectators thronging the streets in the hope of catching a glimpse of him. ( in a letter to his sons, he wrote that japanese people seemed to him to be generally modest, intelligent and considerate, and to have a true appreciation of art. but his picture of them in his diary was less flattering : " [ the ] intellectual needs of this nation seem to be weaker than their artistic ones – natural disposition? " his journal also contains views of china and india which were uncomplimentary. of chinese people, he wrote that " even the children are spiritless and look obtuse... it would be a pity if these chinese supplant all other races. for the likes of us the mere thought is unspeakably dreary ". ) he was greeted with even greater enthusiasm on the last leg of his tour, in which he spent twelve days in mandatory palestine, newly entrusted to british rule by the league of nations in the aftermath of the first world war. sir herbert samuel, the british high commissioner, welcomed him with a degree of ceremony normally only accorded to a visiting head of state, including a cannon salute. one reception held in his honor was stormed by people determined to hear him speak : he told them that he was happy that jews were beginning to be recognized as a force in the world. einstein ' s decision to tour the eastern hemisphere in 1922 meant that he was unable to go to stockholm in the december of that year to participate in the nobel prize ceremony. his place at the traditional nobel banquet was taken by a german diplomat, who gave a speech praising him not only as a physicist but also as a campaigner for peace. a two week visit to spain that he undertook in 1923 saw him collecting another award, a membership of the spanish academy of sciences signified by a diploma handed to him by king alfonso xiii. ( his spanish trip also gave him a chance to meet a fellow nobel laureate, the neuroanatomist santiago ramon y cajal. ) 1922 – 1932 : serving the league of nations from 1922 until 1932, with the exception of a few months in 1923 and 1924, einstein was a member of the geneva - based international committee on intellectual cooperation of the league of nations, a group set up by the league to encourage scientists, artists, scholars, teachers and other people engaged in the life of the mind to work