the south - west ), it sees the density of isotherms stay constant, but it sees the density of adiabats grow. the exception is very near absolute zero, where the density of adiabats drops sharply and they become rare ( see nernst ' s theorem ). the right diagram is a p – v diagram with a superposition of adiabats and isotherms : the isotherms are the red curves and the adiabats are the black curves. the adiabats are isentropic. volume is the horizontal axis and pressure is the vertical axis. etymology the term adiabatic ( ) is an anglicization of the greek term αδιαβατος " impassable " ( used by xenophon of rivers ). it is used in the thermodynamic sense by rankine ( 1866 ), and adopted by maxwell in 1871 ( explicitly attributing the term to rankine ). the etymological origin corresponds here to an impossibility of transfer of energy as heat and of transfer of matter across the wall. the greek word αδιαβατος is formed from privative α - ( " not " ) and διαβατος, " passable ", in turn deriving from δια ( " through " ), and βαινειν ( " to walk, go, come " ). conceptual significance in thermodynamic theory the adiabatic process has been important for thermodynamics since its early days. it was important in the work of joule because it provided a way of nearly directly relating quantities of heat and work. energy can enter or leave a thermodynamic system enclosed by walls that prevent mass transfer only as heat or work. therefore, a quantity of work in such a system can be related almost directly to an equivalent quantity of heat in a cycle of two limbs. the first limb is an isochoric adiabatic work process increasing the system ' s internal energy ; the second, an isochoric and workless heat transfer returning the system to its original state. accordingly, rankine measured quantity of heat in units of work, rather than as a calorimetric quantity. in 1854, rankine used a quantity that he called " the thermodynamic function " that later was called entropy, and at that time he wrote also of the " curve of no transmission of heat ", which he later called an adiabatic