revenue act of 1862 adopted rates that increased with income. the lincoln administration presided over the expansion of the federal government ' s economic influence in other areas. the national banking act created the system of national banks. the us issued paper currency for the first time, known as greenbacks — printed in green on the reverse side. in 1862, congress created the department of agriculture. in response to rumors of a renewed draft, the editors of the new york world and the journal of commerce published a false draft proclamation that created an opportunity for the editors and others to corner the gold market. lincoln attacked the media for such behavior, and ordered a military seizure of the two papers which lasted for two days. lincoln is largely responsible for the thanksgiving holiday. thanksgiving had become a regional holiday in new england in the 17th century. it had been sporadically proclaimed by the federal government on irregular dates. the prior proclamation had been during james madison ' s presidency 50 years earlier. in 1863, lincoln declared the final thursday in november of that year to be a day of thanksgiving. in june 1864, lincoln approved the yosemite grant enacted by congress, which provided unprecedented federal protection for the area now known as yosemite national park. supreme court appointments lincoln ' s philosophy on court nominations was that " we cannot ask a man what he will do, and if we should, and he should answer us, we should despise him for it. therefore we must take a man whose opinions are known. " lincoln made five appointments to the supreme court. noah haynes swayne was an anti - slavery lawyer who was committed to the union. samuel freeman miller supported lincoln in the 1860 election and was an avowed abolitionist. david davis was lincoln ' s campaign manager in 1860 and had served as a judge in the illinois court circuit where lincoln practiced. democrat stephen johnson field, a previous california supreme court justice, provided geographic and political balance. finally, lincoln ' s treasury secretary, salmon p. chase, became chief justice. lincoln believed chase was an able jurist, would support reconstruction legislation, and that his appointment united the republican party. foreign policy lincoln named his main political rival, william h. seward, as secretary of state and left most diplomatic issues in his portfolio. however, lincoln did select some top diplomats as part of his patronage policy. he also closely watched the handling of the trent affair in late 1861 to make sure there was no escalation into a war with britain. seward ' s main role was to keep britain and france from supporting the confederacy. he was successful