castellers, or catalan human tower builders. the, based in the town of santa coloma d ' andorra, are recognized by the, the governing body of castells. see also index of andorra - related articles outline of andorra bibliography of andorra explanatory notes citations general bibliography further reading berthet, elie, the valley of andorra. bristol, uk : j. w. arrowsmith, 1886. butler, michael, frisch : andorra. carrick, noel, let ' s visit andorra. london : macmillan, 1988. deane, shirley, the road to andorra. london : john murray, 1960. duursma, john c., fragmentation and the international relations of micro - states. cambridge university press, 1996. jenner, paul & christine smith, landscapes of the pyrenees. london : sunflower books, 1990. johnson, virginia w., two quaint republics : andorra and san marino. leary, lewis gaston, andorra the hidden republic. london : t. fisher unwin, 1912. mackintosh, may, assignment in andorra. london : pan, 1976. murray, james erskine, a summer in the pyrenees. london : john macrone, 1837. newman, bernard, round about andorra. london : george allen & unwin, 1928. piesold, werner, andorra. reichert, thomas, andorra : a country survey. nuremberg, 1986. spender, harold & h. llewellyn smith, through the high pyrenees. london : a. d. innes, 1898. vila, linda armengol, approach to the history of andorra. perpignan : institut d ' estudis andorrans, 1989. vilajoana, ricard fiter & m. marti rebols, all andorra. barcelona : escudo de oro, 1979. waagenaar, sam, the little five. london : andre deutsch, 1960. external links govern d ' andorra official governmental site andorra. the world factbook. central intelligence agency. portals to the world from the united states library of congress andorra from ucb libraries govpubs andorra from the bbc news andorra – guia, turismo y de viajes history of andorra : primary documents from eurodocs a new path for andorra – slideshow by the new york times 1278 establishments in europe catalan countries christian states countries in europe diarchies duty