decided to distance himself from the algerian war as he found the mental burden too heavy. he turned to theatre and the third cycle which was about love and the goddess nemesis, the greek and roman goddess of revenge. two of camus ' s works were published posthumously. the first entitled la mort heureuse ( a happy death ) ( 1970 ), features a character named patrice mersault, comparable to the strangers meursault. there is scholarly debate about the relationship between the two books. the second was an unfinished novel, le premier homme ( the first man ) ( 1995 ), which camus was writing before he died. it was an autobiographical work about his childhood in algeria and its publication in 1994 sparked a widespread reconsideration of camus ' s allegedly unrepentant colonialism. political stance camus was a moralist ; he claimed morality should guide politics. while he did not deny that morals change over time, he rejected the classical marxist view that historical material relations define morality. camus was also strongly critical of marxism - leninism, especially in the case of the soviet union, which he considered totalitarian. camus rebuked those sympathetic to the soviet model and their " decision to call total servitude freedom ". a proponent of libertarian socialism, he claimed the ussr was not socialist, and the united states was not liberal. his critique of the ussr caused him to clash with others on the political left, most notably with his on - again, off - again friend jean - paul sartre. active in the french resistance to the nazi occupation of france during world war ii, camus wrote for and edited the resistance journal combat. of the french collaboration with the german occupiers, he wrote : " now the only moral value is courage, which is useful here for judging the puppets and chatterboxes who pretend to speak in the name of the people. " after france ' s liberation, camus remarked, " this country does not need a talleyrand, but a saint - just. " the reality of the postwar tribunals soon changed his mind : camus publicly reversed himself and became a lifelong opponent of capital punishment. camus had anarchist sympathies, which intensified in the 1950s, when he came to believe that the soviet model was morally bankrupt. camus was firmly against any kind of exploitation, authority, property, the state, and centralization. he, however, opposed revolution, separating the rebel from the revolutionary and believing that the belief in " absolute truth "