open title, beating sampras in a five - set semi - final and yevgeny kafelnikov in a four - set final. he was the first male player to have reached four consecutive grand slam finals since rod laver achieved the grand slam in 1969. at the time, agassi was also only the fourth player since laver to be the reigning champion of three of four grand slam events, missing only the wimbledon title.. 2000 also saw agassi reach the semi - finals at wimbledon, where he lost in five sets to rafter in a match considered by many to be one of the best ever at wimbledon. at the inaugural tennis masters cup in lisbon, agassi reached the final after defeating marat safin in the semi - finals to end the russian ' s hopes to become the youngest no. 1 in the history of tennis. agassi then lost to gustavo kuerten in the final, allowing kuerten to be crowned year - end no. 1. agassi opened 2001 by successfully defending his australian open title with a straight - sets final win over arnaud clement. en route, he beat a cramping rafter in five sets in front of a sell - out crowd in what turned out to be the aussie ' s last australian open. at wimbledon, they met again in the semi - finals, where agassi lost another close match to rafter, 8 – 6 in the fifth set. in the quarterfinals at the us open, agassi lost a 3 - hour, 33 minute epic match with sampras, 7 – 6, 6 – 7, 6 – 7, 6 – 7, with no breaks of serve during the 52 - game match. despite the setback, agassi finished 2001 ranked no. 3, becoming the only male tennis player to finish a year ranked in the top 3 in three different decades. 2002 opened with disappointment for agassi, as injury forced him to skip the australian open, where he was a two - time defending champion. agassi recovered from the injury and later that year defended his key biscayne title beating then rising roger federer in a four - set final. at the us open, agassi overcame no. 1 ranked and defending champion lleyton hewitt in the semi - finals. this led to what turned out to be the last duel between agassi and sampras in final of the us open, which sampras won in four sets and left sampras with