the quarterfinals of the us open. with chanda rubin, kournikova played the semi - finals of wimbledon, but they lost to serena and venus williams. partnering with janet lee, she won the shanghai title. at the end of 2002 season, she was ranked no. 35 in singles and no. 11 in doubles. in 2003, anna kournikova achieved her first grand slam match victory in two years at the australian open. she defeated henrieta nagyova in the first round, and then lost to justine henin - hardenne in the 2nd round. she withdrew from tokyo due to a sprained back suffered at the australian open and did not return to tour until miami. on 9 april, in what would be the final wta match of her career, kournikova dropped out in the first round of the family circle cup in charleston, due to a left adductor strain. her singles world ranking was 67. she reached the semi - finals at the itf tournament in sea island, before withdrawing from a match versus maria sharapova due to the adductor injury. she lost in the first round of the itf tournament in charlottesville. she did not compete for the rest of the season due to a continuing back injury. at the end of the 2003 season and her professional career, she was ranked no. 305 in singles and no. 176 in doubles. kournikova ' s two grand slam doubles titles came in 1999 and 2002, both at the australian open in the women ' s doubles event with partner martina hingis. kournikova proved a successful doubles player on the professional circuit, winning 16 tournament doubles titles, including two australian opens and being a finalist in mixed doubles at the us open and at wimbledon, and reaching the no. 1 ranking in doubles in the wta tour rankings. her pro career doubles record was 200 – 71. however, her singles career plateaued after 1999. for the most part, she managed to retain her ranking between 10 and 15 ( her career high singles ranking was no. 8 ), but her expected finals breakthrough failed to occur ; she only reached four finals out of 130 singles tournaments, never in a grand slam event, and never won one. her singles record is 209 – 129. her final playing years were marred by a string of injuries, especially back injuries, which caused her ranking to erode gradually. as a personality kournikova was among the most common search strings for both articles and images in her prime. 2004 – present : exhibitions and