bishop of all authority over the chief centres of influence in his diocese. later middle ages in the 12th century, the abbots of fulda claimed precedence of the archbishop of cologne. abbots more and more assumed almost episcopal state, and in defiance of the prohibition of early councils and the protests of st bernard and others, adopted the episcopal insignia of mitre, ring, gloves and sandals. it has been maintained that the right to wear mitres was sometimes granted by the popes to abbots before the 11th century, but the documents on which this claim is based are not genuine ( j. braun, liturgische gewandung, p. 453 ). the first undoubted instance is the bull by which alexander ii in 1063 granted the use of the mitre to egelsinus, abbot of the monastery of st augustine at canterbury. the mitred abbots in england were those of abingdon, st alban ' s, bardney, battle, bury st edmunds, st augustine ' s canterbury, colchester, croyland, evesham, glastonbury, gloucester, st benet ' s hulme, hyde, malmesbury, peterborough, ramsey, reading, selby, shrewsbury, tavistock, thorney, westminster, winchcombe, and st mary ' s york. of these the precedence was yielded to the abbot of glastonbury, until in ad 1154 adrian iv ( nicholas breakspear ) granted it to the abbot of st alban ' s, in which monastery he had been brought up. next after the abbot of st alban ' s ranked the abbot of westminster and then ramsey. elsewhere, the mitred abbots that sat in the estates of scotland were of arbroath, cambuskenneth, coupar angus, dunfermline, holyrood, iona, kelso, kilwinning, kinloss, lindores, paisley, melrose, scone, st andrews priory and sweetheart. to distinguish abbots from bishops, it was ordained that their mitre should be made of less costly materials, and should not be ornamented with gold, a rule which was soon entirely disregarded, and that the crook of their pastoral staff ( the crosier ) should turn inwards instead of outwards, indicating that their jurisdiction was limited to their own house. the adoption of certain episcopal insignia ( pontificalia ) by abbots was followed by an encroachment on episcopal functions, which had