list of candidate texts. the random - effects model would determine whether important differences exist among a list of randomly selected texts. the mixed - effects model would compare the ( fixed ) incumbent texts to randomly selected alternatives. defining fixed and random effects has proven elusive, with multiple competing definitions. assumptions the analysis of variance has been studied from several approaches, the most common of which uses a linear model that relates the response to the treatments and blocks. note that the model is linear in parameters but may be nonlinear across factor levels. interpretation is easy when data is balanced across factors but much deeper understanding is needed for unbalanced data. textbook analysis using a normal distribution the analysis of variance can be presented in terms of a linear model, which makes the following assumptions about the probability distribution of the responses : independence of observations – this is an assumption of the model that simplifies the statistical analysis. normality – the distributions of the residuals are normal. equality ( or " homogeneity " ) of variances, called homoscedasticity — the variance of data in groups should be the same. the separate assumptions of the textbook model imply that the errors are independently, identically, and normally distributed for fixed effects models, that is, that the errors ( ) are independent and randomization - based analysis in a randomized controlled experiment, the treatments are randomly assigned to experimental units, following the experimental protocol. this randomization is objective and declared before the experiment is carried out. the objective random - assignment is used to test the significance of the null hypothesis, following the ideas of c. s. peirce and ronald fisher. this design - based analysis was discussed and developed by francis j. anscombe at rothamsted experimental station and by oscar kempthorne at iowa state university. kempthorne and his students make an assumption of unit treatment additivity, which is discussed in the books of kempthorne and david r. cox. unit - treatment additivity in its simplest form, the assumption of unit - treatment additivity states that the observed response from experimental unit when receiving treatment can be written as the sum of the unit ' s response and the treatment - effect, that is the assumption of unit - treatment additivity implies that, for every treatment, the th treatment has exactly the same effect on every experiment unit. the assumption of unit treatment additivity usually cannot be directly falsified, according to cox and kempthorne. however, many consequences of treatment - unit additivity can be falsified.