strecker amino - acid synthesis acrylonitrile, in the sohio process ammonia can also be used to make compounds in reactions that are not specifically named. examples of such compounds include ammonium perchlorate, ammonium nitrate, formamide, dinitrogen tetroxide, alprazolam, ethanolamine, ethyl carbamate, hexamethylenetetramine and ammonium bicarbonate. cleansing agent household ' ammonia ' is a solution of in water, and is used as a general purpose cleaner for many surfaces. because ammonia results in a relatively streak - free shine, one of its most common uses is to clean glass, porcelain, and stainless steel. it is also frequently used for cleaning ovens and for soaking items to loosen baked - on grime. household ammonia ranges in concentration by weight from 5 % to 10 % ammonia. us manufacturers of cleaning products are required to provide the product ' s material safety data sheet that lists the concentration used. solutions of ammonia ( 5 – 10 % by weight ) are used as household cleaners, particularly for glass. these solutions are irritating to the eyes and mucous membranes ( respiratory and digestive tracts ), and to a lesser extent the skin. experts advise that caution be used to ensure the chemical is not mixed into any liquid containing bleach, due to the danger of forming toxic chloramine gas. mixing with chlorine - containing products or strong oxidants, such as household bleach, can generate toxic chloramine fumes. experts also warn not to use ammonia - based cleaners ( such as glass or window cleaners ) on car touchscreens, due to the risk of damage to the screen ' s anti - glare and anti - fingerprint coatings. fermentation solutions of ammonia ranging from 16 % to 25 % are used in the fermentation industry as a source of nitrogen for microorganisms and to adjust ph during fermentation. antimicrobial agent for food products as early as in 1895, it was known that ammonia was ' strongly antiseptic... it requires 1. 4 grams per litre to preserve beef tea ( broth ). ' in one study, anhydrous ammonia destroyed 99. 999 % of zoonotic bacteria in three types of animal feed, but not silage. anhydrous ammonia is currently used commercially to reduce or eliminate microbial contamination of beef. lean finely textured beef ( popularly known as ' pink slime