. in the introduction, where he examines the metaphysics of rebellion, he concludes with the phrase " i revolt, therefore we exist " implying the recognition of a common human condition. camus also delineates the difference between revolution and rebellion and notices that history has shown that the rebel ' s revolution might easily end up as an oppressive regime ; he therefore places importance on the morals accompanying the revolution. camus poses a crucial question : is it possible for humans to act in an ethical and meaningful manner, in a silent universe? according to him the answer is yes, as the experience and awareness of the absurd creates the moral values and also sets the limits of our actions. camus separates the modern form of rebellion into two modes. first, there is the metaphysical rebellion, which is " the movement by which man protests against his condition and against the whole of creation. " the other mode, historical rebellion, is the attempt to materialize the abstract spirit of metaphysical rebellion and change the world. in this attempt, the rebel must balance between the evil of the world and the intrinsic evil which every revolt carries, and not cause any unjustifiable suffering. legacy camus ' s novels and philosophical essays are still influential. after his death, interest in camus followed the rise ( and diminution ) of the new left. following the collapse of the soviet union, interest in his alternative road to communism resurfaced. he is remembered for his skeptical humanism and his support for political tolerance, dialogue, and civil rights. although camus has been linked to anti - soviet communism, reaching as far as anarcho - syndicalism, some neo - liberals have tried to associate him with their policies ; for instance, the french president nicolas sarkozy suggested that his remains be moved to the pantheon, an idea that was criticised by camus ' s surviving family and angered many on the left. american heavy metal band avenged sevenfold has stated their album life is but a dream... is inspired by the work of camus. albert camus also served as the inspiration for the aquarius gold saint camus in the classic anime and manga saint seiya. tributes in tipasa ( algeria ), inside the roman ruins, facing the sea and mount chenoua, a stele was erected in 1961 in honor of albert camus with this phrase in french extracted from his work noces a tipasa : " i understand here what is called glory : the right to love beyond measure " ( « je compre