extent of emphasis spreading varies. for example, in moroccan arabic, it spreads as far as the first full vowel ( i. e. sound derived from a long vowel or diphthong ) on either side ; in many levantine dialects, it spreads indefinitely, but is blocked by any or ; while in egyptian arabic, it usually spreads throughout the entire word, including prefixes and suffixes. in moroccan arabic, also have emphatic allophones and, respectively. unstressed short vowels, especially, are deleted in many contexts. many sporadic examples of short vowel change have occurred ( especially → and interchange ↔ ). most levantine dialects merge short / i u / into in most contexts ( all except directly before a single final consonant ). in moroccan arabic, on the other hand, short triggers labialization of nearby consonants ( especially velar consonants and uvular consonants ), and then short / a i u / all merge into, which is deleted in many contexts. ( the labialization plus is sometimes interpreted as an underlying phoneme. ) this essentially causes the wholesale loss of the short - long vowel distinction, with the original long vowels remaining as half - long, phonemically, which are used to represent both short and long vowels in borrowings from literary arabic. most spoken dialects have monophthongized original to in most circumstances, including adjacent to emphatic consonants, while keeping them as the original diphthongs in others e. g.. in most of the moroccan, algerian and tunisian ( except sahel and southeastern ) arabic dialects, they have subsequently merged into original. consonants in most dialects, there may be more or fewer phonemes than those listed in the chart above. for example, is considered a native phoneme in most arabic dialects except in levantine dialects like syrian or lebanese where is pronounced and is pronounced. or ( ) is considered a native phoneme in most dialects except in egyptian and a number of yemeni and omani dialects where is pronounced. or and are distinguished in the dialects of egypt, sudan, the levant and the hejaz. they have merged as in most dialects of the arabian peninsula, iraq and tunisia and have merged as in morocco and algeria. the usage of non - native and depends on the usage of each speaker but they might be more prevalent in some dialects than others. the iraqi and gulf arabic has the sound and writes it and with the persian letters and, as in " plum " ; " truffle ". early in the expansion of arabic,