nasa administrator james webb increased this estimate to $ 20 billion before reporting it to vice president johnson in april 1961. project apollo was a massive undertaking, representing the largest research and development project in peacetime. at its peak, it employed over 400, 000 employees and contractors around the country and accounted for more than half of nasa ' s total spending in the 1960s. after the first moon landing, public and political interest waned, including that of president nixon, who wanted to rein in federal spending. nasa ' s budget could not sustain apollo missions which cost, on average, $ 445 million ( $ adjusted ) each while simultaneously developing the space shuttle. the final fiscal year of apollo funding was 1973. apollo applications program looking beyond the crewed lunar landings, nasa investigated several post - lunar applications for apollo hardware. the apollo extension series ( apollo x ) proposed up to 30 flights to earth orbit, using the space in the spacecraft lunar module adapter ( sla ) to house a small orbital laboratory ( workshop ). astronauts would continue to use the csm as a ferry to the station. this study was followed by design of a larger orbital workshop to be built in orbit from an empty s - ivb saturn upper stage and grew into the apollo applications program ( aap ). the workshop was to be supplemented by the apollo telescope mount, which could be attached to the ascent stage of the lunar module via a rack. the most ambitious plan called for using an empty s - ivb as an interplanetary spacecraft for a venus fly - by mission. the s - ivb orbital workshop was the only one of these plans to make it off the drawing board. dubbed skylab, it was assembled on the ground rather than in space, and launched in 1973 using the two lower stages of a saturn v. it was equipped with an apollo telescope mount. skylab ' s last crew departed the station on february 8, 1974, and the station itself re - entered the atmosphere in 1979 after development of the space shuttle was delayed too long to save it. the apollo – soyuz program also used apollo hardware for the first joint nation spaceflight, paving the way for future cooperation with other nations in the space shuttle and international space station programs. recent observations in 2008, japan aerospace exploration agency ' s selene probe observed evidence of the halo surrounding the apollo 15 lunar module blast crater while orbiting above the lunar surface. beginning in 2009, nasa ' s robotic lunar reconnaissance orbiter, while orbiting above the moon, photographed the remnants of the apollo program left on the lunar surface