##kerta ). in lingala ( spoken in the congo ), it is known as or. in nigeria, it is a common vegetable and goes with all nigerian starch dishes. it is known in yoruba as, a short form of ( meaning " make the husband fat " ), or ( meaning " we have money left over for fish " ). in botswana, it is referred to as morug and cooked as a staple green vegetable. europe in greece, purple amaranth ( amaranthus blitum ) is a popular dish called, or. it is boiled, then served with olive oil and lemon juice like a salad, sometimes alongside fried fish. greeks stop harvesting the plant ( which also grows wild ) when it starts to bloom at the end of august. americas in brazil, green amaranth was, and to a degree still is, often considered an invasive species as all other species of amaranth ( except the generally imported a. caudatus cultivar ), though some have traditionally appreciated it as a leaf vegetable, under the names of or, which is consumed cooked, generally accompanying the staple food, rice and beans. in the caribbean, the leaves are called bhaji in trinidad and callaloo in jamaica, and are sauteed with onions, garlic, and tomatoes, or sometimes used in a soup called pepperpot soup. oil making up about 5 % of the total fatty acids of amaranth, squalene is extracted as a vegetable - based alternative to the more expensive shark oil for use in dietary supplements and cosmetics. dyes the flowers of the ' hopi red dye ' amaranth were used by the hopi ( a tribe in the western united states ) as the source of a deep red dye. also a synthetic dye was named " amaranth " for its similarity in color to the natural amaranth pigments known as betalains. this synthetic dye is also known as red no. 2 in north america and e123 in the european union. ornamentals the genus also contains several well - known ornamental plants, such as amaranthus caudatus ( love - lies - bleeding ), a vigorous, hardy annual with dark purplish flowers crowded in handsome drooping spikes. another indian annual, a. hypochondriacus ( prince ' s feather ), has deeply veined, lance - shaped leaves, purple on the under face, and deep crimson flowers densely packed on erect spikes. amaranths are recorded as food plants