as of june 2009, israel and azerbaijan had been negotiating on the production of namer armoured infantry fighting vehicles in azerbaijan. there is no further information as to whether any agreement has been made. nato the north atlantic treaty organization ( nato ) and azerbaijan actively cooperate on defence institutional reforms and have developed practical cooperation in many other areas. azerbaijan ' s individual partnership action plan ( ipap ) and its partnership for peace ( pfp ) linkages lay out the programme of cooperation between azerbaijan and nato. the azerbaijani government has however delayed implementing ipap - recommended reforms, however, in part at least because no decision had been taken to seek nato membership. this is because azerbaijan ' s foreign policy ' seeks to balance interests with the u. s., eu, russia and iran. ' according to a nato diplomatic source some key officials at nato headquarters in brussels were pushing hard for engaging azerbaijan on the membership question. " turkey, romania, italy, poland, the united kingdom and the baltic states, " are among the member - states also backing a fast track for azerbaijan ' s nato membership. however, azerbaijan made its policy of not being aligned with a geopolitical / military structure official when it became a full member of the non - aligned movement in 2011. there is also a limited amount of military cooperation with the other countries of guam : georgia, ukraine, azerbaijan, and moldova. personnel educational system the purpose of azerbaijani military education & training is to train soldiers, officers, and non - commissioned officers to have independent and creative thinking and commitment to the azerbaijani people and the government. military education in the azerbaijani armed forces have been described as either being secondary education, further education, or higher education. azerbaijani pilots were formerly trained in the azerbaijan air force school, where they would then develop their skills in operational units. azerbaijan has an experience exchange with turkey, ukraine, the united states and a number of nato countries. the turkish air force school has a great role in the training of azerbaijani military pilots. azerbaijani pilots are also trained in ukraine ' s pilot training school. the following is a list of educational institutions in the armed forces, under the auspices of the national defense university : military academies war college of the armed forces training and education center of the armed forces azerbaijan higher military academy azerbaijan higher naval academy ( former independent institution ) azerbaijan high military aviation school ( former independent institution ) other educational institutions secondary military medical school of azerbaijan military medical faculty of azerbaijan medical university military lyceums jamshid nakhchivanski military lyceum heydar aliyev military lyceum conscription