examples. it has been suggested that amber used in antiquity, as at mycenae and in the prehistory of the mediterranean, came from deposits in sicily. pliny also cites the opinion of nicias ( 470 – 413 bce ), according to whom amber besides the fanciful explanations according to which amber is " produced by the sun ", pliny cites opinions that are well aware of its origin in tree resin, citing the native latin name of succinum ( sucinum, from sucus " juice " ). in book 37, section xi of natural history, pliny wrote : he also states that amber is also found in egypt and india, and he even refers to the electrostatic properties of amber, by saying that " in syria the women make the whorls of their spindles of this substance, and give it the name of harpax [ from αρπαζω, " to drag " ] from the circumstance that it attracts leaves towards it, chaff, and the light fringe of tissues ". amber has a long history of use in china, with the first written record from 200 bce. early in the 19th century, the first reports of amber found in north america came from discoveries in new jersey along crosswicks creek near trenton, at camden, and near woodbury. composition and formation amber is heterogeneous in composition, but consists of several resinous more or less soluble in alcohol, ether and chloroform, associated with an insoluble bituminous substance. amber is a macromolecule by free radical polymerization of several precursors in the labdane family, e. g. communic acid, cummunol, and biformene. these labdanes are diterpenes ( c20h32 ) and trienes, equipping the organic skeleton with three alkene groups for polymerization. as amber matures over the years, more polymerization takes place as well as isomerization reactions, crosslinking and cyclization. most amber has a hardness between 2. 0 and 2. 5 on the mohs scale, a refractive index of 1. 5 – 1. 6, a specific gravity between 1. 06 and 1. 10, and a melting point of 250 – 300 °c. heated above, amber decomposes, yielding an oil of amber, and leaves a black residue which is known as " amber colophony ", or " amber pitch " ; when dissolved in oil of turp