other targets in addition to cox isoenzymes. these acetylation reactions may explain many hitherto unexplained effects of aspirin. formulations aspirin is produced in many formulations, with some differences in effect. in particular, aspirin can cause gastrointestinal bleeding, and formulations are sought which deliver the benefits of aspirin while mitigating harmful bleeding. formulations may be combined ( e. g., buffered + vitamin c ). tablets, typically of about 75 – 100 mg and 300 – 320 mg of immediate - release aspirin ( ir - asa ). dispersible tablets. enteric - coated tablets. buffered formulations containing aspirin with one of many buffering agents. formulations of aspirin with vitamin c ( asa - vitc ) a phospholipid - aspirin complex liquid formulation, pl - asa. the phospholipid coating was being trialled to determine if it caused less gastrointestinal damage. pharmacokinetics acetylsalicylic acid is a weak acid, and very little of it is ionized in the stomach after oral administration. acetylsalicylic acid is quickly absorbed through the cell membrane in the acidic conditions of the stomach. the increased ph and larger surface area of the small intestine causes aspirin to be absorbed more slowly there, as more of it is ionized. owing to the formation of concretions, aspirin is absorbed much more slowly during overdose, and plasma concentrations can continue to rise for up to 24 hours after ingestion. about 50 – 80 % of salicylate in the blood is bound to human serum albumin, while the rest remains in the active, ionized state ; protein binding is concentration - dependent. saturation of binding sites leads to more free salicylate and increased toxicity. the volume of distribution is 0. 1 – 0. 2 l / kg. acidosis increases the volume of distribution because of enhancement of tissue penetration of salicylates. as much as 80 % of therapeutic doses of salicylic acid is metabolized in the liver. conjugation with glycine forms salicyluric acid, and with glucuronic acid to form two different glucuronide esters. the conjugate with the acetyl group intact is referred to as the acyl glucuronide ; the dea