of the restoration. in 1881 alfonso refused to sanction a law by which the ministers were to remain in office for a fixed term of 18 months. upon the consequent resignation of canovas del castillo, he summoned praxedes mateo sagasta, the liberal leader, to form a new cabinet. in order to eliminate one of the problems of the reign of isabel ii, the single party and its destabilizing consequences, the liberal party was allowed to incorporate and participate in national politics, and the ' turnismo ' or alternation was to become the new system. turnismo would be endorsed in the constitution of 1876 and the pact of el pardo ( 1885 ). it meant that liberal and conservative prime ministers would succeed each other ending thus the troubles. this led to the end of the carlist revolts and the victory over the new york - backed cuban revolutionaries, and led to a huge backing both by insular and peninsular spaniards of alfonso. his government continued the operations of the ministry for overseas affairs which began under his mother ' s reign. the ministry was responsible for the theft of indigenous human remains and artifacts throughout colonized lands from 1863 to 1899. to this day, the majority of the stolen bodies of indigenous peoples, some still displayed in spanish museums, have yet to be returned to their ancestral lands. alfonso ' s short reign established the foundations for the final socioeconomic recuperation of spain, bringing an end to the political instability that had dominated spain for the past two - thirds of a century ( see history of spain ( 1808 – 1874 ) ). both europe ( the coastal regions, such as the basque country, catalonia, and asturias ) and the colonies in the antilles and pacific were able to grow steadily. cuba and puerto rico prospered to the point that spain ' s first train was not in spain proper but between havana and camaguey in cuba, and the first telegraph in latin america was in puerto rico, established by samuel morse, whose daughter and son - in - law lived there. upon the american invasion of puerto rico, ten us dollars were needed to buy one puerto rican peso. marriages on 23 january 1878 at the basilica of atocha in madrid, alfonso married his first cousin, princess maria de las mercedes, but she died within six months of the marriage. on 29 november 1879 at the basilica of atocha in madrid, alfonso married his double third cousin, archduchess maria christina of austria. during the honeymoon, a pastry cook named otero fired at