) ; - - this is a blocking call - will run on controller reaching accept block and return on completion exit ; - - if call returned we ' re clear for landing - leave select block and proceed... or delay 3. 0 ; - - timeout - if no answer in 3 seconds, do something else ( everything in following block ) put _ line ( airplane _ id ' image ( id ) & " in holding pattern " ) ; - - simply print a message end select ; end loop ; delay 4. 0 ; - - do landing approach... put _ line ( airplane _ id ' image ( id ) & " touched down! " ) ; rwy. cleared _ runway ( id ) ; - - notify runway that we ' re done here. end ; new _ airplane : airplane _ access ; begin for i in airplane _ id ' range loop - - create a few airplane tasks new _ airplane : = new airplane ( i ) ; - - will start running directly after creation delay 4. 0 ; end loop ; end traffic ; pragmas a pragma is a compiler directive that conveys information to the compiler to allow specific manipulating of compiled output. certain pragmas are built into the language, while others are implementation - specific. examples of common usage of compiler pragmas would be to disable certain features, such as run - time type checking or array subscript boundary checking, or to instruct the compiler to insert object code instead of a function call ( as c / c + + does with inline functions ). generics see also ada compilers apse – a specification for a programming environment to support software development in ada ravenscar profile – a subset of the ada tasking features designed for safety - critical hard real - time computing spark – a programming language consisting of a highly restricted subset of ada, annotated with meta - information describing desired component behavior and individual runtime requirements references international standards iso / iec 8652 : information technology — programming languages — ada iso / iec 15291 : information technology — programming languages — ada semantic interface specification ( asis ) iso / iec 18009 : information technology — programming languages — ada : conformity assessment of a language processor ( acats ) ieee standard 1003. 5b - 1996, the posix ada binding ada language mapping specification, the corba interface description language ( idl ) to ada mapping rationale these documents have been published in various forms, including print. also available apps. dtic. mil, pdf books 79