, which would be the modern equivalent of a noble title under the kazoku aristocracy. documentaries a significant number of short and full - length documentaries concerning the life and work of kurosawa were made both during his artistic heyday and after his death. ak, by french video essay director chris marker, was filmed while kurosawa was working on ; however, the documentary is more concerned about kurosawa ' s distant yet polite personality than on the making of the film. other documentaries concerning kurosawa ' s life and works produced posthumously include : kurosawa : the last emperor ( alex cox, 1999 ) a message from akira kurosawa : for beautiful movies ( hisao kurosawa, 2000 ) kurosawa ( adam low, 2001 ) akira kurosawa : it is wonderful to create ( toho masterworks, 2002 ) akira kurosawa : the epic and the intimate ( 2010 ) kurosawa ' s way ( catherine cadou, 2011 ) notes references sources further reading buchanan, judith ( 2005 ). shakespeare on film. pearson longman.. burch, noel ( 1979 ). to the distant observer : form and meaning in the japanese cinema. university of california press.. cowie, peter ( 2010 ). akira kurosawa : master of cinema. rizzoli publications.. davies, anthony ( 1990 ). filming shakespeare ' s plays : the adaptions of laurence olivier, orson welles, peter brook and akira kurosawa. cambridge university press.. desser, david ( 1983 ). the samurai films of akira kurosawa ( studies in cinema no. 23 ). umi research press.. leonard, kendra preston ( 2009 ). shakespeare, madness, and music : scoring insanity in cinematic adaptations. plymouth : the scarecrow press.. sorensen, lars - martin ( 2009 ). censorship of japanese films during the u. s. occupation of japan : the cases of yasujiro ozu and akira kurosawa. edwin mellen press.. wild, peter. ( 2014 ) akira kurosawa reaktion books external links akira kurosawa at the criterion collection akira kurosawa : news, information and discussion senses of cinema : great directors critical database akira kurosawa at japanese celebrity ' s grave guide several trailers anaheim university akira kurosawa school of film 1910 births 1998 deaths 20th - century japanese writers 20th - century male writers academy honorary award recipients akira kurosawa award winners best director bafta award winners cesar award winners david di donatello winners directors