analysis ( : analyses ) is the process of breaking a complex topic or substance into smaller parts in order to gain a better understanding of it. the technique has been applied in the study of mathematics and logic since before aristotle ( 384 – 322 b. c. ), though analysis as a formal concept is a relatively recent development. the word comes from the ancient greek ( analysis, " a breaking - up " or " an untying ; " from ana - " up, throughout " and lysis " a loosening " ). from it also comes the word ' s plural, analyses. as a formal concept, the method has variously been ascribed to alhazen, rene descartes ( discourse on the method ), and galileo galilei. it has also been ascribed to isaac newton, in the form of a practical method of physical discovery ( which he did not name ). the converse of analysis is synthesis : putting the pieces back together again in a new or different whole. applications science the field of chemistry uses analysis in three ways : to identify the components of a particular chemical compound ( qualitative analysis ), to identify the proportions of components in a mixture ( quantitative analysis ), and to break down chemical processes and examine chemical reactions between elements of matter. for an example of its use, analysis of the concentration of elements is important in managing a nuclear reactor, so nuclear scientists will analyze neutron activation to develop discrete measurements within vast samples. a matrix can have a considerable effect on the way a chemical analysis is conducted and the quality of its results. analysis can be done manually or with a device. types of analysis : a ) qualitative analysis : it is concerned with which components are in a given sample or compound. example : precipitation reaction b ) quantitative analysis : it is to determine the quantity of individual component present in a given sample or compound. example : to find concentration by uv - spectrophotometer. isotopes chemists can use isotope analysis to assist analysts with issues in anthropology, archeology, food chemistry, forensics, geology, and a host of other questions of physical science. analysts can discern the origins of natural and man - made isotopes in the study of environmental radioactivity. business financial statement analysis – the analysis of the accounts and the economic prospects of a firm financial analysis – refers to an assessment of the viability, stability, and profitability of a business, sub - business or project gap analysis – involves the comparison of actual performance with potential or desired performance of an organization business