christian church, that ammonius saccas had not rejected his christian roots would be easier for christians to accept than the assertion of prophyry, who was a pagan, that ammonius had chosen paganism over christianity. to add to the confusion, it seems that ammonius had two pupils called origen : origen the christian, and origen the pagan. it is quite possible that ammonius saccas taught both origens. and since there were two origens who were accepted as contemporaries it was easy for later christians to accept that there were two individuals named ammonius, one a christian and one a pagan. among ammonius ' other pupils there were herennius and cassius longinus. philosophy hierocles, writing in the 5th century, states that ammonius ' fundamental doctrine was that plato and aristotle were in full agreement with each other : he was the first who had a godly zeal for the truth in philosophy and despised the views of the majority, which were a disgrace to philosophy. he apprehended well the views of each of the two philosophers [ plato and aristotle ] and brought them under one and the same nous and transmitted philosophy without conflicts to all of his disciples, and especially to the best of those acquainted with him, plotinus, origen, and their successors. according to nemesius, a bishop and neoplatonist c. 400, ammonius held that the soul was immaterial. little is known about ammonius ' s role in the development of neoplatonism. porphyry seems to suggest that ammonius was instrumental in helping plotinus think about philosophy in new ways : but he [ plotinus ] did not just speak straight out of these books but took a distinctive personal line in his consideration, and brought the mind of ammonius ' to bear on the investigation in hand. two of ammonius ' s students – origen the pagan, and longinus – seem to have held philosophical positions which were closer to middle platonism than neoplatonism, which perhaps suggests that ammonius ' s doctrines were also closer to those of middle platonism than the neoplatonism developed by plotinus ( see the enneads ), but plotinus does not seem to have thought that he was departing in any significant way from that of his master. like porphyry ( the life of plotinus, 3, 24 – 29 ), also nemesius refers of ammonius saccas