it down to her descendants. in one of the versions of the legend, pasiphae did not make offerings to the goddess venus [ aphrodite ]. because of this venus [ aphrodite ] inspired in her an unnatural love for a bull or she cursed her because she was helios ' s daughter who revealed her adultery to hephaestus. for helios ' own tale - telling, she cursed him with uncontrollable lust over the mortal princess leucothoe, which led to him abandoning his then - lover clytie, leaving her heartbroken. lysippe was the mother of tanais by berossos. her son only venerated ares and was fully devoted to war, neglecting love and marriage. aphrodite cursed him with falling in love with his own mother. preferring to die rather than give up his chastity, he threw himself into the river amazonius, which was subsequently renamed tanais. according to hyginus, at the behest of zeus, orpheus ' s mother, the muse calliope, judged the dispute between the goddesses aphrodite and persephone over adonis and decided that both shall possess him half of the year. this enraged venus [ aphrodite ], because she had not been granted what she thought was her right. therefore, venus [ aphrodite ] inspired love for orpheus in the women of thrace, causing them to tear him apart as each of them sought orpheus for herself. aphrodite personally witnessed the young huntress rhodopis swear eternal devotion and chastity to artemis when she joined her group. aphrodite then summoned her son eros, and convinced him that such lifestyle was an insult to them both. so under her command, eros made rhodopis and euthynicus, another young hunter who had shunned love and romance just like her, to fall in love with each other. despite their chaste life, rhodopis and euthynicus withdrew to some cavern where they violated their vows. artemis was not slow to take notice after seeing aphrodite laugh, so she changed rhodopis into a fountain as a punishment. judgment of paris and trojan war the myth of the judgement of paris is mentioned briefly in the iliad, but is described in depth in an epitome of the cypria, a lost poem of the epic cycle, which records