bolsheviks, saying that both were destroyed mercilessly by revolutionary despotism. he commented that, while the french reign of terror ended with the thermidorian reaction and the toppling of the jacobins and the execution of maximilien robespierre, its soviet equivalent continued to accelerate until the khrushchev thaw of the 1950s. according to solzhenitsyn, russians were not the ruling nation in the soviet union. he believed that all the traditional culture of all ethnic groups were equally oppressed in favor of atheism and marxist – leninism. russian culture was even more repressed than any other culture in the soviet union, since the regime was more afraid of ethnic uprisings among russian christians than among any other ethnicity. therefore, solzhenitsyn argued, russian nationalism and the russian orthodox church should not be regarded as a threat by the west but rather as allies. solzhenitsyn made a speaking tour after francisco franco ' s death, and " told liberals not to push too hard for changes because spain had more freedoms now than the soviet union had ever known. " as reported by the new york times, he " blamed communism for the death of 110 million russians and derided those in spain who complained of dictatorship. " solzhenitsyn recalled : " i had to explain to the people of spain in the most concise possible terms what it meant to have been subjugated by an ideology as we in the soviet union had been, and give the spanish to understand what a terrible fate they escaped in 1939 ", a reference to the spanish civil war between the nationalists and the republicans, which was not a common view at that time among american diplomats. for winston lord, a protege of the then united states secretary of state henry kissinger, solzhenitsyn was " just about a fascist. " according to elisa kriza, solzhenitsyn held " benevolent views " on franco ' s dictatorship and francoist spain because it was a christian one, and his christian worldview operated ideologically. in the little grain managed to land between two millstones, franco ' s spain is " held up as a model of a proper christian response to the evil of bolshevism. " according to peter brooke, solzhenitsyn approached the position argued by christian dmitri panin, with whom he had a fall out in exile, namely that evil " must be confronted by force, and the centralised, spiritually independent roman catholic church is better placed to do