, and the work of willis h. o ' brien on films, king kong ( 1933 ). go motion a variant of model animation that uses various techniques to create motion blur between frames of film, which is not present in traditional stop motion. the technique was invented by industrial light & magic and phil tippett to create special effect scenes for the film star wars : episode v – the empire strikes back ( 1980 ). another example is the dragon named " vermithrax " from the 1981 film dragonslayer. object animation the use of regular inanimate objects in stop - motion animation, as opposed to specially created items. graphic animation uses non - drawn flat visual graphic material ( photographs, newspaper clippings, magazines, etc. ), which are sometimes manipulated frame by frame to create movement. at other times, the graphics remain stationary, while the stop - motion camera is moved to create on - screen action. brickfilm a subgenre of object animation involving using lego or other similar brick toys to make an animation. these have had a recent boost in popularity with the advent of video sharing sites, youtube and the availability of cheap cameras and animation software. pixilation involves the use of live humans as stop - motion characters. this allows for a number of surreal effects, including disappearances and reappearances, allowing people to appear to slide across the ground, and other effects. examples of pixilation include the secret adventures of tom thumb and angry kid shorts, and the academy award - winning neighbours by norman mclaren. computer computer animation encompasses a variety of techniques, the unifying factor being that the animation is created digitally on a computer. 2d animation techniques tend to focus on image manipulation while 3d techniques usually build virtual worlds in which characters and objects move and interact. 3d animation can create images that seem real to the viewer. 2d 2d animation figures are created or edited on the computer using 2d bitmap graphics and 2d vector graphics. this includes automated computerized versions of traditional animation techniques, interpolated morphing, onion skinning and interpolated rotoscoping. 2d animation has many applications, including after effects animation, analog computer animation, flash animation, and powerpoint animation. cinemagraphs are still photographs in the form of an animated gif file of which part is animated. final line advection animation is a technique used in 2d animation, to give artists and animators more influence and control over the final product as everything is done within the same department. speaking about using this approach in paperman