' desire for an end to time ", an attitude which, according to power, is inspired by her husband ' s co - authored book the german ideology. however, in keeping with the novel ' s anachronisms, the latter was not published until 1932. by contrast, the novel ' s timeline ends in 1871. in the 2022 novel hydrogen wars : atomic sunrise by r. m. christianson a small change in post - war japanese history leads to the election of general douglas macarthur as president of the united states. this minor change ultimately leads to all - out atomic war between the major cold war powers. through crowdfunding on kickstarter, alan jenkins and gan golan produced a graphic novel series called 1 / 6 depicting a dystopian alternate reality in which the january 6 united states capitol attack was successful. what follows is the burning down of the capitol building and the hanging of vice president mike pence. under donald trump ' s second term as president, a solid gold statue of him is erected and armed thugs patrol the streets of washington dc suppressing civilian resistance with brutal violence under the banner of the confederate flag. in fantasy genre many works of straight fantasy and science fantasy take place in historical settings, though with the addition of, for example, magic or mythological beasts. some present a secret history in which the modern day world no longer believes that these elements ever existed. many ambiguous alternate / secret histories are set in renaissance or pre - renaissance times, and may explicitly include a " retreat " from the world, which would explain the current absence of such phenomena. other stories make plan a divergence of some kind. in poul anderson ' s three hearts and three lions in which the matter of france is history and the fairy folk are real and powerful. the same author ' s a midsummer tempest occurs in a world in which the plays of william shakespeare ( called here " the great historian " ), presented the literal truth in every instance. the novel itself takes place in the era of oliver cromwell and charles i. here, the english civil war had a different outcome, and the industrial revolution has occurred early. randall garrett ' s " lord darcy " series presents a point of divergence : a monk systemizes magic rather than science, so the use of foxglove to treat heart disease is regarded as superstition. another point of divergence occurs in 1199, when richard the lionheart survives the siege of chaluz and returns to england and makes the angevin empire so strong that it survives into