in 1 of every 2, 000 – 13, 000 pregnancies, for which initiation of treatment " cannot co - exist with preservation of fetal life ( unless neoadjuvant chemotherapy is chosen ) ". very early stage cervical cancers ( i and iia ) may be treated by radical hysterectomy and pelvic lymph node dissection, radiation therapy, or both, while later stages are treated by radiotherapy. chemotherapy may be used simultaneously. treatment of breast cancer during pregnancy also involves fetal considerations, because lumpectomy is discouraged in favor of modified radical mastectomy unless late - term pregnancy allows follow - up radiation therapy to be administered after the birth. exposure to a single chemotherapy drug is estimated to cause a 7. 5 – 17 % risk of teratogenic effects on the fetus, with higher risks for multiple drug treatments. treatment with more than 40 gy of radiation usually causes spontaneous abortion. exposure to much lower doses during the first trimester, especially 8 to 15 weeks of development, can cause intellectual disability or microcephaly, and exposure at this or subsequent stages can cause reduced intrauterine growth and birth weight. exposures above 0. 005 – 0. 025 gy cause a dose - dependent reduction in iq. it is possible to greatly reduce exposure to radiation with abdominal shielding, depending on how far the area to be irradiated is from the fetus. the process of birth itself may also put the mother at risk. according to li et al., " [ v ] aginal delivery may result in dissemination of neoplastic cells into lymphovascular channels, haemorrhage, cervical laceration and implantation of malignant cells in the episiotomy site, while abdominal delivery may delay the initiation of non - surgical treatment. " history and religion since ancient times, abortions have been done using a number of methods, including herbal medicines acting as abortifacients, sharp tools through the use of force, or through other traditional medicine methods. induced abortion has a long history and can be traced back to civilizations as varied as ancient china ( abortifacient knowledge is often attributed to the mythological ruler shennong ), ancient india since its vedic age, ancient egypt with its ebers papyrus ( ), and the roman empire in the time of juvenal ( ). one of the earliest known artistic representations of abortion is in a bas relief at angkor wat ( ). found in a series of fr