him that one same foreknowledge and hatred of death is hoping to do : i was here. " literary career camus ' s first publication was a play called revolte dans les asturies ( revolt in the asturias ) written with three friends in may 1936. the subject was the 1934 revolt by spanish miners that was brutally suppressed by the spanish government resulting in 1, 500 to 2, 000 deaths. in may 1937 he wrote his first book, l ' envers et l ' endroit ( betwixt and between, also translated as the wrong side and the right side ). both were published by edmond charlot ' s small publishing house. camus separated his work into three cycles. each cycle consisted of a novel, an essay, and a play. the first was the cycle of the absurd consisting of l ' etranger, le mythe de sysiphe, and caligula. the second was the cycle of the revolt which included la peste ( the plague ), l ' homme revolte ( the rebel ), and les justes ( the just assassins ). the third, the cycle of the love, consisted of nemesis. each cycle was an examination of a theme with the use of a pagan myth and including biblical motifs. the books in the first cycle were published between 1942 and 1944, but the theme was conceived earlier, at least as far back as 1936. with this cycle, camus aims to pose a question on the human condition, discuss the world as an absurd place, and warn humanity of the consequences of totalitarianism. camus began his work on the second cycle while he was in algeria, in the last months of 1942, just as the germans were reaching north africa. in the second cycle, camus used prometheus, who is depicted as a revolutionary humanist, to highlight the nuances between revolution and rebellion. he analyses various aspects of rebellion, its metaphysics, its connection to politics, and examines it under the lens of modernity, of historicity and the absence of a god. after receiving the nobel prize, camus gathered, clarified, and published his pacifist leaning views at actuelles iii : chronique algerienne 1939 – 1958 ( algerian chronicles ). he then decided to distance himself from the algerian war as he found the mental burden too heavy. he turned to theatre and the third cycle which was about love and the goddess nemesis, the greek and roman goddess of revenge. two of camus ' s works were