ammonia molecules. these solutions are very useful as strong reducing agents. at higher concentrations, the solutions are metallic in appearance and in electrical conductivity. at low temperatures, the two types of solution can coexist as immiscible phases. redox properties of liquid ammonia the range of thermodynamic stability of liquid ammonia solutions is very narrow, as the potential for oxidation to dinitrogen, e° ( ), is only + 0. 04 v. in practice, both oxidation to dinitrogen and reduction to dihydrogen are slow. this is particularly true of reducing solutions : the solutions of the alkali metals mentioned above are stable for several days, slowly decomposing to the metal amide and dihydrogen. most studies involving liquid ammonia solutions are done in reducing conditions ; although oxidation of liquid ammonia is usually slow, there is still a risk of explosion, particularly if transition metal ions are present as possible catalysts. fertiliser in the us, approximately 88 % of ammonia was used as fertilisers either as its salts, solutions or anhydrously. when applied to soil, it helps provide increased yields of crops such as maize and wheat. 30 % of agricultural nitrogen applied in the us is in the form of anhydrous ammonia, and worldwide, 110 million tonnes are applied each year. precursor to nitrogenous compounds ammonia is directly or indirectly the precursor to most nitrogen - containing compounds. virtually all synthetic nitrogen compounds are derived from ammonia. an important derivative is nitric acid. this key material is generated via the ostwald process by oxidation of ammonia with air over a platinum catalyst at, ≈9 atm. nitric oxide is an intermediate in this conversion : nitric acid is used for the production of fertilisers, explosives and many organonitrogen compounds. ammonia is also used to make the following compounds : hydrazine, in the olin raschig process and the peroxide process hydrogen cyanide, in the bma process and the andrussow process hydroxylamine and ammonium carbonate, in the raschig process phenol, in the raschig – hooker process urea, in the bosch – meiser urea process and in wohler synthesis amino acids, using strecker amino - acid synthesis acrylonitrile, in the sohio process ammonia can also be used to make compounds in reactions that are not specifically named. examples of such compounds include ammonium perchlorate, ammonium nitrate,