and aletheia, the personification of truth. as a child, apollo is said to have built a foundation and an altar on delos using the horns of the goats that his sister artemis hunted. since he learnt the art of building when young, he later came to be known as archegetes, the founder ( of towns ) and a god who guided men to build new cities. from his father zeus, apollo had also received a golden chariot drawn by swans. in his early years when apollo spent his time herding cows, he was reared by thriae, the bee nymphs, who trained him and enhanced his prophetic skills. apollo is also said to have invented the lyre, and along with artemis, the art of archery. he then taught the humans the art of healing and archery. phoebe, his grandmother, gave the oracular shrine of delphi to apollo as a birthday gift. themis inspired him to be the oracular voice of delphi thereon. python python, a chthonic serpent - dragon, was a child of gaia and the guardian of the delphic oracle, whose death was foretold by apollo when he was still in leto ' s womb. python was the nurse of the giant typhon. in most of the traditions, apollo was still a child when he killed python. python was sent by hera to hunt the pregnant leto to death, and assaulted her. to avenge the trouble given to his mother, apollo went in search of python and killed it in the sacred cave at delphi with the bow and arrows that he had received from hephaestus. the delphian nymphs who were present encouraged apollo during the battle with the cry " hie paean ". after apollo was victorious, they also brought him gifts and gave the corycian cave to him. according to homer, apollo encountered and killed the python when he was looking for a place to establish his shrine. according to another version, when leto was in delphi, python attacked her. apollo defended his mother and killed python. euripides in his iphigenia in aulis gives an account of his fight with python and the event ' s aftermath. a detailed account of apollo ' s conflict with gaia and zeus ' intervention on behalf of his young son is also given. apollo also demanded that all other methods of divination be made inferior to his, a wish that zeus granted him readily. because of this, athena, who had been practicing divination by