part of certain jewish conceptions of the afterlife, the concept of eternal damnation is not a tenet of the jewish afterlife. according to the talmud, extinction of the soul is reserved for a far smaller group of malicious and evil leaders, either whose very evil deeds go way beyond norms, or who lead large groups of people to utmost evil. this is also part of maimonides ' 13 principles of faith. maimonides describes the olam haba in spiritual terms, relegating the prophesied physical resurrection to the status of a future miracle, unrelated to the afterlife or the messianic era. according to maimonides, an afterlife continues for the soul of every human being, a soul now separated from the body in which it was " housed " during its earthly existence. the zohar describes gehenna not as a place of punishment for the wicked but as a place of spiritual purification for souls. reincarnation in jewish tradition although there is no reference to reincarnation in the talmud or any prior writings, according to rabbis such as avraham arieh trugman, reincarnation is recognized as being part and parcel of jewish tradition. trugman explains that it is through oral tradition that the meanings of the torah, its commandments and stories, are known and understood. the classic work of jewish mysticism, the zohar, is quoted liberally in all jewish learning ; in the zohar the idea of reincarnation is mentioned repeatedly. trugman states that in the last five centuries the concept of reincarnation, which until then had been a much hidden tradition within judaism, was given open exposure. shraga simmons commented that within the bible itself, the idea [ of reincarnation ] is intimated in deut. 25 : 5 – 10, deut. 33 : 6 and isaiah 22 : 14, 65 : 6. yirmiyahu ullman wrote that reincarnation is an " ancient, mainstream belief in judaism ". the zohar makes frequent and lengthy references to reincarnation. onkelos, a righteous convert and authoritative commentator of the same period, explained the verse, " let reuben live and not die... " ( deuteronomy 33 : 6 ) to mean that reuben should merit the world to come directly, and not have to die again as a result of being reincarnated. torah scholar, commentator and kabbalist, nachmanides ( ramban 1195 – 1270 ), attributed job '