because he thought that a so great animal deserved a great name. the elephant had gold rings around its tusks and an inscription was on them written in greek : " alexander the son of zeus dedicates ajax to the helios " ( αλεξανδροσ ο διοσ τον αιαντα τωι ηλιωι ). revolt of the hellenic army east of porus ' s kingdom, near the ganges river, was the nanda empire of magadha, and further east, the gangaridai empire of bengal region of the indian subcontinent. fearing the prospect of facing other large armies and exhausted by years of campaigning, alexander ' s army mutinied at the hyphasis river ( beas ), refusing to march farther east. this river thus marks the easternmost extent of alexander ' s conquests. alexander tried to persuade his soldiers to march farther, but his general coenus pleaded with him to change his opinion and return ; the men, he said, " longed to again see their parents, their wives and children, their homeland ". alexander eventually agreed and turned south, marching along the indus. along the way his army conquered the malhi ( in modern - day multan ) and other indian tribes ; while besieging the mallian citadel, alexander suffered a near - fatal injury when an arrow penetrated his armor and entered his lung. alexander sent much of his army to carmania ( modern southern iran ) with general craterus, and commissioned a fleet to explore the persian gulf shore under his admiral nearchus, while he led the rest back to persia through the more difficult southern route along the gedrosian desert and makran. alexander reached susa in 324 bc, but not before losing many men to the harsh desert. last years in persia discovering that many of his satraps and military governors had misbehaved in his absence, alexander executed several of them as examples on his way to susa. as a gesture of thanks, he paid off the debts of his soldiers, and announced that he would send over - aged and disabled veterans back to macedon, led by craterus. his troops misunderstood his intention and mutinied at the town of opis. they refused to be sent away and criticized his adoption of persian customs and dress and the introduction of persian officers and soldiers into macedonian units. after three days, unable to persuade his men to back down, alexander gave persians command posts in the army