alberta ( ) is one of the thirteen provinces and territories of canada. it is a part of western canada and is one of the three prairie provinces. alberta is bordered by british columbia to the west, saskatchewan to the east, the northwest territories to the north, and the u. s. state of montana to the south. it is one of the only two landlocked provinces in canada, with saskatchewan being the other. the eastern part of the province is occupied by the great plains, while the western part borders the rocky mountains. the province has a predominantly continental climate but experiences quick temperature changes due to air aridity. seasonal temperature swings are less pronounced in western alberta due to occasional chinook winds. alberta is the fourth largest province by area at, and the fourth most populous, being home to 4, 262, 635 people. alberta ' s capital is edmonton, while calgary is its largest city. the two are alberta ' s largest census metropolitan areas. more than half of albertans live in either edmonton or calgary, which contributes to continuing the rivalry between the two cities. english is the official language of the province. in 2016, 76. 0 % of albertans were anglophone, 1. 8 % were francophone and 22. 2 % were allophone. alberta ' s economy is based on hydrocarbons, petrochemical industries, livestock and agriculture. the oil and gas industry has been a pillar of alberta ' s economy since 1947, when substantial oil deposits were discovered at leduc no. 1 well. it has also become a part of the province ' s identity. since alberta is the province most rich in hydrocarbons, it provides 70 % of the oil and natural gas produced on canadian soil. in 2018, alberta ' s output was billion, 15. 27 % of canada ' s gdp. until the 1930s, alberta ' s political landscape consisted of 2 major parties : the centre - left liberals and the agrarian united farmers of alberta. today, alberta is generally perceived as a conservative province. the right - wing social credit party held office continually from 1935 to 1971 before the centre - right progressive conservatives held office continually from 1971 to 2015, the latter being the longest unbroken run in government at the provincial or federal level in canadian history. before becoming part of canada, alberta was home to several first nations like plains indians and woodland cree. it was also a territory used by fur traders of the rival companies hudson ' s bay company and north west company. the dominion of canada bought the lands that would become alberta as part of the