archelaus of macedon. physical appearance agathon ' s extraordinary physical beauty is brought up repeatedly in the sources ; the historian w. rhys roberts observes that " ο καλος αγαθων ( ho kalos agathon ) has become almost a stereotyped phrase. " the most detailed surviving description of agathon is in the thesmophoriazousae, in which agathon appears as a pale, clean - shaven young man dressed in women ' s clothes. scholars are unsure how much of aristophanes ' portrayal is fact and how much mere comic invention. after a close reading of the thesmophoriazousae, the historian jane mcintosh snyder observed that agathon ' s costume was almost identical to that of the famous lyric poet anacreon, as he is portrayed in early 5th - century vase - paintings. snyder theorizes that agathon might have made a deliberate effort to mimic the sumptuous attire of his famous fellow - poet, although by agathon ' s time, such clothing, especially the κεκρυφαλος ( kekryphalos, an elaborate covering for the hair ) had long fallen out of fashion for men. according to this interpretation, agathon is mocked in the thesmophoriazousae not only for his notorious effeminacy, but also for the pretentiousness of his dress : " he seems to think of himself, in all his elegant finery, as a rival to the old ionian poets, perhaps even to anacreon himself. " plato ' s epigram agathon has been thought to be the subject of lovers ' lips, an epigram attributed to plato : kissing agathon, i had my soul upon my lips ; for it rose, poor wretch, as though to cross over. another translation reads : kissing agathon, i found my soul at my lips. poor thing! it went there, hoping - - to slip across. although the authenticity of this epigram was accepted for many centuries, it was probably not composed for agathon the tragedian, nor was it composed by plato. stylistic evidence suggests that the poem ( with most of plato ' s other alleged epigrams ) was actually written some time after plato had died : its form is that of the hellenistic erotic epigram, which did not become popular until after 300 bc. according to 20th - century scholar walt