from ealdred. normally, wulfstan would have gone to the archbishop of canterbury, as the see of worcester was within canterbury ' s province. although ealdred gave up the bishopric, the appointment of wulfstan was one that allowed ealdred to continue his considerable influence on the see of worcester. ealdred retained a number of estates belonging to worcester. even after the norman conquest, ealdred still controlled some events in worcester, and it was ealdred, not wulfstan, who opposed urse d ' abetot ' s attempt to extend the castle of worcester into the cathedral after the norman conquest. while archbishop, ealdred built at beverley, expanding on the building projects begun by his predecessor cynesige, as well as repairing and expanding other churches in his diocese. he also built refectories for the canons at york and southwell. he also was the one bishop who published ecclesiastical legislation during edward the confessor ' s reign, attempting to discipline and reform the clergy. he held a synod of his clergy shortly before 1066. after the death of edward the confessor john of worcester, a medieval chronicler, said ealdred crowned king haroldii in 1066, although the norman chroniclers mention stigand as the officiating prelate. given ealdred ' s known support of godwin ' s family, john of worcester is probably correct. stigand ' s position as archbishop was canonically suspect, and as earl harold had not allowed stigand to consecrate one of the earl ' s churches, it is unlikely harold would have allowed stigand to perform the much more important royal coronation. arguments for stigand having performed the coronation, however, rely on the fact that no other english source names the ecclesiastic who performed the ceremony ; all norman sources name stigand as the presider. in all events, ealdred and harold were close, and ealdred supported harold ' s bid to become king. ealdred perhaps accompanied harold when the new king went to york and secured the support of the northern magnates shortly after harold ' s consecration. according to the medieval chronicler geoffrey gaimar, after the battle of stamford bridge harold entrusted the loot gained from harald hardrada to ealdred. gaimar asserts that king harold did this because he had heard of duke william ' s landing in england, and needed to rush south to counter it. after the battle of hastings, ealdred