scorned apollo ' s advances and ran away from him. when apollo chased her in order to persuade her, she changed herself into a laurel tree. according to other versions, she cried for help during the chase, and gaia helped her by taking her in and placing a laurel tree in her place. according to roman poet ovid, the chase was brought about by cupid, who hit apollo with a golden arrow of love and daphne with a leaden arrow of hatred. the myth explains the origin of the laurel and the connection of apollo with the laurel and its leaves, which his priestess employed at delphi. the leaves became the symbol of victory and laurel wreaths were given to the victors of the pythian games. apollo is said to have been the lover of all nine muses, and not being able to choose one of them, decided to remain unwed. he fathered the corybantes by the muse thalia, orpheus by calliope, linus of thrace by calliope or urania and hymenaios ( hymen ) by one of the muses. in the great eoiae that is attributed to hesoid, scylla is the daughter of apollo and hecate. cyrene was a thessalian princess whom apollo loved. in her honor, he built the city cyrene and made her its ruler. she was later granted longevity by apollo who turned her into a nymph. the couple had two sons, aristaeus, and idmon. evadne was a nymph daughter of poseidon and a lover of apollo. they had a son, iamos. during the time of the childbirth, apollo sent eileithyia, the goddess of childbirth to assist her. rhoeo, a princess of the island of naxos was loved by apollo. out of affection for her, apollo turned her sisters into goddesses. on the island delos she bore apollo a son named anius. not wanting to have the child, she entrusted the infant to apollo and left. apollo raised and educated the child on his own. ourea, a daughter of poseidon, fell in love with apollo when he and poseidon were serving the trojan king laomedon. they both united on the day the walls of troy were built. she bore to apollo a son, whom apollo named ileus, after the city of his birth, ilion ( troy ). ileus was very dear to apollo. thero