s 1490 epic romance tirant lo blanch, which was written when the fall of constantinople to the turks was still a recent and traumatic memory for christian europe. it tells the story of the knight tirant the white from brittany who travels to the embattled remnants of the byzantine empire. he becomes a megaduke and commander of its armies and manages to fight off the invading ottoman armies of. he saves the city from islamic conquest, and even chases the turks deeper into lands they had previously conquered. 19th century one of the earliest works of alternate history published in large quantities for the reception of a large audience may be louis geoffroy ' s histoire de la monarchie universelle : napoleon et la conquete du monde ( 1812 – 1832 ) ( history of the universal monarchy : napoleon and the conquest of the world ) ( 1836 ), which imagines napoleon ' s first french empire emerging victorious in the french invasion of russia in 1812 and in an invasion of england in 1814, later unifying the world under bonaparte ' s rule. the book of mormon ( published 1830 ) is described as an " alternative history " by richard lyman bushman, a biographer of joseph smith. smith claimed to have translated the document from golden plates, which told the story of a jewish group who migrated from israel to americas and inhabited the region from about 600 b. c. and 400 a. d., becoming the ancestors of native americans. in the 2005 biography joseph smith : rough stone rolling, bushman wrote that the book of mormon " turned american history upside down [ and ] works on the premise that a history — a book — can reconstitute a nation. it assumes that by giving a nation an alternative history, alternative values can be made to grow. " in the english language, the first known complete alternate history may be nathaniel hawthorne ' s short story " p. ' s correspondence ", published in 1845. it recounts the tale of a man who is considered " a madman " due to his perceptions of a different 1845, a reality in which long - dead famous people, such as the poets robert burns, lord byron, percy bysshe shelley and john keats, the actor edmund kean, the british politician george canning, and napoleon bonaparte, are still alive. the first novel - length alternate history in english would seem to be castello holford ' s aristopia ( 1895 ). while not as nationalistic as louis geoffroy ' s napoleon et la conquete du monde, 1812 – 1823, aristopia is