his court, and became far more than just the king at the centre. it seems that he made many of these men his closest friends and counsellors. they referred to him as ' david ', a reference to the biblical king david. alcuin soon found himself on intimate terms with charlemagne and the other men at court, where pupils and masters were known by affectionate and jesting nicknames. alcuin himself was known as ' albinus ' or ' flaccus '. while at aachen, alcuin bestowed pet names upon his pupils – derived mainly from virgil ' s eclogues. according to the encyclopædia britannica, " he loved charlemagne and enjoyed the king ' s esteem, but his letters reveal that his fear of him was as great as his love. " after the death of pope adrian i, alcuin was commissioned by charlemagne to compose an epitaph for adrian. the epitaph was inscribed on black stone quarried at aachen and carried to rome where it was set over adrian ' s tomb in the south transept of st peter ' s basilica just before charlemagne ' s coronation in the basilica on christmas day 800. return to northumbria and back to francia in 790, alcuin returned from the court of charlemagne to england, to which he had remained attached. he dwelt there for some time, but charlemagne then invited him back to help in the fight against the adoptionist heresy, which was at that time making great progress in toledo, the old capital of the visigoths and still a major city for the christians under islamic rule in spain. he is believed to have had contacts with beatus of liebana, from the kingdom of asturias, who fought against adoptionism. at the council of frankfurt in 794, alcuin upheld the orthodox doctrine against the views expressed by felix of urgel, an heresiarch according to the catholic encyclopaedia. having failed during his stay in northumbria to influence king æthelred in the conduct of his reign, alcuin never returned home. he was back at charlemagne ' s court by at least mid - 792, writing a series of letters to æthelred, to hygbald, bishop of lindisfarne, and to æthelhard, archbishop of canterbury in the succeeding months, dealing with the viking attack on lindisfarne in july 793. these letters and alcuin ' s poem