big planet called battleworld. battleworld was divided into sections with most of them being self - contained universes. marvel announced that several of these self - contained universes would get their own tie in series and one of them was amazing spider - man : renew your vows, an alternate universe where peter parker and mary jane are still married and give birth to their child annie may parker, written by dan slott. despite the series being considered separate from the main amazing spider - man series, the original 5 issue run is counted towards its legacy numbering acting as no. 752 - 756. 2015 relaunch following the 2015 secret wars event, a number of spider - man - related titles were either relaunched or created as part of the " all - new, all - different marvel " event. among them, the amazing spider - man was relaunched as well and primarily focused on peter parker continuing to run parker industries and becoming a successful businessman operating worldwide. it also tied with civil war ii ( involving an inhuman named ulysses cain who can predict possible futures ), dead no more ( where ben reilly [ the original scarlet spider ] revealed to be revived and as one of the antagonists instead ), and secret empire ( during hydra ' s reign led by a hydra influenced captain america / steve rogers, and the dismissal of parker industries by peter parker to stop otto octavius ). starting in september 2017, marvel started the marvel legacy event which renumbered several marvel series to their original numbering. the amazing spider - man was put back to its original numbering for # 789. issues # 789 through 791 focused on the aftermath of peter destroying parker industries and his fall from grace. issues # 792 and 793 were part of the venom inc. story. threat level : red was the story for the next three issues which saw norman osborn obtain and bond with the carnage symbiote. go down swinging saw the results of the combination of osborn ' s goblin serum and carnage symbiote creating the red goblin. issue no. 801 was dan slott ' s goodbye issue. 2018 relaunch in march 2018, it was announced that writer nick spencer would be writing the main semi - monthly the amazing spider - man series beginning with a new no. 1, replacing long - time writer dan slott, as part of the fresh start relaunch that july. the first five - issue story arc was titled ' back to basics. ' during the back to basics story, kindred, a mysterious villain with some relation to peter ' s