) was originally posed by german mathematician david hilbert in 1928. turing proved that his " universal computing machine " would be capable of performing any conceivable mathematical computation if it were representable as an algorithm. he went on to prove that there was no solution to the decision problem by first showing that the halting problem for turing machines is undecidable : it is not possible to decide algorithmically whether a turing machine will ever halt. this paper has been called " easily the most influential math paper in history ". although turing ' s proof was published shortly after alonzo church ' s equivalent proof using his lambda calculus, turing ' s approach is considerably more accessible and intuitive than church ' s. it also included a notion of a ' universal machine ' ( now known as a universal turing machine ), with the idea that such a machine could perform the tasks of any other computation machine ( as indeed could church ' s lambda calculus ). according to the church – turing thesis, turing machines and the lambda calculus are capable of computing anything that is computable. john von neumann acknowledged that the central concept of the modern computer was due to turing ' s paper. to this day, turing machines are a central object of study in theory of computation. from september 1936 to july 1938, turing spent most of his time studying under church at princeton university, in the second year as a jane eliza procter visiting fellow. in addition to his purely mathematical work, he studied cryptology and also built three of four stages of an electro - mechanical binary multiplier. in june 1938, he obtained his phd from the department of mathematics at princeton ; his dissertation, systems of logic based on ordinals, introduced the concept of ordinal logic and the notion of relative computing, in which turing machines are augmented with so - called oracles, allowing the study of problems that cannot be solved by turing machines. john von neumann wanted to hire him as his postdoctoral assistant, but he went back to the united kingdom. career and research when turing returned to cambridge, he attended lectures given in 1939 by ludwig wittgenstein about the foundations of mathematics. the lectures have been reconstructed verbatim, including interjections from turing and other students, from students ' notes. turing and wittgenstein argued and disagreed, with turing defending formalism and wittgenstein propounding his view that mathematics does not discover any absolute truths, but rather invents them. cryptanalysis during the second world war, turing was a leading participant in the breaking of