according to jabir, in each metal two of these qualities were interior and two were exterior. for example, lead was externally cold and dry, while gold was hot and moist. thus, jabir theorized, by rearranging the qualities of one metal, a different metal would result. by this reasoning, the search for the philosopher ' s stone was introduced to western alchemy. jabir developed an elaborate numerology whereby the root letters of a substance ' s name in arabic, when treated with various transformations, held correspondences to the element ' s physical properties. the elemental system used in medieval alchemy also originated with jabir. his original system consisted of seven elements, which included the five classical elements ( aether, air, earth, fire, and water ) in addition to two chemical elements representing the metals : sulphur, " the stone which burns ", which characterized the principle of combustibility, and mercury, which contained the idealized principle of metallic properties. shortly thereafter, this evolved into eight elements, with the arabic concept of the three metallic principles : sulphur giving flammability or combustion, mercury giving volatility and stability, and salt giving solidity. the atomic theory of corpuscularianism, where all physical bodies possess an inner and outer layer of minute particles or corpuscles, also has its origins in the work of jabir. from the 9th to 14th centuries, alchemical theories faced criticism from a variety of practical muslim chemists, including alkindus, abu al - rayhan al - biruni, avicenna and ibn khaldun. in particular, they wrote refutations against the idea of the transmutation of metals. from the 14th century onwards, many materials and practices originally belonging to indian alchemy ( rasayana ) were assimilated in the persian texts written by muslim scholars. east asia researchers have found evidence that chinese alchemists and philosophers discovered complex mathematical phenomena that were shared with arab alchemists during the medieval period. discovered in bc china, the " magic square of three " was propagated to followers of abu musa jabir ibn hayyan at some point over the proceeding several hundred years. other commonalities shared between the two alchemical schools of thought include discrete naming for ingredients and heavy influence from the natural elements. the silk road provided a clear path for the exchange of goods, ideas, ingredients, religion, and many other aspects of life with which alchemy is intertwined. whereas european al