to his contributions to natural philosophy, the bacterium agrobacterium albertimagni, the plant species alberta magna, the crustacean bodigiella albertimagni, the fossil brachiopod albasphe albertimagni, and the asteroid 20006 albertus magnus were named after him. numerous catholic elementary and secondary schools are named for him, including schools in toronto ; calgary ; cologne ; and dayton, ohio. the albertus typeface is named after him. at the university of notre dame du lac in notre dame, indiana, the zahm hall chapel is dedicated to st. albert the great. fr. john zahm, c. s. c., after whom the men ' s residence hall is named, looked to st. albert ' s example of using religion to illumine scientific discovery. fr. zahm ' s work with the bible and evolution is sometimes seen as a continuation of st. albert ' s legacy. the second largest student ' s fraternity of the netherlands, located in the city of groningen, is named albertus magnus, in honor of the saint. the colegio cientifico y artistico de san alberto, hopelawn, new jersey, usa with a sister school in nueva ecija, philippines was founded in 1986 in honor of him who thought and taught that religion, the sciences and the arts may be advocated as subjects which should not contradict each other but should support one another to achieve wisdom and reason. the vosloorus catholic parish ( located in vosloorus extension one, ekurhuleni, gauteng, south africa ) is named after the saint. the catholic parish in leopoldshafen, near karlsruhe in germany is also named after him also considering the huge research center of the karlsruhe institute of technology nearby, as he is the patron saint of scientists. since the death of king albert i, the king ' s feast is celebrated in belgium on albert ' s feast day. edinburgh ' s catholic chaplaincy serving the city ' s universities is named after st albert. sant ' alberto magno is a titular church in rome. bibliography translations on fate, ( de fato ) translated by d. p. curtin ( philadelphia, pa : dalcassian publishing company : 2023 ). on the body of the lord, translated by sr. albert marie surmanski, op ( washington, d. c. : catholic university of america press : 2017 ). on the causes of the properties of the elements, translated by irven m. resnick