the site of a hunting lodge built by the earl of cavan in the 19th century. its notoriety arises from an incident in 1894 in which the then owner, an englishwoman, mrs agnes mcdonnell, was savagely beaten and the house set alight by a local man, james lynchehaun. lynchehaun had been employed by mcdonnell as her land agent, but the two fell out and he was sacked and told to quit his accommodation on her estate. a lengthy legal battle ensued, with lynchehaun refusing to leave. at the time, in the 1890s, the issue of land ownership in ireland was politically charged. after the events at the valley house in 1895, lynchehaun would falsely claim his actions were carried out on behalf of the irish republican brotherhood and motivated by politics. he escaped custody after serving seven years and fled to the united states seeking political asylum ( although michael davitt refused to shake his hand, calling lynchehaun a " murderer " ), where he successfully defeated legal attempts by the british authorities to have him extradited to face charges arising from the attack and the burning of the valley house. agnes mcdonnell suffered terrible injuries from the attack but survived and lived for another 23 years, dying in 1923. lynchehaun is said to have returned to achill on two occasions, once in disguise as an american tourist, and eventually died in girvan, scotland, in 1937. the valley house is now a hostel and bar. the deserted village close by dugort, at the base of slievemore mountain lies the deserted village. there are approximately 80 ruined houses in the village. the houses were built of unmortared stone, which means that no cement or mortar was used to hold the stones together. each house consisted of just one room and this room was used as a kitchen, living room, bedroom and even a stable. if one looks at the fields around the deserted village and right up the mountain, one can see the tracks in the fields of ' lazy beds ', which is the way crops like potatoes were grown. in achill, as in many areas of ireland, a system called ' rundale ' was used for farming. this meant that the land around a village was rented from a landlord. this land was then shared by all the villagers to graze their cattle and sheep. each family would then have two or three small pieces of land scattered about the village, which they used to grow crops. for many years people lived in the village and then in 1845