of factors. these included a need for defence, economy of space, and convenience of access. the layout of buildings became compact and orderly. larger buildings were erected and defence was provided by strong outside walls. within the walls, the buildings were arranged around one or more open courts surrounded by cloisters. the usual arrangement for monasteries of the eastern world is exemplified in the plan of the convent of the great lavra at mount athos. with reference to the diagram, right, the convent of the great lavra is enclosed within a strong and lofty blank stone wall. the area within the wall is between three and four acres ( 12, 000 and 16, 000 m2 ). the longer side is about in length. there is only one entrance, which is located on the north side ( a ), defended by three iron doors. near the entrance is a large tower ( m ), a constant feature in the monasteries of the levant ( eastern mediterranean area ). there is a small postern gate at l. the enceinte comprises two large open courts, surrounded with buildings connected with cloister galleries of wood or stone. the outer court, which is the larger by far, contains the granaries and storehouses ( k ), the kitchen ( h ) and other offices connected with the refectory ( g ). immediately adjacent to the gateway is a two - storied guest - house, entered from a cloister ( c ). the inner court is surrounded by a cloister ( ee ) from which one enters the monks ' cells ( ii ). in the centre of this court stands the katholikon or conventual church, a square building with an apse of the cruciform domical byzantine type, approached by a domed narthex. in front of the church stands a marble fountain ( f ), covered by a dome supported on columns. opening from the western side of the cloister, but actually standing in the outer court, is the refectory ( g ), a large cruciform ( cross shaped ) building, about square, decorated within with frescoes of saints. at the upper end is a semicircular recess, similar to the triclinium of the lateran palace in rome, in which is placed the seat of the hegumenos or abbot. this apartment is chiefly used as a meeting place, with the monks usually taking their meals in their separate cells. adoption of the roman villa plan monasticism in the west began with the activities