##a, which has a relatively reflective surface, is normally visible to the naked eye. when favorably positioned, 4 vesta can be seen in dark skies. rarely, small asteroids passing close to earth may be visible to the naked eye for a short amount of time., the minor planet center had data on 1, 199, 224 minor planets in the inner and outer solar system, of which about 614, 690 had enough information to be given numbered designations. discovery of ceres in 1772, german astronomer johann elert bode, citing johann daniel titius, published a numerical procession known as the titius – bode law ( now discredited ). except for an unexplained gap between mars and jupiter, bode ' s formula seemed to predict the orbits of the known planets. he wrote the following explanation for the existence of a " missing planet " : this latter point seems in particular to follow from the astonishing relation which the known six planets observe in their distances from the sun. let the distance from the sun to saturn be taken as 100, then mercury is separated by 4 such parts from the sun. venus is 4 + 3 = 7. the earth 4 + 6 = 10. mars 4 + 12 = 16. now comes a gap in this so orderly progression. after mars there follows a space of 4 + 24 = 28 parts, in which no planet has yet been seen. can one believe that the founder of the universe had left this space empty? certainly not. from here we come to the distance of jupiter by 4 + 48 = 52 parts, and finally to that of saturn by 4 + 96 = 100 parts. bode ' s formula predicted another planet would be found with an orbital radius near 2. 8 astronomical units ( au ), or 420 million km, from the sun. the titius – bode law got a boost with william herschel ' s discovery of uranus near the predicted distance for a planet beyond saturn. in 1800, a group headed by franz xaver von zach, editor of the german astronomical journal monatliche correspondenz ( monthly correspondence ), sent requests to 24 experienced astronomers ( whom he dubbed the " celestial police " ), asking that they combine their efforts and begin a methodical search for the expected planet. although they did not discover ceres, they later found the asteroids 2 pallas, 3 juno and 4 vesta. one of the astronomers selected for the search was giuseppe piazzi, a catholic priest at the academy of palermo, sicily. before receiving his invitation