which spontaneously ignites on contact with air ; contact with damp air results in the release of copious quantities of ammonia gas. despite these difficulties, the waste is used as a filler in asphalt and concrete. applications metal the global production of aluminium in 2016 was 58. 8 million metric tons. it exceeded that of any other metal except iron ( 1, 231 million metric tons ). aluminium is almost always alloyed, which markedly improves its mechanical properties, especially when tempered. for example, the common aluminium foils and beverage cans are alloys of 92 % to 99 % aluminium. the main alloying agents are copper, zinc, magnesium, manganese, and silicon ( e. g., duralumin ) with the levels of other metals in a few percent by weight. aluminium, both wrought and cast, has been alloyed with : manganese, silicon, magnesium, copper and zinc among others. for example, the kynal family of alloys was developed by the british chemical manufacturer imperial chemical industries. the major uses for aluminium metal are in : transportation ( automobiles, aircraft, trucks, railway cars, marine vessels, bicycles, spacecraft, etc. ). aluminium is used because of its low density ; packaging ( cans, foil, frame, etc. ). aluminium is used because it is non - toxic ( see below ), non - adsorptive, and splinter - proof ; building and construction ( windows, doors, siding, building wire, sheathing, roofing, etc. ). since steel is cheaper, aluminium is used when lightness, corrosion resistance, or engineering features are important ; electricity - related uses ( conductor alloys, motors, and generators, transformers, capacitors, etc. ). aluminium is used because it is relatively cheap, highly conductive, has adequate mechanical strength and low density, and resists corrosion ; a wide range of household items, from cooking utensils to furniture. low density, good appearance, ease of fabrication, and durability are the key factors of aluminium usage ; machinery and equipment ( processing equipment, pipes, tools ). aluminium is used because of its corrosion resistance, non - pyrophoricity, and mechanical strength. compounds the great majority ( about 90 % ) of aluminium oxide is converted to metallic aluminium. being a very hard material ( mohs hardness 9 ), alumina is widely used as an abrasive ; being extraordinarily chemically inert, it is useful in highly reactive environments such as high pressure sodium lamps. aluminium oxide