you in rockland where you imitate the shade of my mother, " once again showing the association between solomon and his mother. ginsberg received a letter from his mother after her death responding to a copy of " howl " he had sent her. it admonished ginsberg to be good and stay away from drugs ; she says, " the key is in the window, the key is in the sunlight at the window — i have the key — get married allen don ' t take drugs — the key is in the bars, in the sunlight in the window. " in a letter she wrote to ginsberg ' s brother eugene, she said, " god ' s informers come to my bed, and god himself i saw in the sky. the sunshine showed too, a key on the side of the window for me to get out. the yellow of the sunshine, also showed the key on the side of the window. " these letters and the absence of a facility to recite kaddish inspired ginsberg to write " kaddish ", which makes references to many details from naomi ' s life, ginsberg ' s experiences with her, and the letter, including the lines " the key is in the light " and " the key is in the window. " new york beats in ginsberg ' s first year at columbia he met fellow undergraduate lucien carr, who introduced him to a number of future beat writers, including jack kerouac, william s. burroughs, and john clellon holmes. they bonded, because they saw in one another an excitement about the potential of american youth, a potential that existed outside the strict conformist confines of post – world war ii, mccarthy - era america. ginsberg and carr talked excitedly about a " new vision " ( a phrase adapted from yeats ' " a vision " ), for literature and america. carr also introduced ginsberg to neal cassady, for whom ginsberg had a long infatuation. in the first chapter of his 1957 novel on the road kerouac described the meeting between ginsberg and cassady. kerouac saw them as the dark ( ginsberg ) and light ( cassady ) side of their " new vision ", a perception stemming partly from ginsberg ' s association with communism, of which kerouac had become increasingly distrustful. though ginsberg was never a member of the communist party, kerouac named him " carlo marx " in on the road. this was a source of strain in their relationship. also, in new