rome of bricks ; i leave to you one of marble. " although there is some truth in the literal meaning of this, cassius dio asserts that it was a metaphor for the empire ' s strength. marble could be found in buildings of rome before augustus, but it was not extensively used as a building material until the reign of augustus. although this did not apply to the subura slums, which were still as rickety and fire - prone as ever, he did leave a mark on the monumental topography of the centre and of the campus martius, with the ( altar of peace ) and monumental sundial, whose central gnomon was an obelisk taken from egypt. the relief sculptures decorating the visually augmented the written record of augustus ' s triumphs in the res gestae. its reliefs depicted the imperial pageants of the praetorians, the vestals, and the citizenry of rome. he also built the temple of caesar, the temple of jupiter tonans, the temple of apollo palatinus and the baths of agrippa, and the forum of augustus with its temple of mars ultor. other projects were either encouraged by him, such as the theatre of balbus, and agrippa ' s construction of the pantheon, or funded by him in the name of others, often relations ( e. g. portico of octavia, theatre of marcellus ). even his mausoleum of augustus was built before his death to house members of his family. to celebrate his victory at the battle of actium, the arch of augustus was built in 29 bc near the entrance of the temple of castor and pollux, and widened in 19 bc to include a triple - arch design. after the death of agrippa in 12 bc, a solution had to be found in maintaining rome ' s water supply system. this came about because it was overseen by agrippa when he served as aedile, and was even funded by him afterwards when he was a private citizen paying at his own expense. in that year, augustus arranged a system where the senate designated three of its members as prime commissioners in charge of the water supply and to ensure that rome ' s aqueducts did not fall into disrepair. in the late augustan era, the commission of five senators called the curatores locorum publicorum iudicandorum ( translated as " supervisors of public property " ) was put in charge of maintaining public buildings and temples of the state cult. augustus created the senatorial group of the curator