inch diskette, being an early adopter of the usb connector, and coming pre - installed with internet connectivity ( the " i " in imac ) via ethernet and a dial - up modem. the device also had a striking teardrop shape and translucent materials, designed by jonathan ive, who although hired by amelio, would go on to work collaboratively with jobs for the next decade to chart a new course the design of apple ' s products. a little more than a year later on july 21, 1999, apple introduced the ibook, a laptop for consumers. it was the culmination of a strategy established by jobs to produce only four products : refined versions of the power macintosh g3 desktop and powerbook g3 laptop for professionals, along with the imac desktop and ibook laptop for consumers. jobs felt the small product line allowed for a greater focus on quality and innovation. at around the same time, apple also completed numerous acquisitions to create a portfolio of digital media production software for both professionals and consumers. apple acquired of macromedia ' s key grip digital video editing software project which was renamed final cut pro when it was launched on the retail market in april 1999. the development of key grip also led to apple ' s release of the consumer video - editing product imovie in october 1999. next, apple successfully acquired the german company astarte in april 2000, which had developed the dvd authoring software dvdirector, which apple would sell as the professional - oriented dvd studio pro software product, and used the same technology to create idvd for the consumer market. in 2000, apple purchased the soundjam mp audio player software from casady & greene. apple renamed the program itunes, while simplifying the user interface and adding the ability to burn cds. 2001 would be a pivotal year for the apple with the company making three announcements that would change the course of the company. the first announcement came on march 24, 2001, that apple was nearly ready to release a new modern operating system, mac os x. the announcement came after numerous failed attempts in the early 1990s, and several years of development. mac os x was based on nextstep, openstep, and bsd unix, with apple aiming to combine the stability, reliability, and security of unix with the ease of use afforded by an overhauled user interface, heavily influenced by nextstep. to aid users in migrating from mac os 9, the new operating system allowed the use of os 9 applications within mac os x via the