success in demonstrating the learning abilities of a young deaf girl alice cogswell, traveled to europe in order to learn deaf pedagogy from european institutions. ultimately, gallaudet chose to adopt the methods of the french institut national de jeunes sourds de paris, and convinced laurent clerc, an assistant to the school ' s founder charles - michel de l ' epee, to accompany him back to the united states. upon his return, gallaudet founded the asd on april 15, 1817. the largest group of students during the first seven decades of the school were from martha ' s vineyard, and they brought mvsl with them. there were also 44 students from around henniker, new hampshire, and 27 from the sandy river valley in maine, each of which had their own village sign language. other students brought knowledge of their own home signs. laurent clerc, the first teacher at asd, taught using french sign language ( lsf ), which itself had developed in the parisian school for the deaf established in 1755. from that situation of language contact, a new language emerged, now known as asl. more schools for the deaf were founded after asd, and knowledge of asl spread to those schools. in addition, the rise of deaf community organizations bolstered the continued use of asl. societies such as the national association of the deaf and the national fraternal society of the deaf held national conventions that attracted signers from across the country. all of that contributed to asl ' s wide use over a large geographical area, atypical of a sign language. while oralism, an approach to educating deaf students focusing on oral language, had previously been used in american schools, the milan congress made it dominant and effectively banned the use of sign languages at schools in the united states and europe. however, the efforts of deaf advocates and educators, more lenient enforcement of the congress ' s mandate, and the use of asl in religious education and proselytism ensured greater use and documentation compared to european sign languages, albeit more influenced by fingerspelled loanwords and borrowed idioms from english as students were societally pressured to achieve fluency in spoken language. nevertheless, oralism remained the predominant method of deaf education up to the 1950s. linguists did not consider sign language to be true " language " but as something inferior. recognition of the legitimacy of asl was achieved by william stokoe, a linguist who arrived at gallaudet university in 1955 when that was still