philosophy : in his twenty - eighth year he [ plotinus ] felt the impulse to study philosophy and was recommended to the teachers in alexandria who then had the highest reputation ; but he came away from their lectures so depressed and full of sadness that he told his trouble to one of his friends. the friend, understanding the desire of his heart, sent him to ammonius, whom he had not so far tried. he went and heard him, and said to his friend, " this is the man i was looking for. " from that day he stayed continually with ammonius and acquired so complete a training in philosophy that he became eager to make acquaintance with the persian philosophical discipline and that prevailing among the indians. according to porphyry, the parents of ammonius were christians, but upon learning greek philosophy, ammonius rejected his parents ' religion for paganism. this conversion is contested by the christian writers jerome and eusebius, who state that ammonius remained a christian throughout his lifetime : [ porphyry ] plainly utters a falsehood ( for what will not an opposer of christians do? ) when he says that... ammonius fell from a life of piety into heathen customs.... ammonius held the divine philosophy unshaken and unadulterated to the end of his life. his works yet extant show this, as he is celebrated among many for the writings which he has left. however, we are told by longinus that ammonius wrote nothing, and if ammonius was the principal influence on plotinus, then it is unlikely that ammonius would have been a christian. one way to explain much of the confusion concerning ammonius is to assume that there were two people called ammonius : ammonius saccas who taught plotinus, and an ammonius the christian who wrote biblical texts. another explanation might be that there was only one ammonius but that origen, who found the neo - platonist views of his teacher essential to his own beliefs about the essential nature of christianity, chose to suppress ammonius ' choice of paganism over christianity. the insistence of eusebius, origen ' s pupil, and jerome, all of whom were recognized fathers of the christian church, that ammonius saccas had not rejected his christian roots would be easier for christians to accept than the assertion of prophyry, who was a pagan, that ammonius had chosen paganism over christianity. to add to the