the act was passed, disability rights activists with physical disabilities coalesced in front of the capitol building, shed their crutches, wheelchairs, powerchairs and other assistive devices, and immediately proceeded to crawl and pull their bodies up all 100 of the capitol ' s front steps, without warning. as the activists did so, many of them chanted " ada now ", and " vote, now ". some activists who remained at the bottom of the steps held signs and yelled words of encouragement at the " capitol crawlers ". jennifer keelan, a second grader with cerebral palsy, was videotaped as she pulled herself up the steps, using mostly her hands and arms, saying " i ' ll take all night if i have to. " this direct action is reported to have " inconvenienced " several senators and to have pushed them to approve the act. while there are those who do not attribute much overall importance to this action, the " capitol crawl " of 1990 is seen by some present - day disability activists in the united states as a central act for encouraging the ada into law. final passage senator tom harkin ( d - ia ) authored what became the final bill and was its chief sponsor in the senate. harkin delivered part of his introduction speech in sign language, saying it was so his deaf brother could understand. george h. w. bush, on signing the measure on july 26, 1990, said : ada amendments act, 2008 the ada defines a covered disability as a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, a history of having such an impairment, or being regarded as having such an impairment. the equal employment opportunity commission ( eeoc ) was charged with interpreting the 1990 law with regard to discrimination in employment. the eeoc developed regulations limiting an individual ' s impairment to one that " severely or significantly restricts " a major life activity. the adaaa directed the eeoc to amend its regulations and replace " severely or significantly " with " substantially limits ", a more lenient standard. on september 25, 2008, president george w. bush signed the ada amendments act of 2008 ( adaaa ) into law. the amendment broadened the definition of " disability ", thereby extending the ada ' s protections to a greater number of people. the adaaa also added to the ada examples of " major life activities " including, but not limited to, " caring for oneself, performing manual tasks, seeing, hearing, eating, sleeping, walking, standing, lifting