##s at a time, rotating through all of their dens every six months. during the summer, they may rest outside their den during the night and sleep underground during the heat of the day. aardwolves are not fast runners nor are they particularly adept at fighting off predators. therefore, when threatened, the aardwolf may attempt to mislead its foe by doubling back on its tracks. if confronted, it may raise its mane in an attempt to appear more menacing. it also emits a foul - smelling liquid from its anal glands. feeding the aardwolf feeds primarily on termites and more specifically on trinervitermes. this genus of termites has different species throughout the aardwolf ' s range. in east africa, they eat trinervitermes bettonianus, in central africa, they eat trinervitermes rhodesiensis, and in southern africa, they eat t. trinervoides. their technique consists of licking them off the ground as opposed to the aardvark, which digs into the mound. they locate their food by sound and also from the scent secreted by the soldier termites. an aardwolf may consume up to 250, 000 termites per night using its long, sticky tongue. they do not destroy the termite mound or consume the entire colony, thus ensuring that the termites can rebuild and provide a continuous supply of food. they often memorize the location of such nests and return to them every few months. during certain seasonal events, such as the onset of the rainy season and the cold of midwinter, the primary termites become scarce, so the need for other foods becomes pronounced. during these times, the southern aardwolf will seek out hodotermes mossambicus, a type of harvester termite active in the afternoon, which explains some of their diurnal behavior in the winter. the eastern aardwolf, during the rainy season, subsists on termites from the genera odontotermes and macrotermes. they are also known to feed on other insects, larvae, eggs, and, some sources say, occasionally small mammals and birds, but these constitute a very small percentage of their total diet. unlike other hyenas, aardwolves do not scavenge or kill larger animals. contrary to popular myths, aardwolves do not eat carrion, and if they are seen eating while hunched over a dead carcass,