in an elliptical medium earth orbit as apollo9, in early 1969. the " f " mission would test the csm and lm in lunar orbit, and the " g " mission would be the finale, the moon landing. production of the lm fell behind schedule, and when apollo8 ' s lm - 3 arrived at the kennedy space center ( ksc ) in june 1968, more than a hundred significant defects were discovered, leading bob gilruth, the director of the manned spacecraft center ( msc ), and others to conclude that there was no prospect of lm - 3 being ready to fly in 1968. indeed, it was possible that delivery would slip to february or march 1969. following the original seven - step plan would have meant delaying the " d " and subsequent missions, and endangering the program ' s goal of a lunar landing before the end of 1969. george low, the manager of the apollo spacecraft program office, proposed a solution in august 1968 to keep the program on track despite the lm delay. since the next csm ( designated as " csm - 103 " ) would be ready three months before lm - 3, a csm - only mission could be flown in december 1968. instead of repeating the " c " mission flight of apollo7, this csm could be sent all the way to the moon, with the possibility of entering a lunar orbit and returning to earth. the new mission would also allow nasa to test lunar landing procedures that would otherwise have had to wait until apollo10, the scheduled " f " mission. this also meant that the medium earth orbit " e " mission could be dispensed with. the net result was that only the " d " mission had to be delayed, and the plan for lunar landing in mid - 1969 could remain on timeline. on august 9, 1968, low discussed the idea with gilruth, flight director chris kraft, and the director of flight crew operations, donald slayton. they then flew to the marshall space flight center ( msfc ) in huntsville, alabama, where they met with ksc director kurt debus, apollo program director samuel c. phillips, rocco petrone, and wernher von braun. kraft considered the proposal feasible from a flight control standpoint ; debus and petrone agreed that the next saturn v, as - 503, could be made ready by december 1 ; and von braun was confident the pogo oscillation problems that had afflicted apollo6 had been fixed. almost every senior manager