improvement of the human race might be reached not so much from outside as from within, not so much by theory and instruction as rather by the path of generation. plato had something of the kind in mind when, in the fifth book of his republic, he explained his plan for increasing and improving his warrior caste. if we could castrate all scoundrels and stick all stupid geese in a convent, and give men of noble character a whole harem, and procure men, and indeed thorough men, for all girls of intellect and understanding, then a generation would soon arise which would produce a better age than that of pericles. in another context, schopenhauer reiterated his eugenic thesis : " if you want utopian plans, i would say : the only solution to the problem is the despotism of the wise and noble members of a genuine aristocracy, a genuine nobility, achieved by mating the most magnanimous men with the cleverest and most gifted women. this proposal constitutes my utopia and my platonic republic. " analysts ( e. g., keith ansell - pearson ) have suggested that schopenhauer ' s anti - egalitarianist sentiment and his support for eugenics influenced the neo - aristocratic philosophy of friedrich nietzsche, who initially considered schopenhauer his mentor. animal welfare as a consequence of his monistic philosophy, schopenhauer was very concerned about animal welfare. for him, all individual animals, including humans, are essentially phenomenal manifestations of the one underlying will. for him the word " will " designates force, power, impulse, energy, and desire ; it is the closest word we have that can signify both the essence of all external things and our own direct, inner experience. since every living thing possesses will, humans and animals are fundamentally the same and can recognize themselves in each other. for this reason, he claimed that a good person would have sympathy for animals, who are our fellow sufferers. in 1841, he praised the establishment in london of the society for the prevention of cruelty to animals, and in philadelphia of the animals ' friends society. schopenhauer went so far as to protest using the pronoun " it " in reference to animals because that led to treatment of them as though they were inanimate things. to reinforce his points, schopenhauer referred to anecdotal reports of the look in the eyes of a monkey who had been shot and also the grief of a baby elephant whose mother had been killed by a