more precisely in formal quantum mechanical language. they are approximate solutions to the schrodinger equation for the electrons bound to the atom by the electric field of the atom ' s nucleus. specifically, in quantum mechanics, the state of an atom, i. e., an eigenstate of the atomic hamiltonian, is approximated by an expansion ( see configuration interaction expansion and basis set ) into linear combinations of anti - symmetrized products ( slater determinants ) of one - electron functions. the spatial components of these one - electron functions are called atomic orbitals. ( when one considers also their spin component, one speaks of atomic spin orbitals. ) a state is actually a function of the coordinates of all the electrons, so that their motion is correlated, but this is often approximated by this independent - particle model of products of single electron wave functions. ( the london dispersion force, for example, depends on the correlations of the motion of the electrons. ) in atomic physics, the atomic spectral lines correspond to transitions ( quantum leaps ) between quantum states of an atom. these states are labeled by a set of quantum numbers summarized in the term symbol and usually associated with particular electron configurations, i. e., by occupation schemes of atomic orbitals ( for example, 1s2 2s2 2p6 for the ground state of neon - term symbol : 1s0 ). this notation means that the corresponding slater determinants have a clear higher weight in the configuration interaction expansion. the atomic orbital concept is therefore a key concept for visualizing the excitation process associated with a given transition. for example, one can say for a given transition that it corresponds to the excitation of an electron from an occupied orbital to a given unoccupied orbital. nevertheless, one has to keep in mind that electrons are fermions ruled by the pauli exclusion principle and cannot be distinguished from each other. moreover, it sometimes happens that the configuration interaction expansion converges very slowly and that one cannot speak about simple one - determinant wave function at all. this is the case when electron correlation is large. fundamentally, an atomic orbital is a one - electron wave function, even though many electrons are not in one - electron atoms, and so the one - electron view is an approximation. when thinking about orbitals, we are often given an orbital visualization heavily influenced by the hartree – fock approximation, which is one way to reduce the complexities of molecular orbital theory. types of orbital