a founding member state of the community of portuguese language countries ( cplp ), also known as the lusophone commonwealth, an international organization and political association of lusophone nations across four continents, where portuguese is an official language. on 16 october 2014, angola was elected for the second time a non - permanent member of the united nations security council, with 190 favorable votes out of a total of 193. the term of office began on 1 january 2015 and expired on 31 december 2016. since january 2014, the republic of angola has been chairing the international conference for the great lakes region ( cirgl ). [ 80 ] in 2015, cirgl executive secretary ntumba luaba said that angola is the example to be followed by the members of the organization, due to the significant progress made during the 12 years of peace, namely in terms of socio - economic stability and political - military. human rights angola was classified as ' not free ' by freedom house in the freedom in the world 2014 report. the report noted that the august 2012 parliamentary elections, in which the ruling popular movement for the liberation of angola won more than 70 % of the vote, suffered from serious flaws, including outdated and inaccurate voter rolls. voter turnout dropped from 80 % in 2008 to 60 %. a 2012 report by the u. s. department of state said, " the three most important human rights abuses [ in 2012 ] were official corruption and impunity ; limits on the freedoms of assembly, association, speech, and press ; and cruel and excessive punishment, including reported cases of torture and beatings as well as unlawful killings by police and other security personnel. " angola ranked forty - two of forty - eight sub - saharan african states on the 2007 index of african governance list and scored poorly on the 2013 ibrahim index of african governance. it was ranked 39 out of 52 sub - saharan african countries, scoring particularly badly in the areas of participation and human rights, sustainable economic opportunity and human development. the ibrahim index uses a number of variables to compile its list which reflects the state of governance in africa. in 2019, homosexual acts were decriminalized in angola, and the government also prohibited discrimination based on sexual orientation. the vote was overwhelming : 155 for, 1 against, 7 abstaining. economy angola has diamonds, oil, gold, copper and rich wildlife ( which was dramatically depleted during the civil war ), forest and fossil fuels. since independence, oil and diamonds have been the most important economic resource. smallholder and plantation agriculture dramatically dropped in