address, lincoln said that, because he holds " such a provision to now be implied constitutional law, i have no objection to its being made express and irrevocable ". a few weeks before the war, lincoln sent a letter to every governor informing them congress had passed a joint resolution to amend the constitution. on february 11, 1861, lincoln gave a particularly emotional farewell address upon leaving springfield ; he would never again return to springfield alive. lincoln traveled east in a special train. due to secessionist plots, a then - unprecedented attention to security was given to him and his train. en route to his inauguration, lincoln addressed crowds and legislatures across the north. the president - elect evaded suspected assassins in baltimore. on february 23, 1861, he arrived in disguise in washington, d. c., which was placed under substantial military guard. lincoln directed his inaugural address to the south, proclaiming once again that he had no inclination to abolish slavery in the southern states : lincoln cited his plans for banning the expansion of slavery as the key source of conflict between north and south, stating " one section of our country believes slavery is right and ought to be extended, while the other believes it is wrong and ought not to be extended. this is the only substantial dispute. " the president ended his address with an appeal to the people of the south : " we are not enemies, but friends. we must not be enemies.... the mystic chords of memory, stretching from every battlefield, and patriot grave, to every living heart and hearthstone, all over this broad land, will yet swell the chorus of the union, when again touched, as surely they will be, by the better angels of our nature. " the failure of the peace conference of 1861 signaled that legislative compromise was impossible. by march 1861, no leaders of the insurrection had proposed rejoining the union on any terms. meanwhile, lincoln and the republican leadership agreed that the dismantling of the union could not be tolerated. in his second inaugural address, lincoln looked back on the situation at the time and said : " both parties deprecated war, but one of them would make war rather than let the nation survive, and the other would accept war rather than let it perish, and the war came. " civil war major robert anderson, commander of the union ' s fort sumter in charleston, south carolina, sent a request for provisions to washington, and lincoln ' s order to meet that request was seen by the secessionists as an act of war.