then took the throne for himself, becoming the sole ruler of the huns. solitary kingship in 447, attila again rode south into the eastern roman empire through moesia. the roman army, under gothic magister militum arnegisclus, met him in the battle of the utus and was defeated, though not without inflicting heavy losses. the huns were left unopposed and rampaged through the balkans as far as thermopylae. constantinople itself was saved by the isaurian troops of magister militum per orientem zeno and protected by the intervention of prefect constantinus, who organized the reconstruction of the walls that had been previously damaged by earthquakes and, in some places, to construct a new line of fortification in front of the old. callinicus, in his life of saint hypatius, wrote : in the west in 450, attila proclaimed his intent to attack the visigoth kingdom of toulouse by making an alliance with emperor valentinian iii. he had previously been on good terms with the western roman empire and its influential general flavius aetius. aetius had spent a brief exile among the huns in 433, and the troops that attila provided against the goths and bagaudae had helped earn him the largely honorary title of magister militum in the west. the gifts and diplomatic efforts of geiseric, who opposed and feared the visigoths, may also have influenced attila ' s plans. however, valentinian ' s sister was honoria, who had sent the hunnish king a plea for help — and her engagement ring — in order to escape her forced betrothal to a roman senator in the spring of 450. honoria may not have intended a proposal of marriage, but attila chose to interpret her message as such. he accepted, asking for half of the western empire as dowry. when valentinian discovered the plan, only the influence of his mother galla placidia convinced him to exile honoria, rather than killing her. he also wrote to attila, strenuously denying the legitimacy of the supposed marriage proposal. attila sent an emissary to ravenna to proclaim that honoria was innocent, that the proposal had been legitimate, and that he would come to claim what was rightfully his. attila interfered in a succession struggle after the death of a frankish ruler. attila supported the elder son, while aetius supported the younger. ( the location and identity of these