history of economic thought ". he went on to call the rift subversive to economic analysis and the historical understanding of the fall of eastern european communism. in a 1999 book published by the ludwig von mises institute, hoppe asserted that rothbard was the leader of the " mainstream within austrian economics " and contrasted rothbard with nobel laureate friedrich hayek, whom he identified as a british empiricist and an opponent of the thought of mises and rothbard. hoppe acknowledged that hayek was the most prominent austrian economist within academia, but stated that hayek was an opponent of the austrian tradition which led from carl menger and bohm - bawerk through mises to rothbard. austrian economist walter block says that the austrian school can be distinguished from other schools of economic thought through two categories — economic theory and political theory. according to block, while hayek can be considered an austrian economist, his views on political theory clash with the libertarian political theory which block sees as an integral part of the austrian school. both criticism from hoppe and block to hayek apply to carl menger, the founder of the austrian school. hoppe emphasizes that hayek, which for him is from the english empirical tradition, is an opponent of the supposed rationalist tradition of the austrian school ; menger made strong critiques to rationalism in his works in similar vein as hayek ' s. he emphasized the idea that there are several institutions which were not deliberately created, have a kind of " superior wisdom " and serve important functions to society. he also talked about burke and the english tradition to sustain these positions. when saying that the libertarian political theory is an integral part of the austrian school and supposing hayek is not a libertarian, block excludes menger from the austrian school too since menger seems to defend broader state activity than hayek — for example, progressive taxation and extensive labour legislation. economists of the hayekian view are affiliated with the cato institute, george mason university ( gmu ) and new york university, among other institutions. they include peter boettke, roger garrison, steven horwitz, peter leeson and george reisman. economists of the mises – rothbard view include walter block, hans - hermann hoppe, jesus huerta de soto and robert p. murphy, each of whom is associated with the mises institute and some of them also with academic institutions. according to murphy, a " truce between ( for lack of better terms ) the gmu austro - libertarians and the auburn