chlorine and light convert hydrocarbons to sulfonyl chlorides. nucleophilic abstraction can be used to separate an alkane from a metal. alkyl groups can be transferred from one compound to another by transmetalation reactions. a mixture of antimony pentafluoride ( sbf5 ) and fluorosulfonic acid ( hso3f ), called magic acid, can protonate alkanes. occurrence occurrence of alkanes in the universe alkanes form a small portion of the atmospheres of the outer gas planets such as jupiter ( 0. 1 % methane, 2 ppm ethane ), saturn ( 0. 2 % methane, 5 ppm ethane ), uranus ( 1. 99 % methane, 2. 5 ppm ethane ) and neptune ( 1. 5 % methane, 1. 5 ppm ethane ). titan ( 1. 6 % methane ), a satellite of saturn, was examined by the huygens probe, which indicated that titan ' s atmosphere periodically rains liquid methane onto the moon ' s surface. also on titan, the cassini mission has imaged seasonal methane / ethane lakes near the polar regions of titan. methane and ethane have also been detected in the tail of the comet hyakutake. chemical analysis showed that the abundances of ethane and methane were roughly equal, which is thought to imply that its ices formed in interstellar space, away from the sun, which would have evaporated these volatile molecules. alkanes have also been detected in meteorites such as carbonaceous chondrites. occurrence of alkanes on earth traces of methane gas ( about 0. 0002 % or 1745 ppb ) occur in the earth ' s atmosphere, produced primarily by methanogenic microorganisms, such as archaea in the gut of ruminants. the most important commercial sources for alkanes are natural gas and oil. natural gas contains primarily methane and ethane, with some propane and butane : oil is a mixture of liquid alkanes and other hydrocarbons. these hydrocarbons were formed when marine animals and plants ( zooplankton and phytoplankton ) died and sank to the bottom of ancient seas and were covered with sediments in an anoxic environment and converted over many millions of years at high temperatures and high pressure to their current form. natural gas resulted thereby for example from the following reaction : c6