the early 19th century that use free reeds driven by a bellows. an instrument called accordion was first patented in 1829 by cyrill demian, of armenian origin, in vienna. demian ' s instrument bore little resemblance to modern instruments. it only had a left hand buttonboard, with the right hand simply operating the bellows. one key feature for which demian sought the patent was the sounding of an entire chord by depressing one key. his instrument also could sound two different chords with the same key, one for each bellows direction ( a bisonoric action ). at that time in vienna, mouth harmonicas with kanzellen ( chambers ) had already been available for many years, along with bigger instruments driven by hand bellows. the diatonic key arrangement was also already in use on mouth - blown instruments. demian ' s patent thus covered an accompanying instrument : an accordion played with the left hand, opposite to the way that contemporary chromatic hand harmonicas were played, small and light enough for travelers to take with them and used to accompany singing. the patent also described instruments with both bass and treble sections, although demian preferred the bass - only instrument owing to its cost and weight advantages. the accordion was introduced from germany into britain in about the year 1828. the instrument was noted in the times in 1831 as one new to british audiences and was not favourably reviewed, but nevertheless it soon became popular. it had also become popular with new yorkers by the mid - 1840s. after demian ' s invention, other accordions appeared, some featuring only the right - handed keyboard for playing melodies. it took english inventor charles wheatstone to bring both chords and keyboard together in one squeezebox. his 1844 patent for what he called a concertina also featured the ability to easily tune the reeds from the outside with a simple tool. the austrian musician adolf muller described a great variety of instruments in his 1854 book. at the time, vienna and london had a close musical relationship, with musicians often performing in both cities in the same year, so it is possible that wheatstone was aware of this type of instrument and may have used them to put his key - arrangement ideas into practice. jeune ' s flutina resembles wheatstone ' s concertina in internal construction and tone colour, but it appears to complement demian ' s accordion functionally. the flutina is a one - sided bisonoric melody - only instrument whose keys are operated with the right hand while the bellows is operated with the left. when the