, a logistical transportation regiment and a field artillery brigade. the army further includes the special forces brigade ( including commandos and special operations units ), but this unit is under the direct command of the general staff of the faa. air force the national air force of angola ( fana, forca aerea nacional de angola ) is the air component of the faa. it is organized in six aviation regiments, each including several squadrons. to each of the regiments correspond an air base. besides the aviation regiments, there is also a pilot training school. the air force ' s personnel total about 8, 000 ; its equipment includes transport aircraft and six russian - manufactured sukhoi su - 27 fighter aircraft. in 2002, one was lost during the civil war with unita forces. in 1991, the air force / air defense forces had 8, 000 personnel and 90 combat - capable aircraft, including 22 fighters, 59 fighter ground attack aircraft and 16 attack helicopters. navy the angola navy ( mga, marinha de guerra de angola ) is the naval component of the faa. it is organized in two naval zones ( north and south ), with naval bases in luanda, lobito and mocamedes. it includes a marines brigade and a marines school, based in ambriz. the navy numbers about 1, 000 personnel and operates only a handful of small patrol craft and barges. the navy has been neglected and ignored as a military arm mainly due to the guerrilla struggle against the portuguese and the nature of the civil war. from the early 1990s to the present the angolan navy has shrunk from around 4, 200 personnel to around 1, 000, resulting in the loss of skills and expertise needed to maintain equipment. in order to protect angola ' s 1 600 km long coastline, the angolan navy is undergoing modernisation but is still lacking in many ways. portugal has been providing training through its technical military cooperation ( ctm ) programme. the navy is requesting procurement of a frigate, three corvettes, three offshore patrol vessel and additional fast patrol boats. most of the vessels in the navy ' s inventory dates back from the 1980s or earlier, and many of its ships are inoperable due to age and lack of maintenance. however the navy acquired new boats from spain and france in the 1990s. germany has delivered several fast attack craft for border protection in 2011. in september 2014 it was reported that the angolan navy would acquire seven macae - class patrol vessels from brazil as part of a technical memorandum of understanding ( mou ) covering the production