patron ' s eclipse led to the king appointing cynesige, a royal chaplain, instead. in september 1052, though, godwin returned from exile and his family was restored to power. by late 1053 ealdred was once more in royal favour. at some point, he was alleged to have accompanied swein on a pilgrimage to the holy land, but proof is lacking. in 1054 king edward sent ealdred to germany to obtain emperor henryiii ' s help in returning edward the exile, son of edmund ironside, to england. edmund ( reigned 1016 ) was an elder half - brother of king edward the confessor, and edmund ' s son edward was in hungary with king andrewi, having left england as an infant after his father ' s death and the accession of cnut as king of england. in this mission ealdred was somewhat successful and obtained insight into the working of the german church during a stay of a year with hermannii, the archbishop of cologne. he also was impressed with the buildings he saw, and later incorporated some of the german styles into his own constructions. the main objective of the mission, however, was to secure the return of edward ; but this failed, mainly because henryiii ' s relations with the hungarians were strained, and the emperor was unable or unwilling to help ealdred. ealdred was able to discover that edward was alive, and had a place at the hungarian court. although some sources say ealdred attended the coronation of emperor henryiv, this is not possible, as on the date henry was crowned, ealdred was in england consecrating an abbot. ealdred had returned to england by 1055, and brought with him a copy of the pontificale romano - germanicum, a set of liturgies. an extant copy of this work, currently manuscript cotton vitellus e xii, has been identified as a copy owned by ealdred. it appears likely that the rule of chrodegang, a continental set of ordinances for the communal life of secular canons, was introduced into england by ealdred sometime before 1059. probably he brought it back from germany, possibly in concert with harold. after ealdred ' s return to england he took charge of the sees of hereford and ramsbury. ealdred also administered winchcombe abbey and gloucester abbey. the authors of the handbook of british chronology third edition say he was named bishop of hereford in 1056, holding the see until he resigned it in 1060