causal explanation of the motions, but concentrated on providing a complete, geometric description that could explain observed motions without the contradictions inherent in ptolemy ' s model. other astronomical works alhazen wrote a total of twenty - five astronomical works, some concerning technical issues such as exact determination of the meridian, a second group concerning accurate astronomical observation, a third group concerning various astronomical problems and questions such as the location of the milky way ; alhazen made the first systematic effort of evaluating the milky way ' s parallax, combining ptolemy ' s data and his own. he concluded that the parallax is ( probably very much ) smaller than lunar parallax, and the milky way should be a celestial object. though he was not the first who argued that the milky way does not belong to the atmosphere, he is the first who did quantitative analysis for the claim. the fourth group consists of ten works on astronomical theory, including the doubts and model of the motions discussed above. mathematical works in mathematics, alhazen built on the mathematical works of euclid and thabit ibn qurra and worked on " the beginnings of the link between algebra and geometry ". he developed a formula for summing the first 100 natural numbers, using a geometric proof to prove the formula. geometry alhazen explored what is now known as the euclidean parallel postulate, the fifth postulate in euclid ' s elements, using a proof by contradiction, and in effect introducing the concept of motion into geometry. he formulated the lambert quadrilateral, which boris abramovich rozenfeld names the " ibn al - haytham – lambert quadrilateral ". he was criticised by omar khayyam who pointed that aristotle had condemned the use of motion in geometry. in elementary geometry, alhazen attempted to solve the problem of squaring the circle using the area of lunes ( crescent shapes ), but later gave up on the impossible task. the two lunes formed from a right triangle by erecting a semicircle on each of the triangle ' s sides, inward for the hypotenuse and outward for the other two sides, are known as the lunes of alhazen ; they have the same total area as the triangle itself. number theory alhazen ' s contributions to number theory include his work on perfect numbers. in his analysis and synthesis, he may have been the first to state that every even perfect number is of the form 2n−1 ( 2n − 1 ) where 2n − 1 is