certain adaptations for living on land, including the need to develop new means of locomotion. in the water, the sideways thrusts of their tails had propelled them forward, but on land, quite different mechanisms were required. their vertebral columns, limbs, limb girdles and musculature needed to be strong enough to raise them off the ground for locomotion and feeding. terrestrial adults discarded their lateral line systems and adapted their sensory systems to receive stimuli via the medium of the air. they needed to develop new methods to regulate their body heat to cope with fluctuations in ambient temperature. they developed behaviours suitable for reproduction in a terrestrial environment. their skins were exposed to harmful ultraviolet rays that had previously been absorbed by the water. the skin changed to become more protective and prevent excessive water loss. characteristics the superclass tetrapoda is divided into four classes of vertebrate animals with four limbs. reptiles, birds and mammals are amniotes, the eggs of which are either laid or carried by the female and are surrounded by several membranes, some of which are impervious. lacking these membranes, amphibians require water bodies for reproduction, although some species have developed various strategies for protecting or bypassing the vulnerable aquatic larval stage. they are not found in the sea with the exception of one or two frogs that live in brackish water in mangrove swamps ; the anderson ' s salamander meanwhile occurs in brackish or salt water lakes. on land, amphibians are restricted to moist habitats because of the need to keep their skin damp. modern amphibians have a simplified anatomy compared to their ancestors due to paedomorphosis, caused by two evolutionary trends : miniaturization and an unusually large genome, which result in a slower growth and development rate compared to other vertebrates. another reason for their size is associated with their rapid metamorphosis, which seems to have evolved only in the ancestors of lissamphibia ; in all other known lines the development was much more gradual. because a remodeling of the feeding apparatus means they do not eat during the metamorphosis, the metamorphosis has to go faster the smaller the individual is, so it happens at an early stage when the larvae are still small. ( the largest species of salamanders do not go through a metamorphosis. ) amphibians that lay eggs on land often go through the whole metamorphosis inside the egg. an anamniotic terrestrial egg is