amateur astronomy is a hobby where participants enjoy observing or imaging celestial objects in the sky using the unaided eye, binoculars, or telescopes. even though scientific research may not be their primary goal, some amateur astronomers make contributions in doing citizen science, such as by monitoring variable stars, double stars, sunspots, or occultations of stars by the moon or asteroids, or by discovering transient astronomical events, such as comets, galactic novae or supernovae in other galaxies. amateur astronomers do not use the field of astronomy as their primary source of income or support, and usually have no professional degree in astrophysics or advanced academic training in the subject. most amateurs are hobbyists, while others have a high degree of experience in astronomy and may often assist and work alongside professional astronomers. many astronomers have studied the sky throughout history in an amateur framework ; however, since the beginning of the twentieth century, professional astronomy has become an activity clearly distinguished from amateur astronomy and associated activities. amateur astronomers typically view the sky at night, when most celestial objects and astronomical events are visible, but others observe during the daytime by viewing the sun and solar eclipses. some just look at the sky using nothing more than their eyes or binoculars, but more dedicated amateurs often use portable telescopes or telescopes situated in their private or club observatories. amateurs can also join as members of amateur astronomical societies, which can advise, educate or guide them towards ways of finding and observing celestial objects. they can also promote the science of astronomy among the general public. objectives collectively, amateur astronomers observe a variety of celestial objects and phenomena. common targets of amateur astronomers include the sun, the moon, planets, stars, comets, meteor showers, and a variety of deep sky objects such as star clusters, galaxies, and nebulae. many amateurs like to specialise in observing particular objects, types of objects, or types of events which interest them. one branch of amateur astronomy, amateur astrophotography, involves the taking of photos of the night sky. astrophotography has become more popular with the introduction of far easier to use equipment including, digital cameras, dslr cameras and relatively sophisticated purpose built high quality ccd cameras. most amateur astronomers work at visible wavelengths, but a small minority experiment with wavelengths outside the visible spectrum. an early pioneer of radio astronomy was grote reber, an amateur astronomer who constructed the first purpose built radio telescope in the late 1930s to follow up on the discovery of radio wavelength emissions from space by karl jansky. non - visual amateur astronomy includes the use of