such as attention, memory, self - regulation, navigation, emotion recognition and management, planning, and sequencing activity. systematic reviews of the field have found that the number of atc are growing rapidly, but have focused on memory and planning, that there is emerging evidence for efficacy, that a lot of scope exists to develop new atc. examples of atc include : neuropage which prompts users about meetings, wakamaru, which provides companionship and reminds users to take medicine and calls for help if something is wrong, and telephone reassurance systems. memory aids memory aids are any type of assistive technology that helps a user learn and remember certain information. many memory aids are used for cognitive impairments such as reading, writing, or organizational difficulties. for example, a smartpen records handwritten notes by creating both a digital copy and an audio recording of the text. users simply tap certain parts of their notes, the pen saves it, and reads it back to them. from there, the user can also download their notes onto a computer for increased accessibility. digital voice recorders are also used to record " in the moment " information for fast and easy recall at a later time. a 2017 cochrane review highlighted the current lack of high - quality evidence to determine whether assistive technology effectively supports people with dementia to manage memory issues. thus, it is not presently sure whether or not assistive technology is beneficial for memory problems. educational software educational software is software that assists people with reading, learning, comprehension, and organizational difficulties. any accommodation software such as text readers, notetakers, text enlargers, organization tools, word predictions, and talking word processors falls under the category of educational software. eating impairments adaptive eating devices include items commonly used by the general population like spoons and forks and plates. however they become assistive technology when they are modified to accommodate the needs of people who have difficulty using standard cutlery due to a disabling condition. common modifications include increasing the size of the utensil handle to make it easier to grasp. plates and bowls may have a guard on the edge that stops food being pushed off of the dish when it is being scooped. more sophisticated equipment for eating includes manual and powered feeding devices. these devices support those who have little or no hand and arm function and enable them to eat independently. in sports assistive technology in sports is an area of technology design that is growing. assistive technology is the array of new devices created to enable sports enthusiasts who have disabilities to play. assistive