in mardakan, parigala in yukhary chardaglar, a number of bridges spanning the aras river, and several mausoleums. in the 19th and early 20th centuries, little monumental architecture was created, but distinctive residences were built in baku and elsewhere. among the most recent architectural monuments, the baku subways are noted for their lavish decor. the task for modern azerbaijani architecture is diverse application of modern aesthetics, the search for an architect ' s own artistic style and inclusion of the existing historico - cultural environment. major projects such as heydar aliyev cultural center, flame towers, baku crystal hall, baku white city and socar tower have transformed the country ' s skyline and promotes its contemporary identity. visual art the gamigaya petroglyphs, which date back to the 1st to 4th millennium bc, are located in azerbaijan ' s ordubad district. they consist of some 1500 dislodged and carved rock paintings with images of deer, goats, bulls, dogs, snakes, birds, fantastic beings, and people, carriages, and various symbols were found on basalt rocks. norwegian ethnographer and adventurer thor heyerdahl was convinced that people from the area went to scandinavia in about 100 ad, took their boat building skills with them, and transmuted them into the viking boats in northern europe. over the centuries, azerbaijani art has gone through many stylistic changes. azerbaijani painting is traditionally characterized by a warmth of colour and light, as exemplified in the works of azim azimzade and bahruz kangarli, and a preoccupation with religious figures and cultural motifs. azerbaijani painting enjoyed preeminence in caucasus for hundreds of years, from the romanesque and ottoman periods, and through the soviet and baroque periods, the latter two of which saw fruition in azerbaijan. other notable artists who fall within these periods include sattar bahlulzade, togrul narimanbekov, tahir salahov, alakbar rezaguliyev, mirza gadim iravani, mikayil abdullayev and boyukagha mirzazade. cinema the film industry in azerbaijan dates back to 1898. azerbaijan was among the first countries involved in cinematography, with the apparatus first showing up in baku. in 1919, during the azerbaijan democratic republic, a documentary the celebration of the anniversary of azerbaijani independence was filmed on the first anniversary of azerbaijan ' s independence from russia, 27 may, and premiered in june 1919 at several theatres in baku. after the soviet