this time in the northern california city of santa rosa. at 20th century fox, hitchcock approached john steinbeck with an idea for a film, which recorded the experiences of the survivors of a german u - boat attack. steinbeck began work on the script for what would become lifeboat ( 1944 ). however, steinbeck was unhappy with the film and asked that his name be removed from the credits, to no avail. the idea was rewritten as a short story by harry sylvester and published in collier ' s in 1943. the action sequences were shot in a small boat in the studio water tank. the locale posed problems for hitchcock ' s traditional cameo appearance ; it was solved by having hitchcock ' s image appear in a newspaper that william bendix is reading in the boat, showing the director in a before - and - after advertisement for " reduco - obesity slayer ". he told truffaut in 1962 : hitchcock ' s typical dinner before his weight loss had been a roast chicken, boiled ham, potatoes, bread, vegetables, relishes, salad, dessert, a bottle of wine and some brandy. to lose weight, his diet consisted of black coffee for breakfast and lunch, and steak and salad for dinner, but it was hard to maintain ; donald spoto wrote that his weight fluctuated considerably over the next 40 years. at the end of 1943, despite the weight loss, the occidental insurance company of los angeles refused his application for life insurance. wartime non - fiction films hitchcock returned to the uk for an extended visit in late 1943 and early 1944. while there he made two short propaganda films, bon voyage ( 1944 ) and aventure malgache ( 1944 ), for the ministry of information. in june and july 1945, hitchcock served as " treatment advisor " on a holocaust documentary that used allied forces footage of the liberation of nazi concentration camps. the film was assembled in london and produced by sidney bernstein of the ministry of information, who brought hitchcock ( a friend of his ) on board. it was originally intended to be broadcast to the germans, but the british government deemed it too traumatic to be shown to a shocked post - war population. instead, it was transferred in 1952 from the british war office film vaults to london ' s imperial war museum and remained unreleased until 1985, when an edited version was broadcast as an episode of pbs frontline, under the title the imperial war museum had given it : memory of the camps. the full - length version of the film, german concentration camps factual survey, was