those south of the ionian gulf, so completely that nothing has been left to my time to know them by, unless, indeed, it might be one tower or gate or some such thing which chanced to remain. and they killed all the people, as many as came in their way, both old and young alike, sparing neither women nor children. wherefore even up to the present time italy is sparsely populated. whether alaric ' s forces wrought the level of destruction described by procopius or not cannot be known, but evidence speaks to a significant population decrease, as the number of people on the food dole dropped from 800, 000 in 408 to 500, 000 by 419. rome ' s fall to the barbarians was as much a psychological blow to the empire as anything else, since some romans citizens saw the collapse as resulting from the conversion to christianity, while christian apologists like augustine ( writing city of god ) responded in turn. lamenting rome ' s capture, famed christian theologian jerome, wrote how " day and night " he could not stop thinking of everyone ' s safety, and moreover, how alaric had extinguished " the bright light of all the world. " some contemporary christian observers even saw alaric — a professed christian — as god ' s wrath upon a still pagan rome. move to southern italy, death from disease not only had rome ' s sack been a significant blow to the roman people ' s morale, they had also endured two years ' worth of trauma brought about by fear, hunger ( due to blockades ), and illness. however, the goths were not long in the city of rome, as only three days after the sack, alaric marched his men south to campania, from where he intended to sail to sicily — probably to obtain grain and other supplies — when a storm destroyed his fleet. during the early months of 411, while on his northward return journey through italy, alaric took ill and died at consentia in bruttium. his cause of death was likely fever, and his body was, according to legend, buried under the riverbed of the busento in accordance with the pagan practices of the visigothic people. the stream was temporarily turned aside from its course while the grave was dug, wherein the gothic chief and some of his most precious spoils were interred. when the work was finished, the river was turned back into its usual channel and the captives by whose hands the labor had been accomplished were put to death that none might learn their