soviet breakup, azerbaijan was predicted to become " tiger of caucasus ". in 2012, globalization and world cities research network study ranked baku as a gamma - level global city. in 2015, turkey and azerbaijan agreed to boost mutual trade to us $ 15 billion by 2023. macro - economic trend the following is a chart of trend of gross domestic product of azerbaijan at market prices with figures in usd. for purchasing power parity comparisons, the us dollar was exchanged at 1, 565. 88 manats only. currently, the new manat is in use, with an exchange rate of about 1 manat = $ 1. 10. mean graduate pay was $ 5. 76 per man - hour in 2010. the following table shows the main economic indicators in 1980 – 2017. source : imf for more than a century the backbone of the azerbaijani economy has been petroleum, which represented 50 percent of azerbaijan ' s gdp in 2005, and is projected to double to almost 125 percent of gdp in 2007. now that western oil companies are able to tap deepwater oilfields untouched by the soviets because of poor technology, azerbaijan is considered one of the most important areas in the world for oil exploration and development. proven oil reserves in the caspian basin, which azerbaijan shares with russia, kazakhstan, iran, and turkmenistan, are comparable in size to the north sea, although exploration is still in the early stages. sectors of the economy agriculture azerbaijan has the largest agricultural basin in the region. about 54. 9 percent of azerbaijan is agricultural lands. at the beginning of 2007 there were of utilized agricultural area. in the same year the total wood resources counted. azerbaijan ' s agricultural scientific research institutes are focused on meadows and pastures, horticulture and subtropical crops, leaf vegetables, viticulture and wine - making, cotton growing and medicinal plants. in some lands it is profitable to grow grain, potatoes, sugar beets, cotton and tobacco. livestock, dairy products, and wine and spirits are also important farm products. the caspian fishing industry is concentrated on the dwindling stocks of sturgeon and beluga. some portions of most products that were previously imported from abroad have begun to be produced locally ( among them are coca - cola by coca - cola bottlers ltd, beer by baki - kastel, parquet by nehir and oil pipes by eupec pipe coating azerbaijan ). a new program which is prepared by the european union is aimed to support the economic diversification of azerbaijan. program is considered for southern region lankaran which has the lowest economic