1661, the city of basel, in switzerland, opened the first public museum of art in the world, the kunstmuseum basel. today, its collection is distinguished by an impressively wide historic span, from the early 15th century up to the immediate present. its various areas of emphasis give it international standing as one of the most significant museums of its kind. these encompass : paintings and drawings by artists active in the upper rhine region between 1400 and 1600, and on the art of the 19th to 21st centuries. public buildings and monuments, secular and religious, by their nature normally address the whole of society, and visitors as viewers, and display to the general public has long been an important factor in their design. egyptian temples are typical in that the most largest and most lavish decoration was placed on the parts that could be seen by the general public, rather than the areas seen only by the priests. many areas of royal palaces, castles and the houses of the social elite were often generally accessible, and large parts of the art collections of such people could often be seen, either by anybody, or by those able to pay a small price, or those wearing the correct clothes, regardless of who they were, as at the palace of versailles, where the appropriate extra accessories ( silver shoe buckles and a sword ) could be hired from shops outside. special arrangements were made to allow the public to see many royal or private collections placed in galleries, as with the orleans collection mostly housed in a wing of the palais royal in paris, which could be visited for most of the 18th century. in italy the art tourism of the grand tour became a major industry from the renaissance onwards, and governments and cities made efforts to make their key works accessible. the british royal collection remains distinct, but large donations such as the old royal library were made from it to the british museum, established in 1753. the uffizi in florence opened entirely as a gallery in 1765, though this function had been gradually taking the building over from the original civil servants ' offices for a long time before. the building now occupied by the prado in madrid was built before the french revolution for the public display of parts of the royal art collection, and similar royal galleries open to the public existed in vienna, munich and other capitals. the opening of the musee du louvre during the french revolution ( in 1793 ) as a public museum for much of the former french royal collection certainly marked an important stage in the development of public access to art, transferring ownership to a republican state, but was a continuation of trends already