growth. the pandemic years ( 2020 - 2022 ) also contributed to a population decrease, mainly due to reduced births and immigration. as of the first quarter in 2023, aruba ' s population stood at 107, 354 people, marking a modest 0. 2 % growth compared to the previous year. this increase was driven by a significant rise in immigration, which saw a 20. 4 percent uptick. language aruba ' s official languages are dutch and papiamento. while dutch is the sole language for all administration and legal matters, papiamento is the predominant language used on aruba. papiamento is a portuguese - and spanish - based creole language, spoken on aruba, bonaire, and curacao, that also incorporates words from dutch and various west african languages. english and spanish are also spoken, their usage having grown due to tourism. other common languages spoken, based on the size of their community, are portuguese, cantonese, french and german. in recent years, the government of aruba has shown an increased interest in acknowledging the cultural and historical importance of papiamento. although spoken papiamento is fairly similar among the several papiamento - speaking islands, there is a big difference in written papiamento : the orthography differs per island, with aruba using etymological spelling, and curacao and bonaire a phonetic spelling. the book buccaneers of america, first published in 1678, states through eyewitness account that the natives on aruba spoke spanish already. spanish became an important language in the 18th century due to the close economic ties with spanish colonies in what are now venezuela and colombia. venezuelan tv networks are received on the island, and aruba also has significant venezuelan and colombian communities. around 13 % of the population today speaks spanish natively. use of english dates to the early 19th century, when the british took curacao, aruba, and bonaire. when dutch rule resumed in 1815, officials already noted wide use of the language. aruba has newspapers published in papiamento : diario, bon dia, solo di pueblo, and awe mainta ; english : aruba daily, aruba today, and the news ; and dutch : amigoe. aruba has 18 radio stations ( two am and sixteen fm ) and two local television stations ( telearuba and channel 22 ). religion roman catholicism is the dominant religion, followed by approximately 75 % of the population. in addition to catholicism, there is a diverse range of religions practiced