they were conquered by abu bakr ibn umar and were forced to convert to orthodox islam. shortly after this, abu bakr had reached as far as meknes. towards 1068, abu bakr married a noble and wealthy berber woman, zaynab an - nafzawiyyah, who would become very influential in the development of the dynasty. zaynab was the daughter of a wealthy merchant from kairouan who had settled in aghmat. she had been previously married to laqut ibn yusuf ibn ali al - maghrawi, the ruler of aghmat, until the latter was killed during the almoravid conquest of the city. founding of marrakesh and internal division it was around this time that abu bakr ibn umar founded the new capital of marrakesh. historical sources cite a variety of dates for this event ranging from 1062, given by ibn abi zar and ibn khaldun, to 1078 ( 470 ah ), given by muhammad al - idrisi. the year 1070, given by ibn idhari, is more commonly used by modern historians, although 1062 is still cited by some writers. shortly after founding the new city, abu bakr was compelled to return south to the sahara in order to suppress a rebellion by the guddala and their allies which threatened the desert trade routes, in either 1060 or 1071. his wife zaynab appears to have been unwilling to follow him south and he granted her a divorce. apparently on abu bakr ' s instructions, she was then married to yusuf ibn tashfin. before leaving, abu bakr appointed ibn tashfin as his deputy in charge of the new almoravid territories in the north. according to ibn idhari, zaynab became his most important political advisor. a year later, after suppressing the revolt in the south, abu bakr returned north toward marrakesh, expecting to resume his control of the city and of the almoravid forces in north africa. ibn tashfin, however, was now unwilling to give up his own position of leadership. while abu bakr was still camped near aghmat, ibn tashfin sent him lavish gifts but refused to obey his summons, reportedly on the advice of zaynab. abu bakr recognized that he was unable to force the issue and was unwilling to fight a battle over control of marrakesh, so he decided to voluntarily recognize ibn tashfin ' s leadership in the maghreb. the