##rch recounts an anecdote in which alexander pauses and talks to a fallen statue of xerxes as if it were a live person : fall of the persian empire and the east alexander then chased darius, first into media, and then parthia. the persian king no longer controlled his own destiny, and was taken prisoner by bessus, his bactrian satrap and kinsman. as alexander approached, bessus had his men fatally stab the great king and then declared himself darius ' s successor as artaxerxes v, before retreating into central asia to launch a guerrilla campaign against alexander. alexander buried darius ' s remains next to his achaemenid predecessors in a regal funeral. he claimed that, while dying, darius had named him as his successor to the achaemenid throne. the achaemenid empire is normally considered to have fallen with darius. however, as basic forms of community life and the general structure of government were maintained and resuscitated by alexander under his own rule, he, in the words of the iranologist pierre briant " may therefore be considered to have acted in many ways as the last of the achaemenids. " alexander viewed bessus as a usurper and set out to defeat him. this campaign, initially against bessus, turned into a grand tour of central asia. alexander founded a series of new cities, all called alexandria, including modern kandahar in afghanistan, and alexandria eschate ( " the furthest " ) in modern tajikistan. the campaign took alexander through media, parthia, aria ( west afghanistan ), drangiana, arachosia ( south and central afghanistan ), bactria ( north and central afghanistan ), and scythia. in 329 bc, spitamenes, who held an undefined position in the satrapy of sogdiana, betrayed bessus to ptolemy, one of alexander ' s trusted companions, and bessus was executed. however, when, at some point later, alexander was on the jaxartes dealing with an incursion by a horse nomad army, spitamenes raised sogdiana in revolt. alexander personally defeated the scythians at the battle of jaxartes and immediately launched a campaign against spitamenes, defeating him in the battle of gabai. after the defeat, spitamenes was killed by his own men, who then sued for peace. problems and plots during this time, alexander adopted some elements of persian dress