cel animation studios switched to producing mostly computer - animated films around the 1990s, as it proved cheaper and more profitable. not only the very popular 3d animation style was generated with computers, but also most of the films and series with a more traditional hand - crafted appearance, in which the charming characteristics of cel animation could be emulated with software, while new digital tools helped developing new styles and effects. economic status in 2010, the animation market was estimated to be worth circa us $ 80 billion. by 2020, the value had increased to an estimated us $ 270 billion. animated feature - length films returned the highest gross margins ( around 52 % ) of all film genres between 2004 and 2013. animation as an art and industry continues to thrive as of the early 2020s. education, propaganda and commercials the clarity of animation makes it a powerful tool for instruction, while its total malleability also allows exaggeration that can be employed to convey strong emotions and to thwart reality. it has therefore been widely used for other purposes than mere entertainment. during world war ii, animation was widely exploited for propaganda. many american studios, including warner bros. and disney, lent their talents and their cartoon characters to convey to the public certain war values. some countries, including china, japan and the united kingdom, produced their first feature - length animation for their war efforts. animation has been very popular in television commercials, both due to its graphic appeal, and the humour it can provide. some animated characters in commercials have survived for decades, such as snap, crackle and pop in advertisements for kellogg ' s cereals. tex avery was the producer of the first raid " kills bugs dead " commercials in 1966, which were very successful for the company. other media, merchandise and theme parks apart from their success in movie theaters and television series, many cartoon characters would also prove lucrative when licensed for all kinds of merchandise and for other media. animation has traditionally been very closely related to comic books. while many comic book characters found their way to the screen ( which is often the case in japan, where many manga are adapted into anime ), original animated characters also commonly appear in comic books and magazines. somewhat similarly, characters and plots for video games ( an interactive form of animation that became its own medium ) have been derived from films and vice versa. some of the original content produced for the screen can be used and marketed in other media. stories and images can easily be adapted into children ' s books and other printed media. songs and music have appeared on records and as