in physical and chemical properties from its lighter homologues. most alkali metals have many different applications. one of the best - known applications of the pure elements is the use of rubidium and caesium in atomic clocks, of which caesium atomic clocks form the basis of the second. a common application of the compounds of sodium is the sodium - vapour lamp, which emits light very efficiently. table salt, or sodium chloride, has been used since antiquity. lithium finds use as a psychiatric medication and as an anode in lithium batteries. sodium, potassium and lithium are essential elements, having major biological roles as electrolytes, and although the other alkali metals are not essential, they also have various effects on the body, both beneficial and harmful. history sodium compounds have been known since ancient times ; salt ( sodium chloride ) has been an important commodity in human activities, as testified by the english word salary, referring to salarium, money paid to roman soldiers for the purchase of salt. while potash has been used since ancient times, it was not understood for most of its history to be a fundamentally different substance from sodium mineral salts. georg ernst stahl obtained experimental evidence which led him to suggest the fundamental difference of sodium and potassium salts in 1702, and henri - louis duhamel du monceau was able to prove this difference in 1736. the exact chemical composition of potassium and sodium compounds, and the status as chemical element of potassium and sodium, was not known then, and thus antoine lavoisier did not include either alkali in his list of chemical elements in 1789. pure potassium was first isolated in 1807 in england by humphry davy, who derived it from caustic potash ( koh, potassium hydroxide ) by the use of electrolysis of the molten salt with the newly invented voltaic pile. previous attempts at electrolysis of the aqueous salt were unsuccessful due to potassium ' s extreme reactivity. potassium was the first metal that was isolated by electrolysis. later that same year, davy reported extraction of sodium from the similar substance caustic soda ( naoh, lye ) by a similar technique, demonstrating the elements, and thus the salts, to be different. petalite ( li al si4o10 ) was discovered in 1800 by the brazilian chemist jose bonifacio de andrada in a mine on the island of uto, sweden. however, it was not until 1817 that johan august arfwedson, then working in the laboratory of the chemist