the andes ( ), andes mountains or andean mountain range ( ; ) are the longest continental mountain range in the world, forming a continuous highland along the western edge of south america. the range is long, wide ( widest between 18°s – 20°s latitude ), and has an average height of about. the andes extend from north to south through seven south american countries : venezuela, colombia, ecuador, peru, bolivia, chile and argentina. along their length, the andes are split into several ranges, separated by intermediate depressions. the andes are the location of several high plateaus — some of which host major cities such as quito, bogota, cali, arequipa, medellin, bucaramanga, sucre, merida, el alto and la paz. the altiplano plateau is the world ' s second - highest after the tibetan plateau. these ranges are in turn grouped into three major divisions based on climate : the tropical andes, the dry andes, and the wet andes. the andes mountains are the highest mountain range outside asia. the highest mountain outside asia, argentina ' s aconcagua, rises to an elevation of about above sea level. the peak of chimborazo in the ecuadorian andes is farther from the earth ' s center than any other location on the earth ' s surface, due to the equatorial bulge resulting from the earth ' s rotation. the world ' s highest volcanoes are in the andes, including ojos del salado on the chile - argentina border, which rises to. the andes are also part of the american cordillera, a chain of mountain ranges ( cordillera ) that consists of an almost continuous sequence of mountain ranges that form the western " backbone " of the americas and antarctica. etymology the etymology of the word andes has been debated. the majority consensus is that it derives from the quechua word ' east ' as in antisuyu ( quechua for ' east region ' ), one of the four regions of the inca empire. the term cordillera comes from the spanish word cordel ' rope ' and is used as a descriptive name for several contiguous sections of the andes, as well as the entire andean range, and the combined mountain chain along the western part of the north and south american continents. geography the andes can be divided into three sections : the southern andes in argentina and chile, south of llullaillaco. the central andes in peru and bolivia. the northern andes in venezuela, colombia, and ecuador. in