poisoning. the new zealand police launched an investigation. in 2006, frustrated by lack of progress, the christchurch coroner said that it was unlikely that dr. marks ingested the methanol knowingly, although there is no certainty that he died as the direct result of the act of another person. during media interviews, the police detective in charge of the investigation criticized the national science foundation and contractor raytheon for failing to cooperate with the investigation. south africa under the south african citizens in antarctica act, 1962, south african law applies to all south african citizens in antarctica, and they are subject to the jurisdiction of the magistrate ' s court in cape town. the antarctic treaties act, 1996 incorporates the antarctic treaty and related agreements into south african law. in regard to violations of these treaties, south africa also asserts jurisdiction over south african residents and members of expeditions organised in south africa. see also antarctic and southern ocean coalition ( asoc ) antarctic protected areas antarctic treaty issue arctic council arctic sanctuary crime in antarctica endurance – lost ship of ernest shackleton, found in 2022 and protected by the treaty international seabed authority montreal protocol moon treaty multilateral treaty national antarctic program category : outposts of antarctica research stations in antarctica solar radiation management svalbard treaty references external links antarctic treaty secretariat full text of the antarctic treaty original facsimile of antarctic treaty australian antarctic territory why 60 south? national science foundation – office of polar programs list of all antarctic treaty consultative meetings an antarctic solution for the koreas san diego union - tribune, 25 august 2005 ( both south korea and north korea are members of the antarctic treaty ) emblem of the antarctic treaty antarctica agreements 1959 in antarctica 1959 in washington, d. c. december 1959 events 1961 in antarctica 1961 in the environment arms control treaties cold war treaties territorial claims in antarctica treaties concluded in 1959 treaties entered into force in 1961 treaties establishing nuclear - weapon - free zones treaties of argentina treaties of australia treaties of austria treaties of belarus treaties of belgium treaties of the military dictatorship in brazil treaties of the people ' s republic of bulgaria treaties of canada treaties of chile treaties of the people ' s republic of china treaties of colombia treaties of cuba treaties of denmark treaties of the czech republic treaties of czechoslovakia treaties of ecuador treaties of estonia treaties of finland treaties of france treaties of west germany treaties of east germany treaties of greece treaties of guatemala treaties of the hungarian people ' s republic treaties of italy treaties of india treaties of japan treaties of malaysia treaties of monaco treaties of the netherlands treaties of new zealand treaties of north korea treaties of norway treaties of pakistan treaties of papua new guinea treaties