with his body wrapped in an american flag and a copy of the u. s. constitution placed under his head, according to his wishes. the burial ground was dedicated as the andrew johnson national cemetery in 1906, and with his home and tailor ' s shop, is part of the andrew johnson national historic site. historical reputation and legacy according to castel, " historians [ of johnson ' s presidency ] have tended to concentrate to the exclusion of practically everything else upon his role in that titanic event [ reconstruction ]. " through the remainder of the 19th century, there were few historical evaluations of johnson and his presidency. memoirs from northerners who had dealt with him, such as former vice president henry wilson and maine senator james g. blaine, depicted him as an obstinate boor who tried to favor the south in reconstruction but was frustrated by congress. according to historian howard k. beale in his journal article about the historiography of reconstruction, " men of the postwar decades were more concerned with justifying their own position than they were with painstaking search for truth. thus [ alabama congressman and historian ] hilary herbert and his corroborators presented a southern indictment of northern policies, and henry wilson ' s history was a brief for the north. " the turn of the 20th century saw the first significant historical evaluations of johnson. leading the wave was pulitzer prize - winning historian james ford rhodes, who wrote of the former president : rhodes ascribed johnson ' s faults to his personal weaknesses, and blamed him for the problems of the postbellum south. other early 20th - century historians, such as john burgess, future president woodrow wilson, and william dunning, concurred with rhodes, believing johnson flawed and politically inept but concluding that he had tried to carry out lincoln ' s plans for the south in good faith. author and journalist jay tolson suggests that wilson " depict [ ed reconstruction ] as a vindictive program that hurt even repentant southerners while benefiting northern opportunists, the so - called carpetbaggers, and cynical white southerners, or scalawags, who exploited alliances with blacks for political gain. " even as rhodes and his school wrote, another group of historians ( dunning school ) was setting out on the full rehabilitation of johnson, using for the first time primary sources such as his papers, provided by his daughter martha before her death in 1901, and the diaries of johnson ' s navy secretary, gideon welles, first published in 1911. the resulting volumes, such as david miller dewitt