previous custom had been for the president to leave the existing appointees in office, replacing them through attrition. during his first year in office, jackson removed about 10 % of all federal employees and replaced them with loyal democrats. he argued that rotation in office was a democratic reform that reduced bureaucracy and corruption by making officeholders responsible to the popular will, but it functioned as political patronage, which came to be known as the spoils system. petticoat affair jackson spent much of his time during his first two and a half years in office dealing with what came to be known as the " petticoat affair " or " eaton affair ". the affair focused on secretary of war eaton ' s wife, margaret. she had a reputation for being promiscuous, and like rachel jackson, she was accused of adultery. she and eaton had been close before her first husband john timberlake died, and they married nine months after his death. with the exception of barry ' s wife catherine, the cabinet members ' wives followed the lead of vice - president calhoun ' s wife floride and refused to socialize with the eatons. though jackson defended margaret, her presence split the cabinet, which had been so ineffective that he rarely called it into session, and the ongoing disagreement led to its dissolution. in the spring of 1831, jackson demanded the resignations of all the cabinet members except barry, who would resign in 1835 when a congressional investigation revealed his mismanagement of the post office. jackson tried to compensate van buren by appointing him the minister to great britain, but calhoun blocked the nomination with a tie - breaking vote against it. van buren — along with amos kendall, who helped organize what would become the democratic party, and francis preston blair, the editor of the globe newspaper that served as jackson ' s house organ, — would become regular participants in jackson ' s kitchen cabinet, an unofficial, varying group of advisors that jackson turned to for decision making even after he had formed a new official cabinet. indian removal act jackson ' s presidency marked the beginning of a national policy of native american removal. before jackson took office, the relationship between the southern states and the native american tribes who lived within their boundaries was strained. the states felt that they had full jurisdiction over their territories ; the native tribes saw themselves as autonomous nations that had a right to the land they lived on. significant portions of the five major tribes in the area then known as the southwest — the cherokee, choctaw, chickasaw, creek, and seminoles — began to