##1 - seat baseball stadium named for abner doubleday, located in cooperstown, new york, near the baseball hall of fame. it hosted the annual hall of fame game, an exhibition game between two major league teams that was played from 1940 until 2008. it has hosted the hall of fame classic since 2009. the auburn doubledays are a collegiate summer baseball team based in doubleday ' s hometown of auburn, new york. doubleday field at the united states military academy at west point, new york, where the army black knights play at johnson stadium, is named in doubleday ' s honor. the abner doubleday little league and babe ruth fields in ballston spa, new york, the town of his birth. the house of his birth still stands in the middle of town and there is a monument to him on front street. a sign at the doubleday hill monument, erected in williamsport, maryland, to commemorate doubleday ' s occupation of a hill there during the civil war, claims he invented the game in 1835. mendham borough and mendham township, new jersey has held a municipal holiday known as " abner doubleday day " for numerous years in the general ' s honor and commissioned a plaque near the site of his home in the borough in 1998, even though the borough was known as mendham township back then. in 2004, the abner doubleday society erected a monument to doubleday in iron spring park, ballston spa, near his birthplace. in popular culture in the movie the ridiculous 6, doubleday is portrayed by john turturro. the character organizes the first game of baseball between the six main characters and a group of chinese immigrants, creating the rules as he goes, primarily to allow him to win. in the 23rd episode of the anime samurai champloo, titled " baseball blues ", doubleday and alexander cartwright are featured as american naval officers who engage the main characters and local japanese people into a baseball game, which the americans lose. in the mini - series north and south, george hazzard is seen watching a primitive form of baseball with a wounded orry main, while referring to the game being invented by doubleday, a fellow west point cadet. see also list of american civil war generals ( union ) william webb ellis, sometimes apocryphally credited with inventing rugby football notes references gomes, michael. " abner doubleday and theosophy in america : 1879 – 1884 ". sunrise, april / may 1991. " doubleday, abner "