the need to adapt legislation to modern demands. in 1982 a first separation of powers took place when instituting the govern d ' andorra, under the name of executive board ( consell executiu ), chaired by the first prime minister oscar ribas reig with the co - princes ' approval. in 1989 the principality signed an agreement with the european economic community to regularize trade relations. its political system was modernized in 1993 after the andorran constitutional referendum, when the constitution was drafted by the co - princes and the general council and approved on 14 march by 74. 2 % of voters, with a 76 % turnout. the first elections under the new constitution were held later in the year. the same year, andorra became a member of the united nations and the council of europe. andorra formalized diplomatic relations with the united states in 1996, participating in the 51st un general assembly. first general syndic marc forne took part on a speech in catalan in the general assembly to defend the reform of the organization, and after three days he took part in the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe to defend andorra ' s linguistic rights and economy. in 2006 a monetary agreement with the european union was formalized that allows andorra to use the euro in an official way, as well as minting its own euro coins. politics andorra is a parliamentary co - principality with the bishop of urgell and the president of france as co - princes. this peculiarity makes the president of france, in his capacity as prince of andorra, an elected monarch, although he is not elected by a popular vote of the andorran people. the politics of andorra take place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democracy with a unicameral legislature, and of a pluriform multi - party system. the prime minister is the chief executive. the current prime minister is xavier espot zamora of the democrats for andorra ( da ). executive power is exercised by the government. legislative power is vested in both government and parliament. the parliament of andorra is known as the general council. the general council consists of between 28 and 42 councillors. the councillors serve for four - year terms, and elections are held between the 30th and 40th days following the dissolution of the previous council. half are elected in equal numbers by each of the seven administrative parishes, and the other half of the councillors are elected in a single national constituency. fifteen days after the election, the councillors hold their inauguration. during this session, the general syndic,