the ill - feeling, influenced by the ravages of members of the order in poland, culminated in a war which began in december 1519 and devastated prussia. albert was granted a four - year truce early in 1521. the dispute was referred to emperor charles v and other princes, but as no settlement was reached albert continued his efforts to obtain help in view of a renewal of the war. for this purpose he visited the diet of nuremberg in 1522, where he made the acquaintance of the reformer andreas osiander, by whose influence albert was won over to protestantism. the grand master then journeyed to wittenberg, where he was advised by martin luther to abandon the rules of his order, to marry, and to convert prussia into a hereditary duchy for himself. this proposal, which was understandably appealing to albert, had already been discussed by some of his relatives ; but it was necessary to proceed cautiously, and he assured pope adrian vi that he was anxious to reform the order and punish the knights who had adopted lutheran doctrines. luther for his part did not stop at the suggestion, but in order to facilitate the change made special efforts to spread his teaching among the prussians, while albert ' s brother, margrave george of brandenburg - ansbach, laid the scheme before their uncle, sigismund i the old of poland. duke in prussia after some delay sigismund assented to the offer, with the provision that prussia should be treated as a polish fiefdom ; and after this arrangement had been confirmed by a treaty concluded at krakow, albert pledged a personal oath to sigismund i and was invested with the duchy for himself and his heirs on 10 february 1525. the estates of the land then met at konigsberg and took the oath of allegiance to the new duke, who used his full powers to promote the doctrines of luther. this transition did not, however, take place without protest. summoned before the imperial court of justice, albert refused to appear and was proscribed, while the order elected a new grand master, walter von cronberg, who received prussia as a fief at the imperial diet of augsburg. as the german princes were experiencing the tumult of the reformation, the german peasants ' war, and the wars against the ottoman turks, they did not enforce the ban on the duke, and agitation against him soon died away. in imperial politics albert was fairly active. joining the league of torgau in 1526, he acted in unison with the protestants, and was among the princes who banded and plotted together to