for example, while the axiom of choice implies that there is a well - ordering of the real numbers, there are models of set theory with the axiom of choice in which no well - ordering of the reals is definable. similarly, although a subset of the real numbers that is not lebesgue measurable can be proved to exist using the axiom of choice, it is consistent that no such set is definable. the axiom of choice proves the existence of these intangibles ( objects that are proved to exist, but which cannot be explicitly constructed ), which may conflict with some philosophical principles. because there is no canonical well - ordering of all sets, a construction that relies on a well - ordering may not produce a canonical result, even if a canonical result is desired ( as is often the case in category theory ). this has been used as an argument against the use of the axiom of choice. another argument against the axiom of choice is that it implies the existence of objects that may seem counterintuitive. one example is the banach – tarski paradox which says that it is possible to decompose the 3 - dimensional solid unit ball into finitely many pieces and, using only rotations and translations, reassemble the pieces into two solid balls each with the same volume as the original. the pieces in this decomposition, constructed using the axiom of choice, are non - measurable sets. despite these seemingly paradoxical facts, most mathematicians accept the axiom of choice as a valid principle for proving new results in mathematics. the debate is interesting enough, however, that it is considered of note when a theorem in zfc ( zf plus ac ) is logically equivalent ( with just the zf axioms ) to the axiom of choice, and mathematicians look for results that require the axiom of choice to be false, though this type of deduction is less common than the type which requires the axiom of choice to be true. it is possible to prove many theorems using neither the axiom of choice nor its negation ; such statements will be true in any model of zf, regardless of the truth or falsity of the axiom of choice in that particular model. the restriction to zf renders any claim that relies on either the axiom of choice or its negation unprovable. for example, the banach – tarski paradox is neither provable nor disprovable from zf alone : it is impossible to construct