in 1979, he received the national arts club gold medal and was inducted into the american academy of arts and letters. he was a pulitzer prize finalist in 1995 for his book cosmopolitan greetings : poems 1986 – 1992. biography early life and family ginsberg was born into a jewish family in newark, new jersey, and grew up in nearby paterson. he was the second son of louis ginsberg, also born in newark, a schoolteacher and published poet, and the former naomi levy, born in nevel ( russia ) and a fervent marxist. as a teenager, ginsberg began to write letters to the new york times about political issues, such as world war ii and workers ' rights. he published his first poems in the paterson morning call. while in high school, ginsberg became interested in the works of walt whitman, inspired by his teacher ' s passionate reading. in 1943, ginsberg graduated from eastside high school and briefly attended montclair state college before entering columbia university on a scholarship from the young men ' s hebrew association of paterson. in 1945, he joined the merchant marine to earn money to continue his education at columbia. while at columbia, ginsberg contributed to the columbia review literary journal, the jester humor magazine, won the woodberry poetry prize, served as president of the philolexian society ( literary and debate group ), and joined boar ' s head society ( poetry society ). he was a resident of hartley hall, where other beat generation poets such as jack kerouac and herbert gold also lived. ginsberg has stated that he considered his required freshman seminar in great books, taught by lionel trilling, to be his favorite columbia course. according to the poetry foundation, ginsberg spent several months in a mental institution after he pleaded insanity during a hearing. he was allegedly being prosecuted for harboring stolen goods in his dorm room. it was noted that the stolen property was not his, but belonged to an acquaintance. ginsberg also took part in public readings at the episcopal st. mark ' s church in - the - bowery which would later hold a memorial service for him after his death. relationship with his parents ginsberg referred to his parents in a 1985 interview as " old - fashioned delicatessen philosophers ". his mother was also an active member of the communist party and took ginsberg and his brother eugene to party meetings. ginsberg later said that his mother " made up bedtime stories that all went something like : ' the good king rode forth from his castle, saw the suffering workers and