not derived from anything, but merely easy to guess, e. g. " in - out, in - out " or " the old in - out " means sexual intercourse. cutter, however, means " money ", because " cutter " rhymes with " bread - and - butter " ; this is rhyming slang, which is intended to be impenetrable to outsiders ( especially eavesdropping policemen ). additionally, slang like appypolly loggy ( " apology " ) seems to derive from school boy slang. this reflects alex ' s age of 15. in the first edition of the book, no key was provided, and the reader was left to interpret the meaning from the context. in his appendix to the restored edition, burgess explained that the slang would keep the book from seeming dated, and served to muffle " the raw response of pornography " from the acts of violence. the term " ultraviolence ", referring to excessive or unjustified violence, was coined by burgess in the book, which includes the phrase " do the ultra - violent ". the term ' s association with aesthetic violence has led to its use in the media. banning and censorship history in the us in 1976, a clockwork orange was removed from an aurora, colorado high school because of " objectionable language ". a year later in 1977 it was removed from high school classrooms in westport, massachusetts over similar concerns with " objectionable " language. in 1982, it was removed from two anniston, alabama libraries, later to be reinstated on a restricted basis. also, in 1973 a bookseller was arrested for selling the novel. the charges were later dropped. however, each of these instances came after the release of stanley kubrick ' s popular 1971 film adaptation of a clockwork orange, itself the subject of much controversy. reception initial response the sunday telegraph review was positive, and described the book as " entertaining... even profound ". kingsley amis in the observer acclaimed the novel as " cheerful horror ", writing " mr burgess has written a fine farrago of outrageousness, one which incidentally suggests a view of juvenile violence i can ' t remember having met before ". malcolm bradbury wrote " all of mr burgess ' s powers as a comic writer, which are considerable, have gone into the rich language of his inverted utopia. if you can stomach the horrors, you ' ll enjoy the manner ". roald dahl called it " a terrifying and marvellous book ". many reviewers praised the in