the catalan pyrenees, where 12 citizens perished in andorra, to help the population and establish a public order along with the local police units. police corps andorra maintains a small but modern and well - equipped internal police force, with around 240 police officers supported by civilian assistants. the principal services supplied by the corps are uniformed community policing, criminal detection, border control, and traffic policing. there are also small specialist units including police dogs, mountain rescue, and a bomb disposal team. gipa the grup d ' intervencio policia d ' andorra ( gipa ) is a small special forces squad trained in counter - terrorism, and hostage recovery tasks. although it is the closest in style to an active military force, it is part of the police corps, and not the army. as terrorist and hostage situations are a rare threat to the country, the gipa is commonly assigned to prisoner escort duties, and at other times to routine policing. fire brigade the andorran fire brigade, with headquarters at santa coloma, operates from four modern fire stations, and has a staff of around 120 firefighters. the service is equipped with 16 heavy appliances ( fire tenders, turntable ladders, and specialist four - wheel drive vehicles ), four light support vehicles ( cars and vans ) and four ambulances. historically, the families of the six ancient parishes of andorra maintained local arrangements to assist each other in fighting fires. the first fire pump purchased by the government was acquired in 1943. serious fires which lasted for two days in december 1959 led to calls for a permanent fire service, and the andorran fire brigade was formed on 21 april 1961. the fire service maintains full - time cover with five fire crews on duty at any time : two at the brigade ' s headquarters in santa coloma, and one crew at each of the other three fire stations. geography parishes andorra consists of seven parishes : andorra la vella canillo encamp escaldes - engordany la massana ordino sant julia de loria physical geography due to its location in the eastern pyrenees mountain range, andorra consists predominantly of rugged mountains, the highest being the coma pedrosa at, and the average elevation of andorra is. these are dissected by three narrow valleys in a y shape that combine into one as the main stream, the gran valira river, leaves the country for spain ( at andorra ' s lowest point of ). andorra ' s land area is. environment phytogeographically, andorra belongs