, seleucia - on - tigris. alexander is not recorded to do anything of note to stem the steady erosion of seleucid power in the east. ancient historians hostile to him depict him as too distracted by a life of debauchery to take action to stop the parthians, unlike earlier seleucid kings who would mount expeditions to the eastern satrapies to deter the parthians. he was reputed to hand the administration over to two commanders, hierax and diodotus, neither of whom seemed to care for anything but their own interests. this representation is at least partially a product of his opponents ' propaganda, but it is true that under alexander, the seleucid empire continued to see its reach and power slip away. war with demetrius ii and death ( 147 – 145 bc ) in early 147 bc demetrius ' son demetrius ii returned to syria with a force of cretan mercenaries led by a man called lasthenes. much of coele syria was lost to him immediately, possibly as a result of the succession of the regional commander. jonathan attacked demetrius ' s position from the south, seizing jaffa and ashdod, while alexander balas was occupied with a revolt in cilicia. in 145 bc ptolemy vi of egypt invaded syria, ostensibly in support of alexander balas. in practice, ptolemy ' s intervention came at a heavy cost ; with alexander ' s permission, he took control of all the seleucid cities along the coast, including seleucia pieria. he may also have started minting his own coinage in the syrian cities. while he was at ptolemais akko, however, ptolemy switched sides. according to josephus, ptolemy discovered that alexander ' s chancellor, ammonius, had been plotting to assassinate him, but when he demanded that ammonius be punished, alexander refused. ptolemy remarried his cleopatra thea to demetrius ii and continued his march northward. alexander ' s commanders of antioch, diodotus and hierax, surrendered the city to ptolemy. alexander returned from cilicia with his army, but ptolemy vi and demetrius ii defeated his forces in a battle of the oenoparus river. earlier, alexander had sent his infant son antiochus to an arabian dynast called zabdiel diocles. alexander now fled to arabia in order to join up with zabdiel, but he was killed. sources disagree about whether the killer was a pair of his own generals