in a state of flux. the whig party had organized in opposition to jackson, fearing the concentration of power in the executive branch of the government ; johnson differed from the whigs as he opposed more than minimal government spending and spoke against aid for the railroads, while his constituents hoped for improvements in transportation. after brookins campbell and the whigs defeated johnson for reelection in 1837, johnson would not lose another race for thirty years. in 1839, he sought to regain his seat, initially as a whig, but when another candidate sought the whig nomination, he ran as a democrat and was elected. from that time he supported the democratic party and built a powerful political machine in greene county. johnson became a strong advocate of the democratic party, noted for his oratory, and in an era when public speaking both informed the public and entertained it, people flocked to hear him. in 1840, johnson was selected as a presidential elector for tennessee, giving him more statewide publicity. although democratic president martin van buren was defeated by former ohio senator william henry harrison, johnson was instrumental in keeping greene county in the democratic column. he was elected to the tennessee senate in 1841, where he served a two - year term. he had achieved financial success in his tailoring business, but sold it to concentrate on politics. he had also acquired additional real estate, including a larger home and a farm ( where his mother and stepfather took residence ), and among his assets numbered eight or nine slaves. united states representative ( 1843 – 1853 ) having served in both houses of the state legislature, johnson saw election to congress as the next step in his political career. he engaged in a number of political maneuvers to gain democratic support, including the displacement of the whig postmaster in greeneville, and defeated jonesborough lawyer john a. aiken by 5, 495 votes to 4, 892. in washington, he joined a new democratic majority in the house of representatives. johnson advocated for the interests of the poor, maintained an anti - abolitionist stance, argued for only limited spending by the government and opposed protective tariffs. with eliza remaining in greeneville, congressman johnson shunned social functions in favor of study in the library of congress. although a fellow tennessee democrat, james k. polk, was elected president in 1844, and johnson had campaigned for him, the two men had difficult relations, and president polk refused some of his patronage suggestions. johnson believed, as did many southern democrats, that the constitution protected private property, including slaves, and thus prohibited the federal and state governments from abolishing slavery