the 50th anniversary of apollo 11 in july 2019. the quarantine trailer, the flotation collar and the flotation bags are in the smithsonian ' s steven f. udvar - hazy center annex near washington dulles international airport in chantilly, virginia, where they are on display along with a test lunar module. the descent stage of the lm eagle remains on the moon. in 2009, the lunar reconnaissance orbiter ( lro ) imaged the various apollo landing sites on the surface of the moon, for the first time with sufficient resolution to see the descent stages of the lunar modules, scientific instruments, and foot trails made by the astronauts. the remains of the ascent stage lie at an unknown location on the lunar surface, after being abandoned and impacting the moon. the location is uncertain because eagle ascent stage was not tracked after it was jettisoned, and the lunar gravity field is sufficiently non - uniform to make the orbit of the spacecraft unpredictable after a short time. in march 2012 a team of specialists financed by amazon founder jeff bezos located the f - 1 engines from the s - ic stage that launched apollo 11 into space. they were found on the atlantic seabed using advanced sonar scanning. his team brought parts of two of the five engines to the surface. in july 2013, a conservator discovered a serial number under the rust on one of the engines raised from the atlantic, which nasa confirmed was from apollo 11. the s - ivb third stage which performed apollo 11 ' s trans - lunar injection remains in a solar orbit near to that of earth. moon rocks the main repository for the apollo moon rocks is the lunar sample laboratory facility at the lyndon b. johnson space center in houston, texas. for safekeeping, there is also a smaller collection stored at white sands test facility near las cruces, new mexico. most of the rocks are stored in nitrogen to keep them free of moisture. they are handled only indirectly, using special tools. over 100 research laboratories worldwide conduct studies of the samples ; approximately 500 samples are prepared and sent to investigators every year. in november 1969, nixon asked nasa to make up about 250 presentation apollo 11 lunar sample displays for 135 nations, the fifty states of the united states and its possessions, and the united nations. each display included moon dust from apollo 11 and flags, including the one of the soviet union, taken along by apollo 11. the rice - sized particles were four small pieces of moon soil weighing about 50 mg and were enveloped in a clear acrylic button