them and other diplodocids, and that these variations may have shown that the necks of apatosaurus and brontosaurus were used for intraspecific combat. various uses for the single claw on the forelimb of sauropods have been proposed. one suggestion is that they were used for defense, but their shape and size make this unlikely. it was also possible they were for feeding, but the most probable use for the claw was grasping objects such as tree trunks when rearing. trackways of sauropods like apatosaurus show that they may have had a range of around per day, and that they could potentially have reached a top speed of per hour. the slow locomotion of sauropods may be due to their minimal muscling, or to recoil after strides. a trackway of a juvenile has led some to believe that they were capable of bipedalism, though this is disputed. neck posture diplodocids like apatosaurus are often portrayed with their necks held high up in the air, allowing them to browse on tall trees. some studies state diplodocid necks were less flexible than previously believed, because the structure of the neck vertebrae would not have allowed the neck to bend far upward, and that sauropods like apatosaurus were adapted to low browsing or ground feeding. other studies by taylor find that all tetrapods appear to hold their necks at the maximum possible vertical extension when in a normal, alert posture ; they argue the same would hold true for sauropods barring any unknown, unique characteristics that set the soft tissue anatomy of their necks apart from that of other animals. apatosaurus, like diplodocus, would have held its neck angled upward with the head pointing downward in a resting posture. kent stevens and michael parrish ( 1999 and 2005 ) state apatosaurus had a great feeding range ; its neck could bend into a u - shape laterally. the neck ' s range of movement would have also allowed the head to feed at the level of the feet. matthew cobley et al. ( 2013 ) dispute this, finding that large muscles and cartilage would have limited movement of the neck. they state the feeding ranges for sauropods like diplodocus were smaller than previously believed, and the animals may have had to move their whole bodies around to better access areas where they could browse vegetation. as such, they might have spent more time foraging to meet their minimum energy needs. the conclusions of