##ius that arianism was effectively wiped out among the ruling class and elite of the eastern empire. valens died in the battle of adrianople in 378 and was succeeded by theodosius i, who adhered to the nicene creed. this allowed for settling the dispute. theodosius ' s wife st flacilla was instrumental in his campaign to end arianism. two days after theodosius arrived in constantinople, 24 november 380, he expelled the arian bishop, demophilus of constantinople, and surrendered the churches of that city to gregory of nazianzus, the homoiousian leader of the rather small nicene community there, an act which provoked rioting. theodosius had just been baptized, by bishop acholius of thessalonica, during a severe illness, as was common in the early christian world. in february he and gratian had published an edict that all their subjects should profess the faith of the bishops of rome and alexandria ( i. e., the nicene faith ), or be handed over for punishment for not doing so. although much of the church hierarchy in the east had opposed the nicene creed in the decades leading up to theodosius ' s accession, he managed to achieve unity on the basis of the nicene creed. in 381, at the second ecumenical council in constantinople, a group of mainly eastern bishops assembled and accepted the nicene creed of 381, which was supplemented in regard to the holy spirit, as well as some other changes : see comparison of nicene creeds of 325 and 381. this is generally considered the end of the dispute about the trinity and the end of arianism among the roman, non - germanic peoples. among medieval germanic tribes during the time of arianism ' s flowering in constantinople, the gothic convert and arian bishop ulfilas ( later the subject of the letter of auxentius cited above ) was sent as a missionary to the gothic tribes across the danube, a mission favored for political reasons by the emperor constantius ii. the homoians in the danubian provinces played a major role in the conversion of the goths to arianism. ulfilas ' s translation of the bible into gothic language and his initial success in converting the goths to arianism was strengthened by later events ; the conversion of goths led to a widespread diffusion of arianism among other germanic tribes as well ( vandals, langobards, svevi, and burgundians ). when the germanic peoples entered the