meanwhile, the mpla began securing control of luanda, a traditional ambundu stronghold. sporadic violence broke out in luanda over the next few months after the fnla attacked mpla forces in march 1975. the fighting intensified with street clashes in april and may, and unita became involved after over two hundred of its members were massacred by an mpla contingent that june. an upswing in soviet arms shipments to the mpla influenced a decision by the central intelligence agency to likewise provide substantial covert aid to the fnla and unita. in august 1975, the mpla requested direct assistance from the soviet union in the form of ground troops. the soviets declined, offering to send advisers but no troops ; however, cuba was more forthcoming and in late september dispatched nearly five hundred combat personnel to angola, along with sophisticated weaponry and supplies. by independence, there were over a thousand cuban soldiers in the country. they were kept supplied by a massive airbridge carried out with soviet aircraft. the persistent buildup of cuban and soviet military aid allowed the mpla to drive its opponents from luanda and blunt an abortive intervention by zairean and south african troops, which had deployed in a belated attempt to assist the fnla and unita. the fnla was largely annihilated after the decisive battle of quifangondo, although unita managed to withdraw its civil officials and militia from luanda and seek sanctuary in the southern provinces. from there, savimbi continued to mount a determined insurgent campaign against the mpla. between 1975 and 1991, the mpla implemented an economic and political system based on the principles of scientific socialism, incorporating central planning and a marxist – leninist one - party state. it embarked on an ambitious programme of nationalisation, and the domestic private sector was essentially abolished. privately owned enterprises were nationalised and incorporated into a single umbrella of state - owned enterprises known as unidades economicas estatais ( uee ). under the mpla, angola experienced a significant degree of modern industrialisation. however, corruption and graft also increased and public resources were either allocated inefficiently or simply embezzled by officials for personal enrichment. the ruling party survived an attempted coup d ' etat by the maoist - oriented communist organisation of angola ( oca ) in 1977, which was suppressed after a series of bloody political purges left thousands of oca supporters dead. the mpla abandoned its former marxist ideology at its third party congress in 1990, and