the clock : bolter credits the invention of the weight - driven clock as " the key invention [ of europe in the middle ages ] ", in particular, the verge escapement that provides us with the tick and tock of a mechanical clock. " the accurate automatic machine " led immediately to " mechanical automata " beginning in the 13th century and finally to " computational machines " — the difference engine and analytical engines of charles babbage and countess ada lovelace, mid - 19th century. lovelace is credited with the first creation of an algorithm intended for processing on a computer — babbage ' s analytical engine, the first device considered a real turing - complete computer instead of just a calculator — and is sometimes called " history ' s first programmer " as a result, though a full implementation of babbage ' s second device would not be realized until decades after her lifetime. logical machines 1870 – stanley jevons ' " logical abacus " and " logical machine " : the technical problem was to reduce boolean equations when presented in a form similar to what is now known as karnaugh maps. jevons ( 1880 ) describes first a simple " abacus " of " slips of wood furnished with pins, contrived so that any part or class of the [ logical ] combinations can be picked out mechanically... more recently, however, i have reduced the system to a completely mechanical form, and have thus embodied the whole of the indirect process of inference in what may be called a logical machine " his machine came equipped with " certain moveable wooden rods " and " at the foot are 21 keys like those of a piano [ etc. ]... ". with this machine he could analyze a " syllogism or any other simple logical argument ". this machine he displayed in 1870 before the fellows of the royal society. another logician john venn, however, in his 1881 symbolic logic, turned a jaundiced eye to this effort : " i have no high estimate myself of the interest or importance of what are sometimes called logical machines... it does not seem to me that any contrivances at present known or likely to be discovered really deserve the name of logical machines " ; see more at algorithm characterizations. but not to be outdone he too presented " a plan somewhat analogous, i apprehend, to prof. jevon ' s abacus... [ and ] [ a ] gain, corresponding to prof. jevons ' s logical machine