emir abdelkader and sheikh ben badis in colonial times, are widely noted. the latin author apuleius was born in madaurus ( mdaourouch ), in what later became algeria. contemporary algerian cinema is various in terms of genre, exploring a wider range of themes and issues. there has been a transition from cinema which focused on the war of independence to films more concerned with the everyday lives of algerians. media art algerian painters, like mohammed racim and baya, attempted to revive the prestigious algerian past prior to french colonisation, at the same time that they have contributed to the preservation of the authentic values of algeria. in this line, mohamed temam, abdelkhader houamel have also returned through this art, scenes from the history of the country, the habits and customs of the past and the country life. other new artistic currents including the one of m ' hamed issiakhem, mohammed khadda and bachir yelles, appeared on the scene of algerian painting, abandoning figurative classical painting to find new pictorial ways, in order to adapt algerian paintings to the new realities of the country through its struggle and its aspirations. mohammed khadda and m ' hamed issiakhem have been notable in recent years. literature the historic roots of algerian literature go back to the numidian and roman african era, when apuleius wrote the golden ass, the only latin novel to survive in its entirety. this period had also known augustine of hippo, nonius marcellus and martianus capella, among many others. the middle ages have known many arabic writers who revolutionised the arab world literature, with authors like ahmad al - buni, ibn manzur and ibn khaldoun, who wrote the muqaddimah while staying in algeria, and many others. albert camus was an algerian - born french pied - noir author. in 1957, he was awarded the nobel prize in literature. today algeria contains, in its literary landscape, big names having not only marked the algerian literature, but also the universal literary heritage in arabic and french. as a first step, algerian literature was marked by works whose main concern was the assertion of the algerian national entity, there is the publication of novels as the algerian trilogy of mohammed dib, or even nedjma of kateb yacine novel which is often regarded as a monumental and major work. other known writers will contribute to the emergence of algerian literature whom include mouloud feraoun,