and other communications. provisions of ancsa allowing the corporations ' land holdings to be sold on the open market starting in 1991 were repealed before they could take effect. effectively, the corporations hold title ( including subsurface title in many cases, a privilege denied to individual alaskans ) but cannot sell the land. individual native allotments can be and are sold on the open market, however. various private interests own the remaining land, totaling about one percent of the state. alaska is, by a large margin, the state with the smallest percentage of private land ownership when native corporation holdings are excluded. alaska heritage resources survey the alaska heritage resources survey ( ahrs ) is a restricted inventory of all reported historic and prehistoric sites within the u. s. state of alaska ; it is maintained by the office of history and archaeology. the survey ' s inventory of cultural resources includes objects, structures, buildings, sites, districts, and travel ways, with a general provision that they are more than fifty years old., more than 35, 000 sites have been reported. cities, towns and boroughs alaska is not divided into counties, as most of the other u. s. states, but it is divided into boroughs. delegates to the alaska constitutional convention wanted to avoid the pitfalls of the traditional county system and adopted their own unique model. many of the more densely populated parts of the state are part of alaska ' s 16 boroughs, which function somewhat similarly to counties in other states. however, unlike county - equivalents in the other 49 states, the boroughs do not cover the entire land area of the state. the area not part of any borough is referred to as the unorganized borough. the unorganized borough has no government of its own, but the u. s. census bureau in cooperation with the state divided the unorganized borough into 11 census areas solely for the purposes of statistical analysis and presentation. a recording district is a mechanism for management of the public record in alaska. the state is divided into 34 recording districts which are centrally administered under a state recorder. all recording districts use the same acceptance criteria, fee schedule, etc., for accepting documents into the public record. whereas many u. s. states use a three - tiered system of decentralization — state / county / township — most of alaska uses only two tiers — state / borough. owing to the low population density, most of the land is located in the unorganized borough. as the name implies, it has no intermediate borough government but is administered directly