the tanks. this saves water and the waste gathered can be used in compost or, in some cases, could even be treated and used on land. while ras was developed with freshwater fish in mind, scientists associated with the agricultural research service have found a way to rear saltwater fish using ras in low - salinity waters. although saltwater fish are raised in off - shore cages or caught with nets in water that typically has a salinity of 35 parts per thousand ( ppt ), scientists were able to produce healthy pompano, a saltwater fish, in tanks with a salinity of only 5 ppt. commercializing low - salinity ras are predicted to have positive environmental and economical effects. unwanted nutrients from the fish food would not be added to the ocean and the risk of transmitting diseases between wild and farm - raised fish would greatly be reduced. the price of expensive saltwater fish, such as the pompano and cobia used in the experiments, would be reduced. however, before any of this can be done researchers must study every aspect of the fish ' s lifecycle, including the amount of ammonia and nitrate the fish will tolerate in the water, what to feed the fish during each stage of its lifecycle, the stocking rate that will produce the healthiest fish, etc. some 16 countries now use geothermal energy for aquaculture, including china, israel, and the united states. in california, for example, 15 fish farms produce tilapia, bass, and catfish with warm water from underground. this warmer water enables fish to grow all year round and mature more quickly. collectively these california farms produce 4. 5 million kilograms of fish each year. global goals the un sustainable development goal 14 ( " life below water " ), target 14. 7 includes aquaculture : " by 2030, increase the economic benefits to small island developing states and least developed countries from the sustainable use of marine resources, including through sustainable management of fisheries, aquaculture and tourism ". aquaculture ' s contribution to gdp is not included in sdg target 14. 7 but methods for quantifying this have been explored by fao. national laws, regulations, and management laws governing aquaculture practices vary greatly by country and are often not closely regulated or easily traceable. in the united states, land - based and nearshore aquaculture is regulated at the federal and state levels ; however, no national laws govern offshore aquaculture in u. s. exclusive economic zone waters. in june 2011, the department