gravity ranging from 0. 780 to 0. 926 ( meaning it floats in water ). it melts at about to a fatty, yellow resinous liquid ; and at it is volatilised into a white vapor. it is soluble in ether, and in volatile and fixed oils. chemical properties ambergris is relatively nonreactive to acid. white crystals of a terpenoid known as ambrein, discovered by ruzicka and fernand lardon in 1946, can be separated from ambergris by heating raw ambergris in alcohol, then allowing the resulting solution to cool. breakdown of the relatively scentless ambrein through oxidation produces ambroxide and ambrinol, the main odor components of ambergris. ambroxide is now produced synthetically and used extensively in the perfume industry. applications ambergris has been mostly known for its use in creating perfume and fragrance much like musk. perfumes can still be found with ambergris. ambergris has historically been used in food and drink. a serving of eggs and ambergris was reportedly king charles ii of england ' s favorite dish. a recipe for rum shrub liqueur from the mid 19th century called for a thread of ambergris to be added to rum, almonds, cloves, cassia, and the peel of oranges in making a cocktail from the english and australian cookery book. it has been used as a flavoring agent in turkish coffee and in hot chocolate in 18th century europe. the substance is considered an aphrodisiac in some cultures. ancient egyptians burned ambergris as incense, while in modern egypt ambergris is used for scenting cigarettes. the ancient chinese called the substance " dragon ' s spittle fragrance ". during the black death in europe, people believed that carrying a ball of ambergris could help prevent them from contracting plague. this was because the fragrance covered the smell of the air which was believed to be a cause of plague. during the middle ages, europeans used ambergris as a medication for headaches, colds, epilepsy, and other ailments. legality from the 18th to the mid - 19th century, the whaling industry prospered. by some reports, nearly 50, 000 whales, including sperm whales, were killed each year. throughout the 1800s, " millions of whales were killed for their oil, whalebone, and ambergris " to fuel profits, and they soon became endangered as a species as a result