1950s. linguists did not consider sign language to be true " language " but as something inferior. recognition of the legitimacy of asl was achieved by william stokoe, a linguist who arrived at gallaudet university in 1955 when that was still the dominant assumption. aided by the civil rights movement of the 1960s, stokoe argued for manualism, the use of sign language in deaf education. stokoe noted that sign language shares the important features that oral languages have as a means of communication, and even devised a transcription system for asl. in doing so, stokoe revolutionized both deaf education and linguistics. in the 1960s, asl was sometimes referred to as " ameslan ", but that term is now considered obsolete. population counting the number of asl signers is difficult because asl users have never been counted by the american census. the ultimate source for current estimates of the number of asl users in the united states is a report for the national census of the deaf population ( ncdp ) by schein and delk ( 1974 ). based on a 1972 survey of the ncdp, schein and delk provided estimates consistent with a signing population between 250, 000 and 500, 000. the survey did not distinguish between asl and other forms of signing ; in fact, the name " asl " was not yet in widespread use. incorrect figures are sometimes cited for the population of asl users in the united states based on misunderstandings of known statistics. demographics of the deaf population have been confused with those of asl use since adults who become deaf late in life rarely use asl in the home. that accounts for currently - cited estimations that are greater than 500, 000 ; such mistaken estimations can reach as high as 15, 000, 000. a 100, 000 - person lower bound has been cited for asl users ; the source of that figure is unclear, but it may be an estimate of prelingual deafness, which is correlated with but not equivalent to signing. asl is sometimes incorrectly cited as the third - or fourth - most - spoken language in the united states. those figures misquote schein and delk ( 1974 ), who actually concluded that asl speakers constituted the third - largest population " requiring an interpreter in court ". although that would make asl the third - most used language among monolinguals other than english, it does not imply that it is the fourth - most - spoken language in the united states since speakers of other languages may