in small pockets in southern alberta, putting alberta ' s rat - free status in jeopardy. a colony of rats was subsequently found in a landfill near medicine hat in 2012 and again in 2014. paleontology alberta has one of the greatest diversities and abundances of late cretaceous dinosaur fossils worldwide. taxa are represented by complete fossil skeletons, isolated material, microvertebrate remains, and even mass graves. at least 38 dinosaur type specimens were collected in the province. the foremost formation, oldman formation and dinosaur park formations collectively comprise the judith river group and are the most thoroughly studied dinosaur - bearing strata in alberta. dinosaur - bearing strata are distributed widely throughout alberta. the dinosaur provincial park area contains outcrops of the dinosaur park formation and oldman formation. in alberta ' s central and southern regions are intermittent scollard formation outcrops. in the drumheller valley and edmonton regions there are exposed horseshoe canyon facies. other formations have been recorded as well, like the milk river and foremost formations. the latter two have a lower diversity of documented dinosaurs, primarily due to their lower total fossil quantity and neglect from collectors who are hindered by the isolation and scarcity of exposed outcrops. their dinosaur fossils are primarily teeth recovered from microvertebrate fossil sites. additional geologic formations that have produced only a few fossils are the belly river group and st. mary river formations of the southwest and the northwestern wapiti formation, which contains two pachyrhinosaurus bone beds. the bearpaw formation represents strata deposited during a marine transgression. dinosaurs are known from this formation, but represent specimens washed out to sea or reworked from older sediments. history paleo - indians arrived in alberta at least 10, 000 years ago, toward the end of the last ice age. they are thought to have migrated from siberia to alaska on a land bridge across the bering strait and then possibly moved down the east side of the rocky mountains through alberta to settle the americas. others may have migrated down the coast of british columbia and then moved inland. over time they differentiated into various first nations peoples, including the plains indians of southern alberta such as those of the blackfoot confederacy and the plains cree, who generally lived by hunting buffalo, and the more northerly tribes such as the woodland cree and chipewyan who hunted, trapped, and fished for a living. the first europeans to visit alberta were french canadians during the late 18th century, working as fur traders. french was the predominant language used in some early fur trading forts in the region,