it also became the fastest grossing film in japanese cinema, because in 10 days it made 10 billion yen ( $ 95. 3m ; £72m ). it beat the previous record of spirited away which took 25 days. attributes anime differs from other forms of animation by its art styles, methods of animation, its production, and its process. visually, anime works exhibit a wide variety of art styles, differing between creators, artists, and studios. while no single art style predominates anime as a whole, they do share some similar attributes in terms of animation technique and character design. anime is fundamentally characterized by the use of limited animation, flat expression, the suspension of time, its thematic range, the presence of historical figures, its complex narrative line and, above all, a peculiar drawing style, with characters characterized by large and oval eyes, with very defined lines, bright colors and reduced movement of the lips. technique modern anime follows a typical animation production process, involving storyboarding, voice acting, character design, and cel production. since the 1990s, animators have increasingly used computer animation to improve the efficiency of the production process. early anime works were experimental, and consisted of images drawn on blackboards, stop motion animation of paper cutouts, and silhouette animation. cel animation grew in popularity until it came to dominate the medium. in the 21st century, the use of other animation techniques is mostly limited to independent short films, including the stop motion puppet animation work produced by tadahito mochinaga, kihachiro kawamoto and tomoyasu murata. computers were integrated into the animation process in the 1990s, with works such as ghost in the shell and princess mononoke mixing cel animation with computer - generated images. fuji film, a major cel production company, announced it would stop cel production, producing an industry panic to procure cel imports and hastening the switch to digital processes. prior to the digital era, anime was produced with traditional animation methods using a pose to pose approach. the majority of mainstream anime uses fewer expressive key frames and more in - between animation. japanese animation studios were pioneers of many limited animation techniques, and have given anime a distinct set of conventions. unlike disney animation, where the emphasis is on the movement, anime emphasizes the art quality and let limited animation techniques make up for the lack of time spent on movement. such techniques are often used not only to meet deadlines but also as artistic devices. anime scenes place emphasis on achieving three - dimensional views, and backgrounds