reckoned his " reign " from 27 bc. augustus styled himself as imperator caesar divi filius, " commander caesar son of the deified one ". with this title, he boasted his familial link to deified julius caesar, and the use of imperator signified a permanent link to the roman tradition of victory. he transformed caesar, a cognomen for one branch of the julian family, into a new family line that began with him. augustus was granted the right to hang the corona civica ( civic crown ) above his door and to have laurels drape his doorposts. however, he renounced flaunting insignia of power such as holding a scepter, wearing a diadem, or wearing the golden crown and purple toga of his predecessor julius caesar. if he refused to symbolize his power by donning and bearing these items on his person, the senate nonetheless awarded him with a golden shield displayed in the meeting hall of the curia, bearing the inscription virtus, pietas, clementia, iustitia — " valor, piety, clemency, and justice. " second settlement by 23 bc, some of the un - republican implications were becoming apparent concerning the settlement of 27 bc. augustus ' s retention of an annual consulate drew attention to his de facto dominance over the roman political system and cut in half the opportunities for others to achieve what was still nominally the preeminent position in the roman state. further, he was causing political problems by desiring to have his nephew marcus claudius marcellus follow in his footsteps and eventually assume the principate in his turn, alienating his three greatest supporters : agrippa, maecenas, and livia. he appointed noted republican calpurnius piso ( who had fought against julius caesar and supported cassius and brutus ) as co - consul in 23 bc, after his choice aulus terentius varro murena died unexpectedly. in the late spring augustus had a severe illness and on his supposed deathbed made arrangements that would ensure the continuation of the principate in some form, while allaying senators ' suspicions of his anti - republicanism. augustus prepared to hand down his signet ring to his favored general agrippa. however, augustus handed over to his co - consul piso all of his official documents, an account of public finances, and authority over listed troops in the provinces while augustus ' s supposedly favored nephew marcellus came away empty - handed