with factors x, y and z, the anova model includes terms for the main effects ( x, y, z ) and terms for interactions ( xy, xz, yz, xyz ). all terms require hypothesis tests. the proliferation of interaction terms increases the risk that some hypothesis test will produce a false positive by chance. fortunately, experience says that high order interactions are rare. the ability to detect interactions is a major advantage of multiple factor anova. testing one factor at a time hides interactions, but produces apparently inconsistent experimental results. caution is advised when encountering interactions ; test interaction terms first and expand the analysis beyond anova if interactions are found. texts vary in their recommendations regarding the continuation of the anova procedure after encountering an interaction. interactions complicate the interpretation of experimental data. neither the calculations of significance nor the estimated treatment effects can be taken at face value. " a significant interaction will often mask the significance of main effects. " graphical methods are recommended to enhance understanding. regression is often useful. a lengthy discussion of interactions is available in cox ( 1958 ). some interactions can be removed ( by transformations ) while others cannot. a variety of techniques are used with multiple factor anova to reduce expense. one technique used in factorial designs is to minimize replication ( possibly no replication with support of analytical trickery ) and to combine groups when effects are found to be statistically ( or practically ) insignificant. an experiment with many insignificant factors may collapse into one with a few factors supported by many replications. associated analysis some analysis is required in support of the design of the experiment while other analysis is performed after changes in the factors are formally found to produce statistically significant changes in the responses. because experimentation is iterative, the results of one experiment alter plans for following experiments. preparatory analysis the number of experimental units in the design of an experiment, the number of experimental units is planned to satisfy the goals of the experiment. experimentation is often sequential. early experiments are often designed to provide mean - unbiased estimates of treatment effects and of experimental error. later experiments are often designed to test a hypothesis that a treatment effect has an important magnitude ; in this case, the number of experimental units is chosen so that the experiment is within budget and has adequate power, among other goals. reporting sample size analysis is generally required in psychology. " provide information on sample size and the process that led to sample size decisions. " the analysis, which is written in the experimental protocol before the experiment is conducted, is examined in grant applications