, described her as " a large, coarse - skinned young woman but with something of my friend ' s features, particularly the mouth ". this description followed their meeting on 24 february 1834 in which ada made it clear to hobhouse that she did not like him, probably due to her mother ' s influence, which led her to dislike all of her father ' s friends. this first impression was not to last, and they later became friends. on 8 july 1835, she married william, 8th baron king, becoming lady king. they had three homes : ockham park, surrey ; a scottish estate on loch torridon in ross - shire ; and a house in london. they spent their honeymoon at worthy manor in ashley combe near porlock weir, somerset. the manor had been built as a hunting lodge in 1799 and was improved by king in preparation for their honeymoon. it later became their summer retreat and was further improved during this time. from 1845, the family ' s main house was horsley towers, built in the tudorbethan fashion by the architect of the houses of parliament, charles barry, and later greatly enlarged to lovelace ' s own designs. they had three children : byron ( born 1836 ) ; anne isabella ( called annabella, born 1837 ) ; and ralph gordon ( born 1839 ). immediately after the birth of annabella, lady king experienced " a tedious and suffering illness, which took months to cure ". ada was a descendant of the extinct barons lovelace and in 1838, her husband was made earl of lovelace and viscount ockham, meaning ada became the countess of lovelace. in 1843 – 44, ada ' s mother assigned william benjamin carpenter to teach ada ' s children and to act as a " moral " instructor for ada. he quickly fell for her and encouraged her to express any frustrated affections, claiming that his marriage meant he would never act in an " unbecoming " manner. when it became clear that carpenter was trying to start an affair, ada cut it off. in 1841, lovelace and medora leigh ( the daughter of lord byron ' s half - sister augusta leigh ) were told by ada ' s mother that ada ' s father was also medora ' s father. on 27 february 1841, ada wrote to her mother : " i am not in the least astonished. in fact, you merely confirm what i have for years and years felt scarcely a doubt about, but should have considered it most improper in me to hint to you that i in any