. two sons who died in infancy ( edward in 1881 and robert in 1883 ). the bell family home was in cambridge, massachusetts, until 1880 when bell ' s father - in - law bought a house in washington, d. c. ; in 1882 he bought a home in the same city for bell ' s family, so they could be with him while he attended to the numerous court cases involving patent disputes. bell was a british subject throughout his early life in scotland and later in canada until 1882 when he became a naturalized citizen of the united states. in 1915, he characterized his status as : " i am not one of those hyphenated americans who claim allegiance to two countries. " despite this declaration, bell has been proudly claimed as a " native son " by all three countries he resided in : the united states, canada, and the united kingdom. by 1885, a new summer retreat was contemplated. that summer, the bells had a vacation on cape breton island in nova scotia, spending time at the small village of baddeck. returning in 1886, bell started building an estate on a point across from baddeck, overlooking bras d ' or lake. by 1889, a large house, christened the lodge was completed and two years later, a larger complex of buildings, including a new laboratory, were begun that the bells would name beinn bhreagh ( gaelic : beautiful mountain ) after bell ' s ancestral scottish highlands. bell also built the bell boatyard on the estate, employing up to 40 people building experimental craft as well as wartime lifeboats and workboats for the royal canadian navy and pleasure craft for the bell family. he was an enthusiastic boater, and bell and his family sailed or rowed a long series of vessels on bras d ' or lake, ordering additional vessels from the h. w. embree and sons boatyard in port hawkesbury, nova scotia. in his final, and some of his most productive years, bell split his residency between washington, d. c., where he and his family initially resided for most of the year, and beinn bhreagh, where they spent increasing amounts of time. until the end of his life, bell and his family would alternate between the two homes, but beinn bhreagh would, over the next 30 years, become more than a summer home as bell became so absorbed in his experiments that his annual stays lengthened. both mabel and bell became immersed in the baddeck community and were accepted by the villagers as " their own ".