soviet leaders mikhail suslov and konstantin chernenko. a staunch believer in traditional russian culture, solzhenitsyn expressed his disillusionment with post - soviet russia in works such as rebuilding russia, and called for the establishment of a strong presidential republic balanced by vigorous institutions of local self - government. the latter would remain his major political theme. solzhenitsyn also published eight two - part short stories, a series of contemplative " miniatures " or prose poems, and a literary memoir on his years in the west the grain between the millstones, translated and released as two works by the university of notre dame as part of the kennan institute ' s solzhenitsyn initiative. the first, between two millstones, book 1 : sketches of exile ( 1974 – 1978 ), was translated by peter constantine and published in october 2018, the second, book 2 : exile in america ( 1978 – 1994 ) translated by clare kitson and melanie moore and published in october 2020. once back in russia solzhenitsyn hosted a television talk show program. its eventual format was solzhenitsyn delivering a 15 - minute monologue twice a month ; it was discontinued in 1995. solzhenitsyn became a supporter of vladimir putin, who said he shared solzhenitsyn ' s critical view towards the russian revolution. all of solzhenitsyn ' s sons became u. s. citizens. one, ignat, is a pianist and conductor. another solzhenitsyn son, yermolai, works for the moscow office of mckinsey & company, a management consultancy firm, where he is a senior partner. death solzhenitsyn died of heart failure near moscow on 3 august 2008, at the age of 89. a burial service was held at donskoy monastery, moscow, on 6 august 2008. he was buried the same day in the monastery, in a spot he had chosen. russian and world leaders paid tribute to solzhenitsyn following his death. views on history and politics on christianity, tsarism, and russian nationalism according to william harrison, solzhenitsyn was an " arch - reactionary ", who argued that the soviet state " suppressed " traditional russian and ukrainian culture, called for the creation of a united slavic state encompassing russia, ukraine, and belarus, and who was a fierce opponent of ukrainian independence. it is well documented that his negative views on ukrainian independence became more radical over the years. harrison also alleged that sol