was still a child, only thirteen years old, yet kant ' s works, incomprehensible to ordinary mortals, seemed to be clear to him. " in 1895, at the age of sixteen, einstein sat the entrance examination for the federal polytechnic school ( later the eidgenossische technische hochschule, eth ) in zurich, switzerland. he failed to reach the required standard in the general part of the test, but performed with distinction in physics and mathematics. on the advice of the polytechnic ' s principal, he completed his secondary education at the argovian cantonal school ( a gymnasium ) in aarau, switzerland, graduating in 1896. while lodging in aarau with the family of jost winteler, he fell in love with winteler ' s daughter, marie. ( his sister, maja, later married winteler ' s son paul. ) in january 1896, with his father ' s approval, einstein renounced his citizenship of the german kingdom of wurttemberg in order to avoid conscription into military service. the matura ( graduation for the successful completion of higher secondary schooling ) awarded to him in the september of that year acknowledged him to have performed well across most of the curriculum, allotting him a top grade of 6 for history, physics, algebra, geometry, and descriptive geometry. at seventeen, he enrolled in the four - year mathematics and physics teaching diploma program at the federal polytechnic school. marie winteler, a year older than him, took up a teaching post in olsberg, switzerland. the five other polytechnic school freshmen following the same course as einstein included just one woman, a twenty year old serbian, mileva maric. over the next few years, the pair spent many hours discussing their shared interests and learning about topics in physics that the polytechnic school ' s lectures did not cover. in his letters to maric, einstein confessed that exploring science with her by his side was much more enjoyable than reading a textbook in solitude. eventually the two students became not only friends but also lovers. historians of physics are divided on the question of the extent to which maric contributed to the insights of einstein ' s annus mirabilis publications. there is at least some evidence that he was influenced by her scientific ideas, but there are scholars who doubt whether her impact on his thought was of any great significance at all. marriages, relationships and children correspondence between einstein and maric, discovered and published in 1987, revealed that in early 1902, while maric was visiting her parents