the sick ( also called unction ) – are regarded variously as full sacraments by anglo - catholics and many high church and some broad - church anglicans, but merely as " sacramental rites " by other broad - church and low - church anglicans, especially evangelicals associated with reform uk and the diocese of sydney. eucharistic theology anglican eucharistic theology is divergent in practice, reflecting the essential comprehensiveness of the tradition. a few low - church anglicans take a strictly memorialist ( zwinglian ) view of the sacrament. in other words, they see holy communion as a memorial to christ ' s suffering, and participation in the eucharist as both a re - enactment of the last supper and a foreshadowing of the heavenly banquet – the fulfilment of the eucharistic promise. other low - church anglicans believe in the real presence of christ in the eucharist but deny that the presence of christ is carnal or is necessarily localised in the bread and wine. despite explicit criticism in the thirty - nine articles, many high - church or anglo - catholic anglicans hold, more or less, the catholic view of the real presence as expressed in the doctrine of transubstantiation, seeing the eucharist as a liturgical representation of christ ' s atoning sacrifice with the elements actually transformed into christ ' s body and blood. the majority of anglicans, however, have in common a belief in the real presence, defined in one way or another. to that extent, they are in the company of the continental reformer martin luther and calvin rather than ulrich zwingli. the catechism of the american bcp of 1976 repeats the standard anglican view ( " the outward and visible sign in the eucharist is the bread and wine "... " the inward and spiritual grace in the holy communion is the body and blood of christ given to his people, and received by faith " ) without further definition. it should be remembered that anglicanism has no official doctrine on this matter, believing it is wiser to leave the presence a mystery. the faithful can believe privately whatever explanation they favour, be it transubstantiation, consubstantiation, receptionism, or virtualism ( the two most congenial to anglicans for centuries until the oxford movement ), each of which espouses belief in the real presence in one way or another, or memorialism, which has never been an option with anglicans. a famous anglican