relations states with limited recognition disputes nagorno - karabakh / azerbaijan the frozen conflict over currently largely armenian - populated region of nagorno - karabakh within the republic of azerbaijan began when in 1988 the armenian majority of nagorno - karabakh demanded autonomy with demonstrations and persecutions against ethnic azeris following in armenia. this led to anti - armenian rioting in azerbaijan, with azerbaijani militias beginning their effort to expel armenians from the enclave. in 1992, a war broke out and pogroms of armenians and azeris forced both groups to flee their homes. in 1994, a russian - brokered ceasefire ended the war but more than 1 million ethnic armenians and azeris are still not able to return home. the conflict over nagorno - karabakh remains unresolved despite negotiations, that are ongoing since 1992 under the aegis of the minsk group of the osce, to resolve the conflict peacefully. caviar diplomacy the european stability initiative ( esi ) has revealed in a report from 2012 with the title " caviar diplomacy : how azerbaijan silenced the council of europe ", that since azerbaijan ' s entry into the council of europe, each year 30 to 40 deputies are invited to azerbaijan and generously paid with expensive gifts, including caviar ( worth up to 1, 400 euro ), silk carpets, gold, silver and large amounts of money. in return they become lobbyists for azerbaijan. this practice has been widely referred to as " caviar diplomacy ". esi also published a report on 2013 presidential elections in azerbaijan titled " disgraced : azerbaijan and the end of election monitoring as we know it ". the report revealed the ties between azerbaijani government and the members of certain observation missions who praised the elections. azerbaijan ' s " caviar diplomacy " at 2013 presidential elections sparked a major international scandal, as the reports of two authoritative organizations parliamentary assembly of the council of europe / european parliament and osce / odihr completely contradicted one another in their assessments of elections. non - governmental anti - corruption organization transparency international has regularly judged azerbaijan to be one of the most corrupt countries in the world and has also criticized azerbaijan for the " caviar diplomacy ". at june 2016 the public prosecutor of milan has accused the former leader of the ( christian ) union of the center and of the european people ' s party of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe luca volonte of accepting large bribes from representatives of the azerbaijani government. two people with high - level experience of the