this sense in 1848 in principles of political economy, where he wrote : " value in use, or as mr. de quincey calls it, teleologic value, is the extreme limit of value in exchange. the exchange value of a thing may fall short, to any amount, of its value in use ; but that it can ever exceed the value in use, implies a contradiction ; it supposes that persons will give, to possess a thing, more than the utmost value which they themselves put upon it as a means of gratifying their inclinations. " while marginalism was generally influential, there was also a more specific school that began to coalesce around menger ' s work, which came to be known as the " psychological school ", " vienna school ", or " austrian school ". menger ' s contributions to economic theory were closely followed by those of eugen bohm von bawerk and friedrich von wieser. these three economists became what is known as the " first wave " of the austrian school. bohm - bawerk wrote extensive critiques of karl marx in the 1880s and 1890s and was part of the austrians ' participation in the late 19th - century methodenstreit, during which they attacked the hegelian doctrines of the historical school. early 20th century frank albert fetter ( 1863 – 1949 ) was a leader in the united states of austrian thought. he obtained his phd in 1894 from the university of halle and then was made professor of political economy and finance at cornell university in 1901. several important austrian economists trained at the university of vienna in the 1920s and later participated in private seminars held by ludwig von mises. these included gottfried haberler, friedrich hayek, fritz machlup, karl menger ( son of carl menger ), oskar morgenstern, paul rosenstein - rodan, abraham wald, and michael a. heilperin, among others, as well as the sociologist alfred schutz. later 20th century by the mid - 1930s, most economists had embraced what they considered the important contributions of the early austrians. fritz machlup quoted hayek ' s statement that " the greatest success of a school is that it stops existing because its fundamental teachings have become parts of the general body of commonly accepted thought ". sometime during the middle of the 20th century, austrian economics became disregarded or derided by mainstream economists because it rejected model building and mathematical and statistical methods in the study of economics. mises ' student israel kirzner recalled that in