amber is fossilized tree resin that has been appreciated for its color and natural beauty since neolithic times. much valued from antiquity to the present as a gemstone, amber is made into a variety of decorative objects. amber is used in jewelry and has been used as a healing agent in folk medicine. there are five classes of amber, defined on the basis of their chemical constituents. because it originates as a soft, sticky tree resin, amber sometimes contains animal and plant material as inclusions. amber occurring in coal seams is also called resinite, and the term ambrite is applied to that found specifically within new zealand coal seams. etymology the english word amber derives from arabic ( ultimately from middle persian ambar ) via middle latin ambar and middle french ambre. the word referred to what is now known as ambergris ( ambre gris or " grey amber " ), a solid waxy substance derived from the sperm whale. the word, in its sense of " ambergris, " was adopted in middle english in the 14th century. in the romance languages, the sense of the word was extended to baltic amber ( fossil resin ) from as early as the late 13th century. at first called white or yellow amber ( ambre jaune ), this meaning was adopted in english by the early 15th century. as the use of ambergris waned, this became the main sense of the word. the two substances ( " yellow amber " and " grey amber " ) conceivably became associated or confused because they both were found washed up on beaches. ambergris is less dense than water and floats, whereas amber is too dense to float, though less dense than stone. the classical names for amber, latin electrum and ancient greek ( elektron ), are connected to a term ηλεκτωρ ( elektor ) meaning " beaming sun ". according to myth, when phaeton son of helios ( the sun ) was killed, his mourning sisters became poplar trees, and their tears became elektron, amber. the word elektron gave rise to the words electric, electricity, and their relatives because of amber ' s ability to bear a charge of static electricity. pliny the elder says that the german name of amber was glæsum, " for which reason the romans, when germanicus commanded the fleet in those parts, gave to one of these islands the name of glæsaria, which by the barbarians was known as austeravia