in his speeches : " my daughter and foster child, born and bred, in my lap, so to speak ". when claudius decided to marry her, he persuaded a group of senators that the marriage should be arranged in the public interest. in roman society, an uncle ( claudius ) marrying his niece ( agrippina ) was considered incestuous and immoral. agrippina and claudius married on new year ' s day, 49. this marriage caused widespread disapproval. this may have been a part of agrippina ' s plan to make her son lucius the new emperor. her marriage to claudius was not based on love, but on power. she quickly eliminated her rival lollia paulina. shortly after marrying claudius, agrippina persuaded the emperor to charge paulina with black magic. claudius stipulated that paulina did not receive a hearing and her property was confiscated. she left italy, but agrippina was unsatisfied. allegedly on agrippina ' s orders, paulina committed suicide. in the months leading up to her marriage to claudius, agrippina ' s maternal second cousin, the praetor lucius junius silanus torquatus, was betrothed to claudius ' daughter claudia octavia. this betrothal was broken off in 48, when agrippina, scheming with the consul lucius vitellius the elder, the father of the future emperor aulus vitellius, falsely accused silanus of incest with his sister junia calvina. agrippina did this hoping to secure a marriage between octavia and her son. consequently, claudius broke off the engagement and forced silanus to resign from public office. silanus committed suicide on the day that agrippina married her uncle, and calvina was exiled from italy in early 49. calvina was called back from exile after the death of agrippina. towards the end of 54, agrippina would order the murder of silanus ' eldest brother marcus junius silanus torquatus without nero ' s knowledge, so that he would not seek revenge against her over his brother ' s death. empress of rome on the day that agrippina married her uncle claudius as her third husband / his fourth wife, she became empress. she also was a stepmother to claudia antonia, claudius ' daughter and only child from his second marriage to aelia paetina, and to the young claudia octavia and britannicus, claudius ' children with valeria messalina. agrip