and hence subtracted thirty years from that date, or that dionysius counted back 532 years from the first year of his new table. it has also been speculated by georges declercq that dionysius ' desire to replace diocletian years with a calendar based on the incarnation of christ was intended to prevent people from believing the imminent end of the world. at the time, it was believed by some that the resurrection of the dead and end of the world would occur 500 years after the birth of jesus. the old anno mundi calendar theoretically commenced with the creation of the world based on information in the old testament. it was believed that, based on the anno mundi calendar, jesus was born in the year 5500 ( 5500 years after the world was created ) with the year 6000 of the anno mundi calendar marking the end of the world. anno mundi 6000 ( approximately ad 500 ) was thus equated with the end of the world but this date had already passed in the time of dionysius. the " historia brittonum " attributed to nennius written in the 9th century makes extensive use of the anno passionis ( ap ) dating system which was in common use as well as the newer ad dating system. the ap dating system took its start from ' the year of the passion '. it is generally accepted by experts there is a 27 - year difference between ap and ad reference. popularization the anglo - saxon historian bede, who was familiar with the work of dionysius exiguus, used anno domini dating in his ecclesiastical history of the english people, which he completed in ad 731. in the history he also used the latin phrase ante [... ] incarnationis dominicae tempus anno sexagesimo ( " in the sixtieth year before the time of the lord ' s incarnation " ), which is equivalent to the english " before christ ", to identify years before the first year of this era. both dionysius and bede regarded anno domini as beginning at the incarnation of jesus christ, but " the distinction between incarnation and nativity was not drawn until the late 9th century, when in some places the incarnation epoch was identified with christ ' s conception, i. e., the annunciation on march 25 " ( " annunciation style " dating ). on the continent of europe, anno domini was introduced as the era of choice of the carolingian renaissance by the