negative affect, anxious childrearing, modelling of dysfunctional and drug - abusing behaviour, discouragement of emotions, poor socialization, poor attachment, and child abuse and neglect ), cultural factors ( e. g., stoic families / cultures, persecuted minorities including those with disabilities ), and socioeconomics ( e. g., uneducated, unemployed, impoverished although developed countries have higher rates of anxiety disorders than developing countries ). a 2019 comprehensive systematic review of over 50 studies showed that food insecurity in the united states is strongly associated with depression, anxiety, and sleep disorders. food - insecure individuals had an almost 3 fold risk increase of testing positive for anxiety when compared to food - secure individuals. gender socialization contextual factors that are thought to contribute to anxiety include gender socialization and learning experiences. in particular, learning mastery ( the degree to which people perceive their lives to be under their own control ) and instrumentality, which includes such traits as self - confidence, self - efficacy, independence, and competitiveness fully mediate the relation between gender and anxiety. that is, though gender differences in anxiety exist, with higher levels of anxiety in women compared to men, gender socialization and learning mastery explain these gender differences. treatment the first step in the management of a person with anxiety symptoms involves evaluating the possible presence of an underlying medical cause, the recognition of which is essential in order to decide the correct treatment. anxiety symptoms may mask an organic disease, or appear associated with or as a result of a medical disorder. cognitive behavioral therapy ( cbt ) is effective for anxiety disorders and is a first line treatment. cbt appears to be equally effective when carried out via the internet. while evidence for mental health apps is promising, it is preliminary. psychopharmacological treatment can be used in parallel to cbt or can be used alone. as a general rule, most anxiety disorders respond well to first - line agents. such drugs, also used as anti - depressants, are the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and serotonin - norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, that work by blocking the reuptake of specific neurotransmitters and resulting in the increase in availability of these neurotransmitters. additionally, benzodiazepines are often prescribed to individuals with anxiety disorder. benzodiazepines produce an anxiolytic response by modulating gaba and increasing its receptor binding. a third common treatment involves a category of