friedman responded by arguing that the icelandic commonwealth was able to prevent the wealthy from abusing the poor by requiring individuals who engaged in acts of violence to compensate their victims financially. anarchists argue that certain capitalist transactions are not voluntary and that maintaining the class structure of a capitalist society requires coercion which violates anarchist principles. anthropologist david graeber noted his skepticism about anarcho - capitalism along the same lines, arguing : some critics argue that the anarcho - capitalist concept of voluntary choice ignores constraints due to both human and non - human factors such as the need for food and shelter as well as active restriction of both used and unused resources by those enforcing property claims. if a person requires employment in order to feed and house himself, the employer - employee relationship could be considered involuntary. another criticism is that employment is involuntary because the economic system that makes it necessary for some individuals to serve others is supported by the enforcement of coercive private property relations. some philosophies view any ownership claims on land and natural resources as immoral and illegitimate. objectivist philosopher harry binswanger criticizes anarcho - capitalism by arguing that " capitalism requires government ", questioning who or what would enforce treaties and contracts. some right - libertarian critics of anarcho - capitalism who support the full privatization of capital such as geolibertarians argue that land and the raw materials of nature remain a distinct factor of production and cannot be justly converted to private property because they are not products of human labor. some socialists, including market anarchists and mutualists, adamantly oppose absentee ownership. anarcho - capitalists have strong abandonment criteria, namely that one maintains ownership until one agrees to trade or gift it. anti - state critics of this view posit comparatively weak abandonment criteria, arguing that one loses ownership when one stops personally occupying and using it as well as the idea of perpetually binding original appropriation is anathema to traditional schools of anarchism. literature the following is a partial list of notable nonfiction works discussing anarcho - capitalism. bruce l. benson, the enterprise of law : justice without the state to serve and protect : privatization and community in criminal justice david d. friedman, the machinery of freedom edward p. stringham, anarchy and the law : the political economy of choice george h. smith, " justice entrepreneurship in a free market " gerard casey, libertarian anarchy : against the state hans - hermann hoppe, anarcho - capitalism : an annotated bibliography a theory of socialism and capitalism democracy : the