he was relieved after the heavy losses incurred at the battle of bunker hill in charlestown, massachusetts. his replacement was sir william howe, a member of the whig faction in parliament who opposed the policy of coercion advocated by lord north ; cornwallis, who later surrendered at yorktown, was one of many senior officers who initially refused to serve in north america. the 1775 campaign showed the british overestimated the capabilities of their own troops and underestimated the colonial militia, requiring a reassessment of tactics and strategy. however, it allowed the patriots to take the initiative and british authorities rapidly lost control over every colony. howe ' s responsibility is still debated ; despite receiving large numbers of reinforcements, bunker hill seems to have permanently affected his self - confidence and lack of tactical flexibility meant he often failed to follow up opportunities. many of his decisions were attributed to supply problems, such as the delay in launching the new york campaign and failure to pursue washington ' s beaten army. having lost the confidence of his subordinates, he was recalled after burgoyne surrendered at saratoga. following the failure of the carlisle commission, british policy changed from treating the patriots as subjects who needed to be reconciled to enemies who had to be defeated. in 1778, howe was replaced by sir henry clinton, appointed instead of carleton who was considered overly cautious. regarded as an expert on tactics and strategy, like his predecessors clinton was handicapped by chronic supply issues. as a result, he was largely inactive in 1779 and much of 1780 ; in october 1780, he warned germain of " fatal consequences " if matters did not improve. in addition, clinton ' s strategy was compromised by conflict with political superiors in london and his colleagues in north america, especially admiral mariot arbuthnot, replaced in early 1781 by rodney. he was neither notified nor consulted when germain approved cornwallis ' invasion of the south in 1781 and delayed sending him reinforcements believing the bulk of washington ' s army was still outside new york city. after the surrender at yorktown, clinton was relieved by carleton, whose major task was to oversee the evacuation of loyalists and british troops from savannah, charleston, and new york city. german troops during the 18th century, states commonly hired foreign soldiers, including britain. during the seven years ' war, foreign soldiers comprised 10 % of the british army and their use caused little debate. when it became clear additional troops were needed to suppress the revolt in america, it was decided to employ professional german soldiers. there were several reasons for this, including public sympathy for the patriot cause,