take strictly the same time to execute, preventing timing attacks. video encoders and decoders such as rav1e ( an encoder for av1 ) and dav1d ( the reference decoder for av1 ) contain assembly to leverage avx2 and arm neon instructions when available. modify and extend legacy code written for ibm mainframe computers. situations where complete control over the environment is required, in extremely high - security situations where nothing can be taken for granted. computer viruses, bootloaders, certain device drivers, or other items very close to the hardware or low - level operating system. instruction set simulators for monitoring, tracing and debugging where additional overhead is kept to a minimum. situations where no high - level language exists, on a new or specialized processor for which no cross compiler is available. reverse engineering and modifying program files such as : existing binaries that may or may not have originally been written in a high - level language, for example when trying to recreate programs for which source code is not available or has been lost, or cracking copy protection of proprietary software. video games ( also termed rom hacking ), which is possible via several methods. the most widely employed method is altering program code at the assembly language level. assembly language is still taught in most computer science and electronic engineering programs. although few programmers today regularly work with assembly language as a tool, the underlying concepts remain important. such fundamental topics as binary arithmetic, memory allocation, stack processing, character set encoding, interrupt processing, and compiler design would be hard to study in detail without a grasp of how a computer operates at the hardware level. since a computer ' s behavior is fundamentally defined by its instruction set, the logical way to learn such concepts is to study an assembly language. most modern computers have similar instruction sets. therefore, studying a single assembly language is sufficient to learn : i ) the basic concepts ; ii ) to recognize situations where the use of assembly language might be appropriate ; and iii ) to see how efficient executable code can be created from high - level languages. typical applications assembly language is typically used in a system ' s boot code, the low - level code that initializes and tests the system hardware prior to booting the operating system and is often stored in rom. ( bios on ibm - compatible pc systems and cp / m is an example. ) assembly language is often used for low - level code, for instance for operating system kernels, which cannot rely on the availability of pre - existing system calls and