out the help of the river nymphs whose father was the river peneus. though he was initially fearful and reluctant, peneus later decided to let leto give birth in his waters. he did not change his mind even when ares produced a terrifying sound and threatened to hurl mountain peaks into the river. but in the end, leto declined his help as she did not want him to suffer for her sake. after being turned away from various lands, apollo spoke again from the womb, asking leto to take look at the floating island in front of her and expressing his wish to be born there. when leto approached asteria, all the other islands fled. but asteria welcomed leto without any fear of hera. walking on the island, she sat down against a palm tree and asked apollo to be born. during the child birth, the swans circled the island seven times, due to which later on apollo would play the seven stringed lyre. when apollo finally " leapt forth " from his mother ' s womb, the nymphs of the island sung a hymn to eilithyia that was heard to the heavens. the moment apollo was born, the entire island, including the trees and the waters, became gold. asteria bathed the new born, swaddled him and fed him with her breast milk. since then, the island got rooted and was called as delos. hera was no more angry as zeus had managed to calm her down, and she held no grudge against asteria due to the fact that asteria had rejected zeus in the past. pindar ' s fragments pindar is the earliest source who explicitly calls apollo and artemis as twins. here, asteria is also stated to be leto ' s sister. wanting escape zeus ' advances, she flung herself into the sea and became a floating rock called ortygia until the twins were born. when leto stepped on the rock, four pillars with adamantine bases rose from the earth and held up the rock. when apollo and artemis were born, their bodies shone radiantly and a chant was sung by eileithyia and lachesis, one of the three moirai. pseudo - hyginus scorning the advances of zeus, asteria tranformed herself into a bird and jumped into a sea. from her, an island rose which was called ortygia. when hera discovered that leto was pregnant with zeus ' child, she decreed that leto can give birth only in a place where sun does not