d ' amore, recorder, lute, or mandolin. about forty concertos are for two instruments and strings, and about thirty are for three or more instruments and strings. as well as about 46 operas, vivaldi composed a large body of sacred choral music, such as the magnificat rv 610. other works include sinfonias, about 90 sonatas and chamber music. some sonatas for flute, published as il pastor fido, have been erroneously attributed to vivaldi, but were composed by nicolas chedeville. catalogues of vivaldi works vivaldi ' s works attracted cataloging efforts befitting a major composer. scholarly work intended to increase the accuracy and variety of vivaldi performances also supported new discoveries which made old catalogs incomplete. works still in circulation today may be numbered under several different systems ( some earlier catalogs are mentioned here ). because the simply consecutive complete edition ( ce ) numbers did not reflect the individual works ( opus numbers ) into which compositions were grouped, numbers assigned by antonio fanna were often used in conjunction with ce numbers. combined complete edition ( ce ) / fanna numbering was especially common in the work of italian groups driving the mid - 20th - century revival of vivaldi, such as gli accademici di milano under piero santi. for example, the bassoon concerto in b major, " la notte " rv 501, became ce 12, f. viii, 1 despite the awkwardness of having to overlay fanna numbers onto the complete edition number for meaningful grouping of vivaldi ' s oeuvre, these numbers displaced the older pincherle numbers as the ( re - ) discovery of more manuscripts had rendered older catalogs obsolete. this cataloging work was led by the istituto italiano antonio vivaldi, where gian francesco malipiero was both the director and the editor of the published scores ( edizioni g. ricordi ). his work built on that of antonio fanna, a venetian businessman and the institute ' s founder, and thus formed a bridge to the scholarly catalog dominant today. compositions by vivaldi are identified today by rv number, the number assigned by danish musicologist peter ryom in works published mostly in the 1970s, such as the " ryom - verzeichnis " or " repertoire des oeuvres d ' antonio vivaldi ". like the complete edition before it, the rv does not typically assign its single, consecutive numbers to "