alp arslan, born muhammad bin dawud chaghri, was the second sultan of the seljuk empire and great - grandson of seljuk, the eponymous founder of the dynasty. he greatly expanded the seljuk territory and consolidated his power, defeating rivals to the south and northwest, and his victory over the byzantines at the battle of manzikert, in 1071, ushered in the turkmen settlement of anatolia. muhammad bin dawud chaghri ' s military prowess and fighting skills earned him the nickname alp arslan, which means " heroic lion " in turkish. early life alp arslan was the son of chaghri and nephew of tughril, the founding sultans of the seljuk empire. his grandfather was mikail, who in turn was the son of the warlord seljuk. he was the father of numerous children, including malik - shah i and tutush i. it is unclear who the mother or mothers of his children were. he was known to have been married at least twice. his wives included the widow of his uncle tughril, a kara - khanid princess known as aka or seferiye khatun, and the daughter or niece of bagrat iv of georgia ( who would later marry his vizier, nizam al - mulk ). one of seljuk ' s other sons was the turkic chieftain arslan isra ' il, whose son, kutalmish, contested his nephew ' s succession to the sultanate. alp arslan ' s younger brothers suleiman ibn chaghri and qavurt were his rivals. kilij arslan, the son and successor of suleiman ibn kutalmish ( kutalmish ' s son, who would later become sultan of rum ), was a major opponent of the franks during the first crusade and the crusade of 1101. physical appearance and personality contemporary descriptions portray alp arslan as " very awe - inspiring, dominating, " a " greatformed one, elegant of stature. he had long, thin whiskers, which he used to knot up when shooting arrows. and they say his arrow never went astray.... from the top button of his hat to the end of his moustaches it was two yards " muslim sources show alp arslan as fanatically pious but just. alp arslan was so dedicated to the hanafi madhhab that he