unplanned and uncontrolled urban landscape of ankara, as not enough planned housing could be built fast enough. although precariously built, the vast majority of them have electricity, running water and modern household amenities. nevertheless, many of these gecekondus have been replaced by huge public housing projects in the form of tower blocks such as elvankent, eryaman and guzelkent ; and also as mass housing compounds for military and civil service accommodation. although many gecekondus still remain, they too are gradually being replaced by mass housing compounds, as empty land plots in the city of ankara for new construction projects are becoming impossible to find. corum and yozgat, which are located in central anatolia and whose population is decreasing, are the provinces with the highest net migration to ankara. about one third of the central anatolia population of 15, 608, 868 people resides in ankara. the literacy rate in the whole province for people who are 15 years old or older is 98. 18 % according to 2020 tuik data. ankara province also has the highest percentage of tertiary education graduates in turkey with 29. 08 % of the population having either an undergraduate, master ' s or doctor ' s degree. economy and infrastructure ankara has long been a productive agricultural region in anatolia. in the ottoman period, ankara was well known for producing grain, cotton, and fruits. the city has exported mohair ( from the angora goat ) and angora wool ( from the angora rabbit ) internationally for centuries. in the 19th century, the city also exported substantial amounts of goat and cat skins, gum, wax, honey, berries, and madder root. it was connected to istanbul by railway before the first world war, continuing to export mohair, wool, berries, and grain. the central anatolia region is one of the primary locations of grape and wine production in turkey, and ankara is particularly famous for its kalecik karası and muscat grapes ; and its kavaklıdere wine, which is produced in the kavaklıdere neighborhood within the cankaya district of the city. ankara is also famous for its pears. another renowned natural product of ankara is its indigenous type of honey ( ankara balı ) which is known for its light color and is mostly produced by the ataturk forest farm and zoo in the gazi district, and by other facilities in the elmadag, cubuk and beypazarı districts. cubuk -