2003, prohibits commercial sexual exploitation of children. the council of europe convention on action against trafficking in human beings ( which came into force in 2008 ) also deals with commercial sexual exploitation of children. several western countries have raised their ages of consent in recent decades. these include canada ( in 2008 — from 14 to 16 ) ; and in europe, iceland ( in 2007 — from 14 to 15 ), lithuania ( in 2010 — from 14 to 16 ), croatia ( in 2013 — from 14 to 15 ), spain ( in 2015 — from 13 to 16 ), romania ( in 2020 from 15 to 16 ) and estonia ( in 2022 — from 14 to 16 ). the international criminal court statute does not provide a specific age of consent in its rape / sexual violence statute, but makes reference to sexual acts committed against persons " incapable of giving genuine consent " ; and the explicative footnote states, " it is understood that a person may be incapable of giving genuine consent if affected by natural, induced or age - related incapacity. " ( see note 51 ) law sexual relations with a person under the age of consent is a crime in most countries ; jurisdictions use a variety of terms for the offense, including child sexual abuse, statutory rape, illegal carnal knowledge, corruption of a minor, besides others. the enforcement practices of age - of - consent laws vary depending on the social sensibilities of the particular culture ( see above ). often, enforcement is not exercised to the letter of the law, with legal action being taken only when a sufficiently socially - unacceptable age gap exists between the two individuals, or if the perpetrator is in a position of power over the minor ( e. g. a teacher, minister, or doctor ). the sex of each participant can also influence perceptions of an individual ' s guilt and therefore enforcement. age the threshold age for engaging in sexual activity varies between jurisdictions. most jurisdictions have set a fixed age of consent. however, some jurisdictions permit sex with a person after the onset of their puberty, such as yemen, but only in marriage. ages can also vary based on the type of calendar used, such as the lunar calendar, how birth dates in leap years are handled, or even the method by which birth date is calculated. defenses and exceptions the age of consent is a legal barrier to the minor ' s ability to consent and therefore obtaining consent is not in general a defense to having sexual relations with a person under the prescribed age, for example : reasonable belief that the victim is over the age