the armed forces of armenia ( ), sometimes referred to as the armenian army ( ), is the national military of armenia. it consists of personnel branches under the general staff of the armenian armed forces, which can be divided into two general branches : the ground forces, and the air force. although it was partially formed out of the former soviet army forces stationed in the armenian ssr ( mostly units of the 7th guards army of the transcaucasian military district ), the military of armenia can be traced back to the founding of the first republic of armenia in 1918. being a landlocked country, armenia has no navy. the commander - in - chief of the military is the president of armenia, vahagn khachaturyan. the ministry of defence is in charge of political leadership, headed by suren papikyan, while military command remains in the hands of the general staff, headed by the chief of staff, who is major - general eduard asryan. border guards subject to the ministry of defence until 2001, patrol armenia ' s borders with georgia and azerbaijan, while russian troops continue to monitor its borders with iran and turkey. since 2002, armenia has been a member of the collective security treaty organization. armenia signed a military cooperation plan with lebanon on 27 november 2015. history early armenian army an armenian military corps was established to fight against the ottomans during the turkish – armenian war in early 1918. in accordance with the treaty of batum of 4 june 1918 the ottoman empire demobilized most of the armenian army. ethnic armenian conscripts and volunteers in the imperial russian army would later become the core of the military of the first armenian republic. soviet era the 7th guards army was based in yerevan from 1946 to 1992. in the late 1980s the army consisted of : directorate – yerevan 15th motor rifle division – kirovakan ( now vanadzor ) 75th motor rifle division – nakhichevan 127th motor rifle division – leninakan ( now gyumri ) 164th motor rifle division – yerevan on 1 june 1992, itar - tass reported that general fyodor reut said that some units of the 7th guards army would begin leaving armenia in 10 – 15 days. the army was disbanded later that summer. the former soviet air defense forces in armenia were drawn from the 14th air defense corps of the 19th separate air defense army. 1988 – 1992 the modern armenian military entered its first stage at the beginning of the nagorno - karabakh conflict, when armenian militias were formed to combat azerbaijani