, and thus the maximal length of the amazon river is about 80 km longer than previously thought. contos continued downstream to the ocean and finished the first complete descent of the amazon river from its newly identified source ( finishing november 2012 ), a journey repeated by two groups after the news spread. after about, the apurimac then joins rio mantaro to form the ene, which joins the perene to form the tambo, which joins the urubamba river to form the ucayali. after the confluence of apurimac and ucayali, the river leaves andean terrain and is surrounded by floodplain. from this point to the confluence of the ucayali and the maranon, some, the forested banks are just above the water and are inundated long before the river attains its maximum flood stage. the low river banks are interrupted by only a few hills, and the river enters the enormous amazon rainforest. the upper amazon or solimoes although the ucayali – maranon confluence is the point at which most geographers place the beginning of the amazon river proper, in brazil the river is known at this point as the solimoes das aguas. the river systems and flood plains in brazil, peru, ecuador, colombia, and venezuela, whose waters drain into the solimoes and its tributaries, are called the " upper amazon ". the amazon proper runs mostly through brazil and peru, and is part of the border between colombia and peru. it has a series of major tributaries in colombia, ecuador and peru, some of which flow into the maranon and ucayali, and others directly into the amazon proper. these include rivers putumayo, caqueta, vaupes, guainia, morona, pastaza, nucuray, urituyacu, chambira, tigre, nanay, napo, and huallaga. at some points, the river divides into anabranches, or multiple channels, often very long, with inland and lateral channels, all connected by a complicated system of natural canals, cutting the low, flat igapo lands, which are never more than above low river, into many islands. from the town of canaria at the great bend of the amazon to the negro, vast areas of land are submerged at high water, above which only the upper part of the trees of the sombre forests appear. near the mouth of the rio negro to serpa, nearly opposite the river madeira, the banks