borderline " child pornography which may be illegal. health the human immune system continues to develop after puberty. the age of exposure has an influence upon if the immune system can fend off infections in general, and this is also true in the case of some sexually transmitted diseases. for example, a risk factor for hpv strains causing genital warts is sexual debut at a young age ; if this extends to the cancer causing strains, then sexual debut at a young age would potentially also increase risk of persistence of hpv infections that cause the very hpv induced cancers that are being diagnosed in spiking numbers of relatively young people. initiatives to change the age of consent age - of - consent reform refers to the efforts of some individuals or groups, for different reasons, to alter or abolish age - of - consent laws. these efforts advocate positions such as : introductions of close - in - age exceptions. reducing the age - of - consent for homosexual activity to match that of heterosexual activity. a change in the way that age - of - consent laws are examined in court. either increases in the ages of consent or more severe penalties or both. either decreases in the ages of consent or less severe penalties or both. abolition of the age - of - consent laws either permanently or as a temporary, practical expedient. see also adult film industry regulations age disparity in sexual relationships age of accountability age of candidacy age of consent act, 1891 ( british india ) age of consent reform ( uk ) age of consent by country age of majority age of reason ( canon law ) child sexual abuse comprehensive sex education convention on the rights of the child emancipation of minors fitness to plead, law of england and wales french petition against age of consent laws gillick competence legal age mature minor doctrine minors and abortion sex - positive movement sodomy law the maiden tribute of modern babylon youth youth suffrage youth rights references further reading brewer, holly. by birth or consent : children, law, & the anglo - american revolution in authority ; univ. of north carolina press ( chapel hill, 2005 ) robertson, stephen ( university of sydney ). " age of consent laws. " in : children & youth in history, roy rosenzweig center for history and new media ( chnm ) at george mason university and the university of missouri – kansas city. — includes links to primary sources. waites, matthew ( 2005 ). the age of consent : young people, sexuality and citizenship, ( new york [ united states ] and houndmills, basingstok