entered public service. praetorian prefect sextus claudius petronius probus first gave him a place as a judicial councillor, and then in about 372 made him governor of the province of liguria and emilia, with headquarters at milan. bishop of milan in 374 the bishop of milan, auxentius, an arian, died, and the arians challenged the succession. ambrose went to the church where the election was to take place to prevent an uproar which seemed probable in this crisis. his address was interrupted by a call, " ambrose, bishop! ", which was taken up by the whole assembly. ambrose, though known to be nicene christian in belief, was considered acceptable to arians due to the charity he had shown concerning their beliefs. at first he energetically refused the office of bishop, for which he felt he was in no way prepared : ambrose was a relatively new christian who was not yet baptized nor formally trained in theology. ambrose fled to a colleague ' s home, seeking to hide. upon receiving a letter from the emperor gratian praising the appropriateness of rome appointing individuals worthy of holy positions, ambrose ' s host gave him up. within a week, he was baptized, ordained and duly consecrated as the new bishop of milan. this was the first time in the west that a member of the upper class of high officials had accepted the office of bishop. as bishop, he immediately adopted an ascetic lifestyle, apportioned his money to the poor, donating all of his land, making only provision for his sister marcellina. this raised his standing even further ; it was his popularity with the people that gave him considerable political leverage throughout his career. upon the unexpected appointment of ambrose to the episcopate, his brother satyrus resigned a prefecture in order to move to milan, where he took over managing the diocese ' s temporal affairs. arianism arius ( died 336 ) was a christian priest who asserted ( around the year 300 ) that god the father must have created the son, making the son a lesser being who was not eternal and of a different " essence " than god the father. this christology, though contrary to tradition, quickly spread through egypt and libya and other roman provinces. bishops engaged in " wordy warfare ", and the people divided into parties, sometimes demonstrating in the streets in support of one side or the other. arianism appealed to many high - level leaders and clergy in both the western and eastern empires. although the western emperor gr