of varying masses plus several neutrons, in a decay called spontaneous nuclear fission. each radioactive isotope has a characteristic decay time period — the half - life — that is determined by the amount of time needed for half of a sample to decay. this is an exponential decay process that steadily decreases the proportion of the remaining isotope by 50 % every half - life. hence after two half - lives have passed only 25 % of the isotope is present, and so forth. magnetic moment elementary particles possess an intrinsic quantum mechanical property known as spin. this is analogous to the angular momentum of an object that is spinning around its center of mass, although strictly speaking these particles are believed to be point - like and cannot be said to be rotating. spin is measured in units of the reduced planck constant ( ħ ), with electrons, protons and neutrons all having spin ħ, or " spin - ". in an atom, electrons in motion around the nucleus possess orbital angular momentum in addition to their spin, while the nucleus itself possesses angular momentum due to its nuclear spin. the magnetic field produced by an atom — its magnetic moment — is determined by these various forms of angular momentum, just as a rotating charged object classically produces a magnetic field, but the most dominant contribution comes from electron spin. due to the nature of electrons to obey the pauli exclusion principle, in which no two electrons may be found in the same quantum state, bound electrons pair up with each other, with one member of each pair in a spin up state and the other in the opposite, spin down state. thus these spins cancel each other out, reducing the total magnetic dipole moment to zero in some atoms with even number of electrons. in ferromagnetic elements such as iron, cobalt and nickel, an odd number of electrons leads to an unpaired electron and a net overall magnetic moment. the orbitals of neighboring atoms overlap and a lower energy state is achieved when the spins of unpaired electrons are aligned with each other, a spontaneous process known as an exchange interaction. when the magnetic moments of ferromagnetic atoms are lined up, the material can produce a measurable macroscopic field. paramagnetic materials have atoms with magnetic moments that line up in random directions when no magnetic field is present, but the magnetic moments of the individual atoms line up in the presence of a field. the nucleus of an atom will have no spin when it has even numbers of both neutrons and protons, but for other cases of odd numbers, the nucleus may have a