##er shah to retake mashad and also intervene in the power struggle of harat. by july 1731, zulfiqar returned to his capital farah where he had been serving as the governor since 1726. a year later nadir ' s brother ibrahim khan took control of farah. during this time zulfiqar and the young durrani fled to kandahar where they took refuge with the ghiljis. they were later made political prisoners by hussain hotak, the ghilji ruler of the kandahar region. nader shah had been enlisting the abdalis in his army since around 1729. after conquering kandahar in 1738, durrani and his brother zulfiqar were freed and provided with leading careers in nader shah ' s administration. zulfiqar was made governor of mazandaran while durrani remained working as nader shah ' s personal attendant. the ghiljis, who are originally from the territories east of the kandahar region, were expelled from kandahar in order to resettle the abdalis along with some qizilbash and other persians. durrani proved himself in nader shah ' s service and was promoted from a personal attendant ( yasawal ) to command the abdali regiment, a cavalry of four thousand soldiers and officers. the abdali regiment was part of nader shah ' s military during his invasion of the mughal empire in 1738. popular history has it that the shah could see the talent in his young commander. later on, according to pashtun legend, it is said that in delhi nader shah summoned durrani, and said, " come forward ahmad abdali. remember ahmad khan abdali, that after me the kingship will pass on to you. nader shah recruited him because of his " impressive personality and valour " also because of his " loyalty to the persian monarch ". rise to power nader shah ' s rule abruptly ended in june 1747 when he was assassinated by his own guards. the guards involved in the assassination did so secretly so as to prevent the abdalis from coming to their king ' s rescue. however, durrani was told that the shah had been killed by one of his wives. despite the danger of being attacked, the abdali contingent led by durrani rushed either to save the shah or to confirm what happened. upon reaching the shah ' s tent, they were only to see his body and severed head. having served him so loyally