##houses and wells, every along the roads. ( pillar edict 7 ). restriction on killing of animals in the royal kitchen ( rock edict 1 ) ; the number of animals killed was limited to two peacocks and a deer daily, and in future, even these animals were not to be killed. provision of medical facilities for humans and animals ( rock edict 2 ). encouragement of obedience to parents, " generosity toward priests and ascetics, and frugality in spending " ( rock edict 3 ). he " commissions officers to work for the welfare and happiness of the poor and aged " ( rock edict 5 ) promotion of " the welfare of all beings so as to pay off his debt to living creatures and to work for their happiness in this world and the next. " ( rock edict 6 ) modern scholars have variously understood this dhamma as a buddhist lay ethic, a set of politico - moral ideas, a " sort of universal religion ", or as an ashokan innovation. on the other hand, it has also been interpreted as an essentially political ideology that sought to knit together a vast and diverse empire. ashoka instituted a new category of officers called the dhamma - mahamattas, who were tasked with the welfare of the aged, the infirm, the women and children, and various religious sects. they were also sent on diplomatic missions to the hellenistic kingdoms of west asia, in order to propagate the dhamma. historically, the image of ashoka in the global buddhist circles was based on legends ( such as those mentioned in the ashokavadana ) rather than his rock edicts. this was because the brahmi script in which these edicts were written was forgotten soon and remained undeciphered until its study by james prinsep in the 19th century. the writings of the chinese buddhist pilgrims such as faxian and xuanzang suggest that ashoka ' s inscriptions mark the important sites associated with gautama buddha. these writers attribute buddhism - related content to ashoka ' s edicts, but this content does not match with the actual text of the inscriptions as determined by modern scholars after the decipherment of the brahmi script. it is likely that the script was forgotten by the time of faxian, who probably relied on local guides ; these guides may have made up some buddhism - related interpretations to gratify him, or may have themselves relied on faulty translations based on oral traditions. xuanzang may have encountered a similar situation, or may have taken