type of " monopoly or oligopoly ". " the result is the prices with us do not drop even if they do on international market, or they do quite belated and not to the size of the international market. " according to 2008 estimate of a former prime minister, hrant bagratyan, 55 percent of armenia ' s gdp is controlled by 44 families. in early 2008, the state commission for the protection of economic competition named 60 companies having " dominant positions " in armenia. in october 2009, when visiting yerevan, the world bank ’ s managing director, ngozi okonjo - iweala, warned that armenia will not reach a higher level of development unless its leadership changes the " oligopolistic " structure of the national economy, bolsters the rule of law and shows " zero tolerance " towards corruption. " i think you can only go so far with this economic model, " ngozi okonjo - iweala told a news conference in yerevan. " armenia is a lower middle - income country. if it wants to become a high - income or upper middle - income country, it can not do so with this kind of economic structure. that is clear. " she also called for a sweeping reform of tax and customs administration, the creation of a " strong and independent judicial system " as well as a tough fight against government corruption. the warning was echoed by the international monetary fund. takeover of armenian industrial property by the russian state and russian companies since 2000, the russian state has acquired several key assets in the energy sector and soviet - era industrial plants. property - for - debt or equity - for - debt swaps ( acquiring ownership by simply writing off the armenian government ' s debts to russia ) are usually the method of acquiring assets. the failure of market reforms, clan - based economics, and official corruption in armenia have allowed the success of this process. in august 2002, the armenian government sold an 80 percent stake in the armenian electricity network ( aen ) to midland resources, a british offshore - registered firm which is said to have close russian connections. in september 2002, the armenian government handed over armenia ' s largest cement factory to the russian itera gas exporter in payment for its $ 10 million debt for past gas deliveries. on november 5, 2002, armenia transferred control of 5 state enterprises to russia in an assets - for - debts transaction which settled $ 100 million of armenian state debts to russia. the document was signed for russia by prime minister mikhail kasyanov and industry minister ilya