##aetorian prefect lucius aelius sejanus, who began eliminating their supporters with accusations of treason and sexual misconduct in ad 26. her family ' s rivalry with sejanus would culminate with her and nero ' s exile in ad 29. nero was exiled to pontia and she was exiled to the island of pandateria, where she would remain until her death by starvation in ad 33. name following the roman custom of parents and children sharing the same nomen and cognomen, women in the same family would often share the same name. accordingly, marcus vipsanius agrippa first daughter with attica was named vipsania agrippina. to distinguish agrippa and julia ' s daughter from their granddaughter julia agrippina, historians refer to this daughter as " agrippina the elder " ( latin : agrippina maior ). likewise, agrippina ' s daughter is referred to as " agrippina the younger " ( minor ). like her father, agrippina the elder avoided her nomen and has not been found to have used " vipsania " in inscription. an inscription in rhodiapolis records her with the nomen " julia ", although this appears to be a mistake. background marcus vipsanius agrippa was an early supporter of augustus ( then " octavius " ). he was a key general in augustus ' armies, commanding troops during the wars against sextus pompey and mark antony. from early in the emperor ' s reign, agrippa was trusted to handle affairs in the eastern provinces and was even given the signet ring of augustus, who appeared to be on his deathbed in 23bc, a sign that he would become princeps were augustus to die. it is probable that he was to rule until the emperor ' s nephew, marcus claudius marcellus, came of age. however, marcellus died that year of an illness that became an epidemic in rome. now, with marcellus dead, augustus arranged for the marriage of agrippa to his daughter julia the elder, who was previously the wife of marcellus. agrippa was given tribunicia potestas ( " the tribunician power " ) in 18 bc, a power that only the emperor and his immediate heir could hope to attain. the tribunician power allowed him to control the senate, and it was first given to julius caesar. agrippa acted as tribune in the senate to pass important legislation and, though he