is abolished. battle flags have the color of the state flag, with the slogan " for azerbaijan " being embroidered with golden silk on a blue stripe along the upper edge of the fabric. outside the battle flag, the azerbaijani military also utilizes the turkish military tradition of pennants as symbols. military holidays these are the military holidays observed by all service personnel the armed forces : 14 february – air force day 9 may – victory day ( great patriotic war ) 26 june – day of the armed forces 5 august – day of the azerbaijani navy 27 september – memorial day 18 october – day of the first military unit 8 november – victory day azerbaijan military history museum azerbaijan military history museum is a structure under the ministry of defense. it was established on 10 december 1992 by the order of the minister of defense and in accordance with a decree signed on 29 october 1992 " on the transfer of the museum of combat glory of the vi army garrison of the commonwealth of independent states ". today, the museum displays 5 tanks, 9 armored personnel carriers, 16 artillery pieces, 6 aircraft, 4 helicopters, 6 different military equipment of the air force. currently, the number of exhibits totals 11, 000. republican veterans organization after the second world war, veterans movements were launched in azerbaijan, with the baku veterans committee being established on 10 june 1960. the activity of the committee was limited to baku until the early 1970s. during the leadership of first secretary heydar aliyev, there was a revival in the veteran movement, during which the committee gradually expanded to the republic. the establishment of the republican veterans organization took place on 21 march 1987. despite the official registration of the rvo with the ministry of justice, the activity of the organization was largely formal due to the tensions in the country with the karabakh war, as well as the attitude of the government towards red army veterans in general. one of the first laws signed by the president aliyev was the law " on veterans " ( 28 june 1994 ), which restored the mandate for the rvo. see also judiciary of azerbaijan special purpose police unit references further reading u. s. army war college center for strategic leadership, transformation of the azerbaijani armed forces, october 2008 external links official youtube channel of azerbaijani soldier program 1918 establishments in azerbaijan