##amanders in the families sirenidae, hynobiidae and cryptobranchidae practice external fertilisation in a similar manner to frogs, with the female laying the eggs in water and the male releasing sperm onto the egg mass. with a few exceptions, frogs use external fertilisation. the male grasps the female tightly with his forelimbs either behind the arms or in front of the back legs, or in the case of epipedobates tricolor, around the neck. they remain in amplexus with their cloacae positioned close together while the female lays the eggs and the male covers them with sperm. roughened nuptial pads on the male ' s hands aid in retaining grip. often the male collects and retains the egg mass, forming a sort of basket with the hind feet. an exception is the granular poison frog ( oophaga granulifera ) where the male and female place their cloacae in close proximity while facing in opposite directions and then release eggs and sperm simultaneously. the tailed frog ( ascaphus truei ) exhibits internal fertilisation. the " tail " is only possessed by the male and is an extension of the cloaca and used to inseminate the female. this frog lives in fast - flowing streams and internal fertilisation prevents the sperm from being washed away before fertilisation occurs. the sperm may be retained in storage tubes attached to the oviduct until the following spring. most frogs can be classified as either prolonged or explosive breeders. typically, prolonged breeders congregate at a breeding site, the males usually arriving first, calling and setting up territories. other satellite males remain quietly nearby, waiting for their opportunity to take over a territory. the females arrive sporadically, mate selection takes place and eggs are laid. the females depart and territories may change hands. more females appear and in due course, the breeding season comes to an end. explosive breeders on the other hand are found where temporary pools appear in dry regions after rainfall. these frogs are typically fossorial species that emerge after heavy rains and congregate at a breeding site. they are attracted there by the calling of the first male to find a suitable place, perhaps a pool that forms in the same place each rainy season. the assembled frogs may call in unison and frenzied activity ensues, the males scrambling to mate with the usually smaller number of females. there is a direct competition between males to win the attention of