s top - secret codebreaking centre, bletchley park. the agency ' s fears were allayed when christie told her friend, the codebreaker dilly knox, " i was stuck there on my way by train from oxford to london and took revenge by giving the name to one of my least lovable characters. " christie was elected a fellow of the royal society of literature in 1950. in honour of her many literary works, christie was appointed commander of the order of the british empire ( cbe ) in the 1956 new year honours. she was co - president of the detection club from 1958 to her death in 1976. in 1961, she was awarded an honorary doctor of literature degree by the university of exeter. in the 1971 new year honours, she was promoted to dame commander of the order of the british empire ( dbe ), three years after her husband had been knighted for his archaeological work. after her husband ' s knighthood, christie could also be styled lady mallowan. from 1971 to 1974, christie ' s health began to fail, but she continued to write. her last novel was postern of fate in 1973. textual analysis suggested that christie may have begun to develop alzheimer ' s disease or other dementia at about this time. personal qualities in 1946, christie said of herself : " my chief dislikes are crowds, loud noises, gramophones and cinemas. i dislike the taste of alcohol and do not like smoking. i do like sun, sea, flowers, travelling, strange foods, sports, concerts, theatres, pianos, and doing embroidery. " christie was a lifelong, " quietly devout " member of the church of england, attended church regularly, and kept her mother ' s copy of the imitation of christ by her bedside. after her divorce, she stopped taking the sacrament of communion. the agatha christie trust for children was established in 1969, and shortly after christie ' s death a charitable memorial fund was set up to " help two causes that she favoured : old people and young children ". christie ' s obituary in the times notes that " she never cared much for the cinema, or for wireless and television. " further, death and estate death and burial christie died peacefully on 12 january 1976 at age 85 from natural causes at her home at winterbrook house. upon her death, two west end theatresthe st. martin ' s, where the mousetrap was playing, and the savoy, which was home to a revival of murder at the vicaragedimmed their outside lights in her honour. she was