. sheep are important in the higher ground. tourism – this sector continues to grow, with a range of sights to be seen in the area. from the lively cairngorm mountain range to the bustling fishing ports on the northeast coast, aberdeenshire samples a bit of everything. aberdeenshire also has a rugged coastline, many sandy beaches and is a hot spot for tourist activity throughout the year. almost 1. 3 million tourists visited the region in 2011 – up 3 % on the previous year. whisky distilling is still a practised art in the area. governance the first election to aberdeenshire council was held in 1995, initially operating as a shadow authority alongside the outgoing authorities until the new system came into force on 1 april 1996. the council is the fifth largest scottish council having 70 members. the council has devolved power to six area committees : banff and buchan ; buchan ; formartine ; garioch ; marr ; and kincardine and mearns. each area committee takes decisions on local issues such as planning applications, and the split is meant to reflect the diverse circumstances of each area. ( boundary map ) in the 2014 scottish independence referendum, 60. 36 % of voters in aberdeenshire voted for the union, while 39. 64 % opted for independence. political control aberdeenshire council has been under no overall control since its creation : leadership the leaders of the council since 1996 have been : composition following the 2022 election and subsequent changes of allegiance up to june 2023, the composition of the council was : of the independent councillors, eight form the " administration independents " group, which forms part the council ' s administration in coalition with the conservatives and liberal democrats. two of the independents form the " democratic independent group " which sits with the snp as the " opposition coalition ". the remaining independent councillor does not belong to any group. the next election is due in 2027. premises the council is based at woodhill house in aberdeen, outside the council ' s own territory. the building was completed in 1977 for the former grampian regional council. wards the council has 70 councillors, elected by single transferable vote in 19 multi - member wards : notable features the following significant structures or places are within aberdeenshire : balmoral castle, scottish highland residence of the british royal family. bennachie burn o ' vat cairness house cairngorms national park corgarff castle crathes castle causey mounth, an ancient road drum castle dunnottar castle fetteresso