##s. protection of herds, flocks and crops from diseases, pests and predators were his primary rustic duties. on the other hand, apollo also encouraged the founding of new towns and the establishment of civil constitutions, is associated with dominion over colonists, and was the giver of laws. his oracles were often consulted before setting laws in a city. apollo agyieus was the protector of the streets, public places and home entrances. in hellenistic times, especially during the 5th century bce, as apollo helios he became identified among greeks with helios, the personification of the sun. in latin texts, however, there was no conflation of apollo with sol among the classical latin poets until 1st century ce. apollo and helios / sol remained separate beings in literary and mythological texts until the 5th century ce. etymology apollo ( attic, ionic, and homeric greek :, ( ) ; doric :, ; arcadocypriot :, ; aeolic :, ; ) the name apollo — unlike the related older name paean — is generally not found in the linear b ( mycenean greek ) texts, although there is a possible attestation in the lacunose form ] pe - rjo - [ ( linear b : ] - [ ) on the kn e 842 tablet, though it has also been suggested that the name might actually read " hyperion " ( [ u ] - pe - rjo - [ ne ] ). the etymology of the name is uncertain. the spelling ( in classical attic ) had almost superseded all other forms by the beginning of the common era, but the doric form, ( ), is more archaic, as it is derived from an earlier. it probably is a cognate to the doric month apellaios ( ), and the offerings ( ) at the initiation of the young men during the family - festival ( ). according to some scholars, the words are derived from the doric word ( ), which originally meant " wall, " " fence for animals " and later " assembly within the limits of the square. " apella ( ) is the name of the popular assembly in sparta, corresponding to the ( ). r. s. p. beekes rejected the connection of the theonym with the noun and suggested a pre - greek proto - form * apalyun. several instances of popular etymology are attested by ancient authors. thus, the greeks most often associated apollo ' s name with the greek verb ( ), "