time of the kushan empire. the quality of the inscriptions of this ashoka is significantly lower than the quality of the inscriptions of the earlier piyadasi. names and titles the name " a - shoka " literally means " without sorrow ". according to an ashokavadana legend, his mother gave him this name because his birth removed her sorrows. the name priyadasi is associated with ashoka in the 3rd – 4th century ce dipavamsa. the term literally means " he who regards amiably ", or " of gracious mien " ( sanskrit : priya - darshi ). it may have been a regnal name adopted by ashoka. a version of this name is used for ashoka in greek - language inscriptions : βασιλευς πιοδασσης ( " basileus piodasses " ). ashoka ' s inscriptions mention his title devanampiya ( sanskrit : devanampriya, " beloved of the gods " ). the identification of devanampiya and ashoka as the same person is established by the maski and gujarra inscriptions, which use both these terms for the king. the title was adopted by other kings, including the contemporary king devanampiya tissa of anuradhapura and ashoka ' s descendant dasharatha maurya. the title ' mahasammat ' is received in the context of directing the mahamatras in the buddhist text nikaya. also the other two other titles are ' murdhabhishikta ' and ' janapadasthamaviryaprapt ' which are often used titles for ashoka. date the exact date of ashoka ' s birth is not certain, as the extant contemporary indian texts did not record such details. it is known that he lived in the 3rd century bce, as his inscriptions mention several contemporary rulers whose dates are known with more certainty, such as antiochus ii theos, ptolemy ii philadelphus, antigonus ii gonatas, magas of cyrene, and alexander ( of epirus or corinth ). thus, ashoka must have been born sometime in the late 4th century bce or early 3rd century bce ( ), ancestry ashoka ' s own inscriptions are fairly detailed but make no mention of his ancestors. other sources, such as the puranas and the mahavamsa state that his father was the mauryan emperor bindusara, and his grandfather was chandra