japan. there are several other initiatives around the world involving humanoid research and development at this time, which will hopefully introduce a broader spectrum of realized technology in the near future. now saya is working at the science university of tokyo as a guide. the waseda university ( japan ) and ntt docomo ' s manufacturers have succeeded in creating a shape - shifting robot wd - 2. it is capable of changing its face. at first, the creators decided the positions of the necessary points to express the outline, eyes, nose, and so on of a certain person. the robot expresses its face by moving all points to the decided positions, they say. the first version of the robot was first developed back in 2003. after that, a year later, they made a couple of major improvements to the design. the robot features an elastic mask made from the average head dummy. it uses a driving system with a 3dof unit. the wd - 2 robot can change its facial features by activating specific facial points on a mask, with each point possessing three degrees of freedom. this one has 17 facial points, for a total of 56 degrees of freedom. as for the materials they used, the wd - 2 ' s mask is fabricated with a highly elastic material called septom, with bits of steel wool mixed in for added strength. other technical features reveal a shaft driven behind the mask at the desired facial point, driven by a dc motor with a simple pulley and a slide screw. apparently, the researchers can also modify the shape of the mask based on actual human faces. to " copy " a face, they need only a 3d scanner to determine the locations of an individual ' s 17 facial points. after that, they are then driven into position using a laptop and 56 motor control boards. in addition, the researchers also mention that the shifting robot can even display an individual ' s hair style and skin color if a photo of their face is projected onto the 3d mask. singapore prof nadia thalmann, a nanyang technological university scientist, directed efforts of the institute for media innovation along with the school of computer engineering in the development of a social robot, nadine. nadine is powered by software similar to apple ' s siri or microsoft ' s cortana. nadine may become a personal assistant in offices and homes in future, or she may become a companion for the young and the elderly. assoc prof gerald seet from the school of mechanical & aerospace engineering and the beingthere centre led a three - year