not academicians. derleth, while not a trained historian, was, according to former wisconsin state historian william f. thompson, "... a very competent regional historian who based his historical writing upon research in the primary documents and who regularly sought the help of professionals.... " in the foreword to the 1985 reissue of the work by the university of wisconsin press, thompson concluded : " no other writer, of whatever background or training, knew and understood his particular ' corner of the earth ' better than august derleth. " additionally, derleth wrote a number of volumes of poetry. three of his collections – rind of earth ( 1942 ), selected poems ( 1944 ), and the edge of night ( 1945 ) – were published by the decker press, which also printed the work of other midwestern poets such as edgar lee masters. derleth was also the author of several biographies of other writers, including zona gale, ralph waldo emerson and henry david thoreau. he also wrote introductions to several collections of classic early 20th century comics, such as buster brown, little nemo in slumberland, and katzenjammer kids, as well as a book of children ' s poetry entitled a boy ' s way, and the foreword to tales from an indian lodge by phebe jewell nichols. derleth also wrote under the pen names stephen grendon, kenyon holmes and tally mason. derleth ' s papers were donated to the wisconsin historical society in madison. bibliography awards o ' brien roll of honour for short story, 1933 guggenheim fellow, 1938 see also august derleth award list of authors of new sherlock holmes stories list of horror fiction authors list of people from wisconsin mark schorer sherlock holmes pastiches notes references meudt, edna. ' august derleth : " a simple, honorable man ", ' wisconsin academy review, 19 : 2 ( summer, 1972 ) 8 – 11. schorer, mark. " an appraisal of the work of august derleth ", the capital times, july 9, 1971. further reading robert bloch. " two great editors ". is no 4 ( oct 1971 ). reprint in bloch ' s out of my head. cambridge ma : nesfa press, 1986, 71 – 79. lin carter. " a day in derleth country ". is no 4 ( oct 1971 ). reprint in crypt of cthulhu 1, no 6. john howard. " the ghosts of sa