people ( while professing to be a neutral country ) supported the catalans who saw their rights reduced in 1716. the reaction was the promotion of catalan writings in andorra, with cultural works such as the book of privileges ( llibre de privilegis de 1674 ), manual digest ( 1748 ) by antoni fiter i rossell or the polita andorra ( 1763 ) by antoni puig. 19th century : the new reform and the andorran question after the french revolution, napoleon i reestablished the co - principate in 1809 and removed the french medieval title. in 1812 – 1813, the first french empire annexed catalonia during the peninsular war ( ) and divided the region into four departements, with andorra as a part of the district of puigcerda. in 1814, an imperial decree reestablished the independence and economy of andorra. during this period, andorra ' s late medieval institutions and rural culture remained largely unchanged. in 1866, the syndic guillem d ' areny - plandolit led the reformist group in a council general of 24 members elected by suffrage limited to heads of families. the council general replaced the aristocratic oligarchy that previously ruled the state. the new reform ( ) began after ratification by both co - princes and established the basis of the constitution and symbolssuch as the tricolour flagof andorra. a new service economy arose as a demand of the valley inhabitants and began to build infrastructure such as hotels, spa resorts, roads and telegraph lines. the authorities of the co - princes banned casinos and betting houses throughout the country. the ban resulted in an economic conflict and the revolution of 1881, which began when revolutionaries assaulted the house of the syndic on 8 december 1880, and established the provisional revolutionary council led by joan pla i calvo and pere baro i mas. the provisional revolutionary council allowed for the construction of casinos and spas by foreign companies. from 7 to 9 june 1881, the loyalists of canillo and encamp reconquered the parishes of ordino and la massana by establishing contact with the revolutionary forces in escaldes - engordany. after a day of combat the treaty of the bridge of escalls was signed on 10 june. the council was replaced and new elections were held. the economic situation worsened, as the populace was divided over the – the " andorran question " in relation to the eastern question. the struggles continued between pro - bishops, pro - french