germany has delivered several fast attack craft for border protection in 2011. in september 2014 it was reported that the angolan navy would acquire seven macae - class patrol vessels from brazil as part of a technical memorandum of understanding ( mou ) covering the production of the vessels as part of angola ' s naval power development programme ( pronaval ). the military of angola aims to modernize its naval capability, presumably due to a rise in maritime piracy within the gulf of guinea which may have an adverse effect on the country ' s economy. the navy ' s current known inventory includes the following : fast attack craft 4 mandume class craft ( bazan cormoran type, refurbished in 2009 ) patrol boats 3 18. 3m long patrulheiro patrol boats ( refurbished in 2002 ) 5 aresa pvc - 170 2 namacurra - class harbour patrol boats fisheries patrol boats ngola kiluange and nzinga mbandi ( delivered in september and october 2012 from damen shipyards ) ( operated by navy personnel under the ministry of agriculture, rural development and fisheries ) 28 metre frv 2810 ( pensador ) ( operated by navy personnel under the ministry of agriculture, rural development and fisheries ) landing craft ldm - 400 - 1 or 3 ( reportedly has serviceability issues ) coastal defense equipment ( crtoc ) ss - c1 sepal radar system the navy also has several aircraft for maritime patrol : specialized units special forces the faa include several types of special forces, namely the commandos, the special operations and the marines. the angolan special forces follow the general model of the analogous portuguese special forces, receiving a similar training. the commandos and the special forces are part of the special forces brigade ( brife, brigada de forcas especiais ), based at cabo ledo, in the bengo province. the brife includes two battalions of commandos, a battalion of special operations and sub - units of combat support and service support. the brife also included the special actions group ( gae, grupo de acoes especiais ), which is presently inactive and that was dedicated to long range reconnaissance, covert and sabotage operations. in the cabo ledo base is also installed the special forces training school ( effe, escola de formacao de forcas especiais ). both the brife and the effe are directly under the directorate of special forces of the general staff of the armed forces. the marines ( fuzileiros navais ) constitute the marines brigade