modern orders of amphibians are anura ( the frogs ), urodela ( the salamanders ), and apoda ( the caecilians ). a fourth group, the albanerpetontidae, became extinct around 2 million years ago. the number of known amphibian species is approximately 8, 000, of which nearly 90 % are frogs. the smallest amphibian ( and vertebrate ) in the world is a frog from new guinea ( paedophryne amauensis ) with a length of just. the largest living amphibian is the south china giant salamander ( andrias sligoi ), but this is dwarfed by prehistoric temnospondyls such as mastodonsaurus which could reach up to in length. the study of amphibians is called batrachology, while the study of both reptiles and amphibians is called herpetology. classification the word amphibian is derived from the ancient greek term ( ), which means ' both kinds of life ', meaning ' of both kinds ' and meaning ' life '. the term was initially used as a general adjective for animals that could live on land or in water, including seals and otters. traditionally, the class amphibia includes all tetrapod vertebrates that are not amniotes. amphibia in its widest sense ( ) was divided into three subclasses, two of which are extinct : these three subclasses do not include all extinct amphibians. other extinct amphibian groups include embolomeri ( late paleozoic large aquatic predators ), seymouriamorpha ( semiaquatic to terrestrial permian forms related to amniotes ), among others. names such as tetrapoda and stegocephalia encompass the entirety of amphibian - grade tetrapods, while reptiliomorpha or anthracosauria have been used to describe extinct amphibians more closely related to amniotes than to lissamphibians. subclass lepospondyli † ( a potentially polyphyletic late paleozoic group of small forms, likely more closely related to amniotes than lissamphibia ) subclass temnospondyli † ( diverse late paleozoic and early mesozoic grade, some of which were large predators ) subclass lissamphibia ( all modern amphibians, including frogs, toads, salamanders,