of several methyltransferases. β - and γ - amino acids amino acids with the structure, such as β - alanine, a component of carnosine and a few other peptides, are β - amino acids. ones with the structure are γ - amino acids, and so on, where x and y are two substituents ( one of which is normally h ). zwitterions the common natural forms of amino acids have a zwitterionic structure, with ( in the case of proline ) and functional groups attached to the same c atom, and are thus α - amino acids. and are the only ones found in proteins during translation in the ribosome. in aqueous solution at ph close to neutrality, amino acids exist as zwitterions, i. e. as dipolar ions with both and in charged states, so the overall structure is. at physiological ph the so - called " neutral forms " are not present to any measurable degree. although the two charges in the zwitterion structure add up to zero it is misleading to call a species with a net charge of zero " uncharged ". in strongly acidic conditions ( ph below 3 ), the carboxylate group becomes protonated and the structure becomes an ammonio carboxylic acid,. this is relevant for enzymes like pepsin that are active in acidic environments such as the mammalian stomach and lysosomes, but does not significantly apply to intracellular enzymes. in highly basic conditions ( ph greater than 10, not normally seen in physiological conditions ), the ammonio group is deprotonated to give. although various definitions of acids and bases are used in chemistry, the only one that is useful for chemistry in aqueous solution is that of brønsted : an acid is a species that can donate a proton to another species, and a base is one that can accept a proton. this criterion is used to label the groups in the above illustration. the carboxylate side chains of aspartate and glutamate residues are the principal brønsted bases in proteins. likewise, lysine, tyrosine and cysteine will typically act as a brønsted acid. histidine under these conditions can act both as a brønsted acid and a base. isoelectric point for amino acids with uncharged side - chains the zwitterion predominates at ph values between the two pka values, but