june 8, 1845. he was surrounded by family and friends at his deathbed, and his last words were, " oh, do not cry. be good children and we will all meet in heaven. " he was buried in the same tomb as his wife rachel. personal life family jackson and rachel had no children together but adopted andrew jackson jr., the son of rachel ' s deceased brother severn donelson. the jacksons acted as guardians for donelson ' s other children : john samuel, daniel smith, and andrew jackson. they were also guardians for andrew jackson hutchings, rachel ' s orphaned grand nephew, and the orphaned children of a friend, edward butler – caroline, eliza, edward, and anthony – who lived with the jacksons after their father died. jackson also had three creek children living with them : lyncoya, a creek orphan jackson had adopted after the battle of tallushatchee, and two boys they called theodore and charley. for the only time in u. s. history, two women acted simultaneously as unofficial first lady for the widower jackson. rachel ' s niece emily donelson was married to andrew jackson donelson ( who acted as jackson ' s private secretary ) and served as hostess at the white house. the president and emily became estranged for over a year during the petticoat affair, but they eventually reconciled and she resumed her duties as white house hostess. sarah yorke jackson, the wife of andrew jackson jr., became co - hostess of the white house in 1834, and took over all hostess duties after emily died from tuberculosis in 1836. temperament jackson had a reputation for being short - tempered and violent, which terrified his opponents. he was able to use his temper strategically to accomplish what he wanted. he could keep it in check when necessary : his behavior was friendly and urbane when he went to washington as senator during the campaign leading up to the 1824 election. according to van buren, he remained calm in times of difficulty and made his decisions deliberatively. he had the tendency to take things personally. if someone crossed him, he would often become obsessed with crushing them. for example, on the last day of his presidency, jackson declared he had only two regrets : that he had not hanged henry clay or shot john c. calhoun. he also had a strong sense of loyalty. he considered threats to his friends as threats to himself, but he demanded unquestioning loyalty in return. jackson was self - confident, without projecting a sense of self - importance. this self