s offensive choice of subject, which displayed the failings and transgressions of the deities. finally, losing her temper, athena destroyed arachne ' s tapestry and loom, striking it with her shuttle. athena then struck arachne across the face with her staff four times. arachne hanged herself in despair, but athena took pity on her and brought her back from the dead in the form of a spider. in a rarer version, surviving in the scholia of an unnamed scholiast on nicander, whose works heavily influenced ovid, arachne is placed in attica instead and has a brother named phalanx. athena taught arachne the art of weaving and phalanx the art of war, but when brother and sister laid together in bed, athena was so disgusted with them that she turned them both into spiders, animals forever doomed to be eaten by their own young. trojan war the myth of the judgement of paris is mentioned briefly in the iliad, but is described in depth in an epitome of the cypria, a lost poem of the epic cycle, which records that all the gods and goddesses as well as various mortals were invited to the marriage of peleus and thetis ( the eventual parents of achilles ). only eris, goddess of discord, was not invited. she was annoyed at this, so she arrived with a golden apple inscribed with the word καλλιστη ( kallistei, " for the fairest " ), which she threw among the goddesses. aphrodite, hera, and athena all claimed to be the fairest, and thus the rightful owner of the apple. the goddesses chose to place the matter before zeus, who, not wanting to favor one of the goddesses, put the choice into the hands of paris, a trojan prince. after bathing in the spring of mount ida where troy was situated, the goddesses appeared before paris for his decision. in the extant ancient depictions of the judgement of paris, aphrodite is only occasionally represented nude, and athena and hera are always fully clothed. since the renaissance, however, western paintings have typically portrayed all three goddesses as completely naked. all three goddesses were ideally beautiful and paris could not decide between them, so they resorted to bribes. hera tried to bribe paris with power over all asia and europe, and athena offered fame and glory in battle, but aphrodite promised paris that