, and many other unsolved mathematical problems. when one attempts to solve problems in this class, it makes no difference whether zf or zfc is employed if the only question is the existence of a proof. it is possible, however, that there is a shorter proof of a theorem from zfc than from zf. the axiom of choice is not the only significant statement which is independent of zf. for example, the generalized continuum hypothesis ( gch ) is not only independent of zf, but also independent of zfc. however, zf plus gch implies ac, making gch a strictly stronger claim than ac, even though they are both independent of zf. stronger axioms the axiom of constructibility and the generalized continuum hypothesis each imply the axiom of choice and so are strictly stronger than it. in class theories such as von neumann – bernays – godel set theory and morse – kelley set theory, there is an axiom called the axiom of global choice that is stronger than the axiom of choice for sets because it also applies to proper classes. the axiom of global choice follows from the axiom of limitation of size. tarski ' s axiom, which is used in tarski – grothendieck set theory and states ( in the vernacular ) that every set belongs to grothendieck universe, is stronger than the axiom of choice. equivalents there are important statements that, assuming the axioms of zf but neither ac nor ¬ac, are equivalent to the axiom of choice. the most important among them are zorn ' s lemma and the well - ordering theorem. in fact, zermelo initially introduced the axiom of choice in order to formalize his proof of the well - ordering theorem. set theory tarski ' s theorem about choice : for every infinite set a, there is a bijective map between the sets a and a×a. trichotomy : if two sets are given, then either they have the same cardinality, or one has a smaller cardinality than the other. given two non - empty sets, one has a surjection to the other. every surjective function has a right inverse. the cartesian product of any family of nonempty sets is nonempty. in other words, every family of nonempty sets has a choice function ( i. e. a function which maps each of the nonempty sets to one of its elements ). konig '