the philosopher ", while the poet dante called him " the master of those who know ". his works contain the earliest known formal study of logic, and were studied by medieval scholars such as peter abelard and jean buridan. aristotle ' s influence on logic continued well into the 19th century. in addition, his ethics, though always influential, gained renewed interest with the modern advent of virtue ethics. life in general, the details of aristotle ' s life are not well - established. the biographies written in ancient times are often speculative and historians only agree on a few salient points. aristotle was born in 384 bc in stagira, chalcidice, about 55 km ( 34 miles ) east of modern - day thessaloniki. his father, nicomachus, was the personal physician to king amyntas of macedon. while he was young, aristotle learned about biology and medical information, which was taught by his father. both of aristotle ' s parents died when he was about thirteen, and proxenus of atarneus became his guardian. although little information about aristotle ' s childhood has survived, he probably spent some time within the macedonian palace, making his first connections with the macedonian monarchy. at the age of seventeen or eighteen, aristotle moved to athens to continue his education at plato ' s academy. he probably experienced the eleusinian mysteries as he wrote when describing the sights one viewed at the eleusinian mysteries, " to experience is to learn " [ παθειν μαθεiν ]. aristotle remained in athens for nearly twenty years before leaving in 348 / 47 bc. the traditional story about his departure records that he was disappointed with the academy ' s direction after control passed to plato ' s nephew speusippus, although it is possible that he feared the anti - macedonian sentiments in athens at that time and left before plato died. aristotle then accompanied xenocrates to the court of his friend hermias of atarneus in asia minor. after the death of hermias, aristotle travelled with his pupil theophrastus to the island of lesbos, where together they researched the botany and zoology of the island and its sheltered lagoon. while in lesbos, aristotle married pythias, either hermias ' s adoptive daughter or niece. they had a daughter, whom they also named pythias. in 343 bc, aristotle was invited by philip ii of macedon to become the tutor to his son alexander. aristotle was appointed as the head