onwards. there are also sections about mustafa kemal ataturk, the founder of modern turkey ; vehbi koc, rahmi koc ' s father and one of the first industrialists of turkey, and ankara city. shopping foreign visitors to ankara usually like to visit the old shops in cıkrıkcılar yokusu ( weavers ' road ) near ulus, where myriad things ranging from traditional fabrics, hand - woven carpets and leather products can be found at bargain prices. bakırcılar carsısı ( bazaar of coppersmiths ) is particularly popular, and many interesting items, not just of copper, can be found here like jewelry, carpets, costumes, antiques and embroidery. up the hill to the castle gate, there are many shops selling a huge and fresh collection of spices, dried fruits, nuts, and other produce. modern shopping areas are mostly found in kızılay, or on tunalı hilmi avenue, including the modern mall of karum ( named after the ancient assyrian merchant colonies called karum that were established in central anatolia at the beginning of the 2nd millennium bc ) which is located towards the end of the avenue ; and in cankaya, the quarter with the highest elevation in the city. atakule tower next to atrium mall in cankaya has views over ankara and also has a revolving restaurant at the top. the symbol of the armada shopping mall is an anchor, and there ' s a large anchor monument at its entrance, as a reference to the ancient greek name of the city, αγκυρα ( ankyra ), which means anchor. likewise, the anchor monument is also related with the spanish name of the mall, armada, which means naval fleet. as ankara started expanding westward in the 1970s, several modern, suburbia - style developments and mini - cities began to rise along the western highway, also known as the eskisehir road. the armada, cepa and kentpark malls on the highway, the galleria, arcadium and gordion in umitkoy, and a huge mall, real in bilkent center, offer north american and european style shopping opportunities ( these places can be reached through the eskisehir highway. ) there is also the newly expanded ankamall at the outskirts, on the istanbul highway, which houses most of the well - known international brands. this mall is the largest throughout the ankara region. in 2014, a few more shopping malls were open