having poirot supply false or misleading information about himself or his background to assist him in obtaining information. in the murder of roger ackroyd, poirot speaks of a non - existent mentally disabled nephew to uncover information about homes for the mentally unfit. in dumb witness, poirot invents an elderly invalid mother as a pretence to investigate local nurses. in the big four, poirot pretends to have ( and poses as ) an identical twin brother named achille : however, this brother was mentioned again in the labours of hercules. " if i remember rightly – though my memory isn ' t what it was – you also had a brother called achille, did you not? " poirot ' s mind raced back over the details of achille poirot ' s career. had all that really happened? " only for a short space of time, " he replied. poirot is also willing to appear more foreign or vain in an effort to make people underestimate him. he admits as much : it is true that i can speak the exact, the idiomatic english. but, my friend, to speak the broken english is an enormous asset. it leads people to despise you. they say – a foreigner – he can ' t even speak english properly.... also i boast! an englishman he says often, " a fellow who thinks as much of himself as that cannot be worth much. "... and so, you see, i put people off their guard. he also has a tendency to refer to himself in the third person. in later novels, christie often uses the word mountebank when characters describe poirot, showing that he has successfully passed himself off as a charlatan or fraud. poirot ' s investigating techniques assist him solving cases ; " for in the long run, either through a lie, or through truth, people were bound to give themselves away... " at the end, poirot usually reveals his description of the sequence of events and his deductions to a room of suspects, often leading to the culprit ' s apprehension. life origins christie was purposely vague about poirot ' s origins, as he is thought to be an elderly man even in the early novels. in an autobiography, she admitted that she already imagined him to be an old man in 1920. at the time, however, she did not know that she would write works featuring him