however, croes was seriously injured in a traffic accident in 1985, slipping into a coma. he died in 1986, never seeing the enacting of status aparte for aruba for which he had worked over many years. after his death, croes was proclaimed libertador di aruba. croes ' successor, henny eman, of the aruban people ' s party ( avp ), became the first prime minister of aruba. in 1985, aruba ' s oil refinery had closed. it had provided aruba with 30 percent of its real income and 50 percent of government revenue. the significant blow to the economy led to a push for a dramatic increase in tourism, and that sector has expanded to become the island ' s largest industry. at a convention in the hague in 1990, at the request of aruba ' s prime minister nelson oduber, the governments of aruba, the netherlands, and the netherlands antilles postponed indefinitely aruba ' s transition to full independence. the article scheduling aruba ' s complete independence was rescinded in 1995, although it was decided that the process could be revived after another referendum. geography arubs is located 77 km ( 48 mi ) west of curacao and 29 km ( 18 mi ) north of paraguana peninsula of venezuela. aruba showcases three distinct landscapes. the northwestern region is primarily characterized by flat batholtih landscapes. notable landmarks here include the conical hooiberg hill, and rock formations like ayo and casibari. moreover, the northeastern part of the island features the oldest formations known as the aruba lava formation ( alf ). this region is marked by rolling hills, including jamanota, and is home to arikok national park, and lastly the limestone terraces surround these two landscapes. the low - lying limestone terrace regions are defined by their white sandy beaches and the high plateaus on the north side of the island, in contrast, are constantly battered by the rough waters of the ocean, featuring caves and small natural bridge formations. the arid landscape in aruba is not solely a product of its climate but is also a consequence of extensive deforestation and exploitation during the spanish colonization of the island. consequently, certain crops, such as aloe vera, thrive in this environment, due to the high calcium - rich soil known as liming. as of 2022, aruba only has 2. 3 % of forest - covered land area and only 0. 5 % of protected natural area. additionally, aruba ' s