##ıl mustafa pasha ' s victory at belgrade was a major military achievement that gave the ottomans hope that the military debacles of the 1680s — which had led to the loss of hungary and transylvania, an ottoman vassal principality ruled by pro - istanbul hungarian princes — could be reversed. however, the ottoman success proved ephemeral. on 19 august 1691, fazıl mustafa pasha suffered a devastating defeat at the battle of slankamen at the hands of louis william, the habsburg commander in chief in hungary, nicknamed “ turkenlouis ” ( louis the turk ) for his victories against the ottomans. in the confrontation, recognized by contemporaries as “ the bloodiest battle of the century, ” the ottomans suffered heavy losses : 20, 000 men, including the grand vizier. with him, the sultan lost his most capable military commander and the last member of the koprulu family, who for the previous half century had been instrumental in strengthening the ottoman military. under fazıl mustafa pasha ' s successors, the ottomans suffered further defeats. in june 1692 the habsburgs conquered oradea, the seat of an ottoman governor ( ) since 1660. in 1694, they attempted to recapture oradea, but to no avail. on 12 january 1695, they surrendered the fortress of gyula, the center of an ottoman sanjak ( subprovince ) since 1566. with the fall of gyula, the only territory still in ottoman hands in hungary was to the east of the river tisza and to the south of the river maros, with its center at timisoara. three weeks later, on 6 february 1695, ahmed ii died in edirne palace. family consorts ahmed ii had two known consorts : rabia sultan ( died eski palace, istanbul, 14 january 1712, buried in suleiman i mausoleum, suleymaniye mosque ). ahmed ii ' s most beloved consort and the last haseki sultan of the ottoman empire ; sayeste hatun ( died 1710, eski palace, istanbul ). second concubine of ahmed ii, perhaps mother of his others daughters. sons ahmed ii had two sons : sehzade ibrahim ( edirne palace, edirne, 6 october 1692 – topkapı palace, istanbul, 4 may 1714, buried in mustafa i mausoleum, hagia sophia ), with rabia sultan, selim ' s twin, became crown prince on 22 august 1703 until his death ; sehzade se