superiority of the soviet union until he was sentenced to time in the camps. world war ii during the war, solzhenitsyn served as the commander of a sound - ranging battery in the red army, was involved in major action at the front, and was twice decorated. he was awarded the order of the red star on 8 july 1944 for sound - ranging two german artillery batteries and adjusting counterbattery fire onto them, resulting in their destruction. a series of writings published late in his life, including the early uncompleted novel love the revolution!, chronicle his wartime experience and growing doubts about the moral foundations of the soviet regime. while serving as an artillery officer in east prussia, solzhenitsyn witnessed war crimes against local german civilians by soviet military personnel. of the atrocities, solzhenitsyn wrote : " you know very well that we ' ve come to germany to take our revenge " for nazi atrocities committed in the soviet union. the noncombatants and the elderly were robbed of their meager possessions and women and girls were gang - raped. a few years later, in the forced labor camp, he memorized a poem titled " prussian nights " about a woman raped to death in east prussia. in this poem, which describes the gang - rape of a polish woman whom the red army soldiers mistakenly thought to be a german, the first - person narrator comments on the events with sarcasm and refers to the responsibility of official soviet writers like ilya ehrenburg. in the gulag archipelago, solzhenitsyn wrote, " there is nothing that so assists the awakening of omniscience within us as insistent thoughts about one ' s own transgressions, errors, mistakes. after the difficult cycles of such ponderings over many years, whenever i mentioned the heartlessness of our highest - ranking bureaucrats, the cruelty of our executioners, i remember myself in my captain ' s shoulder boards and the forward march of my battery through east prussia, enshrouded in fire, and i say : ' so were we any better? ' " imprisonment in february 1945, while serving in east prussia, solzhenitsyn was arrested by smersh for writing derogatory comments in private letters to a friend, nikolai vitkevich, about the conduct of the war by joseph stalin, whom he called " khozyain " ( " the boss " ), and " balabos " ( yiddish rendering of hebrew baal ha - bayit for " master of the house "