ages of consent in the united states ages of consent in south america asia ages of consent in asia europe ages of consent in europe oceania ages of consent in oceania history and social attitudes traditional attitudes in traditional societies, the age of consent for a sexual union was a matter for the family to decide, or a tribal custom. in most cases, this coincided with signs of puberty, menstruation for a woman, and pubic hair for a man. reliable data for ages at marriage is scarce. in england, for example, the only reliable data in the early modern period comes from property records made after death. not only were the records relatively rare, but not all bothered to record the participants ' ages, and it seems that the more complete the records are, the more likely they are to reveal young marriages. modern historians have sometimes shown reluctance to accept evidence of young ages of marriage, dismissing it as a ' misreading ' by a later copier of the records. in the 12th century, gratian, the influential compiler of canon law in medieval europe, accepted the age of puberty for marriage to be around twelve for girls and around fourteen for boys but acknowledged consent to be meaningful if both children were older than seven years of age. there were authorities that said that such consent for entering marriage could take place earlier. marriage would then be valid as long as neither of the two parties annulled the marital agreement before reaching puberty, or if they had already consummated the marriage. judges sometimes honored marriages based on mutual consent at ages younger than seven : in contrast to established canon, there are recorded marriages of two - and three - year - olds. in china, 元 法 事 ( law code of the qingyuan reign ), published in 1202 which catelogued laws that came into effect from 1127 to 1195, introduced statutory rape in the following decree ' ， 女 十 下 和 也 同 ， 三 千 里 ， 州 成 ， 五 里 ， 。 successful intercourse with girls younger than 10 is considered rape in all circumstances, punishable by exile 3000 li ( miles ) away into the uncivilized provinces ; if the rape was unsuccessful, exile by 500 li ; if injury occurs in process, death by hanging '. from 1275 in england ; as part of its provisions on rape, the statute of westminster 1275 made it a misdemeanor to " ravish " a "