were preparing a second fleet at suez, he wanted to advance before reinforcements arrived in aden, and accordingly laid siege to the city. aden was a fortified city, but although he had scaling ladders they broke during the chaotic attack. after half a day of fierce battle, afonso was forced to retreat. he cruised the red sea inside the bab al - mandab, with the first european fleet to have sailed this route. he attempted to reach jeddah, but the winds were unfavourable and so he sheltered at kamaran island in may, until sickness among the men and lack of fresh water forced him to retreat. in august 1513, after a second attempt to reach aden, he returned to india with no substantial results. in order to destroy the power of egypt, he wrote to king manuel of the idea of diverting the course of the nile river to render the whole country barren. he also intended to steal the body of the islamic prophet, muhammad, and hold it for ransom until all muslims had left the holy land. although albuquerque ' s expedition failed to reach suez, such an incursion into the red sea by a christian fleet for the first time in history stunned the muslim world, and panic spread in cairo. submission of calicut albuquerque achieved during his term a favourable end to hostilities between the portuguese and the zamorin of calicut, which had lasted since the massacre of the portuguese in calicut in 1502. as naval trade faltered and vassals defected, with no foreseeable solutions to the conflict with the portuguese, the court of the zamorin fell to in - fighting. the ruling zamorin was assassinated and replaced by a rival, under the instigation of albuquerque, permitting peace talks to commence. the portuguese were allowed to build a fortress in calicut itself, and acquired rights to obtain as much pepper and ginger as they wished, at stipulated prices, and half the customs duties of calicut as yearly tribute. construction of the fortress began immediately, under the supervision of chief architect tomas fernandes. administration and diplomacy in goa, 1514 with peace concluded, in 1514 afonso devoted himself to governing goa and receiving embassies from indian governors, strengthening the city and encouraging marriages of portuguese men and local women. at that time, portuguese women were barred from traveling overseas in order to maintain discipline among the men on board the ships. in 1511 under a policy which afonso promulgated, the portuguese government encouraged their explorers