japanese government was dismissed in 2008. governmental bodies on ainu affairs there is no single government body to coordinate ainu affairs. rather, various advisory boards are set up by the hokkaido government to advise on specific matters. one such committee operated in the late 1990s, and its work resulted in the. this panel was criticized for including no ainu members. in 2006, another panel was established, which notably included an ainu member for the first time. it completed its work in 2008 issuing a major report that included an extensive historical record and called for substantial government policy changes towards the ainu. formation of ainu political party on 21 january, 2012, the was founded after a group of ainu activists in hokkaido had announced the formation of a political party for the ainu on 30 october, 2011. the ainu association of hokkaido reported that kayano shiro, the son of the former ainu leader kayano shigeru, would head the party. their aim is to contribute to the realization of a multicultural and multiethnic society in japan, along with rights for the ainu. official promotion the " 2019 ainu act " simplified procedures for obtaining various permissions from authorities in regards to the traditional lifestyle of the ainu and nurture the identity and cultures of the ainu without defining the ethnic group by blood lineage. on 12 july, 2020, the national ainu museum was opened. it had originally been scheduled to open on 24 april, 2020, prior to the tokyo olympic and paralympic games scheduled in the same year, in shiraoi, hokkaido. the park was planned to be a base for the protection and promotion of ainu people, culture, and language. the museum promotes the culture and habits of the ainu people who are the original inhabitants of hokkaido. upopoy in ainu language means " singing in a large group ". the national ainu museum building has images and videos exhibiting the history and daily life of the ainu. the ainu cultural contribution is also recognised by a unesco listing, in consequence of a unesco decision to list non - physical cultural assets, including songs and dancing. in july 2023, it was reported that a group of ainu from hokkaido was suing the government to reclaim the right of salmon river fishing. this has been outlawed for a century, except for an exemption of a limited number of salmon for ceremonial purposes. the group claimed the japanese government did not abide by the 2007 united nations declaration on the rights of indigenous people, which it had signed. situation in russia as a