the prophet of this new aeon. thelema revolves around the idea that human beings each have their own true will that they should discover and pursue, and that this exists in harmony with the cosmic will that pervades the universe. crowley referred to this process of searching and discovery of one ' s true will to be " the great work " or the attaining of the " knowledge and conversation of the holy guardian angel ". his favoured method of doing so was through the performance of the abramelin operation, a ceremonial magic ritual obtained from a 17th - century grimoire. the moral code of " do what thou wilt " is believed by thelemites to be the religion ' s ethical law, although the historian of religion marco pasi noted that this was not anarchistic or libertarian in structure, as crowley saw individuals as part of a wider societal organism. magick and theology crowley believed in the objective existence of magic, which he chose to spell as " magick ", which is an archaic spelling of the word. he provided various different definitions of this term over his career. in his book magick in theory and practice, crowley defined magick as " the science and art of causing change to occur in conformity with will ". he also told his disciple karl germer that " magick is getting into communication with individuals who exist on a higher plane than ours. mysticism is the raising of oneself to their level. " crowley saw magick as a third way between religion and science, giving the equinox the subtitle of the method of science ; the aim of religion. within that journal, he expressed positive sentiments toward science and the scientific method, and urged magicians to keep detailed records of their magical experiments, having said : " the more scientific the record is, the better. " his understanding of magic was also influenced by the work of the anthropologist james frazer, in particular the belief that magic was a precursor to science in a cultural evolutionary framework. unlike frazer, however, crowley did not see magic as a survival from the past that required eradication, but rather he believed that magic had to be adapted to suit the new age of science. in crowley ' s alternative schema, old systems of magic had to decline ( per frazer ' s framework ) so that science and magic could synthesize into magick, which would simultaneously accept the existence of the supernatural and an experimental method. crowley deliberately adopted an exceptionally broad definition of magick that included almost all forms of technology as magick,