for the 8086 family provides the mnemonic mov ( an abbreviation of move ) for instructions such as this, so the machine code above can be written as follows in assembly language, complete with an explanatory comment if required, after the semicolon. this is much easier to read and to remember. mov al, 61h ; load al with 97 decimal ( 61 hex ) in some assembly languages ( including this one ) the same mnemonic, such as mov, may be used for a family of related instructions for loading, copying and moving data, whether these are immediate values, values in registers, or memory locations pointed to by values in registers or by immediate ( a. k. a. direct ) addresses. other assemblers may use separate opcode mnemonics such as l for " move memory to register ", st for " move register to memory ", lr for " move register to register ", mvi for " move immediate operand to memory ", etc. if the same mnemonic is used for different instructions, that means that the mnemonic corresponds to several different binary instruction codes, excluding data ( e. g. the 61h in this example ), depending on the operands that follow the mnemonic. for example, for the x86 / ia - 32 cpus, the intel assembly language syntax mov al, ah represents an instruction that moves the contents of register ah into register al. the hexadecimal form of this instruction is : 88 e0 the first byte, 88h, identifies a move between a byte - sized register and either another register or memory, and the second byte, e0h, is encoded ( with three bit - fields ) to specify that both operands are registers, the source is ah, and the destination is al. in a case like this where the same mnemonic can represent more than one binary instruction, the assembler determines which instruction to generate by examining the operands. in the first example, the operand 61h is a valid hexadecimal numeric constant and is not a valid register name, so only the b0 instruction can be applicable. in the second example, the operand ah is a valid register name and not a valid numeric constant ( hexadecimal, decimal, octal, or binary ), so only the 88 instruction can be applicable. assembly languages are always designed so that this sort of lack of ambiguity is universally enforced by their syntax