in touch with the hungryalist poets of bengal, especially malay roy choudhury, who introduced ginsberg to the three fish with one head of indian emperor jalaluddin mohammad akbar. the three fish symbolised coexistence of all thought, philosophy, and religion. in spite of ginsberg ' s attraction to eastern religions, the journalist jane kramer argues that he, like whitman, adhered to an " american brand of mysticism " that was " rooted in humanism and in a romantic and visionary ideal of harmony among men. " the allen ginsberg estate and jewel heart international partnered to present " transforming minds : kyabje gelek rimpoche and friends ", a gallery and online exhibition of images of gelek rimpoche by allen ginsberg, a student with whom he had an " indissoluble bond, " in 2021 at tibet house us in new york city. fifty negatives from ginsberg ' s stanford university photo archive celebrated " the unique relationship between allen and rimpoche. " the selection of never - before presented images, featuring great tibetan masters including the dalai lama, tibetologists, and students were " guided by allen ' s extensive notes on the contact sheets and images he ' d circled with the intention to print. " illness and death in 1960, he was treated for a tropical disease, and it is speculated that he contracted hepatitis from an unsterilized needle administered by a doctor, which played a role in his death 37 years later. ginsberg was a lifelong smoker, and though he tried to quit for health and religious reasons, his busy schedule in later life made it difficult, and he always returned to smoking. in the 1970s, ginsberg had two minor strokes which were first diagnosed as bell ' s palsy, which gave him significant paralysis and stroke - like drooping of the muscles in one side of his face. later in life, he also had constant minor ailments such as high blood pressure. many of these symptoms were related to stress, but he never slowed down his schedule. ginsberg won a 1974 national book award for the fall of america ( split with adrienne rich, diving into the wreck ). in 1986, ginsberg was awarded the golden wreath by the struga poetry evenings international festival in macedonia, the second american poet to be so awarded since w. h. auden. at struga, ginsberg met with the other golden wreath winners, bulat okudzhava and andrei voznesensky. in 1989