the largest and most advanced economy on earth for much of recorded history and shared the mantle with india. for several decades in the late twentieth century japan was the largest economy in asia and second - largest of any single nation in the world, after surpassing the soviet union ( measured in net material product ) in 1990 and germany in 1968. ( nb : a number of supernational economies are larger, such as the european union ( eu ), the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) or apec ). this ended in 2010 when china overtook japan to become the world ' s second largest economy. it is forecasted that india will overtake japan in terms of nominal gdp by 2027. in the late 1980s and early 1990s, japan ' s gdp by currency exchange rates was almost as large as that of the rest of asia combined. in 1995, japan ' s economy nearly equaled that of the us as the largest economy in the world for a day, after the japanese currency reached a record high of 79 yen / us $. economic growth in asia since world war ii to the 1990s had been concentrated in japan as well as the four regions of south korea, taiwan, hong kong and singapore located in the pacific rim, known as the asian tigers, which are now all considered developed economies, having amongst the highest gdp per capita in asia. asia is the largest continent in the world by a considerable margin, and it is rich in natural resources, such as petroleum, forests, fish, water, rice, copper and silver. manufacturing in asia has traditionally been strongest in east and southeast asia, particularly in china, taiwan, south korea, japan, india, the philippines, and singapore. japan and south korea continue to dominate in the area of multinational corporations, but increasingly the prc and india are making significant inroads. many companies from europe, north america, south korea and japan have operations in asia ' s developing countries to take advantage of its abundant supply of cheap labour and relatively developed infrastructure. according to citigroup in 2011, 9 of 11 global growth generators countries came from asia driven by population and income growth. they are bangladesh, china, india, indonesia, iraq, mongolia, the philippines, sri lanka and vietnam. asia has three main financial centers : hong kong, tokyo and singapore. call centers and business process outsourcing ( bpos ) are becoming major employers in india and the philippines due to the availability of a large pool of highly skilled, english - speaking workers. the increased use of outsourcing has assisted the