" degree of cold " the question whether there is a limit to the degree of coldness possible, and, if so, where the zero must be placed, was first addressed by the french physicist guillaume amontons in 1702, in connection with his improvements in the air thermometer. his instrument indicated temperatures by the height at which a certain mass of air sustained a column of mercury — the volume, or " spring " of the air varying with temperature. amontons therefore argued that the zero of his thermometer would be that temperature at which the spring of the air was reduced to nothing. he used a scale that marked the boiling point of water at + 73 and the melting point of ice at +, so that the zero was equivalent to about −240 on the celsius scale. amontons held that the absolute zero cannot be reached, so never attempted to compute it explicitly. the value of −240 °c, or " 431 divisions [ in fahrenheit ' s thermometer ] below the cold of freezing water " was published by george martine in 1740. this close approximation to the modern value of −273. 15 °c for the zero of the air thermometer was further improved upon in 1779 by johann heinrich lambert, who observed that might be regarded as absolute cold. values of this order for the absolute zero were not, however, universally accepted about this period. pierre - simon laplace and antoine lavoisier, in their 1780 treatise on heat, arrived at values ranging from 1, 500 to 3, 000 below the freezing point of water, and thought that in any case it must be at least 600 below. john dalton in his chemical philosophy gave ten calculations of this value, and finally adopted −3, 000 °c as the natural zero of temperature. charles ' s law from 1787 to 1802, it was determined by jacques charles ( unpublished ), john dalton, and joseph louis gay - lussac that, at constant pressure, ideal gases expanded or contracted their volume linearly ( charles ' s law ) by about 1 / 273 parts per degree celsius of temperature ' s change up or down, between 0° and 100° c. this suggested that the volume of a gas cooled at about −273 °c would reach zero. lord kelvin ' s work after james prescott joule had determined the mechanical equivalent of heat, lord kelvin approached the question from an entirely different point of view, and in 1848 devised a scale of absolute temperature that was independent of the properties of any