increasingly the money was used for other purposes. they paid for toni proost to go on holiday, and for bribes to those who might be able to secure speer ' s release. once speer became aware of the existence of the fund, he sent detailed instructions about what to do with the money. wolters raised a total of dm158, 000 for speer over the final seventeen years of his sentence. the prisoners were forbidden to write memoirs. speer was able to have his writings sent to wolters, however, and they eventually amounted to 20, 000 pages. he had completed his memoirs by november 1953, which became the basis of inside the third reich. in spandau diaries, speer aimed to present himself as a tragic hero who had made a faustian bargain for which he endured a harsh prison sentence. much of speer ' s energy was dedicated to keeping fit, both physically and mentally, during his long confinement. spandau had a large enclosed yard where inmates were allocated plots of land for gardening. speer created an elaborate garden complete with lawns, flower beds, shrubbery, and fruit trees. to make his daily walks around the garden more engaging speer embarked on an imaginary trip around the globe. carefully measuring distance travelled each day, he mapped distances to the real - world geography. he had walked more than, ending his sentence near guadalajara, mexico. speer also read, studied architectural journals, and brushed up on english and french. in his writings, speer claimed to have finished five thousand books while in prison. his sentence of twenty years amounted to 7, 305 days, which only allotted one and a half days per book. speer ' s supporters maintained calls for his release. among those who pledged support for his sentence to be commuted were charles de gaulle and us diplomat george wildman ball. willy brandt was an advocate of his release, putting an end to the de - nazification proceedings against him, which could have caused his property to be confiscated. speer ' s efforts for an early release came to naught. the soviet union, having demanded a death sentence at trial, was unwilling to entertain a reduced sentence. speer served a full term and was released at midnight on 1 october 1966. release and later life speer ' s release from prison was a worldwide media event. reporters and photographers crowded both the street outside spandau and the lobby of the hotel berlin where speer spent the night. he said little, reserving most comments for a major interview