khrushchev ' s removal in 1964, the cultural climate again became more repressive. publishing of solzhenitsyn ' s work quickly stopped ; as a writer, he became a non - person, and, by 1965, the kgb had seized some of his papers, including the manuscript of the first circle. meanwhile, solzhenitsyn continued to secretly and feverishly work on the most well - known of his writings, the gulag archipelago. the seizing of his novel manuscript first made him desperate and frightened, but gradually he realized that it had set him free from the pretenses and trappings of being an " officially acclaimed " writer, a status which had become familiar but which was becoming increasingly irrelevant. after the kgb had confiscated solzhenitsyn ' s materials in moscow, in the years 1965 to 1967, the preparatory drafts of the gulag archipelago were turned into finished typescript in hiding at his friends ' homes in soviet estonia. solzhenitsyn had befriended arnold susi, a lawyer and former minister of education of estonia in a lubyanka building prison cell. after completion, solzhenitsyn ' s original handwritten script was kept hidden from the kgb in estonia by arnold susi ' s daughter heli susi until the collapse of the soviet union. in 1969, solzhenitsyn was expelled from the union of writers. in 1970, he was awarded the nobel prize in literature. he could not receive the prize personally in stockholm at that time, since he was afraid he would not be let back into the soviet union. instead, it was suggested he should receive the prize in a special ceremony at the swedish embassy in moscow. the swedish government refused to accept this solution because such a ceremony and the ensuing media coverage might upset the soviet union and damage swedish - soviet relations. instead, solzhenitsyn received his prize at the 1974 ceremony after he had been expelled from the soviet union. in 1973, another manuscript written by solzhenitsyn was confiscated by the kgb after his friend elizaveta voronyanskaya was questioned non - stop for five days until she revealed its location, according to a statement by solzhenitsyn to western reporters on september 6, 1973. according to solzhenitsyn, " when she returned home, she hanged herself. " the gulag archipelago was composed from 1958 to 1967, and has sold over thirty million copies in thirty - five languages. it was a three - volume, seven - part work on