chess. the chorus section of " just like that " was eventually released on a retrospective box set in 1994, as well as in the abba undeleted medley featured on disc 9 of the complete studio recordings. despite a number of requests from fans, ulvaeus and andersson are still refusing to release abba ' s version of " just like that " in its entirety, even though the complete version has surfaced on bootlegs. the group travelled to london to promote the singles : the first ten years in the first week of november 1982, appearing on saturday superstore and the late, late breakfast show, and also to west germany in the second week, to perform on show express. on 19 november 1982, abba appeared for the last time in sweden on the tv programme nojesmaskinen, and on 11 december 1982, they made their last performance ever, transmitted to the uk on noel edmonds ' the late, late breakfast show, through a live link from a tv studio in stockholm. later performances andersson and ulvaeus began collaborating with tim rice in early 1983 on writing songs for the musical project chess, while faltskog and lyngstad both concentrated on international solo careers. while andersson and ulvaeus were working on the musical, a further co - operation among the three of them came with the musical abbacadabra that was produced in france for television. it was a children ' s musical using 14 abba songs. alain and daniel boublil, who wrote les miserables, had been in touch with stig anderson about the project, and the tv musical was aired over christmas on french tv and later a dutch version was also broadcast. boublil previously also wrote the french lyric for mireille mathieu ' s version of " the winner takes it all ". lyngstad, who had recently moved to paris, participated in the french version, and recorded a single, " belle ", a duet with french singer daniel balavoine. the song was a cover of abba ' s 1976 instrumental track " arrival ". as the single " belle " sold well in france, cameron mackintosh wanted to stage an english - language version of the show in london, with the french lyrics translated by david wood and don black ; andersson and ulvaeus got involved in the project, and contributed with one new song, " i am the seeker ". " abbacadabra " premiered on 8 december 1983 at the lyric hammersmith theatre in london, to