partial lower jaw, with a prominent gap in the tooth row at the tip of the jaw, and a rear section greatly expanded and turned down. later researchers suggested that the bone was pathologic, showing an injury to the living animal, and that part of the unusual form of the rear of the bone was due to plaster reconstruction. it is now regarded as an example of a. fragilis. in his 1988 book, predatory dinosaurs of the world, the freelance artist & author gregory s. paul proposed that a. fragilis had tall pointed horns and a slender build compared to a postulated second species a. atrox, as well as not being a different sex due to rarity. allosaurus atrox was originally named by marsh in 1878 as the type species of its own genus, creosaurus, and is based on ypm 1890, an assortment of bones that includes a couple of pieces of the skull, portions of nine tail vertebrae, two hip vertebrae, an ilium, and ankle and foot bones. although the idea of two common morrison allosaur species was followed in some semi - technical and popular works, the 2000 thesis on allosauridae noted that charles gilmore mistakenly reconstructed usnm 4734 as having a shorter skull than the specimens referred by paul to atrox, refuting supposed differences between usnm 4734 and putative a. atrox specimens like dino 2560, amnh 600, and amnh 666. " allosaurus agilis ", seen in zittel, 1887, and osborn, 1912, is a typographical error for a. fragilis. " allosaurus ferox " is a typographical error by marsh for a. fragilis in a figure caption for the partial skull ypm 1893 and ypm 1893 has been treated as a specimen of a fragilis. likewise, " labrosaurus fragilis " is a typographical error by marsh ( 1896 ) for labrosaurus ferox. " a. whitei " is a nomen nudum coined by pickering in 1996 for the complete allosaurus specimens that paul referred to a. atrox. " madsenius " was coined by david lambert in 1990, being based on remains from dinosaur national monument assigned to allosaurus or creosaurus ( a synonym of allosaurus ), and was to be described by paleontologist robert bakker as " madsenius trux ". however, " madsenius