the following candidates ' cycle in 1977. spassky won the first game as black in good style, but tenacious, aggressive play from karpov secured him overall victory by + 4−1 = 6. the candidates ' final was played in moscow with victor korchnoi. karpov took an early lead, winning the second game against the sicilian dragon, then scoring another victory in the sixth game. following ten consecutive draws, korchnoi threw away a winning position in the seventeenth game to give karpov a 3 – 0 lead. in game 19, korchnoi succeeded in winning a long endgame, then notched a speedy victory after a blunder by karpov two games later. three more draws, the last agreed by karpov when he was in a clearly better position, closed the match, with karpov prevailing + 3−2 = 19, entitling him to move on to challenge fischer for the world title. match with fischer in 1975 though a world championship match between karpov and fischer was highly anticipated, those hopes were never realised. fischer not only insisted that the match be the first to ten wins ( draws not counting ), but also that the champion retain the crown if the score was tied 9 – 9. fide, the international chess federation, refused to allow this proviso, and gave both players a deadline of april 1, 1975, to agree to play the match under the fide - approved rules. when fischer did not agree, fide president max euwe declared on april 3, 1975, that fischer had forfeited his title and karpov was the new world champion. karpov later attempted to set up another match with fischer, but the negotiations fell through. this thrust the young karpov into the role of world champion without having faced the reigning champion. garry kasparov argued that karpov would have had good chances because he had beaten spassky convincingly and was a new breed of tough professional, and indeed had higher quality games, while fischer had been inactive for three years. this view is echoed by karpov himself. spassky thought that fischer would have won in 1975, but karpov would have qualified again and beaten fischer in 1978. karpov has said that if he had had the opportunity to play fischer for the championship in his twenties, he could have been a much better player as a result. world champion determined to prove himself a legitimate champion, karpov participated in nearly every major tournament for