. in 1905, albert einstein theorized that this brownian motion was caused by the water molecules continuously knocking the grains about, and developed a mathematical model to describe it. this model was validated experimentally in 1908 by french physicist jean perrin, who used einstein ' s equation to calculate the number of atoms in a mole and the size of atoms. discovery of the electron in 1897, j. j. thomson discovered that cathode rays are not electromagnetic waves but made of particles because they can be deflected by electrical and magnetic fields. he measured these particles to be 1, 800 times lighter than hydrogen ( the lightest atom ). thomson concluded that these particles came from the atoms within the cathode — they were subatomic particles. he called these new particles corpuscles but they were later renamed electrons. thomson also showed that electrons were identical to particles given off by photoelectric and radioactive materials. it was quickly recognized that electrons are the particles that carry electric currents in metal wires. thomson concluded that these electrons emerged from the very atoms of the cathode in his instruments, which meant that atoms are not indivisible as dalton thought. discovery of the nucleus j. j. thomson thought that the negatively - charged electrons were distributed throughout the atom in a sea of positive charge that was distributed across the whole volume of the atom. this model is sometimes known as the plum pudding model. ernest rutherford and his colleagues hans geiger and ernest marsden came to doubt the thomson model after they encountered difficulties when they tried to build an instrument to measure the charge - to - mass ratio of alpha particles ( these are positively - charged particles emitted by certain radioactive substances such as radium ). the alpha particles were being scattered by the air in the detection chamber, which made the measurements unreliable. thomson had encountered a similar problem in his work on cathode rays, which he solved by creating a near - perfect vacuum in his instruments. rutherford did not think he ' d run into this same problem because alpha particles are much heavier than electrons. according to thomson ' s model of the atom, the positive charge in the atom is not concentrated enough to produce an electric field strong enough to deflect an alpha particle, and the electrons are so lightweight they should be pushed aside effortlessly by the much heavier alpha particles. yet there was scattering, so rutherford and his colleagues decided to investigate this scattering carefully. between 1908 and 1913, rutherford and his colleagues performed a series of experiments in which they bombarded thin foils of metal with alpha particles. they spotted