" ( ) at the time, but later by the euphemism, " opening up undeveloped land " ( ). additionally, factories like flour mills and beer breweries, along with mining practices, resulted in the creation of infrastructure such as roads and railway lines during a development period that lasted until 1904. during this time, the ainu were ordered to cease religious practices such as animal sacrifice and the custom of tattooing. the same act applied to the native ainu on sakhalin after its annexation as the karafuto prefecture. assimilation after annexation the ainu have historically suffered from economic and social discrimination, as both the japanese government and mainstream population regarded them as dirty and primitive barbarians. the majority of ainu were forced to be petty laborers during the meiji restoration, which saw the introduction of hokkaido into the japanese empire and the privatization of traditional ainu lands. during the 19th and 20th centuries, the japanese government denied the rights of the ainu to their traditional cultural practices such as hunting, gathering, and speaking their native language. the legal denial of ainu cultural practices mostly stemmed from the 1899 hokkaido former aborigines protection act. this law and its associated policies were designed to fully integrate the ainu into japanese society while erasing ainu culture and identity. the ainu ' s position as manual laborers and their forced integration into larger japanese society have led to discriminatory practices by the japanese government that can still be felt today. intermarriage between japanese and ainu was actively promoted by the ainu to lessen the chances of discrimination against their offspring. as a result, many ainu today are indistinguishable from their japanese neighbors, but some ainu - japanese are interested in traditional ainu culture. for example, oki, born as a child of an ainu father and a japanese mother, became a musician who plays the traditional ainu instrument. there are also many small towns in the southeastern or hidaka region of hokkaido where ethnic ainu live, such as in nibutani ( ). from the early 1870s, christian missionary work was conducted amongst the ainu. the anglican communion missionaries included the rt rev philip fyson, bishop of hokkaido, and the rev john batchelor. batchelor wrote extensively in english about the beliefs and daily life of the ainu in yezo ( or ezo ), and his publications are a source of photographs of the japanese and ainu close to the missions. standard of living the discrimination and negative stereotypes assigned to the ain