##a. as a loanword english and other european languages the history of the name allah in english was probably influenced by the study of comparative religion in the 19th century ; for example, thomas carlyle ( 1840 ) sometimes used the term allah but without any implication that allah was anything different from god. however, in his biography of muhammad ( 1934 ), tor andræ always used the term allah, though he allows that this " conception of god " seems to imply that it is different from that of the jewish and christian theologies. languages which may not commonly use the term allah to denote god may still contain popular expressions which use the word. for example, because of the centuries long muslim presence in the iberian peninsula, the word in the spanish language and in the portuguese language exist today, borrowed from andalusi arabic similar to ( ). this phrase literally means ' if god wills ' ( in the sense of " i hope so " ). the german poet mahlmann used the form " allah " as the title of a poem about the ultimate deity, though it is unclear how much islamic thought he intended to convey. some muslims leave the name " allah " untranslated in english, rather than using the english translation " god ". the word has also been applied to certain living human beings as personifications of the term and concept. malaysian and indonesian language christians in malaysia and indonesia use to refer to god in the malaysian and indonesian languages ( both of them standardized forms of the malay language ). mainstream bible translations in the language use as the translation of hebrew ( translated in english bibles as " god " ). this goes back to early translation work by francis xavier in the 16th century. the first dictionary of dutch - malay by albert cornelius ruyl, justus heurnius, and caspar wiltens in 1650 ( revised edition from 1623 edition and 1631 latin edition ) recorded " as the translation of the dutch word. ruyl also translated the gospel of matthew in 1612 into the malay language ( an early bible translation into a non - european language, made a year after the publication of the king james version ), which was printed in the netherlands in 1629. then he translated the gospel of mark, published in 1638. the government of malaysia in 2007 outlawed usage of the term in any other but muslim contexts, but the malayan high court in 2009 revoked the law, ruling it unconstitutional. while had been used for the christian god in malay for more than four centuries, the contemporary controversy was triggered by usage of by the