. this publishing format lasted until issue no. 700, which concluded the " dying wish " storyline, in which parker and doctor octopus swapped bodies, and the latter taking on the mantle of spider - man when parker apparently died in doctor octopus ' body. the amazing spider - man ended with this issue, with the story continuing in the new series the superior spider - man. despite the superior spider - man being considered a different series to the amazing spider - man, the first 33 issue run goes towards the legacy numbering of the amazing spider - man acting as issues 701 – 733. in december 2013, the series returned for five issues, numbered 700. 1 through 700. 5, with the first two written by david morrell and drawn by klaus janson. 2014 relaunch in january 2014, marvel confirmed that the amazing spider - man would be relaunched on april 30, 2014, starting from issue no. 1, with peter parker as spider - man once again. the first issue of this new version of the amazing spider - man was, according to diamond comics distributors, the " best - selling comic book... in over a decade. " issues # 1 – 6 were a story arc called " lucky to be alive ", taking place immediately after " goblin nation ", with issues no. 4 and no. 5 being a crossover with the original sin storyline. issue no. 4 introduced silk, a new heroine who was bitten by the same spider as peter parker. issues # 7 – 8 featured a team - up between ms. marvel and spider - man, and had backup stories that tied into " edge of spider - verse ". the next major plot arc, titled " spider - verse ", began in issue no. 9 and ended in no. 15, features every spider - man from across the dimensions being hunted by morlun, and a team - up to stop him, with peter parker of earth - 616 in command of the spider - men ' s alliance. the amazing spider - man annual no. 1 of the relaunched series was released in december 2014, featuring stories unrelated to " spider - verse ". the amazing spider - man : renew your vows in 2015, marvel started the universe wide secret wars event where the core and several other marvel universes were combined into one big planet called battleworld. battleworld was divided into sections with most of them being self - contained universes. marvel announced that several of these self - contained universes would get their own tie in series and one of them was amazing spider - man