and by the greek tragedian euripides : " what comes from earth must return to earth. " friedrich nietzsche, in his philosophy in the tragic age of the greeks, stated that anaximander viewed "... all coming - to - be as though it were an illegitimate emancipation from eternal being, a wrong for which destruction is the only penance. " physicist max born, in commenting upon werner heisenberg ' s arriving at the idea that the elementary particles of quantum mechanics are to be seen as different manifestations, different quantum states, of one and the same " primordial substance, " ' proposed that this primordial substance be called apeiron. a free - floating earth anaximander was the first to conceive a mechanical model of the world. in his model, the earth floats very still in the centre of the infinite, not supported by anything. it remains " in the same place because of its indifference ", a point of view that aristotle considered ingenious, in on the heavens. its curious shape is that of a cylinder with a height one - third of its diameter. the flat top forms the inhabited world, which is surrounded by a circular oceanic mass. carlo rovelli suggests that anaximander took the idea of the earth ' s shape as a floating disk from thales, who had imagined the earth floating in water, the " immense ocean from which everything is born and upon which the earth floats. " anaximander was then able to envisage the earth at the centre of an infinite space, in which case it required no support as there was nowhere " down " to fall. in rovelli ' s view, the shape – a cylinder or a sphere – is unimportant compared to the appreciation of a " finite body that floats free in space. " anaximander ' s realization that the earth floats free without falling and does not need to be resting on something has been indicated by many as the first cosmological revolution and the starting point of scientific thinking. karl popper calls this idea " one of the boldest, most revolutionary, and most portentous ideas in the whole history of human thinking. " such a model allowed the concept that celestial bodies could pass under the earth, opening the way to greek astronomy. rovelli suggests that seeing the stars circling the pole star, and both vanishing below the horizon on one side and reappearing above it on the other, would suggest to the astronomer that there was