##u, mahir canova sahnesi, muhsin ertugrul sahnesi. in addition, the city is served by several private theater companies, among which ankara sanat tiyatrosu, who have their own stage in the city center, is a notable example. museums there are about 50 museums in the city. museum of anatolian civilizations the museum of anatolian civilizations ( anadolu medeniyetleri muzesi ) is situated at the entrance of the ankara castle. it is an old 15th century bedesten ( covered bazaar ) that has been restored and now houses a collection of paleolithic, neolithic, hatti, hittite, phrygian, urartian and roman works as well as a major section dedicated to lydian treasures. anıtkabir anıtkabir is located on an imposing hill, which forms the anıttepe quarter of the city, where the mausoleum of mustafa kemal ataturk, founder of the republic of turkey, stands. completed in 1953, it is a fusion of ancient and modern architectural styles. an adjacent museum houses a wax statue of ataturk, his writings, letters and personal items, as well as an exhibition of photographs recording important moments in his life and during the establishment of the republic. anıtkabir is open every day, while the adjacent museum is open every day except mondays. ankara ethnography museum ankara ethnography museum ( etnografya muzesi ) is located opposite to the ankara opera house on talat pasa boulevard, in the ulus district. there is a fine collection of folkloric items, as well as artifacts from the seljuk and ottoman periods. in front of the museum building, there is a marble and bronze equestrian statue of mustafa kemal ataturk ( who wears a republic era modern military uniform, with the rank field marshal ) which was crafted in 1927 by the renowned italian sculptor pietro canonica. state art and sculpture museum the state art and sculpture museum ( resim - heykel muzesi ) which opened to the public in 1980 is close to the ethnography museum and houses a rich collection of turkish art from the late 19th century to the present day. there are also galleries which host guest exhibitions. cer modern cer modern is the modern - arts museum of ankara, inaugurated on 1 april 2010. it is situated in the renovated building of the historic tcdd cer atolyeleri, formerly