tools to solve these problems using methods from probability theory and economics. bayesian networks are a very general tool that can be used for many problems, including reasoning ( using the bayesian inference algorithm ), learning ( using the expectation - maximization algorithm ), planning ( using decision networks ) and perception ( using dynamic bayesian networks ). probabilistic algorithms can also be used for filtering, prediction, smoothing and finding explanations for streams of data, helping perception systems to analyze processes that occur over time ( e. g., hidden markov models or kalman filters ). precise mathematical tools have been developed that analyze how an agent can make choices and plan, using decision theory, decision analysis, and information value theory. these tools include models such as markov decision processes, dynamic decision networks, game theory and mechanism design. classifiers and statistical learning methods the simplest ai applications can be divided into two types : classifiers ( e. g. " if shiny then diamond " ), on one hand, and controllers ( e. g. " if diamond then pick up " ), on the other hand. classifiers are functions that use pattern matching to determine the closest match. they can be fine - tuned based on chosen examples using supervised learning. each pattern ( also called an " observation " ) is labeled with a certain predefined class. all the observations combined with their class labels are known as a data set. when a new observation is received, that observation is classified based on previous experience. there are many kinds of classifiers in use. the decision tree is the simplest and most widely used symbolic machine learning algorithm. k - nearest neighbor algorithm was the most widely used analogical ai until the mid - 1990s, and kernel methods such as the support vector machine ( svm ) displaced k - nearest neighbor in the 1990s. the naive bayes classifier is reportedly the " most widely used learner " at google, due in part to its scalability. neural networks are also used as classifiers. artificial neural networks artificial neural networks were inspired by the design of the human brain : a simple " neuron " n accepts input from other neurons, each of which, when activated ( or " fired " ), casts a weighted " vote " for or against whether neuron n should itself activate. in practice, the input " neurons " are a list of numbers, the " weights " are a matrix, the next layer is the dot product ( i. e., several weighted sums ) scaled by an increasing function, such as the