( the ability to put one or more objects into a single variable ), a file system, nested arrays, and shared variables. apl interpreters were available from other mainframe and mini - computer manufacturers also, notably burroughs, control data corporation ( cdc ), data general, digital equipment corporation ( dec ), harris, hewlett - packard ( hp ), siemens, xerox and others. garth foster of syracuse university sponsored regular meetings of the apl implementers ' community at syracuse ' s minnowbrook conference center in blue mountain lake, new york. in later years, eugene mcdonnell organized similar meetings at the asilomar conference grounds near monterey, california, and at pajaro dunes near watsonville, california. the sigapl special interest group of the association for computing machinery continues to support the apl community. microcomputers on microcomputers, which became available from the mid - 1970s onwards, basic became the dominant programming language. nevertheless, some microcomputers provided apl instead – the first being the intel 8008 - based mcm / 70 which was released in 1974 and which was primarily used in education. another machine of this time was the videobrain family computer, released in 1977, which was supplied with its dialect of apl called apl / s. the commodore superpet, introduced in 1981, included an apl interpreter developed by the university of waterloo. in 1976, bill gates claimed in his open letter to hobbyists that microsoft corporation was implementing apl for the intel 8080 and motorola 6800 but had " very little incentive to make [ it ] available to hobbyists " because of software piracy. it was never released. apl2 starting in the early 1980s, ibm apl development, under the leadership of jim brown, implemented a new version of the apl language that contained as its primary enhancement the concept of nested arrays, where an array can contain other arrays, and new language features which facilitated integrating nested arrays into program workflow. ken iverson, no longer in control of the development of the apl language, left ibm and joined i. p. sharp associates, where one of his major contributions was directing the evolution of sharp apl to be more in accord with his vision. apl2 was first released for cms and tso in 1984. the apl2 workstation edition ( windows, os / 2, aix, linux, and solaris ) followed later. as other vendors were busy developing apl interpreters for new