an abbreviation ( from latin, meaning short ) is a shortened form of a word or phrase, by any method. it may consist of a group of letters or words taken from the full version of the word or phrase ; for example, the word abbreviation itself can be abbreviated as abbr., abbrv., or abbrev. ; npo, for nil ( or nothing ) per ( by ) os ( mouth ) is an abbreviated medical instruction. it may also consist of initials only, a mixture of initials and words, or words or letters representing words in another language ( for example, e. g., i. e. or rsvp ). some types of abbreviations are acronyms ( some pronounceable, some initialisms ) or grammatical contractions or crasis. an abbreviation is a shortening by any of these or other methods. types acronyms, initialisms, contractions and crasis share some semantic and phonetic functions, and all four are connected by the term " abbreviation " in loose parlance. an initialism is an abbreviation pronounced by spelling out each letter, i. e. fbi ( ), usa ( ), ibm ( ), bbc ( ) a contraction is a reduction in the length of a word or phrase made by omitting certain of its letters or syllables. consequently, contractions are a subset of abbreviations. often, but not always, the contraction includes the first and last letters or elements. examples of contractions are " li ' l " ( for " little " ), " i ' m " ( for " i am " ), and " he ' d ' ve " ( for " he would have " ). history abbreviations have a long history. they were created to avoid spelling out whole words. this might be done to save time and space ( given that many inscriptions were carved in stone ) and also to provide secrecy. in both greece and rome the reduction of words to single letters was common. in roman inscriptions, " words were commonly abbreviated by using the initial letter or letters of words, and most inscriptions have at least one abbreviation ". however, " some could have more than one meaning, depending on their context. ( for example, can be an abbreviation for many words, such as,,,,,, and. ) " many frequent abbreviations consisted of more than one letter : for example cos for consul and coss for its nominative etc. plural consules. abbreviations were frequently used in english