around kandahar in modern - day southern afghanistan, used to be primarily zoroastrian and played a key role in the transfer of the avesta to persia and is thus considered by some to be the " second homeland of zoroastrianism ". alexander the great and his macedonian forces arrived in afghanistan in 330 bce after defeating darius iii of persia a year earlier in the battle of gaugamela. following alexander ' s brief occupation, the successor state of the seleucid empire controlled the region until 305 bce, when they gave much of it to the maurya empire as part of an alliance treaty. the mauryans controlled the area south of the hindu kush until they were overthrown in about 185 bce. their decline began 60 years after ashoka ' s rule ended, leading to the hellenistic reconquest by the greco - bactrians. much of it soon broke away and became part of the indo - greek kingdom. they were defeated and expelled by the indo - scythians in the late 2nd century bce. the silk road appeared during the first century bce, and afghanistan flourished with trade, with routes to china, india, persia, and north to the cities of bukhara, samarkand, and khiva in present - day uzbekistan. goods and ideas were exchanged at this center point, such as chinese silk, persian silver and roman gold, while the region of present afghanistan was mining and trading lapis lazuli stones mainly from the badakhshan region. during the first century bce, the parthian empire subjugated the region but lost it to their indo - parthian vassals. in the mid - to - late first century ce the vast kushan empire, centered in afghanistan, became great patrons of buddhist culture, making buddhism flourish throughout the region. the kushans were overthrown by the sassanids in the 3rd century ce, though the indo - sassanids continued to rule at least parts of the region. they were followed by the kidarites who, in turn, was replaced by the hephthalites. they were replaced by the turk shahi in the 7th century. the buddhist turk shahi of kabul was replaced by a hindu dynasty before the saffarids conquered the area in 870, this hindu dynasty was called hindu shahi. much of the northeastern and southern areas of the country remained dominated by buddhist culture. medieval period arab muslims brought islam to herat and zaranj in 642 ce and began spreading eastward ; some