because i built it myself! " as prime minister, alexander mackenzie strove to reform and simplify the machinery of government, achieving a remarkable record of reform legislation. he introduced the secret ballot ; advised the creation of the supreme court of canada ; the establishment of the royal military college of canada in kingston in 1874 and the creation of the office of the auditor general in 1878. he completed the intercolonial railway, but struggled to progress on the national railway due to a worldwide economic depression, almost coming to blows with governor general lord dufferin over imperial interference. mackenzie stood up for the rights of canada as a nation and fought for the supremacy of parliament and honesty in government. above all else, he was known and loved for his honesty and integrity. however, his term was marked by economic depression that had grown out of the panic of 1873, which mackenzie ' s government was unable to alleviate. in 1874, mackenzie negotiated a new free trade agreement with the united states, eliminating the high protective tariffs on canadian goods in us markets. however, this action did not bolster the economy, and construction of the cpr slowed drastically due to lack of funding. in 1876, the conservative opposition announced a national policy of protective tariffs, which resonated with voters. when an election was held at the conclusion of mackenzie ' s five - year term, the conservatives were swept back into office in a landslide victory. supreme court appointments mackenzie chose the following jurists to be appointed as justices of the supreme court of canada by the governor general : sir william buell richards ( chief justice ) – september 30, 1875 telesphore fournier – september 30, 1875 william alexander henry – september 30, 1875 sir william johnstone ritchie – september 30, 1875 sir samuel henry strong – september 30, 1875 jean - thomas taschereau – september 30, 1875 sir henri elzear taschereau – october 7, 1878 later life after his government ' s defeat, mackenzie remained leader of the opposition for another two years, until 1880. in 1881, he became the first president of the north american life assurance company. he was soon struck with a mysterious ailment that sapped his strength and all but took his voice. sitting in silence, he nevertheless remained an undefeated mp until his death in 1892 from a stroke that resulted from hitting his head during a fall. he died in toronto and was buried in lakeview cemetery in sarnia, ontario. character mackenzie ' s first biography in 1892 referred to him as canada ' s stainless statesman. he was a devout