event. during the triassic period ( 252 to 201 million years ago ), the reptiles continued to out - compete the amphibians, leading to a reduction in both the amphibians ' size and their importance in the biosphere. according to the fossil record, lissamphibia, which includes all modern amphibians and is the only surviving lineage, may have branched off from the extinct groups temnospondyli and lepospondyli at some period between the late carboniferous and the early triassic. the relative scarcity of fossil evidence precludes precise dating, but the most recent molecular study, based on multilocus sequence typing, suggests a late carboniferous / early permian origin for extant amphibians. the origins and evolutionary relationships between the three main groups of amphibians is a matter of debate. a 2005 molecular phylogeny, based on rdna analysis, suggests that salamanders and caecilians are more closely related to each other than they are to frogs. it also appears that the divergence of the three groups took place in the paleozoic or early mesozoic ( around 250 million years ago ), before the breakup of the supercontinent pangaea and soon after their divergence from the lobe - finned fish. the briefness of this period, and the swiftness with which radiation took place, would help account for the relative scarcity of primitive amphibian fossils. there are large gaps in the fossil record, the discovery of the dissorophoid temnospondyl gerobatrachus from the early permian in texas in 2008 provided a missing link with many of the characteristics of modern frogs. molecular analysis suggests that the frog – salamander divergence took place considerably earlier than the palaeontological evidence indicates. one study suggested suggested that the last common ancestor of all modern amphibians lived about 315 million years ago, and that stereospondyl temnospondyls are the closest relatives to the caecilians. however, most studies support a single monophyletic origin of all modern amphibians within the dissorophoid temnospondyls. as they evolved from lunged fish, amphibians had to make certain adaptations for living on land, including the need to develop new means of locomotion. in the water, the sideways thrusts of their tails had propelled them forward, but on land, quite different mechanisms were required. their vertebral columns