he attempted to devise a unified field theory by generalizing his geometric theory of gravitation to include electromagnetism too. as a result, he became increasingly isolated from the mainstream of modern physics. born in the german empire, einstein moved to switzerland in 1895, forsaking his german citizenship ( as a subject of the kingdom of wurttemberg ) the following year. in 1897, at the age of seventeen, he enrolled in the mathematics and physics teaching diploma program at the swiss federal polytechnic school in zurich, graduating in 1900. in 1901, he acquired swiss citizenship, which he kept for the rest of his life. in 1903, he secured a permanent position at the swiss patent office in bern. in 1905, he submitted a successful phd dissertation to the university of zurich. in 1914, he moved to berlin in order to join the prussian academy of sciences and the humboldt university of berlin. in 1917, he became director of the kaiser wilhelm institute for physics ; he also became a german citizen again, this time as a subject of the kingdom of prussia. in 1933, while he was visiting the united states, adolf hitler came to power in germany. horrified by the nazi " war of extermination " against his fellow jews, einstein decided to remain in the us, and was granted american citizenship in 1940. on the eve of world war ii, he endorsed a letter to president franklin d. roosevelt alerting him to the potential german nuclear weapons program and recommending that the us begin similar research. einstein supported the allies but generally viewed the idea of nuclear weapons with great dismay. life and career childhood, youth and education albert einstein was born in ulm, in the kingdom of wurttemberg in the german empire, on 14 march 1879. his parents, secular ashkenazi jews, were hermann einstein, a salesman and engineer, and pauline koch. in 1880, the family moved to munich, where einstein ' s father and his uncle jakob founded elektrotechnische fabrik j. einstein & cie, a company that manufactured electrical equipment based on direct current. albert attended a catholic elementary school in munich from the age of five. when he was eight, he was transferred to the luitpold - gymnasium ( now known as the albert - einstein - gymnasium ) where he received advanced primary and then secondary school education. in 1894, hermann and jakob ' s company tendered for a contract to install electric lighting in munich, but without success — they lacked the capital that would have been required to update their technology from direct current to the