that [ h2o ] means the concentration of h2o. the acid dissociation constant ka is generally used in the context of acid – base reactions. the numerical value of ka is equal to the product ( multiplication ) of the concentrations of the products divided by the concentration of the reactants, where the reactant is the acid ( ha ) and the products are the conjugate base and h +. the stronger of two acids will have a higher ka than the weaker acid ; the ratio of hydrogen ions to acid will be higher for the stronger acid as the stronger acid has a greater tendency to lose its proton. because the range of possible values for ka spans many orders of magnitude, a more manageable constant, pka is more frequently used, where pka = −log10 ka. stronger acids have a smaller pka than weaker acids. experimentally determined pka at 25 °c in aqueous solution are often quoted in textbooks and reference material. nomenclature arrhenius acids are named according to their anions. in the classical naming system, the ionic suffix is dropped and replaced with a new suffix, according to the table following. the prefix " hydro - " is used when the acid is made up of just hydrogen and one other element. for example, hcl has chloride as its anion, so the hydro - prefix is used, and the - ide suffix makes the name take the form hydrochloric acid. classical naming system : in the iupac naming system, " aqueous " is simply added to the name of the ionic compound. thus, for hydrogen chloride, as an acid solution, the iupac name is aqueous hydrogen chloride. acid strength the strength of an acid refers to its ability or tendency to lose a proton. a strong acid is one that completely dissociates in water ; in other words, one mole of a strong acid ha dissolves in water yielding one mole of h + and one mole of the conjugate base, a−, and none of the protonated acid ha. in contrast, a weak acid only partially dissociates and at equilibrium both the acid and the conjugate base are in solution. examples of strong acids are hydrochloric acid ( hcl ), hydroiodic acid ( hi ), hydrobromic acid ( hbr ), perchloric acid ( hclo4 ), nitric acid ( hno3 ) and sulfuric acid ( h2so4 ). in water each of