alvin eugene toffler ( october 4, 1928 – june 27, 2016 ) was an american writer, futurist, and businessman known for his works discussing modern technologies, including the digital revolution and the communication revolution, with emphasis on their effects on cultures worldwide. he is regarded as one of the world ' s outstanding futurists. toffler was an associate editor of fortune magazine. in his early works he focused on technology and its impact, which he termed " information overload. " in 1970, his first major book about the future, future shock, became a worldwide best - seller and has sold over 6 million copies. he and his wife heidi toffler, who collaborated with him for most of his writings, moved on to examining the reaction to changes in society with another best - selling book, the third wave, in 1980. in it, he foresaw such technological advances as cloning, personal computers, the internet, cable television and mobile communication. his later focus, via their other best - seller, powershift, ( 1990 ), was on the increasing power of 21st - century military hardware and the proliferation of new technologies. he founded toffler associates, a management consulting company, and was a visiting scholar at the russell sage foundation, visiting professor at cornell university, faculty member of the new school for social research, a white house correspondent, and a business consultant. toffler ' s ideas and writings were a significant influence on the thinking of business and government leaders worldwide, including china ' s zhao ziyang, and aol founder steve case. early life alvin toffler was born on october 4, 1928, in new york city, and raised in brooklyn. he was the son of rose ( albaum ) and sam toffler, a furrier, both polish jews who had migrated to america. he had one younger sister. he was inspired to become a writer at the age of 7 by his aunt and uncle, who lived with the tofflers. " they were depression - era literary intellectuals, " toffler said, " and they always talked about exciting ideas. " toffler graduated from new york university in 1950 as an english major, though by his own account he was more focused on political activism than grades. he met his future wife, adelaide elizabeth farrell ( nicknamed " heidi " ), when she was starting a graduate course in linguistics. being radical students, they decided against further graduate work and moved to cleveland, ohio, where they married on april 29, 1950