suggest that the horse cultures of the scythian, sarmatian and hittite peoples likely inspired the amazon myth. in 2019, a grave with multiple generations of female scythian warriors, armed and in golden headdresses, was found near russia ' s voronezh. etymology origin of the name the origin of the word is uncertain. it may be derived from an iranian ethnonym * ha - mazan - ' warriors ', a word attested indirectly through a derivation, a denominal verb in hesychius of alexandria ' s gloss ( " : ' to make war ' in persian " ), where it appears together with the indo - iranian root * kar - ' make '. in the persian language ; " hameh " means " all ", and " zan ", nearly rhyming with the english word, " man ", means " women / woman ". so, " hameh zan ", when it refers to a group of people, refers to a group of women in persian ( without any elaboration or further information being explicated about the group in its " name " ). it may alternatively be a greek word descended from ' manless, without husbands ' ( alpha privative combined with a derivation from * man - cognate with proto - balto - slavic * mangja -, found in czech muz ) has been proposed, an explanation deemed " unlikely " by hjalmar frisk. a further explanation proposes iranian * ama - janah ' virility - killing ' as source. among the ancient greeks, the term amazon was given a folk etymology as originating from ( αμαζος ' breastless ' ), connected with an etiological tradition once claimed by marcus justinus who alleged that amazons had their right breast cut off or burnt out. there is no indication of such a practice in ancient works of art, in which the amazons are always represented with both breasts, although one is frequently covered. according to philostratus amazon babies were not fed just with the right breast. author adrienne mayor suggests that the false etymology led to the myth. alternative terms herodotus used the terms androktones ( ) ' killers / slayers of men ' and androleteirai ( ) ' destroyers of men, murderesses '. amazons are called antianeirai ( ) ' equivalent to men ' and aeschylus used styganor ( ) ' those who loath