animalia is an illustrated children ' s book by graeme base. it was originally published in 1986, followed by a tenth anniversary edition in 1996, and a 25th anniversary edition in 2012. over four million copies have been sold worldwide. a special numbered and signed anniversary edition was also published in 1996, with an embossed gold jacket. synopsis animalia is an alliterative alphabet book and contains twenty - six illustrations, one for each letter of the alphabet. each illustration features an animal from the animal kingdom ( a is for alligator and armadillo, b is for butterfly, etc. ) along with a short poem utilizing the letter of the page for many of the words. the illustrations contain many other objects beginning with that letter that the reader can try to identify ( however, there are not necessarily " a thousand things, or maybe more ", as the author states ). as an additional challenge, the author has hidden a picture of himself as a child in every picture. related products julia macrae books published an animalia colouring book in 2008. h. n. abrams also published a wall calendar colouring book version for children the same year. h. n. abrams published the animalia wall frieze, a fold - out over 26 feet in length, in which the author created new riddles for each letter. the great american puzzle factory created a 300 - piece jigsaw puzzle based on the book ' s cover. adaptations a television series was also created, based on the book, which airs in canada. the australian children ' s television foundation released a teaching resource dvd - rom in 2011 to accompany the tv series with teaching aids for classroom use. in 2010, the base factory and appbooks released animalia as an application for ipad and iphone / ipod touch. awards animalia won the young australian ' s best book award in 1987 for best picture story book. the children ' s book council of australia designated animalia a 1987 picture book of the year : honour book. kid ' s own australian literature awards named animalia the 1988 picture book winner. references external links graeme base ' s official website a learning time activity guide for animalia created by the little big book club 1986 children ' s books alphabet books australian children ' s books children ' s books about animals picture books by graeme base puffin books books puzzle books