one whose elements can be put into one - to - one correspondence with the integers. thus boolos and jeffrey are saying that an algorithm implies instructions for a process that " creates " output integers from an arbitrary " input " integer or integers that, in theory, can be arbitrarily large. for example, an algorithm can be an algebraic equation such as y = m + n ( i. e., two arbitrary " input variables " m and n that produce an output y ), but various authors ' attempts to define the notion indicate that the word implies much more than this, something on the order of ( for the addition example ) : precise instructions ( in a language understood by " the computer " ) for a fast, efficient, " good " process that specifies the " moves " of " the computer " ( machine or human, equipped with the necessary internally contained information and capabilities ) to find, decode, and then process arbitrary input integers / symbols m and n, symbols + and =... and " effectively " produce, in a " reasonable " time, output - integer y at a specified place and in a specified format. the concept of algorithm is also used to define the notion of decidability — a notion that is central for explaining how formal systems come into being starting from a small set of axioms and rules. in logic, the time that an algorithm requires to complete cannot be measured, as it is not apparently related to the customary physical dimension. from such uncertainties, that characterize ongoing work, stems the unavailability of a definition of algorithm that suits both concrete ( in some sense ) and abstract usage of the term. most algorithms are intended to be implemented as computer programs. however, algorithms are also implemented by other means, such as in a biological neural network ( for example, the human brain implementing arithmetic or an insect looking for food ), in an electrical circuit, or in a mechanical device. formalization algorithms are essential to the way computers process data. many computer programs contain algorithms that detail the specific instructions a computer should perform — in a specific order — to carry out a specified task, such as calculating employees ' paychecks or printing students ' report cards. thus, an algorithm can be considered to be any sequence of operations that can be simulated by a turing - complete system. authors who assert this thesis include minsky ( 1967 ), savage ( 1987 ), and gurevich ( 2000 ) : turing machines can define computational processes that do not terminate. the informal definitions of algorithms generally