thought ". sometime during the middle of the 20th century, austrian economics became disregarded or derided by mainstream economists because it rejected model building and mathematical and statistical methods in the study of economics. mises ' student israel kirzner recalled that in 1954, when kirzner was pursuing his phd, there was no separate austrian school as such. when kirzner was deciding which graduate school to attend, mises had advised him to accept an offer of admission at johns hopkins because it was a prestigious university and fritz machlup taught there. after the 1940s, austrian economics can be divided into two schools of economic thought and the school " split " to some degree in the late 20th century. one camp of austrians, exemplified by mises, regards neoclassical methodology to be irredeemably flawed ; the other camp, exemplified by friedrich hayek, accepts a large part of neoclassical methodology and is more accepting of government intervention in the economy. henry hazlitt wrote economics columns and editorials for a number of publications and wrote many books on the topic of austrian economics from the 1930s to the 1980s. hazlitt ' s thinking was influenced by mises. his book economics in one lesson ( 1946 ) sold over a million copies and he is also known for the failure of the " new economics " ( 1959 ), a line - by - line critique of john maynard keynes ' s general theory. the reputation of the austrian school rose in the late 20th century due in part to the work of israel kirzner and ludwig lachmann at new york university and to renewed public awareness of the work of hayek after he won the 1974 nobel memorial prize in economic sciences. hayek ' s work was influential in the revival of laissez - faire thought in the 20th century. split among contemporary austrians economist leland yeager discussed the late 20th - century rift and referred to a discussion written by murray rothbard, hans - hermann hoppe, joseph salerno and others in which they attack and disparage hayek. yeager stated : " to try to drive a wedge between mises and hayek on [ the role of knowledge in economic calculation ], especially to the disparagement of hayek, is unfair to these two great men, unfaithful to the history of economic thought ". he went on to call the rift subversive to economic analysis and the historical understanding of the fall of eastern european communism. in a 1999 book published by the ludwig von mises institute, hoppe asserted that rothbard