search of immortality. the figure of dhu al - qarnayn ( literally " the two - horned one " ) mentioned in the quran is believed by scholars to be based on later legends of alexander. in this tradition, he was a heroic figure who built a wall to defend against the nations of gog and magog. he then travelled the known world in search of the water of life and immortality, eventually becoming a prophet. the majority of modern researchers of the quran as well as islamic commentators identify dhu al - qarnayn as alexander the great. the syriac version of the alexander romance portrays him as an ideal christian world conqueror who prayed to " the one true god ". in egypt, alexander was portrayed as the son of nectanebo ii, the last pharaoh before the persian conquest. his defeat of darius was depicted as egypt ' s salvation, " proving " egypt was still ruled by an egyptian. according to josephus, alexander was shown the book of daniel when he entered jerusalem, which described a mighty greek king who would conquer the persian empire. this is cited as a reason for sparing jerusalem. in hindi and urdu, the name " sikandar ", derived from the persian name for alexander, denotes a rising young talent, and the delhi sultanate ruler aladdin khalji stylized himself as " sikandar - i - sani " ( the second alexander the great ). in medieval india, turkic and afghan sovereigns from the iranian - cultured region of central asia brought positive cultural connotations of alexander to the indian subcontinent, resulting in the efflorescence of sikandernameh ( alexander romances ) written by indo - persian poets such as amir khusrow and the prominence of alexander the great as a popular subject in mughal - era persian miniatures. in medieval europe, alexander the great was revered as a member of the nine worthies, a group of heroes whose lives were believed to encapsulate all the ideal qualities of chivalry. during the first italian campaign of the french revolutionary wars, in a question from bourrienne, asking whether he gave his preference to alexander or caesar, napoleon said that he places alexander the great in the first rank, the main reason being his campaign on asia. in the greek anthology, there are poems referring to alexander. throughout time, art objects related to alexander were being created. in addition to speech works, sculptures and paintings, in modern times alexander is still the subject of musical and cinematic works. the song ' alexander