##n, are capable of interacting with humans and causing problems if they are not honoured appropriately. philippines indigenous religions in the indigenous philippine folk religions, pre - colonial religions of philippines and philippine mythology, animism is part of their core beliefs as demonstrated by the belief in anito and bathala as well as their conservation and veneration of sacred indigenous philippine shrines, forests, mountains and sacred grounds. anito ( lit. ' [ ancestor ] spirit ' ) refers to the various indigenous shamanistic folk religions of the philippines, led by female or feminized male shamans known as babaylan. it includes belief in a spirit world existing alongside and interacting with the material world, as well as the belief that everything has a spirit, from rocks and trees to animals and humans to natural phenomena. in indigenous filipino belief, the bathala is the omnipotent deity which was derived from sanskrit word for the hindu supreme deity bhattara, as one of the ten avatars of the hindu god vishnu. the omnipotent bathala also presides over the spirits of ancestors called anito. anitos serve as intermediaries between mortals and the divine, such as agni ( hindu ) who holds the access to divine realms ; for this reason they are invoked first and are the first to receive offerings, regardless of the deity the worshipper wants to pray to. abrahamic religions animism also has influences in abrahamic religions. the old testament and the wisdom literature preach the omnipresence of god ( jeremiah 23 : 24 ; proverbs 15 : 3 ; 1 kings 8 : 27 ), and god is bodily present in the incarnation of his son, jesus christ. ( gospel of john 1 : 14, colossians 2 : 9 ). animism is not peripheral to christian identity but is its nurturing home ground, its axis mundi. in addition to the conceptual work the term animism performs, it provides insight into the relational character and common personhood of material existence. with rising awareness of ecological preservation, recently theologians like mark i. wallace argue for animistic christianity with a biocentric approach that understands god being present in all earthly objects, such as animals, trees, and rocks. pre - islamic arab religion pre - islamic arab religion can refer to the traditional polytheistic, animist, and in some rare cases, shamanistic, religions of the peoples of the arabian peninsula. the belief in jinn, invisible entities akin to spirits in the western sense dominant in the