maintaining law and order, a concept the ancient egyptians referred to as ma ' at. although no legal codes from ancient egypt survive, court documents show that egyptian law was based on a common - sense view of right and wrong that emphasized reaching agreements and resolving conflicts rather than strictly adhering to a complicated set of statutes. local councils of elders, known as kenbet in the new kingdom, were responsible for ruling in court cases involving small claims and minor disputes. more serious cases involving murder, major land transactions, and tomb robbery were referred to the great kenbet, over which the vizier or pharaoh presided. plaintiffs and defendants were expected to represent themselves and were required to swear an oath that they had told the truth. in some cases, the state took on both the role of prosecutor and judge, and it could torture the accused with beatings to obtain a confession and the names of any co - conspirators. whether the charges were trivial or serious, court scribes documented the complaint, testimony, and verdict of the case for future reference. punishment for minor crimes involved either imposition of fines, beatings, facial mutilation, or exile, depending on the severity of the offense. serious crimes such as murder and tomb robbery were punished by execution, carried out by decapitation, drowning, or impaling the criminal on a stake. punishment could also be extended to the criminal ' s family. beginning in the new kingdom, oracles played a major role in the legal system, dispensing justice in both civil and criminal cases. the procedure was to ask the god a " yes " or " no " question concerning the right or wrong of an issue. the god, carried by a number of priests, rendered judgement by choosing one or the other, moving forward or backward, or pointing to one of the answers written on a piece of papyrus or an ostracon. agriculture a combination of favorable geographical features contributed to the success of ancient egyptian culture, the most important of which was the rich fertile soil resulting from annual inundations of the nile river. the ancient egyptians were thus able to produce an abundance of food, allowing the population to devote more time and resources to cultural, technological, and artistic pursuits. land management was crucial in ancient egypt because taxes were assessed based on the amount of land a person owned. farming in egypt was dependent on the cycle of the nile river. the egyptians recognized three seasons : akhet ( flooding ), peret ( planting ), and shemu ( harvesting ). the flooding season lasted from