nyse american, formerly known as the american stock exchange ( amex ), and more recently as nyse mkt, is an american stock exchange situated in new york city. amex was previously a mutual organization, owned by its members. until 1953, it was known as the new york curb exchange. nyse euronext acquired amex on october 1, 2008, with amex integrated with the alternext european small - cap exchange and renamed the nyse alternext u. s. in march 2009, nyse alternext u. s. was changed to nyse amex equities. on may 10, 2012, nyse amex equities changed its name to nyse mkt llc. following the sec approval of competing stock exchange iex in 2016, nyse mkt rebranded as nyse american and introduced a 350 - microsecond delay in trading, referred to as a " speed bump ", which is also present on the iex. history the curb market the exchange grew out of the loosely organized curb market of curbstone brokers on broad street in manhattan. efforts to organize and standardize the market started early in the 20th century under emanuel s. mendels and carl h. pforzheimer. the curb brokers had been kicked out of the mills building front by 1907, and had moved to the pavement outside the blair building where cabbies lined up. there they were given a " little domain of asphalt " fenced off by the police on broad street between exchange place and beaver street. as of 1907, the curb market operated starting at 10 am, each day except sundays, until a gong at 3 pm. orders for the purchase and sale of securities were shouted down from the windows of nearby brokerages, with the execution of the sale then shouted back up to the brokerage. organizing and ' curb list ' as of 1907, e. s. mendels gave the brokers rules " by right of seniority ", but the curb brokers intentionally avoided organizing. according to the times, this came from a general belief that if a curb exchange was organized, the exchange authorities would force members to sell their other exchange memberships. however, in 1908 the new york curb market agency was established, which developed appropriate trading rules for curbstone brokers, organized by mendels. the informal curb association formed in 1910 to weed out undesirables. the curb exchange was for years at odds with the new york stock exchange ( nyse ),