##ccinic acid, hence the name succinite. succinite has a hardness between 2 and 3, which is greater than many other fossil resins. its specific gravity varies from 1. 05 to 1. 10. it can be distinguished from other ambers via infrared spectroscopy through a specific carbonyl absorption peak. infrared spectroscopy can detect the relative age of an amber sample. succinic acid may not be an original component of amber but rather a degradation product of abietic acid. class ib ambers are based on communic acid ; however, they lack succinic acid. class ic is mainly based on enantio - labdatrienonic acids, such as ozic and zanzibaric acids. its most familiar representative is dominican amber,. which is mostly transparent and often contains a higher number of fossil inclusions. this has enabled the detailed reconstruction of the ecosystem of a long - vanished tropical forest. resin from the extinct species hymenaea protera is the source of dominican amber and probably of most amber found in the tropics. it is not " succinite " but " retinite ". class ii these ambers are formed from resins with a sesquiterpenoid base, such as cadinene. class iii these ambers are polystyrenes. class iv class iv is something of a catch - all : its ambers are not polymerized, but mainly consist of cedrene - based sesquiterpenoids. class v class v resins are considered to be produced by a pine or pine relative. they comprise a mixture of diterpinoid resins and n - alkyl compounds. their main variety is highgate copalite. geological record the oldest amber recovered dates to the late carboniferous period ( ). its chemical composition makes it difficult to match the amber to its producers – it is most similar to the resins produced by flowering plants ; however, there are no flowering plant fossils known from before the cretaceous, and they were not common until the late cretaceous. amber becomes abundant long after the carboniferous, in the early cretaceous,, when it is found in association with insects. the oldest amber with arthropod inclusions comes from the late triassic ( late carnian 230 ma ) of italy, where four microscopic ( 0. 2 – 0. 1 mm ) mites, triasacarus, ampezzoa, minyacarus and cheirolepidoptus, and a poorly