supports a. hypochondriacus as the common ancestor of the three grain species. it has been proposed as an inexpensive native crop that could be cultivated by indigenous people in rural areas for several reasons : a small amount of seed plants a large area ( seeding rate 1 kg / ha ). yields are high compared to the seeding rate : 1, 000 kg or more per hectare. it is easily harvested and easily processed, post harvest, as there are no hulls to remove. its seeds are a source of protein. de macvean & poll ( 1997 ). chapter 8 : ethnobotany. tropical tree seed manual, usda forest service, edt. j. a vozzo. it has rich content of the dietary minerals, calcium, magnesium, phosphorus, and potassium. in cooked and edible forms, amaranth retains adequate content of several dietary minerals. it is easy to cook. boil in water with twice the amount of water as grain by volume ( or 2. 4 times as much water by weight ). amaranth seed can also be popped one tablespoon at a time in a hot pan without oil, shaken every few seconds to avoid burning. it grows fast and, in three cultivated species, the large seedheads can weigh up to 1 kg and contain a half - million small seeds. in the united states, the amaranth crop is mostly used for seed production. most amaranth in american food products starts as a ground flour, blended with wheat or other flours to create cereals, crackers, cookies, bread or other baked products. despite utilization studies showing that amaranth can be blended with other flours at levels above 50 % without affecting functional properties or taste, most commercial products use amaranth only as a minor portion of their ingredients despite them being marketed as " amaranth " products. leaves, roots, and stems amaranth species are cultivated and consumed as a leaf vegetable in many parts of the world. four species of amaranthus are documented as cultivated vegetables in eastern asia : amaranthus cruentus, amaranthus blitum, amaranthus dubius, and amaranthus tricolor. asia in indonesia and malaysia, leaf amaranth is called ( although the word has since been loaned to refer to spinach, in a different genus ). in the philippines, the ilocano word for the plant is ; the tagalog word for the plant is or. in uttar pradesh and bihar in india,