##bars the almoravid minbars – such as the minbar of the grand mosque of marrakesh commissioned by sultan ali ibn yusuf ( 1137 ), or the minbar for the university of al - qarawiyyin ( 1144 ) – expressed the almoravids ' maliki legitimacy, their " inheritance of the umayyad imperial role ", and the extension of that imperial power into the maghreb. both minbars are exceptional works of marquetry and woodcarving, decorated with geometric compositions, inlaid materials, and arabesque reliefs. architecture the almoravid period, along with the subsequent almohad period, is considered one of the most formative stages of moroccan and moorish architecture, establishing many of the forms and motifs of this style that were refined in subsequent centuries. manuel casamar perez remarks that the almoravids scaled back the andalusi trend towards heavier and more elaborate decoration which had developed since the caliphate of cordoba and instead prioritized a greater balance between proportions and ornamentation. the two centers of artistic production in the islamic west before the rise of the almoravids were kairouan and cordoba, both former capitals in the region which served as sources of inspiration. the almoravids were responsible for establishing a new imperial capital at marrakesh, which became a major center of architectural patronage thereafter. the almoravids adopted the architectural developments of al - andalus, such as the complex interlacing arches of the great mosque in cordoba and of the aljaferia palace in zaragoza, while also introducing new ornamental techniques from the east such as muqarnas ( " stalactite " or " honeycomb " carvings ). after taking control of al - andalus in the battle of sagrajas, the almoravids sent muslim, christian and jewish artisans from iberia to north africa to work on monuments. the great mosque in algiers ( ), the great mosque of tlemcen ( 1136 ) and al - qarawiyyin ( expanded in 1135 ) in fez are important examples of almoravid architecture. the almoravid qubba is one of the few almoravid monuments in marrakesh surviving, and is notable for its highly ornate interior dome with carved stucco decoration, complex arch shapes, and minor muqarnas cupolas in the corners of the structure. the central nave of the expanded qarawiyyin mosque notably features the earliest