##zen to derive a formula for the sum of fourth powers, where previously only the formulas for the sums of squares and cubes had been stated. his method can be readily generalized to find the formula for the sum of any integral powers, although he did not himself do this ( perhaps because he only needed the fourth power to calculate the volume of the paraboloid he was interested in ). he used his result on sums of integral powers to perform what would now be called an integration, where the formulas for the sums of integral squares and fourth powers allowed him to calculate the volume of a paraboloid. alhazen eventually solved the problem using conic sections and a geometric proof. his solution was extremely long and complicated and may not have been understood by mathematicians reading him in latin translation. later mathematicians used descartes ' analytical methods to analyse the problem. an algebraic solution to the problem was finally found in 1965 by jack m. elkin, an actuarian. other solutions were discovered in 1989, by harald riede and in 1997 by the oxford mathematician peter m. neumann. recently, mitsubishi electric research laboratories ( merl ) researchers solved the extension of alhazen ' s problem to general rotationally symmetric quadric mirrors including hyperbolic, parabolic and elliptical mirrors. camera obscura the camera obscura was known to the ancient chinese, and was described by the han chinese polymath shen kuo in his scientific book dream pool essays, published in the year 1088 c. e. aristotle had discussed the basic principle behind it in his problems, but alhazen ' s work contained the first clear description of camera obscura. and early analysis of the device. ibn al - haytham used a camera obscura mainly to observe a partial solar eclipse. in his essay, ibn al - haytham writes that he observed the sickle - like shape of the sun at the time of an eclipse. the introduction reads as follows : " the image of the sun at the time of the eclipse, unless it is total, demonstrates that when its light passes through a narrow, round hole and is cast on a plane opposite to the hole it takes on the form of a moonsickle. " it is admitted that his findings solidified the importance in the history of the camera obscura but this treatise is important in many other respects. ancient optics and medieval optics were divided into optics and burning mirrors. optics proper mainly focused on the study of vision, while burning mirrors focused on the properties of light and luminous rays