##cratic rule. acting under mathers ' orders, crowley — with the help of his mistress and fellow initiate elaine simpson — attempted to seize the vault of the adepts, a temple space at 36 blythe road in west kensington, from the london lodge members. when the case was taken to court, the judge ruled in favour of the london lodge, as they had paid for the space ' s rent, leaving both crowley and mathers isolated from the group. mexico, india, paris, and marriage : 1900 – 1903 in 1900, crowley travelled to mexico via the united states, settling in mexico city and starting a relationship with a local woman. developing a love of the country, he continued experimenting with ceremonial magic, working with john dee ' s enochian invocations. he later claimed to have been initiated into freemasonry while there, and he wrote a play based on richard wagner ' s tannhauser as well as a series of poems, published as oracles ( 1905 ). eckenstein joined him later in 1900, and together they climbed several mountains, including iztaccihuatl, popocatepetl, and colima, the latter of which they had to abandon owing to a volcanic eruption. leaving mexico, crowley headed to san francisco before sailing for hawaii aboard the nippon maru. on the ship, he had a brief affair with a married woman named mary alice rogers ; saying he had fallen in love with her, he wrote a series of poems about the romance, published as alice : an adultery ( 1903 ). briefly stopping in japan and hong kong, crowley reached ceylon, where he met with allan bennett, who was there studying shaivism. the pair spent some time in kandy before bennett decided to become a buddhist monk in the theravada tradition, travelling to burma to do so. crowley decided to tour india, devoting himself to the hindu practice of raja yoga, from which he claimed to have achieved the spiritual state of dhyana. he spent much of this time studying at the meenakshi temple in madura. at this time he also wrote poetry which was published as the sword of song ( 1904 ). he contracted malaria, and had to recuperate from the disease in calcutta and rangoon. in 1902, he was joined in india by eckenstein and several other mountaineers : guy knowles, h. pfannl, v. wesseley, and jules jacot - guillarmod. together, the eckenstein - crowley expedition attempted k2