eucharistic ministers ( also known as chalice bearers ), and lay eucharistic visitors ( who deliver consecrated bread and wine to " shut - ins " or members of the parish who are unable to leave home or hospital to attend the eucharist ). lay people also serve on the parish altar guild ( preparing the altar and caring for its candles, linens, flowers, etc. ), in the choir and as cantors, as ushers and greeters, and on the church council ( called the " vestry " in some countries ), which is the governing body of a parish. religious orders a small yet influential aspect of anglicanism is its religious orders and communities. shortly after the beginning of the catholic revival in the church of england, there was a renewal of interest in re - establishing religious and monastic orders and communities. one of henry viii ' s earliest acts was their dissolution and seizure of their assets. in 1841, marian rebecca hughes became the first woman to take the vows of religion in communion with the province of canterbury since the reformation. in 1848, priscilla lydia sellon became the superior of the society of the most holy trinity at devonport, plymouth, the first organised religious order. sellon is called " the restorer, after three centuries, of the religious life in the church of england ". for the next one hundred years, religious orders for both men and women proliferated throughout the world, becoming a numerically small but disproportionately influential feature of global anglicanism. anglican religious life at one time boasted hundreds of orders and communities, and thousands of religious. an important aspect of anglican religious life is that most communities of both men and women lived their lives consecrated to god under the vows of poverty, chastity, and obedience ( or, in benedictine communities, stability, conversion of life, and obedience ) by practising a mixed life of reciting the full eight services of the breviary in choir, along with a daily eucharist, plus service to the poor. the mixed life, combining aspects of the contemplative orders and the active orders, remains to this day a hallmark of anglican religious life. another distinctive feature of anglican religious life is the existence of some mixed - gender communities. since the 1960s, there has been a sharp decline in the number of professed religious in most parts of the anglican communion, especially in north america, europe, and australia. many once large and international communities have been reduced to a single convent or monastery with