the size and duration of these civilizations, more of their art works have survived and more of their influence has been transmitted to other cultures and later times. some also have provided the first records of how artists worked. for example, this period of greek art saw a veneration of the human physical form and the development of equivalent skills to show musculature, poise, beauty, and anatomically correct proportions. in byzantine and medieval art of the western middle ages, much art focused on the expression of subjects about biblical and religious culture, and used styles that showed the higher glory of a heavenly world, such as the use of gold in the background of paintings, or glass in mosaics or windows, which also presented figures in idealized, patterned ( flat ) forms. nevertheless, a classical realist tradition persisted in small byzantine works, and realism steadily grew in the art of catholic europe. renaissance art had a greatly increased emphasis on the realistic depiction of the material world, and the place of humans in it, reflected in the corporeality of the human body, and development of a systematic method of graphical perspective to depict recession in a three - dimensional picture space. in the east, islamic art ' s rejection of iconography led to emphasis on geometric patterns, calligraphy, and architecture. further east, religion dominated artistic styles and forms too. india and tibet saw emphasis on painted sculptures and dance, while religious painting borrowed many conventions from sculpture and tended to bright contrasting colors with emphasis on outlines. china saw the flourishing of many art forms : jade carving, bronzework, pottery ( including the stunning terracotta army of emperor qin ), poetry, calligraphy, music, painting, drama, fiction, etc. chinese styles vary greatly from era to era and each one is traditionally named after the ruling dynasty. so, for example, tang dynasty paintings are monochromatic and sparse, emphasizing idealized landscapes, but ming dynasty paintings are busy and colorful, and focus on telling stories via setting and composition. japan names its styles after imperial dynasties too, and also saw much interplay between the styles of calligraphy and painting. woodblock printing became important in japan after the 17th century. the western age of enlightenment in the 18th century saw artistic depictions of physical and rational certainties of the clockwork universe, as well as politically revolutionary visions of a post - monarchist world, such as blake ' s portrayal of newton as a divine geometer, or david ' s propagandistic paintings. this led to romantic rejections of this in favor of