the late second century. antoninus ' father had no other children and died shortly after his 89 ordinary consulship. antoninus was raised by his maternal grandfather gnaeus arrius antoninus, reputed by contemporaries to be a man of integrity and culture and a friend of pliny the younger. the arrii antonini were an older senatorial family from italy, very influential during nerva ' s reign. arria fadilla, antoninus ' mother, married afterwards publius julius lupus, suffect consul in 98 ; from that marriage came two daughters, arria lupula and julia fadilla. marriage and children some time between 110 and 115, antoninus married annia galeria faustina the elder. they are believed to have enjoyed a happy marriage. faustina was the daughter of consul marcus annius verus ( ii ) and rupilia faustina ( a step - sister to the empress vibia sabina ). faustina was a beautiful woman, and despite rumours about her character, it is clear that antoninus cared for her deeply. faustina bore antoninus four children, two sons and two daughters. they were : marcus aurelius fulvus antoninus ( died before 138 ) ; his sepulchral inscription has been found at the mausoleum of hadrian in rome. marcus galerius aurelius antoninus ( died before 138 ) ; his sepulchral inscription has been found at the mausoleum of hadrian in rome. his name appears on a greek imperial coin. aurelia fadilla ( died in 135 ) ; she married lucius plautius lamia silvanus, consul 145. she appeared to have no children with her husband ; and her sepulchral inscription has been found in italy. annia galeria faustina minor or faustina the younger ( between 125 and 130 – 175 ), a future roman empress, married her maternal cousin marcus aurelius in 146. when faustina died in 141, antoninus was greatly distressed. in honour of her memory, he asked the senate to deify her as a goddess, and authorised the construction of a temple to be built in the roman forum in her name, with priestesses serving in her temple. he had various coins with her portrait struck in her honor. these coins were scripted " diva faustina " and were elaborately decorated. he further founded a charity, calling it puellae faustinianae or girls of faustina, which assisted destitute girls of good family. finally,