layrac ), and jean - claude perrot ( caen ). by the 1970s the shift was underway from the earlier economic history to cultural history and the history of mentalities. impact outside france the annales school systematically reached out to create an impact on other countries. its success varied widely. the annales approach was especially well received in italy and poland. franciszek bujak ( 1875 – 1953 ) and jan rutkowski ( 1886 – 1949 ), the founders of modern economic history in poland and of the journal roczniki dziejow spolecznych i gospodarczych ( 1931 – ), were attracted to the innovations of the annales school. rutkowski was in contact with bloch and others, and published in the annales. after the communists took control in the 1940s polish scholars were safer working on the middle ages and the early modern era rather than contemporary history. after the " polish october " of 1956 the sixth section in paris welcomed polish historians and exchanges between the circle of the annales and polish scholars continued until the early 1980s. the reciprocal influence between the french school and polish historiography was particularly evident in studies on the middle ages and the early modern era studied by braudel. in south america the annales approach became popular. from the 1950s federico brito figueroa was the founder of a new venezuelan historiography based largely on the ideas of the annales school. brito figueroa carried his conception of the field to all levels of university study, emphasizing a systematic and scientific approach to history and placing it squarely in the social sciences. spanish historiography was influenced by the " annales school " starting in 1950 with jaume vicens vives ( 1910 – 1960 ). in mexico, exiled republican intellectuals extended the annales approach, particularly from the center for historical studies of el colegio de mexico, the leading graduate studies institution of latin america. british historians, apart from a few marxists, were generally hostile. academic historians decidedly sided with geoffrey elton ' s the practice of history against edward hallett carr ' s what is history? one of the few british historians who were sympathetic towards the work of the annales school was hugh trevor - roper. american, german, indian, russian and japanese scholars generally ignored the school. the americans developed their own form of " new social history " from entirely different roots. both the american and the annales historians picked up important family reconstitution techniques from french demographer louis henry.