pope, and such monasteries are normally raised to this level after showing a degree of stability — a certain number of monks in vows, a certain number of years of establishment, a certain firmness to the foundation in economic, vocational and legal aspects. prior to this, the monastery would be a mere priory, headed by a prior who acts as superior but without the same degree of legal authority that an abbot has. the abbot is chosen by the monks from among the fully professed monks. once chosen, he must request blessing : the blessing of an abbot is celebrated by the bishop in whose diocese the monastery is or, with his permission, another abbot or bishop. the ceremony of such a blessing is similar in some aspects to the consecration of a bishop, with the new abbot being presented with the mitre, the ring, and the crosier as symbols of office and receiving the laying on of hands and blessing from the celebrant. though the ceremony installs the new abbot into a position of legal authority, it does not confer further sacramental authority - it is not a further degree of holy orders ( although some abbots have been ordained to the episcopacy ). once he has received this blessing, the abbot not only becomes father of his monks in a spiritual sense, but their major superior under canon law, and has the additional authority to confer the ministries of acolyte and lector ( formerly, he could confer the minor orders, which are not sacraments, that these ministries have replaced ). the abbey is a species of " exempt religious " in that it is, for the most part, answerable to the pope, or to the abbot primate, rather than to the local bishop. the abbot wears the same habit as his fellow monks, though by tradition he adds to it a pectoral cross. territorial abbots follow all of the above, but in addition must receive a mandate of authority from the pope over the territory around the monastery for which they are responsible. abbatial hierarchy in some monastic families, there is a hierarchy of precedence or authority among abbots. in some cases, this is the result of an abbey being considered the " mother " of several " daughter " abbeys founded as dependent priories of the " mother ". in other cases, abbeys have affiliated in networks known as " congregations ". some monastic families recognize one abbey as the motherhouse of the entire order. the abbot of sant ' anselmo di aventino, in rome, is styled the "