bach ' s chorale preludes as painter - like tonal and rhythmic imagery illustrating themes from the words of the hymns on which they were based. they were works of devotional contemplation in which the musical design corresponded to literary ideas, conceived visually. widor had not grown up with knowledge of the old lutheran hymns. the exposition of these ideas, encouraged by widor and munch, became schweitzer ' s last task, and appeared in the masterly study j. s. bach : le musicien - poete, written in french and published in 1905. there was great demand for a german edition, but, instead of translating it, he decided to rewrite it. the result was two volumes ( j. s. bach ), which were published in 1908 and translated into english by ernest newman in 1911. ernst cassirer, a contemporaneous german philosopher, called it " one of the best interpretations " of bach. during its preparation schweitzer became a friend of cosima wagner, then resident in strasbourg, with whom he had many theological and musical conversations, exploring his view of bach ' s descriptive music, and playing the major chorale preludes for her at the temple neuf. schweitzer ' s interpretative approach greatly influenced the modern understanding of bach ' s music. he became a welcome guest at the wagners ' home, wahnfried. he also corresponded with composer clara faisst, who became a good friend. his pamphlet " the art of organ building and organ playing in germany and france " ( 1906, republished with an appendix on the state of the organ - building industry in 1927 ) effectively launched the 20th - century orgelbewegung, which turned away from romantic extremes and rediscovered baroque principles — although this sweeping reform movement in organ building eventually went further than schweitzer had intended. in 1909, he addressed the third congress of the international society of music at vienna on the subject. having circulated a questionnaire among players and organ - builders in several european countries, he produced a very considered report. this provided the basis for the international regulations for organ building. he envisaged instruments in which the french late - romantic full - organ sound should work integrally with the english and german romantic reed pipes, and with the classical alsace silbermann organ resources and baroque flue pipes, all in registers regulated ( by stops ) to access distinct voices in fugue or counterpoint capable of combination without loss of distinctness : different voices singing