a successful campaign to have kurosawa receive an oscar nomination for best director that year ( sydney pollack ultimately won the award for directing out of africa ). s costume designer, emi wada, won the movie ' s only oscar. and, particularly the latter, are often considered to be among kurosawa ' s finest works. after s release, kurosawa would point to it as his best film, a major change of attitude for the director who, when asked which of his works was his best, had always previously answered " my next one ". final works and last years ( 1987 – 1998 ) for his next movie, kurosawa chose a subject very different from any that he had ever filmed before. while some of his previous pictures ( for example, drunken angel and ) had included brief dream sequences, dreams was to be entirely based upon the director ' s own dreams. significantly, for the first time in over forty years, kurosawa, for this deeply personal project, wrote the screenplay alone. although its estimated budget was lower than the films immediately preceding it, japanese studios were still unwilling to back one of his productions, so kurosawa turned to another famous american fan, steven spielberg, who convinced warner bros. to buy the international rights to the completed film. this made it easier for kurosawa ' s son, hisao, as co - producer and soon - to - be head of kurosawa production, to negotiate a loan in japan that would cover the film ' s production costs. shooting took more than eight months to complete, and dreams premiered at cannes in may 1990 to a polite but muted reception, similar to the reaction the picture would generate elsewhere in the world. in 1990, he accepted the academy award for lifetime achievement. in his acceptance speech, he famously said " i ' m a little worried because i don ' t feel that i understand cinema yet. " at the time, bob thomas of the daily spectrum noted that kurosawa was " considered by many critics as the greatest living filmmaker. " kurosawa now turned to a more conventional story with rhapsody in august — the director ' s first film fully produced in japan since dodeskaden over twenty years before — which explored the scars of the nuclear bombing which destroyed nagasaki at the very end of world war ii. it was adapted from a kiyoko murata novel, but the film ' s references to the nagasaki bombing came from the director rather than from the book. this was his only movie to include a role for an american