eat food, but also words, and that the taste of the former is often outdone by the taste of the latter. " william burroughs went to a korzybski workshop in the autumn of 1939. he was 25 years old, and paid $ 40. his fellow students — there were 38 in all — included young samuel i. hayakawa ( later to become a republican member of the u. s. senate ) and wendell johnson ( founder of the monster study ). influence korzybski was well received in numerous disciplines, as evidenced by the positive reactions from leading figures in the sciences and humanities in the 1940s and 1950s. these include author robert a. heinlein naming a character after him in his 1940 short story " blowups happen ", and science fiction writer a. e. van vogt in his novel " the world of null - a ", published in 1948. korzybski ' s ideas influenced philosopher alan watts who used his phrase " the map is not the territory " in lectures. writer robert anton wilson was also deeply influenced by korzybski ' s ideas. as reported in the third edition of science and sanity, in world war ii the us army used korzybski ' s system to treat battle fatigue in europe, under the supervision of dr. douglas m. kelley, who went on to become the psychiatrist in charge of the nazi war criminals at nuremberg. some of the general semantics tradition was continued by samuel i. hayakawa. publications 1921 manhood of humanity : the science and art of human engineering, e. p. dutton, new york, usa 1933 science and sanity : an introduction to non - aristotelian systems and general semantics, science press printing co., lancaster, pa., usa see also alfred korzybski memorial lecture concept and object e - prime institute of general semantics robert pula structural differential neuro linguistic programming references further reading kodish, bruce. 2011. korzybski : a biography. pasadena, ca : extensional publishing. softcover, 978 - 09700664 - 28 hardcover. kodish, bruce and susan presby kodish. 2011. drive yourself sane : using the uncommon sense of general semantics, third edition. pasadena, ca : extensional publishing. alfred korzybski, manhood of humanity, foreword by edward kasner, notes by m. kendig, institute of general semantics, 1950, hardcover, 2nd edition, 391 pages,. ( copy of the