jyske musikkonservatorium ( royal academy of music, aarhus / aalborg ). musikhuset is the largest concert hall in scandinavia, with seating for more than 3, 600 people. other major music venues include voxhall, rebuilt in 1999, and the associated venue of atlas, train nightclub at the harbourfront, and godsbanen, a former rail freight station. the acting scene in aarhus is diverse, with many groups and venues engaged in a broad span of genres, from animation theatre and children ' s theatre to classical theatre and improvisational theatre. aarhus teater is the oldest and largest venue with mostly professional classical acting performances. svalegangen, the second largest theatre, is more experimental with its performances and other notable groups and venues includes entrescenen, katapult, gruppe 38, helsingør teater, det andet teater and teater refleksion as well as dance venues like bora bora. the cultural center of godsbanen includes several scenes and stages and the concert halls of musikhuset also stage theatrical plays regularly and is home to the children ' s theatre filuren and a comedy club. the city hosts a biannual international theatre festival, international living theatre ( ilt ), with the next event being scheduled for 2021. since 2010 the music production centre of promus ( produktionscentret for rytmisk musik ) has supported the rock scene in the city along with the publicly funded rosa ( dansk rock samrad ), which promotes danish rock music in general. aarhus is known for its musical history. fuelled by a relatively young population jazz clubs sprang up in the 1950s which became a tour stop for many iconic american jazz musicians. by the 1960s, the music scene diversified into rock and other genres and in the 1970s and 1980s, aarhus became a centre for rock music, fostering iconic bands such as kliche, tv - 2 and gnags and artists such as thomas helmig and anne linnet. acclaimed bands since the 1970s include under byen, michael learns to rock, nephew, carpark north, spleen united, veto, hatesphere and illdisposed in addition to individual performers such as medina and tina dico. events and festivals aarhus hosts many annual or recurring festivals, concerts and events, with the festival of aarhus festuge as the most popular and wide - ranging, along with large sports events. aarhus festuge is the largest multicultural festival in scandinavia, always based on a special theme