he also had a horse delivered to the dressing room of his friend, actor gerald du maurier. hitchcock followed up with young and innocent in 1937, a crime thriller based on the 1936 novel a shilling for candles by josephine tey. starring nova pilbeam and derrick de marney, the film was relatively enjoyable for the cast and crew to make. to meet distribution purposes in america, the film ' s runtime was cut and this included removal of one of hitchcock ' s favourite scenes : a children ' s tea party which becomes menacing to the protagonists. hitchcock ' s next major success was the lady vanishes ( 1938 ), " one of the greatest train movies from the genre ' s golden era ", according to philip french, in which miss froy ( may whitty ), a british spy posing as a governess, disappears on a train journey through the fictional european country of bandrika. the film saw hitchcock receive the 1938 new york film critics circle award for best director. benjamin crisler of the new york times wrote in june 1938 : " three unique and valuable institutions the british have that we in america have not : magna carta, the tower bridge and alfred hitchcock, the greatest director of screen melodramas in the world. " the film was based on the novel the wheel spins ( 1936 ) written by ethel lina white. by 1938, hitchcock was aware that he had reached his peak in britain. he had received numerous offers from producers in the united states, but he turned them all down because he disliked the contractual obligations or thought the projects were repellent. however, producer david o. selznick offered him a concrete proposal to make a film based on the sinking of, which was eventually shelved, but selznick persuaded hitchcock to come to hollywood. in july 1938, hitchcock flew to new york, and found that he was already a celebrity ; he was featured in magazines and gave interviews to radio stations. in hollywood, hitchcock met selznick for the first time. selznick offered him a four - film contract, approximately $ 40, 000 for each picture ( ). early hollywood years : 1939 – 1945 selznick contract selznick signed hitchcock to a seven - year contract beginning in april 1939, and the hitchcocks moved to hollywood. the hitchcocks lived in a spacious flat on wilshire boulevard, and slowly acclimatised themselves to the los angeles area. he and his wife alma kept a low profile, and were not interested in attending parties or being