of the sagrada familia is available from this vantage point, with its spires visible over newer buildings. the tiles were given a metallic sheen to simulate the varying scales of the monster, with the color grading from green on the right side, where the head begins, to deep blue and violet in the center, to red and pink on the left side of the building. tower and bulb one of the highlights of the facade is a tower topped with a cross of four arms oriented to the cardinal directions. it is a bulbous, root - like structure that evokes plant life. there is a second bulb - shaped structure similarly reminiscent of a thalamus flower, which is represented by a cross with arms that are actually buds announcing the next flowering. the tower is decorated with monograms of jesus ( jhs ), maria ( m with the ducal crown ) and joseph ( jhp ), made of ceramic pieces that stand out golden on the green background that covers the facade. these symbols show the deep religiosity of gaudi, who was inspired by the contemporaneous construction of his basilica to choose the theme of the holy family. the bulb was broken when it was delivered, perhaps during transportation. although the manufacturer committed to re - do the broken parts, gaudi liked the aesthetic of the broken masonry and asked that the pieces be stuck to the main structure with lime mortar and held in with a brass ring. central section the central part of the facade evokes the surface of a lake with water lilies, reminiscent of monet ' s nympheas, with gentle ripples and reflections caused by the glass and ceramic mosaic. it is a great undulating surface covered with plaster fragments of colored glass discs combined with 330 rounds of polychrome pottery. the discs were designed by gaudi and jujol between tests during their stay in majorca, while working on the restoration of the cathedral of palma. balcony finally, above the central part of the facade is a smaller balcony, also iron, with a different exterior aesthetic, closer to a local type of lily. two iron arms were installed here to support a pulley to raise and lower furniture. main floor the facade of the main floor, made entirely in sandstone, and is supported by two columns. the design is complemented by joinery windows set with multicolored stained glass. in front of the large windows, as if they were pillars that support the complex stone structure, there are six fine columns that seem to simulate the bones of