to mary anne wallace ( ) and thomas vere wallace. his mother was english, while his father was of scottish ancestry. his family claimed a connection to william wallace, a leader of scottish forces during the wars of scottish independence in the 13th century. wallace ' s father graduated in law but never practised it. he owned some income - generating property, but bad investments and failed business ventures resulted in a steady deterioration of the family ' s financial position. wallace ' s mother was from a middle - class family of hertford, to which place his family moved when wallace was five years old. he attended hertford grammar school until 1837, when he reached the age of 14, the normal leaving age for a pupil not going on to university. wallace then moved to london to board with his older brother john, a 19 - year - old apprentice builder. this was a stopgap measure until william, his oldest brother, was ready to take him on as an apprentice surveyor. while in london, alfred attended lectures and read books at the london mechanics institute. here he was exposed to the radical political ideas of the welsh social reformer robert owen and of the english - born political theorist thomas paine. he left london in 1837 to live with william and work as his apprentice for six years. they moved repeatedly to different places in mid - wales. then at the end of 1839, they moved to kington, herefordshire, near the welsh border, before eventually settling at neath in wales. between 1840 and 1843, wallace worked as a land surveyor in the countryside of the west of england and wales. the natural history of his surroundings aroused his interest ; from 1841 he collected flowers and plants as an amateur botanist. one result of wallace ' s early travels is a modern controversy about his nationality. since he was born in monmouthshire, some sources have considered him to be welsh. other historians have questioned this because neither of his parents were welsh, his family only briefly lived in monmouthshire, the welsh people wallace knew in his childhood considered him to be english, and because he consistently referred to himself as english rather than welsh. one wallace scholar has stated that the most reasonable interpretation is therefore that he was an englishman born in wales. in 1843 wallace ' s father died, and a decline in demand for surveying meant william ' s business no longer had work available. for a short time wallace was unemployed, then early in 1844 he was engaged by the collegiate school in leicester to teach drawing, mapmaking, and surveying. he had already read george combe ' s the