arthur schopenhauer (, ; 22 february 1788 – 21 september 1860 ) was a german philosopher. he is best known for his 1818 work the world as will and representation ( expanded in 1844 ), which characterizes the phenomenal world as the manifestation of a blind and irrational noumenal will. building on the transcendental idealism of immanuel kant ( 1724 – 1804 ), schopenhauer developed an atheistic metaphysical and ethical system that rejected the contemporaneous ideas of german idealism. he was among the first thinkers in western philosophy to share and affirm significant tenets of indian philosophy, such as asceticism, denial of the self, and the notion of the world - as - appearance. his work has been described as an exemplary manifestation of philosophical pessimism. though his work failed to garner substantial attention during his lifetime, schopenhauer had a posthumous impact across various disciplines, including philosophy, literature, and science. his writing on aesthetics, morality, and psychology have influenced many thinkers and artists. life early life arthur schopenhauer was born on 22 february 1788, in danzig ( then part of the polish – lithuanian commonwealth ; present - day gdansk, poland ) on heiligegeistgasse ( present day sw. ducha 47 ), the son of johanna schopenhauer ( nee trosiener ; 1766 – 1838 ) and heinrich floris schopenhauer ( 1747 – 1805 ), both descendants of wealthy german patrician families. while they came from a protestant background, neither of them was very religious ; both supported the french revolution, were republicans, cosmopolitans and anglophiles. when danzig became part of prussia in 1793, heinrich moved to hamburg — a free city with a republican constitution. his firm continued trading in danzig where most of their extended families remained. adele, arthur ' s only sibling, was born on 12 july 1797. in 1797, arthur was sent to le havre to live with the family of his father ' s business associate, gregoire de blesimaire. he seemed to enjoy his two - year stay there, learning to speak french and fostering a life - long friendship with jean anthime gregoire de blesimaire. as early as 1799, arthur started playing the flute. in 1803, he accompanied his parents on a european tour of holland, britain, france, switzerland, austria and prussia. viewed as primarily a pleasure tour, heinrich used the opportunity to visit some of his business associates abroad. heinrich offered arthur a