sinan pasha marched to take tabriz, but the army was undermined by kose sefer pasha, the beylerbey of erzurum, marching independently from sinan pasha and consequently being taken prisoner by the safavids. the ottoman army was routed at urmia and had to flee firstly to van and then to diyarbekir. here, sinan pasha sparked a rebellion by executing the beylerbey of aleppo, canbulatoglu huseyin pasha, who had come to provide help, upon the pretext that he had arrived too late. he soon died himself and the safavid army was able to capture ganja, shirvan and shamakhi in azerbaijan. war with the habsburgs : 1604 – 06 the long turkish war between the ottomans and the habsburg monarchy had been going on for over a decade by the time ahmed ascended the throne. grand vizier malkoc ali pasha marched to the western front from constantinople on 3 june 1604 and arrived in belgrade, but died there, so sokolluzade lala mehmed pasha was appointed as the grand vizier and the commander of the western army. under mehmed pasha, the western army recaptured pest and vac, but failed to capture esztergom as the siege was lifted due to unfavourable weather and the objections of the soldiers. meanwhile, the prince of transylvania, stephen bocskay, who struggled for the region ' s independence and had formerly supported the habsburgs, sent a messenger to the porte asking for help. upon the promise of help, his forces also joined the ottoman forces in belgrade. with this help, the ottoman army besieged esztergom and captured it on 4 november 1605. bocskai, with ottoman help, captured nove zamky ( uyvar ) and forces under tiryaki hasan pasha took veszprem and palota. sarhos ibrahim pasha, the beylerbey of nagykanizsa ( kanije ), attacked the austrian region of istria. however, with jelali revolts in anatolia more dangerous than ever and a defeat in the eastern front, mehmed pasha was called to constantinople. mehmed pasha suddenly died there, whilst preparing to leave for the east. kuyucu murad pasha then negotiated the peace of zsitvatorok, which abolished the tribute of 30, 000 ducats paid by austria and addressed the habsburg emperor as the equal of the ottoman sultan. the jelal