free 0. 1 % chlorhexidine mouthrinse. chlorhexidine has good substantivity ( the ability of a mouthwash to bind to hard and soft tissues in the mouth ). it has anti - plaque action, and also some anti - fungal action. it is especially effective against gram - negative rods. the proportion of gram - negative rods increase as gingivitis develops, so it is also used to reduce gingivitis. it is sometimes used as an adjunct to prevent dental caries and to treat periodontal disease, although it does not penetrate into periodontal pockets well. chlorhexidine mouthwash alone is unable to prevent plaque, so it is not a substitute for regular toothbrushing and flossing. instead, chlorhexidine mouthwash is more effective when used as an adjunctive treatment with toothbrushing and flossing. in the short term, if toothbrushing is impossible due to pain, as may occur in primary herpetic gingivostomatitis, chlorhexidine mouthwash is used as a temporary substitute for other oral hygiene measures. it is not suited for use in acute necrotizing ulcerative gingivitis, however. rinsing with chlorhexidine mouthwash before and after a tooth extraction may reduce the risk of a dry socket. other uses of chlorhexidine mouthwash include prevention of oral candidiasis in immunocompromised persons, treatment of denture - related stomatitis, mucosal ulceration / erosions and oral mucosal lesions, general burning sensation and many other uses. chlorhexidine mouthwash is known to have minor adverse effects. chlorhexidine binds to tannins, meaning that prolonged use in persons who consume coffee, tea or red wine is associated with extrinsic staining ( i. e. removable staining ) of teeth. a systematic review of commercial chlorhexidine products with anti - discoloration systems ( adss ) found that the adss were able to reduce tooth staining without affecting the beneficial effects of chlorhexidine. chlorhexidine mouthwash can also cause taste disturbance or alteration. chlorhexidine is rarely associated with other issues like overgrowth of enterobacteria in persons with leukemia, desquamation, irritation, and stomatitis of oral mucosa, salivary gland pain and