been playing since 2009, and their home stadium ( until 2016 ) was norwood oval. from 2016 the team moved to the diamond sports stadium located near the adelaide international airport due to renovations at norwood. adelaide also has an ice hockey team, adelaide adrenaline in the australian ice hockey league ( aihl ). it was national champions in 2009 and plays its games at the icearena. the australian grand prix for world championship formula one racing was hosted by adelaide from 1985 to 1995 on the adelaide street circuit which was laid out in the city ' s east end as well as the eastern parklands including the victoria park racecourse. the grand prix became a source of pride, and losing the event to melbourne in a surprise announcement in mid - 1993 left a void that has since been filled with the adelaide 500 for v8 supercar racing, held on a modified version of the same street circuit. the classic adelaide, a rally of classic sporting vehicles, is also held in the city and its surrounds. adelaide formerly had three horse racing venues. victoria park, cheltenham park racecourse, both of which have now closed, and morphettville racecourse that remains the home of the south australian jockey club. it also has globe derby park for harness racing that opened in 1969, and by 1973 had become adelaide ' s premier harness racing venue taking over from the wayville showgrounds, as well as greyhound park for greyhound racing that opened in 1972. the world solar challenge race attracts teams from around the world, most of which are fielded by universities or corporations, although some are fielded by high schools. the race has a 20 - years ' history spanning nine races, with the inaugural event taking place in 1987. adelaide hosted the 2012 world bowls championships at lockleys bowling club, becoming the third city in the world to have held the championships twice, having previously hosted the event in 1996. dirt track speedway is also popular in adelaide with three operating speedways. adelaide motorsport park, located adjacent to the adelaide international raceway road racing circuit at virginia ( north of the city centre ) has been in continuous operation since 1979 after the closure of the popular rowley park speedway. gillman speedway located in the semi - industrial suburb of gillman, has been in operation since 1998 and caters to motorcycle speedway and sidecars, while the sidewinders speedway located in wingfield is also a motorcycle speedway dedicated to under - 16 riders and has been in operation since 1978. in 2016, backed by south australia ' s peregrine corporation opened up a multi - purpose facility ; a state - of - the