", however, in traditional martial arts and medicine it is often referred to in its more general terminology as " life energy ". gozo shioda ' s yoshinkan aikido, considered one of the " hard styles ", largely follows ueshiba ' s teachings from before world war ii, and surmises that the secret to lies in timing and the application of the whole body ' s strength to a single point. in later years, ueshiba ' s application of in aikido took on a softer, more gentle feel. this concept was known as takemusu aiki, and many of his later students teach about from this perspective. koichi tohei ' s ki society centers almost exclusively around the study of the empirical ( albeit subjective ) experience of, with students ' proficiency in aikido techniques and development ranked separately. training in aikido, as in virtually all japanese martial arts, there are both physical and mental aspects of training. the physical training in aikido is diverse, covering both general physical fitness and conditioning, as well as specific techniques. because a substantial portion of any aikido curriculum consists of throws, beginners learn how to safely fall or roll. the specific techniques for attack include both strikes and grabs ; the techniques for defense consist of throws and pins. after basic techniques are learned, students study freestyle defense against multiple opponents, and techniques with weapons. fitness physical training goals pursued in conjunction with aikido include controlled relaxation, correct movement of joints such as hips and shoulders, flexibility, and endurance, with less emphasis on strength training. in aikido, pushing or extending movements are much more common than pulling or contracting movements. this distinction can be applied to general fitness goals for the aikido practitioner. in aikido, specific muscles or muscle groups are not isolated and worked to improve tone, mass, or power. aikido - related training emphasizes the use of coordinated whole - body movement and balance similar to yoga or pilates. for example, many dojos begin each class with, which may include stretching and ( break falls ). roles of and aikido training is based primarily on two partners practicing pre - arranged forms ( ) rather than freestyle practice. the basic pattern is for the receiver of the technique ( ) to initiate an attack against the person who applies the technique — the, or ( depending on aikido style ), also referred to as ( when applying a throwing technique ), who neutralises this attack with an aikido technique. both