to number - one in the uk album charts for the fifth time on 3 august 2008. on 14 august 2008, the mamma mia! the movie film soundtrack went to number - one on the us billboard charts, abba ' s first us chart - topping album. during the band ' s heyday, the highest album chart position they had ever achieved in america was number 14. in november 2008, all eight studio albums, together with a ninth of rare tracks, were released as the albums. it hit several charts, peaking at number - four in sweden and reaching the top 10 in several other european territories. in 2008, sony computer entertainment europe, in collaboration with universal music group sweden ab, released singstar abba on both the playstation 2 and playstation 3 games consoles, as part of the singstar music video games. the ps2 version features 20 abba songs, while 25 songs feature on the ps3 version. on 22 january 2009, faltskog and lyngstad appeared together on stage to receive the swedish music award " rockbjornen " ( for " lifetime achievement " ). in an interview, the two women expressed their gratitude for the honorary award and thanked their fans. on 25 november 2009, prs for music announced that the british public voted abba as the band they would most like to see re - form. on 27 january 2010, abbaworld, a 25 - room touring exhibition featuring interactive and audiovisual activities, debuted at earls court exhibition centre in london. according to the exhibition ' s website, abbaworld is " approved and fully supported " by the band members. " mamma mia " was released as one of the first few non - premium song selections for the online rpg game bandmaster. on 17 may 2011, " gimme! gimme! gimme! " was added as a non - premium song selection for the bandmaster philippines server. on 15 november 2011, ubisoft released a dancing game called abba : you can dance for the wii. in january 2012, universal music announced the re - release of abba ' s final album the visitors, featuring a previously unheard track " from a twinkling star to a passing angel ". a book titled abba : the official photo book was published in early 2014 to mark the 40th anniversary of the band ' s eurovision victory. the book reveals that part of the reason for the band ' s outrageous costumes was that swedish tax laws at the time allowed the cost of garish outfits that were not suitable for