the user ' s free - hand writing but allowed it to be treated somewhat like recognized text when manipulating for later editing purposes ( " ink text " supported word wrap, could be formatted to be bold, italic, etc. ). at any time a user could also direct their newton device to recognize selected " ink text " and turn it into recognized text ( deferred recognition ). a newton note ( or the notes attached to each contact in names and each dates calendar or to - do event ) could contain any mix of interleaved text, ink text, shapes, and sketches. while the newton offered handwriting recognition training and would clean up sketches into vector shapes, both were unreliable and required much rewriting and redrawing. the most reliable application of the newton was collecting and organizing address and phone numbers. while handwritten messages could be stored, they could not be easily filed, sorted or searched. while the technology was a probable cause for the failure of the device ( which otherwise met or exceeded expectations ), the technology has been instrumental in producing the future generation of handwriting software that realizes the potential and promise that began in the development of newton - apple ' s ink handwriting recognition. connectivity the messagepad 100 series of devices used macintosh ' s proprietary serial ports — round mini - din 8 connectors. the messagepad 2000 / 2100 models ( as well as the emate 300 ) have a small, proprietary newton interconnect port. however, the development of the newton hardware / software platform was canceled by steve jobs on february 27, 1998, so the interconnect port, while itself very advanced, can only be used to connect a serial dongle. a prototype multi - purpose interconnect device containing serial, audio in, audio out, and other ports was also discovered. in addition, all newton devices have infrared connectivity, initially only the sharp ask protocol, but later also irda, though the sharp ask protocol was kept in for compatibility reasons. unlike the palm pilot, all newton devices are equipped with a standard pc card expansion slot ( two on the 2000 / 2100 ). this allows native modem and even ethernet connectivity ; newton users have also written drivers for 802. 11b wireless networking cards and ata - type flash memory cards ( including the popular compactflash format ), as well as for bluetooth cards. newton can also dial a phone number through the built - in speaker of the newton device by simply holding a telephone handset up to the speaker and transmitting the appropriate tones. fax