goal of securing control over these imports. one tablet, an old babylonian period copy of an original inscription, reads : international trade developed during the akkadian period. indus - mesopotamia relations also seem to have expanded : sargon of akkad ( circa 2300 or 2250 bc ), was the first mesopotamian ruler to make an explicit reference to the region of meluhha, which is generally understood as being the baluchistan or the indus area. culture akkadian art in art, there was a great emphasis on the kings of the dynasty, alongside much that continued earlier sumerian art. little architecture remains. in large works and small ones such as seals, the degree of realism was considerably increased, but the seals show a " grim world of cruel conflict, of danger and uncertainty, a world in which man is subjected without appeal to the incomprehensible acts of distant and fearful divinities who he must serve but cannot love. this sombre mood... remained characteristic of mesopotamian art... " akkadian sculpture is remarkable for its fineness and realism, which shows a clear advancement compared to the previous period of sumerian art. seals the akkadians used visual arts as a vehicle of ideology. they developed a new style for cylinder seals by reusing traditional animal decorations but organizing them around inscriptions, which often became central parts of the layout. the figures also became more sculptural and naturalistic. new elements were also included, especially in relation to the rich akkadian mythology. language during the 3rd millennium bc, there developed a very intimate cultural symbiosis between the sumerians and the akkadians, which included widespread bilingualism. the influence of sumerian on akkadian ( and vice versa ) is evident in all areas, from lexical borrowing on a massive scale, to syntactic, morphological, and phonological convergence. this has prompted scholars to refer to sumerian and akkadian in the third millennium as a sprachbund. akkadian gradually replaced sumerian as a spoken language somewhere around 2000 bc ( the exact dating being a matter of debate ), but sumerian continued to be used as a sacred, ceremonial, literary, and scientific language in mesopotamia until the 1st century ad. poet – priestess enheduanna sumerian literature continued in rich development during the akkadian period. enheduanna, the " wife ( sumerian dam = high priestess ) of nanna [ the sumerian moon god ]