##da elects on national level a legislature. parliament has two chambers. the house of representatives has 19 members : 17 members elected for a five - year term in single - seat constituencies, and 2 ex officio members ( president and speaker ). the senate has 17 appointed members. the prime minister is the leader of the majority party in the house and conducts affairs of state with the cabinet. the prime minister and the cabinet are responsible to the parliament. elections must be held at least every five years but may be called by the prime minister at any time. there are special legislative provisions to account for barbuda ' s low population relative to that of antigua. barbuda is guaranteed one member of the house of representatives and two members of the senate. in addition, there is a barbuda council to govern the internal affairs of the island. political parties and elections administrative divisions the country is divided into six parishes, saint george, john, mary, paul, peter, and phillip which are all on the island of antigua. additionally, the islands of barbuda and redonda are considered dependencies. judicial branch antigua and barbuda is a member of the eastern caribbean supreme court. this court is headquartered in saint lucia, but at least one judge of the supreme court resides in antigua and barbuda, and presides over the high court of justice. the current high court judges are jennifer remy and keith thom. antigua is also a member of the caribbean court of justice, although it has not yet acceded to part iii of the 2001 agreement establishing a caribbean court of justice. its supreme appellate court therefore remains the british judicial committee of the privy council. indeed, of the signatories to the agreement, as of december 2010, only barbados has replaced appeals to her majesty in council with the caribbean court of justice. in addition to the eastern caribbean supreme court, antigua and barbuda has a magistrates ' court, which deals with lesser civil and criminal cases. movements republicanism in antigua and barbuda political pressure groups and leaders antigua trades and labour union people ' s democratic movement international organisation participation organisation of african, caribbean and pacific states alba caribbean community caribbean development bank community of latin american and caribbean states commonwealth of nations united nations economic commission for latin america and the caribbean food and agriculture organization group of 77 international bank for reconstruction and development international civil aviation organization international criminal court international confederation of free trade unions international red cross and red crescent movement international fund for agricultural development international finance corporation international federation of red cross and red crescent societies international labour organization international monetary