##u sharing certain morphological similarities with caucasoid populations, the ainu are essentially of north asiatic origin. genetic evidence support a closer relation to paleo - siberian arctic populations, such as the chukchi people. a study by omoto has shown that the ainu are more closely related to other east asian groups ( previously mentioned as " mongoloid " ) than to western eurasian groups ( formerly termed " caucasian " ), on the basis of fingerprints and dental morphology. a study by jinam et al. ( 2015 ), using genome - wide snp data comparison, found that some ainu carry two specific gene alleles associated with facial features commonly found among europeans but generally absent among japanese people and other east asians. military service russo - japanese war ainu men were first recruited into the japanese military in 1898. sixty - four ainu served in the russo - japanese war ( 1904 – 1905 ), eight of whom died in battle or from illness contracted during military service. two received the order of the golden kite, granted for bravery, leadership or command in battle. second world war during world war ii, australian troops engaged in the hard - fought kokoda track campaign ( july – november 1942 ) in new guinea were surprised by the physique and fighting prowess of the first japanese troops they encountered. one medical officer recounted, language in 2008, the news block worldwatch gave an estimate of fewer than 100 remaining speakers of the ainu language. in 1993, linguist alexander vovin placed the number at fewer than 15 speakers, characterising the language as " almost extinct ". because so few present - day speakers are left, study of the ainu language is limited and is based largely on historical research. historically, the status of the ainu language was rather high and was used by early russian and japanese administrative officials to communicate with each other and with the ainu people. despite the small number of native speakers of ainu, there is an active movement to revitalize the language, mainly in hokkaido but also elsewhere, such as in kanto. ainu oral literature has been documented both in hopes of safeguarding it for future generations and for using it as a teaching tool for language learners. as of 2011, there were an increasing number of second - language learners, especially in hokkaido. the resurgence of ainu culture and language is in large part due to the pioneering efforts of the late ainu folklorist, activist, and former diet member shigeru kayano, himself a native speaker. he first opened an ain