a way that the emphasis was given to the front side. rome : the temple of apollo sosianus and the temple of apollo medicus. the first temple building dates to 431 bc, and was dedicated to apollo medicus ( the doctor ), after a plague of 433 bc. it was rebuilt by gaius sosius, probably in 34 bc. only three columns with corinthian capitals exist today. it seems that the cult of apollo had existed in this area since at least to the mid - 5th century bc. rome : the temple of apollo palatinus was located on the palatine hill within the sacred boundary of the city. it was dedicated by augustus in 28 bc. the facade of the original temple was ionic and it was constructed from solid blocks of marble. many famous statues by greek masters were on display in and around the temple, including a marble statue of the god at the entrance and a statue of apollo in the cella. melite ( modern mdina, malta ) : a temple of apollo was built in the city in the 2nd century ad. its remains were discovered in the 18th century, and many of its architectural fragments were dispersed among private collections or reworked into new sculptures. parts of the temple ' s podium were rediscovered in 2002. mythology in the myths, apollo is the son of zeus, the king of the gods, and leto, his previous wife or one of his mistresses. apollo often appears in the myths, plays and hymns either directly or indirectly through his oracles. as zeus ' favorite son, he had direct access to the mind of zeus and was willing to reveal this knowledge to humans. a divinity beyond human comprehension, he appears both as a beneficial and a wrathful god. birth homeric hymn to apollo pregnant with the offsprings of zeus, leto wandered through many lands wanting to give birth to apollo. however all the lands rejected her out of fear. upon reaching delos, leto requested the island to shelter her, and that in return her son would bring fame and prosperity to the island. delos then revealed to leto that apollo was rumoured to be the god who will " greatly lord it among gods and men all over the fruitful earth ". for this reason, all the lands were fearful and delos feared that apollo would cast her aside once he is be born. hearing this, leto swore on the river styx that if she is allowed to give birth on the island, her son would honour delos the most amongst all the other lands. assured by this, delos agreed