departement of ille - et - vilaine. at this point arago interceded with gaspard de prony, head of the ecole des ponts, who wrote to louis - mathieu mole, head of the corps des ponts, suggesting that the progress of science and the prestige of the corps would be enhanced if fresnel could come to paris for a time. he arrived in march 1816, and his leave was subsequently extended through the middle of the year. meanwhile, in an experiment reported on 26 february 1816, arago verified fresnel ' s prediction that the internal fringes were shifted if the rays on one side of the obstacle passed through a thin glass lamina. fresnel correctly attributed this phenomenon to the lower wave velocity in the glass. arago later used a similar argument to explain the colors in the scintillation of stars. fresnel ' s updated memoir was eventually published in the march 1816 issue of annales de chimie et de physique, of which arago had recently become co - editor. that issue did not actually appear until may. in march, fresnel already had competition : biot read a memoir on diffraction by himself and his student claude pouillet, containing copious data and arguing that the regularity of diffraction fringes, like the regularity of newton ' s rings, must be linked to newton ' s " fits ". but the new link was not rigorous, and pouillet himself would become a distinguished early adopter of the wave theory. " efficacious ray ", double - mirror experiment ( 1816 ) on 24 may 1816, fresnel wrote to young ( in french ), acknowledging how little of his own memoir was new. but in a " supplement " signed on 14 july and read the next day, fresnel noted that the internal fringes were more accurately predicted by supposing that the two interfering rays came from some distance outside the edges of the obstacle. to explain this, he divided the incident wavefront at the obstacle into what we now call fresnel zones, such that the secondary waves from each zone were spread over half a cycle when they arrived at the observation point. the zones on one side of the obstacle largely canceled out in pairs, except the first zone, which was represented by an " efficacious ray ". this approach worked for the internal fringes, but the superposition of the efficacious ray and the direct ray did not work for the external