##te - based herbicide sprays. in some areas glyphosate resistant weeds have developed, causing farmers to switch to other herbicides. some studies also link widespread glyphosate usage to iron deficiencies in some crops, which is both a crop production and a nutritional quality concern, with potential economic and health implications. other gmo crops used by growers include insect - resistant crops, which have a gene from the soil bacterium bacillus thuringiensis ( bt ), which produces a toxin specific to insects. these crops resist damage by insects. some believe that similar or better pest - resistance traits can be acquired through traditional breeding practices, and resistance to various pests can be gained through hybridization or cross - pollination with wild species. in some cases, wild species are the primary source of resistance traits ; some tomato cultivars that have gained resistance to at least 19 diseases did so through crossing with wild populations of tomatoes. environmental impact effects and costs agriculture is both a cause of and sensitive to environmental degradation, such as biodiversity loss, desertification, soil degradation and climate change, which cause decreases in crop yield. agriculture is one of the most important drivers of environmental pressures, particularly habitat change, climate change, water use and toxic emissions. agriculture is the main source of toxins released into the environment, including insecticides, especially those used on cotton. the 2011 unep green economy report stated that agricultural operations produced some 13 per cent of anthropogenic global greenhouse gas emissions. this includes gases from the use of inorganic fertilizers, agro - chemical pesticides, and herbicides, as well as fossil fuel - energy inputs. agriculture imposes multiple external costs upon society through effects such as pesticide damage to nature ( especially herbicides and insecticides ), nutrient runoff, excessive water usage, and loss of natural environment. a 2000 assessment of agriculture in the uk determined total external costs for 1996 of £2, 343 million, or £208 per hectare. a 2005 analysis of these costs in the us concluded that cropland imposes approximately $ 5 to $ 16 billion ( $ 30 to $ 96 per hectare ), while livestock production imposes $ 714 million. both studies, which focused solely on the fiscal impacts, concluded that more should be done to internalize external costs. neither included subsidies in their analysis, but they noted that subsidies also influence the cost of agriculture to society. agriculture seeks to increase yield and to reduce costs, often employing measures that cut biodiversity to very low levels. yield increases