a fusion of different culinary traditions. some chinese dishes are typically served as part of plate lunches in hawaii. the names of foods are different as well, such as manapua, from the hawaiian contraction of " mea ono pua ' a " or " delicious pork item " from the dim sum bao, though the meat is not necessarily pork. other regions chow mein sandwich — sandwich of chow mein and gravy ( southeastern massachusetts and rhode island ) chop suey sandwich — sandwich of chicken chop suey on a hamburger bun ( north shore of massachusetts ) st. paul sandwich — egg foo young patty in plain white sandwich bread ( st. louis, missouri ) springfield - style cashew chicken — a style of cashew chicken that combines breaded deep - fried chicken, cashew nuts, and oyster sauce ( springfield, missouri ) war / wor sue gai ( boneless almond chicken ) — bite - sized southern - style fried chicken with yellow sauce ( columbus, ohio ) yaka mein — chinese - creole food found in new orleans that evolved from beef noodle soup chain restaurants china coast — closed in 1995 ; owned by general mills corporation, formerly 52 locations throughout the united states leeann chin — minnesota and north dakota ; owned at one time by general mills corp. manchu wok — throughout the united states and canada, as well as guam, korea and japan panda express — throughout north america ( including canada and mexico ), plus locations in asia and the middle east pei wei asian diner — throughout the united states ; formerly a subsidiary of p. f. chang ' s p. f. chang ' s china bistro — throughout the united states ; featuring california - chinese fusion cuisine pick up stix — california, arizona, and nevada stir crazy — illinois, missouri, wisconsin, minnesota, new york, florida, indiana, texas, and ohio popular culture many american films ( for example : the godfather ; ghostbusters ; the lost boys ; the naked gun ; crossing delancey ; paid in full ; and inside out ) involve scenes where chinese take - out food is eaten from oyster pails. a consistent choice of cuisine in all these cases, however, might just be an indicator of its popularity. a running gag in dallas is cliff barnes ' fondness for inexpensive chinese take - out food, as opposed to his nemesis j. r. ewing frequenting fine restaurants. among the numerous american television series and films that feature chinese restaurants as a setting include a christmas story, seinfeld ( particularly the episode " the chinese restaurant "