radioactive isotope in modeling the slow vertical mixing of oceanic waters. the associated processes cannot be studied with the required accuracy by direct measurements of current velocities ( of the order 50 meters per year ). however, evaluation of the concentration depth - profiles for different isotopes allows estimating the mixing rates. the physics behind this method is as follows : oceanic waters contain homogeneously dispersed 235u. its decay product, 231pa, gradually precipitates to the bottom, so that its concentration first increases with depth and then stays nearly constant. 231pa decays to 227ac ; however, the concentration of the latter isotope does not follow the 231pa depth profile, but instead increases toward the sea bottom. this occurs because of the mixing processes which raise some additional 227ac from the sea bottom. thus analysis of both 231pa and 227ac depth profiles allows researchers to model the mixing behavior. there are theoretical predictions that achx hydrides ( in this case with very high pressure ) are a candidate for a near room - temperature superconductor as they have tc significantly higher than h3s, possibly near 250 k. precautions 227ac is highly radioactive and experiments with it are carried out in a specially designed laboratory equipped with a tight glove box. when actinium trichloride is administered intravenously to rats, about 33 % of actinium is deposited into the bones and 50 % into the liver. its toxicity is comparable to, but slightly lower than that of americium and plutonium. for trace quantities, fume hoods with good aeration suffice ; for gram amounts, hot cells with shielding from the intense gamma radiation emitted by 227ac are necessary. see also actinium series notes references bibliography meyer, gerd and morss, lester r. ( 1991 ) synthesis of lanthanide and actinide compounds, springer. external links actinium at the periodic table of videos ( university of nottingham ) nlm hazardous substances databank – actinium, radioactive actinium in chemical elements chemical elements with face - centered cubic structure actinides