indirect method, the alkene is converted to the sulfate ester, which is subsequently hydrolyzed. the direct hydration using ethylene ( ethylene hydration ) or other alkenes from cracking of fractions of distilled crude oil. hydration is also used industrially to produce the diol ethylene glycol from ethylene oxide. fermentation ethanol is obtained by fermentation of glucose ( which is often obtained from starch ) in the presence of yeast. carbon dioxide is cogenerated. like ethanol, butanol can be produced by fermentation processes. saccharomyces yeast are known to produce these higher alcohols at temperatures above. the bacterium clostridium acetobutylicum can feed on cellulose ( also an alcohol ) to produce butanol on an industrial scale. substitution primary alkyl halides react with aqueous naoh or koh to alcohols in nucleophilic aliphatic substitution. ( secondary and especially tertiary alkyl halides will give the elimination ( alkene ) product instead ). grignard reagents react with carbonyl groups to secondary and tertiary alcohols. related reactions are the barbier reaction and the nozaki - hiyama reaction. reduction aldehydes or ketones are reduced with sodium borohydride or lithium aluminium hydride ( after an acidic workup ). another reduction by aluminiumisopropylates is the meerwein - ponndorf - verley reduction. noyori asymmetric hydrogenation is the asymmetric reduction of β - keto - esters. hydrolysis alkenes engage in an acid catalysed hydration reaction using concentrated sulfuric acid as a catalyst that gives usually secondary or tertiary alcohols. formation of a secondary alcohol via alkene reduction and hydration is shown on the right : the hydroboration - oxidation and oxymercuration - reduction of alkenes are more reliable in organic synthesis. alkenes react with n - bromosuccinimide and water in halohydrin formation reaction. amines can be converted to diazonium salts, which are then hydrolyzed. reactions deprotonation with aqueous pka values of around 16 – 19, they are, in general, slightly weaker acids than water. with strong bases such as sodium hydride or sodium they form salts called alkoxides, with the general formula