studying differential calculus, she wrote to de morgan : i may remark that the curious transformations many formulae can undergo, the unsuspected and to a beginner apparently impossible identity of forms exceedingly dissimilar at first sight, is i think one of the chief difficulties in the early part of mathematical studies. i am often reminded of certain sprites and fairies one reads of, who are at one ' s elbows in one shape now, and the next minute in a form most dissimilar. lovelace believed that intuition and imagination were critical to effectively applying mathematical and scientific concepts. she valued metaphysics as much as mathematics, viewing both as tools for exploring " the unseen worlds around us ". death lovelace died at the age of 36 on 27 november 1852, from uterine cancer. the illness lasted several months, in which time annabella took command over whom ada saw, and excluded all of her friends and confidants. under her mother ' s influence, ada had a religious transformation and was coaxed into repenting of her previous conduct and making annabella her executor. she lost contact with her husband after confessing something to him on 30 august which caused him to abandon her bedside. it is not known what she told him. she was buried, at her request, next to her father at the church of st. mary magdalene in hucknall, nottinghamshire. a memorial plaque, written in latin, to her and her father is in the chapel attached to horsley towers. work throughout her life, lovelace was strongly interested in scientific developments and fads of the day, including phrenology and mesmerism. after her work with babbage, lovelace continued to work on other projects. in 1844, she commented to a friend woronzow greig about her desire to create a mathematical model for how the brain gives rise to thoughts and nerves to feelings ( " a calculus of the nervous system " ). she never achieved this, however. in part, her interest in the brain came from a long - running pre - occupation, inherited from her mother, about her " potential " madness. as part of her research into this project, she visited the electrical engineer andrew crosse in 1844 to learn how to carry out electrical experiments. in the same year, she wrote a review of a paper by baron karl von reichenbach, researches on magnetism, but this was not published and does not appear to have progressed past the first draft. in 1851, the year before