##brick or stone built over an underground burial chamber. the step pyramid of djoser is a series of stone mastabas stacked on top of each other. pyramids were built during the old and middle kingdoms, but most later rulers abandoned them in favor of less conspicuous rock - cut tombs. the use of the pyramid form continued in private tomb chapels of the new kingdom and in the royal pyramids of nubia. art the ancient egyptians produced art to serve functional purposes. for over 3500 years, artists adhered to artistic forms and iconography that were developed during the old kingdom, following a strict set of principles that resisted foreign influence and internal change. these artistic standards — simple lines, shapes, and flat areas of color combined with the characteristic flat projection of figures with no indication of spatial depth — created a sense of order and balance within a composition. images and text were intimately interwoven on tomb and temple walls, coffins, stelae, and even statues. the narmer palette, for example, displays figures that can also be read as hieroglyphs. because of the rigid rules that governed its highly stylized and symbolic appearance, ancient egyptian art served its political and religious purposes with precision and clarity. ancient egyptian artisans used stone as a medium for carving statues and fine reliefs, but used wood as a cheap and easily carved substitute. paints were obtained from minerals such as iron ores ( red and yellow ochres ), copper ores ( blue and green ), soot or charcoal ( black ), and limestone ( white ). paints could be mixed with gum arabic as a binder and pressed into cakes, which could be moistened with water when needed. pharaohs used reliefs to record victories in battle, royal decrees, and religious scenes. common citizens had access to pieces of funerary art, such as shabti statues and books of the dead, which they believed would protect them in the afterlife. during the middle kingdom, wooden or clay models depicting scenes from everyday life became popular additions to the tomb. in an attempt to duplicate the activities of the living in the afterlife, these models show laborers, houses, boats, and even military formations that are scale representations of the ideal ancient egyptian afterlife. despite the homogeneity of ancient egyptian art, the styles of particular times and places sometimes reflected changing cultural or political attitudes. after the invasion of the hyksos in the second intermediate period, minoan - style frescoes were found in avaris. the most striking example of a politically driven change in artistic