in the form of caudices or rhizomes. these can be fleshy or woody depending on the species. stems stems are herbaceous, aerial, branched, and cylindrical with glandular hairs, generally erect, but can be prostrate to ascending. the stems can contain secretory canals with resin, or latex, which is particularly common among the cichorioideae. leaves leaves can be alternate, opposite, or whorled. they may be simple, but are often deeply lobed or otherwise incised, often conduplicate or revolute. the margins also can be entire or toothed. resin or latex also can be present in the leaves. inflorescences nearly all asteraceae bear their flowers in dense flower heads called capitula. they are surrounded by involucral bracts, and when viewed from a distance, each capitulum may appear to be a single flower. enlarged outer ( peripheral ) flowers in the capitulum may resemble petals, and the involucral bracts may look like a calyx. floral heads in plants of the asteraceae, what appears to be a single " daisy " - type flower is actually a composite of several much smaller flowers, known as the capitulum or head. by visually presenting as a single flower, the capitulum functions in attracting pollinators, in the same manner that other " showy " flowering plants in numerous other, older, plant families have evolved to attract pollinators. the previous name for the family, compositae, reflects the fact that what appears to be a single floral entity is in fact a composite of much smaller flowers. the " petals " or " sunrays " in an " asteraceous " head are in fact individual strap - shaped flowers called ray flowers or ray florets, and the " sun disk " is made up of smaller, radially symmetric, individual flowers called disc flowers or disc florets. the word aster means " star " in greek, referring to the appearance of most family members as a " celestial body with rays ". the capitulum, which often appears to be a single flower, is often referred to as a head. in some species, the entire head is able to pivot its floral stem in the course of the day to track the sun ( like a " smart " solar panel ), thus maximizing the reflectivity of the entire floral unit and further attracting flying pollinators.