electrical experiments. in the same year, she wrote a review of a paper by baron karl von reichenbach, researches on magnetism, but this was not published and does not appear to have progressed past the first draft. in 1851, the year before her cancer struck, she wrote to her mother mentioning " certain productions " she was working on regarding the relation of maths and music. lovelace first met charles babbage in june 1833, through their mutual friend mary somerville. later that month, babbage invited lovelace to see the prototype for his difference engine. she became fascinated with the machine and used her relationship with somerville to visit babbage as often as she could. babbage was impressed by lovelace ' s intellect and analytic skills. he called her " the enchantress of number ". in 1843, he wrote to her : during a nine - month period in 1842 – 43, lovelace translated the italian mathematician luigi menabrea ' s article on babbage ' s newest proposed machine, the analytical engine. with the article, she appended a set of notes. explaining the analytical engine ' s function was a difficult task ; many other scientists did not grasp the concept and the british establishment had shown little interest in it. lovelace ' s notes even had to explain how the analytical engine differed from the original difference engine. her work was well received at the time ; the scientist michael faraday described himself as a supporter of her writing. the notes are around three times longer than the article itself and include ( in note g ), in complete detail, a method for calculating a sequence of bernoulli numbers using the analytical engine, which might have run correctly had it ever been built ( only babbage ' s difference engine has been built, completed in london in 2002 ). based on this work, lovelace is now considered by many to be the first computer programmer and her method has been called the world ' s first computer program. others dispute this because some of charles babbage ' s earlier writings could be considered computer programs. note g also contains lovelace ' s dismissal of artificial intelligence. she wrote that " the analytical engine has no pretensions whatever to originate anything. it can do whatever we know how to order it to perform. it can follow analysis ; but it has no power of anticipating any analytical relations or truths. " this objection has been the subject of much debate and rebuttal, for example by alan turing in his paper " computing machinery and intelligence ". most modern