on that movie set and to see her being treated the way she was. " while filming the attack scene in the attic — which took a week to film — she was placed in a caged room while two men wearing elbow - length protective gloves threw live birds at her. toward the end of the week, to stop the birds ' flying away from her too soon, one leg of each bird was attached by nylon thread to elastic bands sewn inside her clothes. she broke down after a bird cut her lower eyelid, and filming was halted on doctor ' s orders. marnie in june 1962, grace kelly announced that she had decided against appearing in marnie ( 1964 ). hedren had signed an exclusive seven - year, $ 500 - a - week contract with hitchcock in october 1961, and he decided to cast her in the lead role opposite sean connery. in 2016, describing hedren ' s performance as " one of the greatest in the history of cinema ", richard brody called the film a " story of sexual violence " inflicted on the character played by hedren : " the film is, to put it simply, sick, and it ' s so because hitchcock was sick. he suffered all his life from furious sexual desire, suffered from the lack of its gratification, suffered from the inability to transform fantasy into reality, and then went ahead and did so virtually, by way of his art. " a 1964 new york times review called it hitchcock ' s " most disappointing film in years ", citing hedren ' s and connery ' s lack of experience, an amateurish script and " glaringly fake cardboard backdrops ". in the film, marnie edgar ( hedren ) steals $ 10, 000 from her employer and goes on the run. she applies for a job at mark rutland ' s ( connery ) company in philadelphia and steals from there too. earlier, she is shown having a panic attack during a thunderstorm and fearing the colour red. mark tracks her down and blackmails her into marrying him. she explains that she does not want to be touched, but during the " honeymoon ", mark rapes her. marnie and mark discover that marnie ' s mother had been a prostitute when marnie was a child, and that, while the mother was fighting with a client during a thunderstorm — the mother believed the client had tried to molest marnie — marnie had killed the client to save her mother. cured of her fears when she remembers what happened,