capacity of human reason to know god. the council of the vatican declares, " god, the beginning and end of all, can, by the natural light of human reason, be known with certainty from the works of creation ". blaise pascal argued that even if there were truly no evidence for god, agnostics should consider what is now known as pascal ' s wager : the infinite expected value of acknowledging god is always greater than the finite expected value of not acknowledging his existence, and thus it is a safer " bet " to choose god. atheistic according to richard dawkins, a distinction between agnosticism and atheism is unwieldy and depends on how close to zero a person is willing to rate the probability of existence for any given god - like entity. about himself, dawkins continues, " i am agnostic only to the extent that i am agnostic about fairies at the bottom of the garden. " dawkins also identifies two categories of agnostics ; " temporary agnostics in practice " ( taps ), and " permanent agnostics in principle " ( paps ). he states that " agnosticism about the existence of god belongs firmly in the temporary or tap category. either he exists or he doesn ' t. it is a scientific question ; one day we may know the answer, and meanwhile we can say something pretty strong about the probability " and considers pap a " deeply inescapable kind of fence - sitting ". ignosticism a related concept is ignosticism, the view that a coherent definition of a deity must be put forward before the question of the existence of a deity can be meaningfully discussed. if the chosen definition is not coherent, the ignostic holds the noncognitivist view that the existence of a deity is meaningless or empirically untestable. a. j. ayer, theodore drange, and other philosophers see both atheism and agnosticism as incompatible with ignosticism on the grounds that atheism and agnosticism accept the statement " a deity exists " as a meaningful proposition that can be argued for or against. see also references further reading alexander, nathan g. " an atheist with a tall hat on : the forgotten history of agnosticism. " the humanist, february 19, 2019. annan, noel. leslie stephen : the godless victorian ( u of chicago press, 1984 ) cockshut, a. o. j. the unbelievers