illnesses can be cured by the one medicine of love and compassion. these qualities are the ultimate source of human happiness, and the need for them lies at the very core of our being " ( dalai lama ). the notion of altruism is modified in such a world - view, since the belief is that such a practice promotes the practitioner ' s own happiness : " the more we care for the happiness of others, the greater our own sense of well - being becomes " ( dalai lama ). in the context of larger ethical discussions on moral action and judgment, buddhism is characterized by the belief that negative ( unhappy ) consequences of our actions derive not from punishment or correction based on moral judgment, but from the law of karma, which functions like a natural law of cause and effect. a simple illustration of such cause and effect is the case of experiencing the effects of what one causes : if one causes suffering, then as a natural consequence one would experience suffering ; if one causes happiness, then as a natural consequence one would experience happiness. jainism the fundamental principles of jainism revolve around altruism, not only for humans but for all sentient beings. jainism preaches – to live and let live, not harming sentient beings, i. e. uncompromising reverence for all life. it also considers all living things to be equal. the first, rishabhdev, introduced the concept of altruism for all living beings, from extending knowledge and experience to others to donation, giving oneself up for others, non - violence, and compassion for all living things. the principle of nonviolence seeks to minimize karmas which limit the capabilities of the soul. jainism views every soul as worthy of respect because it has the potential to become ( god in jainism ). because all living beings possess a soul, great care and awareness is essential in one ' s actions. jainism emphasizes the equality of all life, advocating harmlessness towards all, whether the creatures are great or small. this policy extends even to microscopic organisms. jainism acknowledges that every person has different capabilities and capacities to practice and therefore accepts different levels of compliance for ascetics and householders. christianity thomas aquinas interprets " you should love your neighbour as yourself " as meaning that love for ourselves is the exemplar of love for others. considering that " the love with which a man loves himself is the form and root of friendship " he quotes aristotle that " the origin of friendly relations with others lies in our relations to