" america the beautiful " is a patriotic american song. its lyrics were written by katharine lee bates and its music was composed by church organist and choirmaster samuel a. ward at grace episcopal church in newark, new jersey. the two never met. bates wrote the words as a poem, originally entitled " pikes peak ". it was first published in the fourth of july 1895 edition of the church periodical, the congregationalist. at that time, the poem was entitled " america ". ward had initially composed the song ' s melody in 1882 to accompany lyrics to " materna ", basis of the hymn, " o mother dear, jerusalem ", though the hymn was not first published until 1892. the combination of ward ' s melody and bates ' s poem was first entitled " america the beautiful " in 1910. the song is one of the most popular of the many american patriotic songs. history in 1893, at the age of 33, bates, an english professor at wellesley college, had taken a train trip to colorado springs, colorado, to teach at colorado college. several of the sights on her trip inspired her, and they found their way into her poem, including the world ' s columbian exposition in chicago, the " white city " with its promise of the future contained within its gleaming white buildings ; the wheat fields of north america ' s heartland kansas, through which her train was riding on july 16 ; and the majestic view of the great plains from high atop pikes peak. on the pinnacle of that mountain, the words of the poem started to come to her, and she wrote them down upon returning to her hotel room at the original antlers hotel. the poem was initially published two years later in the congregationalist to commemorate the fourth of july. it quickly caught the public ' s fancy. an amended version was published in 1904. the first known melody written for the song was sent in by silas pratt when the poem was published in the congregationalist. by 1900, at least 75 different melodies had been written. a hymn tune composed in 1882 by samuel a. ward, the organist and choir director at grace church, newark, was generally considered the best music as early as 1910 and is still the popular tune today. just as bates had been inspired to write her poem, ward, too, was inspired. the tune came to him while he was on a ferryboat trip from coney island back to his home in new york city after a leisurely summer day and he immediately wrote it down. he composed the tune for the old hymn " o