for the seven vestal virgins. the pagan party was led by the refined senator quintus aurelius symmachus, who used all his prodigious skill and artistry to create a marvelous document full of the maiestas populi romani. hans lietzmann writes that " pagans and christians alike were stirred by the solemn earnestness of an admonition which called all men of goodwill to the aid of a glorious history, to render all worthy honor to a world that was fading away ". then ambrose wrote valentinian ii a letter asserting that the emperor was a soldier of god, not simply a personal believer but one bound by his position to serve the faith ; under no circumstances could he agree to something that would promote the worship of idols. ambrose held up the example of valentinian ' s brother, gratian, reminding valentinian that the commandment of god must take precedence. the bishop ' s intervention led to the failure of symmachus ' appeal. in 389, ambrose intervened against a pagan senatorial delegation who wished to see the emperor theodosius i. although theodosius refused their requests, he was irritated at the bishop ' s presumption and refused to see him for several days. later, ambrose wrote a letter to the emperor eugenius complaining that some gifts the latter had bestowed on pagan senators could be used for funding pagan cults. theology ambrose joins augustine, jerome, and gregory the great as one of the latin doctors of the church. theologians compare him with hilary, who they claim fell short of ambrose ' s administrative excellence but demonstrated greater theological ability. he succeeded as a theologian despite his juridical training and his comparatively late handling of biblical and doctrinal subjects. ambrose ' s intense episcopal consciousness furthered the growing doctrine of the church and its sacerdotal ministry, while the prevalent asceticism of the day, continuing the stoic and ciceronian training of his youth, enabled him to promulgate a lofty standard of christian ethics. thus we have the de officiis ministrorum, de viduis, de virginitate and de paenitentia. ambrose displayed a kind of liturgical flexibility that kept in mind that liturgy was a tool to serve people in worshiping god, and ought not to become a rigid entity that is invariable from place to place. his advice to augustine of hippo on this point was to follow local liturgical custom. " when i am at rome, i fast on a saturday ; when i