states, and in 1066, he declared his son malik shah i his heir and successor. with the hope of capturing caesarea mazaca, the capital of cappadocia, he placed himself at the head of the turkoman cavalry, crossed the euphrates, and entered and invaded the city. along with nizam al - mulk, he then marched into armenia and georgia, which he conquered in 1064. after a siege of 25 days, the seljuks captured ani, the capital city of armenia. an account of the sack and massacres in ani is given by the historian sibt ibn al - jawzi, who quotes an eyewitness saying : byzantine struggle en route to fight the fatimids in syria in 1068, alp arslan invaded the byzantine empire. the emperor romanos iv diogenes, assuming command in person, met the invaders in cilicia. in three arduous campaigns, the turks were defeated in detail and driven across the euphrates in 1070. the first two campaigns were conducted by the emperor himself, while the third was directed by manuel comnenos, the great - uncle of emperor manuel comnenos. during this time, arslan gained the allegiance of rashid al - dawla mahmud, the mirdasid emir of aleppo. in 1071, romanos again took the field and advanced into armenia with possibly 30, 000 men, including a contingent of cuman turks as well as contingents of franks and normans, under ursel de baieul. alp arslan, who had moved his troops south to fight the fatimids, quickly reversed to meet the byzantines. alp arslan handed control of his army to his eunuch slave general, taranges, and commanded him to " win or be beheaded. " taranges prepared for the battle by setting traps and organizing ambushes. the seljuk and byzantine armies met on friday, 26 august 1071 at manzikert on the murat river, north of lake van, beginning the battle of manzikert. the cuman mercenaries among the byzantine forces immediately defected to the turkic side. seeing this, the western mercenaries subsequently abandoned the battlefield as well. to be exact, romanos was betrayed by general andronikos doukas, son of the caesar ( romanos ' s stepson ), who pronounced him dead and rode off with a large part of the byzantine forces at a critical moment. the byzantine