in the city, completed and opened in 2013. it can accommodate 6 thousand people during general prayers, and up to 30 thousand people during funeral prayers. the mosque was decorated with anatolian seljuk style patterns. yeni ( cenab ahmet ) mosque it is the largest ottoman mosque in ankara and was built by the famous architect sinan in the 16th century. the mimber ( pulpit ) and mihrap ( prayer niche ) are of white marble, and the mosque itself is of ankara stone, an example of very fine workmanship. hacı bayram mosque this mosque, in the ulus quarter next to the temple of augustus, was built in the early 15th century in seljuk style by an unknown architect. it was subsequently restored by architect mimar sinan in the 16th century, with kutahya tiles being added in the 18th century. the mosque was built in honor of hacı bayram - ı veli, whose tomb is next to the mosque, two years before his death ( 1427 – 28 ). the usable space inside this mosque is on the first floor and on the second floor. ahi elvan mosque it was founded in the ulus quarter near the ankara citadel and was constructed by the ahi fraternity during the late 14th and early 15th centuries. the finely carved walnut mimber ( pulpit ) is of particular interest. alaeddin mosque the alaeddin mosque is the oldest mosque in ankara. it has a carved walnut mimber, the inscription on which records that the mosque was completed in early ah 574 ( which corresponds to the summer of 1178 ad ) and was built by the seljuk prince muhiddin mesud sah ( died 1204 ), the bey of ankara, who was the son of the anatolian seljuk sultan kılıc arslan ii ( reigned 1156 – 1192. ) modern monuments victory monument the victory monument ( turkish : zafer anıtı ) was crafted by austrian sculptor heinrich krippel in 1925 and was erected in 1927 at ulus square. the monument is made of marble and bronze and features an equestrian statue of mustafa kemal ataturk, who wears a republic era modern military uniform, with the rank field marshal. statue of ataturk located at zafer ( victory ) square ( turkish : zafer meydanı ), the marble and bronze statue was crafted by the renowned italian sculptor pietro canonica in 1927 and depicts a standing ataturk who