of the sea. there is another project under construction, by the name of algiers medina. the first step of the project is nearly complete. a hewlett - packard office for french - speaking countries in africa is in algiers. tourist installations some to the west of algiers are such seaside resorts as sidi fredj ( ex - sidi ferruch ), palm beach, douaouda, zeralda, and the club of the pines ( residence of state ) ; there are tourist complexes, algerian and other restaurants, souvenir shops, supervised beaches, and other amenities. the city is also equipped with important hotel complexes such as the hotel hilton, el - aurassi or el djazair. algiers also has the first water park in the country. the tourism of algiers is growing but is not as developed as that of the larger cities in morocco or tunisia. education the presence of a large diplomatic community in algiers prompted the creation of multiple international educational institutions. these schools include : american international school of algiers ; british school algiers el kalimat school ( english - language school ) ; lycee international alexandre - dumas d ' alger ( french school ) ; roma italian school of algiers ; russian embassy school in algiers. there was formerly the ecole japonaise d ' alger ( アルシェ 日 本 人 学 aruje nihonjin gakko ), a school for japanese children. public transport etusa ( urban and suburban bus transportation for algiers ) operates bus service in algiers and the surrounding suburbs. 54 lines are operating, with service from 5 : 30 a. m. to 12 : 45 a. m. sntf ( national railroad company ) operates commuter - rail lines connecting the capital to the surrounding suburbs. algiers metro, opened november 1, 2011. algiers tramway, opened on may 8, 2011. houari boumediene airport is located from the city. the airport serves domestics, many european cities, west africa, the middle east, asia and north america. on july 5, 2006, a new international air terminal was opened for service. the terminal is managed by aeroports de paris. 4 urban beltways : el madania – belouizdad notre dame d ' afrique – bologhine memorial des martyres / riad el feth – jardin d ' essais palais de la culture – oued kniss sports algiers is the sporting centre of algeria. the city has a number of professional clubs in the variety of sports, which have