. latin continued to influence letter values ( such as i = j, u = v and w = vv ). there was an ongoing tradition of allowing anagrams to be " perfect " if the letters were all used once, but allowing for these interchanges. this can be seen in a popular latin anagram against the jesuits : societas jesu turned into vitiosa seces ( latin : cut off the wicked things ). puttenham, in the time of elizabeth i, wished to start from elissabet anglorum regina ( latin : elizabeth queen of the english ), to obtain multa regnabis ense gloria ( latin : by thy sword shalt thou reign in great renown ) ; he explains carefully that h is " a note of aspiration only and no letter ", and that z in greek or hebrew is a mere ss. the rules were not completely fixed in the 17th century. william camden in his remains commented, singling out some letters — æ, k, w, and z — not found in the classical roman alphabet : early modern period when it comes to the 17th century and anagrams in english or other languages, there is a great deal of documented evidence of learned interest. the lawyer thomas egerton was praised through the anagram gestat honorem ( ' he carries honor ' ) ; the physician george ent took the anagrammatic motto genio surget ( ' he rises through spirit / genius ' ), which requires his first name as georgius. james i ' s courtiers discovered in " james stuart " " a just master ", and converted " charles james stuart " into " claims arthur ' s seat " ( even at that point in time, the letters i and j were more - or - less interchangeable ). walter quin, tutor to the future charles i, worked hard on multilingual anagrams on the name of father james. a notorious murder scandal, the overbury case, threw up two imperfect anagrams that were aided by typically loose spelling and were recorded by simonds d ' ewes : " francis howard " ( for frances carr, countess of somerset, her maiden name spelled in a variant ) became " car findes a whore ", with the letters e hardly counted, and the victim thomas overbury, as " thomas overburie ", was written as " o! o! a busie murther " ( an old form of " murder " ), with a v counted as u.