mandatory arbitration agreement, contained in a dispute resolution policy linked to an e - mailed company - wide announcement, insofar as it applies to employment discrimination claims brought under the americans with disabilities act. tennessee v. lane tennessee v. lane, 541 u. s. 509 ( 2004 ), was a case in the supreme court of the united states involving congress ' s enforcement powers under section 5 of the fourteenth amendment. george lane was unable to walk after a 1997 car accident in which he was accused of driving on the wrong side of the road. a woman was killed in the crash, and lane faced misdemeanor charges of reckless driving. the suit was brought about because he was denied access to appear in criminal court because the courthouse had no elevator, even though the court was willing to carry him up the stairs and then willing to move the hearing to the first floor. he refused, citing he wanted to be treated as any other citizen, and was subsequently charged with failure to appear, after appearing at a previous hearing where he dragged himself up the stairs. the court ruled that congress did have enough evidence that disabled people were being denied those fundamental rights that are protected by the due process clause of the fourteenth amendment and had the enforcement powers under section 5 of the fourteenth amendment. it further ruled that " reasonable accommodations " mandated by the ada were not unduly burdensome and disproportionate to the harm. gender dysphoria in 2022, the united states court of appeals for the fourth circuit stated that the ada covers individuals with gender dysphoria, which may aid transgender people in accessing legal protections they otherwise may be unable to. see also references further reading bush, george h. w., remarks of president george bush at the signing of the americans with disabilities act. available online at equal employment opportunity commission. davis, lennard j. enabling acts. the hidden story of how the americans with disabilities act gave the largest us minority its rights. boston, ma : beacon press, 2015. fielder, j. f. mental disabilities and the americans with disabilities act. westport, ct : quorum books, 2004. hamilton krieger, linda, ed., backlash against the ada : reinterpreting disability rights ann arbor : university of michigan press, 2003. johnson, mary. ( 2000 ). make them go away : clint eastwood, christopher reeve & the case against disability rights. louisville, ky : the advocado press. mayer, arlene. ( 1992 ). the