being awarded for personal popularity, to make up for a " snub " for a work that proved in time to be more popular or renowned than the one awarded, or presented as a " career honor " to recognize a distinguished nominee ' s entire body of work. recognition of streaming media film following the 91st academy awards in february 2019 in which the netflix - broadcast film roma had been nominated for ten awards including the best picture category, steven spielberg and other members of the academy discussed changing the requirements through the board of governors for films as to exclude those from netflix and other media streaming services. spielberg had been concerned that netflix as a movie production and distribution studio could spend much more than typical oscar - winning films and have much wider and earlier distribution than other best picture - nominated films, while still being able to meet the minimal theatrical - run status to qualify for an oscar. the united states department of justice, having heard of this potential rule change, wrote a letter to the academy in march 2019, cautioning them that placing additional restrictions on films that originate from streaming media services without proper justification could raise anti - trust concerns against the academy. following its april 2019 board meeting, the academy board of governors agreed to retain the current rules that allow for streaming media films to be eligible for oscars as long as they enjoy limited theatrical runs. 2022 chris rock and will smith rock slapping incident during the 94th academy awards on march 27, 2022, chris rock joked about jada pinkett smith ' s shaved head with a g. i. jane reference. will smith walked onstage and slapped rock across the face, then returned to his seat and told rock, twice, to " keep my wife ' s name out [ of ] your fucking mouth! " while later accepting the best actor award for king richard, smith apologized to the academy and the other nominees, but not to rock. rock decided not to press charges against smith. on april 8, 2022, the academy made an announcement via a letter sent by president david rubin and ceo dawn hudson informing the public that will smith had received a ten - year ban from attending the oscars as a result of the incident. refusals of the award some winners critical of the academy awards have boycotted the ceremonies and refused to accept their oscars. the first to do so was screenwriter dudley nichols ( best writing in 1935 for the informer ). nichols boycotted the 8th academy awards ceremony because of conflicts between the academy and the writers ' guild. nichols eventually accepted the 1935 award three years later, at the