, the two men had difficult relations, and president polk refused some of his patronage suggestions. johnson believed, as did many southern democrats, that the constitution protected private property, including slaves, and thus prohibited the federal and state governments from abolishing slavery. he won a second term in 1845 against william g. brownlow, presenting himself as the defender of the poor against the aristocracy. in his second term, johnson supported the polk administration ' s decision to fight the mexican war, seen by some northerners as an attempt to gain territory to expand slavery westward, and opposed the wilmot proviso, a proposal to ban slavery in any territory gained from mexico. he introduced for the first time his homestead bill, to grant to people willing to settle the land and gain title to it. this issue was especially important to johnson because of his own humble beginnings. in the presidential election of 1848, the democrats split over the slavery issue, and abolitionists formed the free soil party, with former president van buren as their nominee. johnson supported the democratic candidate, former michigan senator lewis cass. with the party split, whig nominee general zachary taylor was easily victorious, and carried tennessee. johnson ' s relations with polk remained poor ; the president recorded of his final new year ' s reception in 1849 that johnson, due to national interest in new railroad construction and in response to the need for better transportation in his own district, also supported government assistance for the east tennessee and virginia railroad. during his campaign for a fourth term, johnson concentrated on three issues : slavery, homesteads and judicial elections. he defeated his opponent, nathaniel g. taylor, in august 1849, with a greater margin of victory than in previous campaigns. when the house convened in december, the party division caused by the free soil party precluded the formation of the majority needed to elect a speaker. johnson proposed adoption of a rule allowing election of a speaker by a plurality ; some weeks later others took up a similar proposal, and democrat howell cobb was elected. once the speaker election had concluded and congress was ready to conduct legislative business, the issue of slavery took center stage. northerners sought to admit california, a free state, to the union. kentucky ' s henry clay introduced in the senate a series of resolutions, the compromise of 1850, to admit california and pass legislation sought by each side. johnson voted for all the provisions except for the abolition of slavery in the nation ' s capital. he pressed resolutions for constitutional amendments to provide for popular election of senators ( then elected by state legislatures ) and of