satrapy of the achaemenid persian empire. this first period of persian rule over egypt, also known as the twenty - seventh dynasty, ended in 402bc, when egypt regained independence under a series of native dynasties. the last of these dynasties, the thirtieth, proved to be the last native royal house of ancient egypt, ending with the kingship of nectanebo ii. a brief restoration of persian rule, sometimes known as the thirty - first dynasty, began in 343bc, but shortly after, in 332bc, the persian ruler mazaces handed egypt over to alexander the great without a fight. ptolemaic period ( 332 – 30 bc ) in 332bc, alexander the great conquered egypt with little resistance from the persians and was welcomed by the egyptians as a deliverer. the administration established by alexander ' s successors, the macedonian ptolemaic kingdom, was based on an egyptian model and based in the new capital city of alexandria. the city showcased the power and prestige of hellenistic rule, and became a centre of learning and culture, that included the famous library of alexandria as part of the mouseion. the lighthouse of alexandria lit the way for the many ships that kept trade flowing through the city — as the ptolemies made commerce and revenue - generating enterprises, such as papyrus manufacturing, their top priority. hellenistic culture did not supplant native egyptian culture, as the ptolemies supported time - honored traditions in an effort to secure the loyalty of the populace. they built new temples in egyptian style, supported traditional cults, and portrayed themselves as pharaohs. some traditions merged, as greek and egyptian gods were syncretized into composite deities, such as serapis, and classical greek forms of sculpture influenced traditional egyptian motifs. despite their efforts to appease the egyptians, the ptolemies were challenged by native rebellion, bitter family rivalries, and the powerful mob of alexandria that formed after the death of ptolemy iv. in addition, as rome relied more heavily on imports of grain from egypt, the romans took great interest in the political situation in the country. continued egyptian revolts, ambitious politicians, and powerful opponents from the near east made this situation unstable, leading rome to send forces to secure the country as a province of its empire. roman period ( 30 bc – ad 641 ) egypt became a province of the roman empire in 30bc, following the defeat of mark antony and ptolemaic queen cleopatra vii by octavian ( later emperor augustus ) in the battle of actium