bitumen (, ) is an immensely viscous constituent of petroleum. depending on its exact composition it can be a sticky, black liquid or an apparently solid mass that behaves as a liquid over very large time scales. in the u. s., the material is commonly referred to as asphalt. whether found in natural deposits or refined from petroleum, the substance is classed as a pitch. prior to the 20th century the term asphaltum was in general use. the word derives from the ancient greek ασφαλτος asphaltos, which referred to natural bitumen or pitch. the largest natural deposit of bitumen in the world, estimated to contain 10 million tons, is the pitch lake of southwest trinidad. 70 % of annual bitumen production destined for road construction, its primary use. in this application bitumen is used to bind aggregate particles like gravel and forms a substance referred to as asphalt concrete, which is colloquially termed asphalt. its other main uses lie in bituminous waterproofing products, such as roofing felt and roof sealant. in material sciences and engineering the terms " asphalt " and " bitumen " are often used interchangeably and refer both to natural and manufactured forms of the substance, although there is regional variation as to which term is most common. worldwide, geologists tend to favor the term " bitumen " for the naturally occurring material. for the manufactured material, which is a refined residue from the distillation process of selected crude oils, " bitumen " is the prevalent term in much of the world ; however, in american english, " asphalt " is more commonly used. to help avoid confusion, the phrases " liquid asphalt ", " asphalt binder ", or " asphalt cement " are used in the u. s. colloquially, various forms of asphalt are sometimes referred to as " tar ", as in the name of the la brea tar pits. naturally occurring bitumen is sometimes specified by the term " crude bitumen ". its viscosity is similar to that of cold molasses while the material obtained from the fractional distillation of crude oil boiling at is sometimes referred to as " refined bitumen ". the canadian province of alberta has most of the world ' s reserves of natural bitumen in the athabasca oil sands, which cover, an area larger than england. terminology etymology the latin word traces to the proto - indo - european root * gʷet - " pitch " ; see that link for other cognates. the expression " bitumen