##hr model was proposed. the bohr model was able to explain the emission and absorption spectra of hydrogen. the energies of electrons in the n = 1, 2, 3, etc. states in the bohr model match those of current physics. however, this did not explain similarities between different atoms, as expressed by the periodic table, such as the fact that helium ( two electrons ), neon ( 10 electrons ), and argon ( 18 electrons ) exhibit similar chemical inertness. modern quantum mechanics explains this in terms of electron shells and subshells which can each hold a number of electrons determined by the pauli exclusion principle. thus the n = 1 state can hold one or two electrons, while the n = 2 state can hold up to eight electrons in 2s and 2p subshells. in helium, all n = 1 states are fully occupied ; the same is true for n = 1 and n = 2 in neon. in argon, the 3s and 3p subshells are similarly fully occupied by eight electrons ; quantum mechanics also allows a 3d subshell but this is at higher energy than the 3s and 3p in argon ( contrary to the situation for hydrogen ) and remains empty. modern conceptions and connections to the heisenberg uncertainty principle immediately after heisenberg discovered his uncertainty principle, bohr noted that the existence of any sort of wave packet implies uncertainty in the wave frequency and wavelength, since a spread of frequencies is needed to create the packet itself. in quantum mechanics, where all particle momenta are associated with waves, it is the formation of such a wave packet which localizes the wave, and thus the particle, in space. in states where a quantum mechanical particle is bound, it must be localized as a wave packet, and the existence of the packet and its minimum size implies a spread and minimal value in particle wavelength, and thus also momentum and energy. in quantum mechanics, as a particle is localized to a smaller region in space, the associated compressed wave packet requires a larger and larger range of momenta, and thus larger kinetic energy. thus the binding energy to contain or trap a particle in a smaller region of space increases without bound as the region of space grows smaller. particles cannot be restricted to a geometric point in space, since this would require infinite particle momentum. in chemistry, erwin schrodinger, linus pauling, mulliken and others noted that the consequence of heisenberg ' s relation was that the electron, as a wave packet