) sodium lauryl sulfate ( sls ) is used as a foaming agent in many oral hygiene products, including many mouthwashes. some may suggest that it is probably advisable to use mouthwash at least an hour after brushing with toothpaste when the toothpaste contains sls, since the anionic compounds in the sls toothpaste can deactivate cationic agents present in the mouthwash. sucralfate sucralfate is a mucosal coating agent, composed of an aluminum salt of sulfated sucrose. it is not recommended for use in the prevention of oral mucositis in head and neck cancer patients receiving radiotherapy or chemoradiation, due to a lack of efficacy found in a well - designed, randomized controlled trial. tetracycline ( antibiotic ) tetracycline is an antibiotic which may sometimes be used as a mouthwash in adults ( it causes red staining of teeth in children ). it is sometimes use for herpetiforme ulceration ( an uncommon type of aphthous stomatitis ), but prolonged use may lead to oral candidiasis, as the fungal population of the mouth overgrows in the absence of enough competing bacteria. similarly, minocycline mouthwashes of 0. 5 % concentrations can relieve symptoms of recurrent aphthous stomatitis. erythromycin is similar. tranexamic acid a 4. 8 % tranexamic acid solution is sometimes used as an antifibrinolytic mouthwash to prevent bleeding during and after oral surgery in persons with coagulopathies ( clotting disorders ) or who are taking anticoagulants ( blood thinners such as warfarin ). triclosan triclosan is a non - ionic chlorinate bisphenol antiseptic found in some mouthwashes. when used in mouthwash ( e. g. 0. 03 % ), there is moderate substantivity, broad spectrum anti - bacterial action, some anti - fungal action, and significant anti - plaque effect, especially when combined with a copolymer or zinc citrate. triclosan does not cause staining of the teeth. the safety of triclosan has been questioned. zinc astringents like zinc chloride provide a pleasant - tasting sensation and shrink tissues. zinc, when used in combination with other anti