picture closest to the behavior of electrons in s orbitals, all of which have no angular momentum, might perhaps be that of a keplerian orbit with the orbital eccentricity of 1 but a finite major axis, not physically possible ( because particles were to collide ), but can be imagined as a limit of orbits with equal major axes but increasing eccentricity. below, a number of drum membrane vibration modes and the respective wave functions of the hydrogen atom are shown. a correspondence can be considered where the wave functions of a vibrating drum head are for a two - coordinate system and the wave functions for a vibrating sphere are three - coordinate. none of the other sets of modes in a drum membrane have a central antinode, and in all of them the center of the drum does not move. these correspond to a node at the nucleus for all non - s orbitals in an atom. these orbitals all have some angular momentum, and in the planetary model, they correspond to particles in orbit with eccentricity less than 1. 0, so that they do not pass straight through the center of the primary body, but keep somewhat away from it. in addition, the drum modes analogous to p and d modes in an atom show spatial irregularity along the different radial directions from the center of the drum, whereas all of the modes analogous to s modes are perfectly symmetrical in radial direction. the non - radial - symmetry properties of non - s orbitals are necessary to localize a particle with angular momentum and a wave nature in an orbital where it must tend to stay away from the central attraction force, since any particle localized at the point of central attraction could have no angular momentum. for these modes, waves in the drum head tend to avoid the central point. such features again emphasize that the shapes of atomic orbitals are a direct consequence of the wave nature of electrons. orbital energy in atoms with one electron ( hydrogen - like atom ), the energy of an orbital ( and, consequently, any electron in the orbital ) is determined mainly by. the orbital has the lowest possible energy in the atom. each successively higher value of has a higher energy, but the difference decreases as increases. for high, the energy becomes so high that the electron can easily escape the atom. in single electron atoms, all levels with different within a given are degenerate in the schrodinger approximation, and have the same energy. this approximation is broken slightly in the solution to the dirac equation ( where energy depends on and another quantum number ), and by the effect