critical of wallace ' s views. as the historian of science and sceptic michael shermer has stated, wallace ' s views in this area were at odds with two major tenets of the emerging darwinian philosophy. these were that evolution was not teleological ( purpose - driven ), and that it was not anthropocentric ( human - centred ). much later in his life wallace returned to these themes, that evolution suggested that the universe might have a purpose, and that certain aspects of living organisms might not be explainable in terms of purely materialistic processes. he set out his ideas in a 1909 magazine article entitled the world of life, later expanded into a book of the same name. shermer commented that this anticipated ideas about design in nature and directed evolution that would arise from religious traditions throughout the 20th century. assessment of wallace ' s role in history of evolutionary theory in many accounts of the development of evolutionary theory, wallace is mentioned only in passing as simply being the stimulus to the publication of darwin ' s own theory. in reality, wallace developed his own distinct evolutionary views which diverged from darwin ' s, and was considered by many ( especially darwin ) to be a leading thinker on evolution in his day, whose ideas could not be ignored. one historian of science has pointed out that, through both private correspondence and published works, darwin and wallace exchanged knowledge and stimulated each other ' s ideas and theories over an extended period. wallace is the most - cited naturalist in darwin ' s descent of man, occasionally in strong disagreement. darwin and wallace agreed on the importance of natural selection, and some of the factors responsible for it : competition between species and geographical isolation. but wallace believed that evolution had a purpose ( " teleology " ) in maintaining species ' fitness to their environment, whereas darwin hesitated to attribute any purpose to a random natural process. scientific discoveries since the 19th century support darwin ' s viewpoint, by identifying additional mechanisms and triggers such as mutations triggered by environmental radiation or mutagenic chemicals. wallace remained an ardent defender of natural selection for the rest of his life. by the 1880s, evolution was widely accepted in scientific circles, but natural selection less so. wallace ' s 1889 darwinism was a response to the scientific critics of natural selection. of all wallace ' s books, it is the most cited by scholarly publications. other scientific contributions biogeography and ecology in 1872, at the urging of many of his friends, including darwin, philip sclater, and alfred newton, wallace began research for