three children, of whom two survived to adulthood. their son, william preston johnston, became a colonel in the confederate states army. the senior johnston resigned his commission in 1834 to care for his dying wife in kentucky, who succumbed two years later to tuberculosis. after serving as secretary of war for the republic of texas in 1838 - 40, johnston resigned and went back to kentucky. in 1843, he married eliza griffin, his late wife ' s first cousin. the couple moved to texas, where they settled on a large plantation in brazoria county. johnston named the property " china grove ". here they raised johnston ' s two children from his first marriage and the first three children born to eliza and him. a sixth child was born later when the family lived in los angeles, where they had permanently settled. texian army johnson moved to texas in 1836 and enlisted as a private in the texian army after the texas war of independence from the republic of mexico. he was named adjutant general as a colonel in the republic of texas army on august 5, 1836. on january 31, 1837, he became senior brigadier general in command of the texas army. on february 5, 1837, johnston fought in a duel with texas brigadier general felix huston, who was angered and offended by johnston ' s promotion. huston had been the acting commander of the army and perceived johnston ' s appointment as a slight from the texas government. johnston was shot through the hip and severely wounded, requiring him to relinquish his post during his recovery. afterwards, johnston said he fought huston " as a public duty... he had but little respect for the practice of dueling. " he believed that the " safety of the republic depended upon the efficiency of the army... and upon the good discipline and subordination of the troops, which could only be secured by their obedience to their legal commander. general huston embodied the lawless spirit in the army, which had to be met and controlled at whatever personal peril. " many years later, huston said that the duel was " a shameful piece of business, and i wouldn ' t do it again under any circumstances... why, when i reflect upon the circumstances, i hate myself... that one act blackened all the good ones of my life. but i couldn ' t challenge congress ; and president houston, although a duelist, was too far above me in rank. well, thank god, i didn ' t kill him. " on december 22, 1838,