upthrust — aerodynamic lift, and powered lift in the form of engine thrust. aerodynamic lift involving wings is the most common, with fixed - wing aircraft being kept in the air by the forward movement of wings, and rotorcraft by spinning wing - shaped rotors sometimes called " rotary wings. " a wing is a flat, horizontal surface, usually shaped in cross - section as an aerofoil. to fly, air must flow over the wing and generate lift. a flexible wing is a wing made of fabric or thin sheet material, often stretched over a rigid frame. a kite is tethered to the ground and relies on the speed of the wind over its wings, which may be flexible or rigid, fixed, or rotary. with powered lift, the aircraft directs its engine thrust vertically downward. v / stol aircraft, such as the harrier jump jet and lockheed martin f - 35b take off and land vertically using powered lift and transfer to aerodynamic lift in steady flight. a pure rocket is not usually regarded as an aerodyne because it does not depend on the air for its lift ( and can even fly into space ) ; however, many aerodynamic lift vehicles have been powered or assisted by rocket motors. rocket - powered missiles that obtain aerodynamic lift at very high speed due to airflow over their bodies are a marginal case. fixed - wing the forerunner of the fixed - wing aircraft is the kite. whereas a fixed - wing aircraft relies on its forward speed to create airflow over the wings, a kite is tethered to the ground and relies on the wind blowing over its wings to provide lift. kites were the first kind of aircraft to fly and were invented in china around 500 bc. much aerodynamic research was done with kites before test aircraft, wind tunnels, and computer modelling programs became available. the first heavier - than - air craft capable of controlled free - flight were gliders. a glider designed by george cayley carried out the first true manned, controlled flight in 1853. the first powered and controllable fixed - wing aircraft ( the airplane or aeroplane ) was invented by wilbur and orville wright. besides the method of propulsion ( if any ), fixed - wing aircraft are in general characterized by their wing configuration. the most important wing characteristics are : number of wings — monoplane, biplane, etc. wing support — braced or cantilever, rigid or flexible. wing planform — including aspect ratio, angle of sweep, and any variations along the span ( including the important class of delta wings )