a greater number of people. the adaaa also added to the ada examples of " major life activities " including, but not limited to, " caring for oneself, performing manual tasks, seeing, hearing, eating, sleeping, walking, standing, lifting, bending, speaking, breathing, learning, reading, concentrating, thinking, communicating, and working " as well as the operation of several specified major bodily functions. the act overturned a 1999 us supreme court case that held that an employee was not disabled if the impairment could be corrected by mitigating measures ; it specifically provides that such impairment must be determined without considering such ameliorative measures. it also overturned the court restriction that an impairment that substantially limits one major life activity must also limit others to be considered a disability. in 2008, the united states house committee on education and labor stated that the amendment " makes it absolutely clear that the ada is intended to provide broad coverage to protect anyone who faces discrimination on the basis of disability. " thus the adaaa led to broader coverage of impaired employees. web content accessibility guidelines, 2019 in october 2019, the supreme court declined to resolve a circuit split as to whether websites are covered by the ada. the court turned down an appeal from domino ' s pizza and let stand a u. s. 9th circuit court of appeals ruling which held that the americans with disabilities act protects access not just to brick - and - mortar public accommodations, but also to the websites and apps of those businesses. impact the ada led to significant improvements in terms of access to public services, accessibility in the built environment, and societal understanding of disability. accessibility employment between 1991 ( after the enactment of the ada ) and 1995, the employment rate of men with disabilities dropped by 7. 8 % regardless of age, educational level, or type of disability, with the most affected being young, less - educated and intellectually disabled men. while no causal link between the ada and that trend has been definitively identified, some researchers have characterized the ada as ineffectual and argued that it caused this decline by raising the cost of doing business for employers, who quietly avoid hiring people with disabilities for fear of lawsuit. to these employers, hiring people with disabilities became too expensive as they had to spend extra on assistive technology. in 2001, for men of all working ages and women under 40, current population survey data showed a sharp drop in the employment of disabled workers, leading at least two economists to attribute the cause to the act. by contrast, a study in 2003 found that while the act may