spring he recovered enough, in his own view, to supervise the lens installation at cordouan. soon afterwards, it became clear that his condition was tuberculosis. in 1824, he was advised that if he wanted to live longer, he needed to scale back his activities. perceiving his lighthouse work to be his most important duty, he resigned as an examiner at the ecole polytechnique, and closed his scientific notebooks. his last note to the academie, read on 13 june 1825, described the first radiometer and attributed the observed repulsive force to a temperature difference. although his fundamental research ceased, his advocacy did not ; as late as august or september 1826, he found the time to answer herschel ' s queries on the wave theory. it was herschel who recommended fresnel for the royal society ' s rumford medal. fresnel ' s cough worsened in the winter of 1826 – 1827, leaving him too ill to return to mathieu in the spring. the academie meeting of 30 april 1827 was the last that he attended. in early june he was carried to ville - d ' avray, west of paris. there his mother joined him. on 6 july, arago arrived to deliver the rumford medal. sensing arago ' s distress, fresnel whispered that " the most beautiful crown means little, when it is laid on the grave of a friend. " fresnel did not have the strength to reply to the royal society. he died eight days later, on bastille day. he is buried at pere lachaise cemetery, paris. the inscription on his headstone is partly eroded away ; the legible part says, when translated, " to the memory of augustin jean fresnel, member of the institute of france ". posthumous publications fresnel ' s " second memoir " on double refraction was not printed until late 1827, a few months after his death. until then, the best published source on his work on double refraction was an extract of that memoir, printed in 1822. his final treatment of partial reflection and total internal reflection, read to the academie in january 1823, was thought to be lost until it was rediscovered among the papers of the deceased joseph fourier ( 1768 – 1830 ), and was printed in 1831. until then, it was known chiefly through an extract printed in 1823 and 1825. the memoir introducing the parallelepiped form of the fresnel rhomb, read in march 1818, was mislaid until 1846, and then