##ifa who had sided with the muslims was rewarded with the granting of a land estate. similarly, a kindah rebel named al - ash ' ath ibn qays, after repenting and re - joining islam, was later given land in medina as well as the hand of abu bakr ' s sister umm farwa in marriage. at their heart, the ridda movements were challenges to the political and religious supremacy of the islamic state. through his success in suppressing the insurrections, abu bakr had in effect continued the political consolidation which had begun under muhammad ' s leadership with relatively little interruption. by wars ' end, he had established an islamic hegemony over the entirety of the arabian peninsula. expeditions into persia and syria with arabia having united under a single centralised state with a formidable military, the region could now be viewed as a potential threat to the neighbouring byzantine and sasanian empires. it may be that abu bakr, reasoning that it was inevitable that one of these powers would launch a pre - emptive strike against the youthful caliphate, decided that it was better to deliver the first blow himself. regardless of the caliph ' s motivations, in 633, small forces were dispatched into iraq and palestine, capturing several towns. though the byzantines and sassanians were certain to retaliate, abu bakr had reason to be confident ; the two empires were militarily exhausted after centuries of war against each other, making it likely that any forces sent to arabia would be diminished and weakened. a more pressing advantage though was the effectiveness of the muslim fighters as well as their zeal, the latter of which was partially based on their certainty of the righteousness of their cause. additionally, the general belief among the muslims was that the community must be defended at all costs. historian theodor noldeke gives the somewhat controversial opinion that this religious fervour was intentionally used to maintain the enthusiasm and momentum of the ummah : though abu bakr had started these initial conflicts which eventually resulted in the islamic conquests of persia and the levant, he did not live to see those regions conquered by islam, instead leaving the task to his successors. preservation of the quran abu bakr was instrumental in preserving the quran in written form. it is said that after the hard - won victory over musaylimah in the battle of yamama in 632, umar saw that some five hundred of the muslims who had memorised the quran had been killed. fearing that it may become lost or corrupted, umar requested that abu