after two weeks, the folds of skin disappear and after three, the ears can be held upright. after 5 – 6 weeks, body hair starts growing. it is able to leave the burrow to accompany its mother after only two weeks and eats termites at 9 weeks, and is weaned between three months and 16 weeks. at six months of age, it is able to dig its own burrows, but it will often remain with the mother until the next mating season, and is sexually mature from approximately two years of age. conservation aardvarks were thought to have declining numbers, however, this is possibly because they are not readily seen. there are no definitive counts because of their nocturnal and secretive habits ; however, their numbers seem to be stable overall. they are not considered common anywhere in africa, but due to their large range, they maintain sufficient numbers. there may be a slight decrease in numbers in eastern, northern, and western africa. southern african numbers are not decreasing. it has received an official designation from the iucn as least concern. however, they are a species in a precarious situation, as they are so dependent on such specific food ; therefore if a problem arises with the abundance of termites, the species as a whole would be affected drastically. recent research suggests that aardvarks may be particularly vulnerable to alterations in temperature caused by climate change. droughts negatively impact the availability of termites and ants, which comprise the bulk of an aardvark ' s diet. nocturnal species faced with resource scarcity may increase their diurnal activity to spare the energy costs of staying warm at night, but this comes at the cost of withstanding high temperatures during the day. a study on aardvarks in the kalahari desert saw that five out of six aardvarks being studied perished following a drought. aardvarks that survive droughts can take long periods of time to regain health and optimal thermoregulatory physiology, reducing the reproductive potential of the species. aardvarks handle captivity well. the first zoo to have one was london zoo in 1869, which had an animal from south africa. mythology and popular culture in african folklore, the aardvark is much admired because of its diligent quest for food and its fearless response to soldier ants. hausa magicians make a charm from the heart, skin, forehead, and nails of the aardvark, which they then proceed to pound together with the root of a certain tree. wrapped in a piece of