##is. about how the anti - mog antibodies appear in the patients serum there are several theories : a preceding antigenic challenge can be identified in approximately two - thirds of people. some viral infections thought to induce adem include influenza virus, dengue, enterovirus, measles, mumps, rubella, varicella zoster, epstein – barr virus, cytomegalovirus, herpes simplex virus, hepatitis a, coxsackievirus and covid - 19. bacterial infections include mycoplasma pneumoniae, borrelia burgdorferi, leptospira, and beta - hemolytic streptococci. exposure to vaccines : the only vaccine proven related to adem is the semple form of the rabies vaccine, but hepatitis b, pertussis, diphtheria, measles, mumps, rubella, pneumococcus, varicella, influenza, japanese encephalitis, and polio vaccines have all been implicated. the majority of the studies that correlate vaccination with adem onset use only small samples or are case studies. large - scale epidemiological studies ( e. g., of mmr vaccine or smallpox vaccine ) do not show increased risk of adem following vaccination. an upper bound for the risk of adem from measles vaccination, if it exists, can be estimated to be 10 per million, which is far lower than the risk of developing adem from an actual measles infection, which is about 1 per 1, 000 cases. for a rubella infection, the risk is 1 per 5, 000 cases. some early vaccines, later shown to have been contaminated with host animal cns tissue, had adem incidence rates as high as 1 in 600. in rare cases, adem seems to follow from organ transplantation. diagnosis the term adem has been inconsistently used at different times. currently, the commonly accepted international standard for the clinical case definition is the one published by the international pediatric ms study group, revision 2007. given that the definition is clinical, it is currently unknown if all the cases of adem are positive for anti - mog autoantibody ; in any case, it appears to be strongly related to adem diagnosis. differential diagnosis multiple sclerosis while adem and ms both involve autoimmune demyelination, they differ in many clinical, genetic, imaging, and his