there are scholars who doubt whether her impact on his thought was of any great significance at all. marriages, relationships and children correspondence between einstein and maric, discovered and published in 1987, revealed that in early 1902, while maric was visiting her parents in novi sad, she gave birth to a daughter, lieserl. when maric returned to switzerland it was without the child, whose fate is uncertain. a letter of einstein ' s that he wrote in september 1903 suggests that the girl was either given up for adoption or died of scarlet fever in infancy. einstein and maric married in january 1903. in may 1904, their son hans albert was born in bern, switzerland. their son eduard was born in zurich in july 1910. in letters that einstein wrote to marie winteler in the months before eduard ' s arrival, he described his love for his wife as " misguided " and mourned the " missed life " that he imagined he would have enjoyed if he had married winteler instead : " i think of you in heartfelt love every spare minute and am so unhappy as only a man can be. " in 1912, einstein entered into a relationship with elsa lowenthal, who was both his first cousin on his mother ' s side and his second cousin on his father ' s. when maric learned of his infidelity soon after moving to berlin with him in april 1914, she returned to zurich, taking hans albert and eduard with her. einstein and maric were granted a divorce on 14 february 1919 on the grounds of having lived apart for five years. as part of the divorce settlement, einstein agreed that if he were to win a nobel prize, he would give the money that he received to maric ; she had to wait only two years before her foresight in extracting this promise from him was rewarded. einstein married lowenthal in 1919. in 1923, he began a relationship with a secretary named betty neumann, the niece of his close friend hans muhsam. lowenthal nevertheless remained loyal to him, accompanying him when he emigrated to the united states in 1933. in 1935, she was diagnosed with heart and kidney problems. she died in december 1936. a volume of einstein ' s letters released by hebrew university of jerusalem in 2006 added further names to the catalog of women with whom he was romantically involved. they included margarete lebach ( a blonde austrian ), estella katzenellenbogen ( the rich owner of a florist business ), toni mendel ( a wealthy