the afterlife or life after death is a purported existence in which the essential part of an individual ' s stream of consciousness or identity continues to exist after the death of their physical body. the surviving essential aspect varies between belief systems ; it may be some partial element, or the entire soul or spirit, which carries with it one ' s personal identity. belief in an afterlife is in contrast to the belief in oblivion after death. in some views, this continued existence takes place in a spiritual realm, while in others, the individual may be reborn into this world and begin the life cycle over again, likely with no memory of what they have done in the past. in this latter view, such rebirths and deaths may take place over and over again continuously until the individual gains entry to a spiritual realm or otherworld. major views on the afterlife derive from religion, esotericism and metaphysics. some belief systems, such as those in the abrahamic tradition, hold that the dead go to a specific place ( e. g. paradise ) after death, as determined by god, based on their actions and beliefs during life. in contrast, in systems of reincarnation, such as those in the indian religions, the nature of the continued existence is determined directly by the actions of the individual in the ended life. different metaphysical models theist immortalists generally believe some afterlife awaits people when they die. members of some generally non - theistic religions believe in an afterlife without reference to a deity. the sadducees were an ancient jewish sect that generally believed that there was a god but no existence after death. many religions, whether they believe in the soul ' s existence in another world like christianity, islam, and many pagan belief systems, or reincarnation like many forms of hinduism and buddhism, believe that one ' s status in the afterlife is a consequence of one ' s conduct during life. reincarnation reincarnation is the philosophical or religious concept that an aspect of a living being starts a new life in a different physical body or form after each death. this concept is also known as rebirth or transmigration and is part of the samsara / karma doctrine of cyclic existence. samsara refers to the process in which souls ( jivas ) go through a sequence of human and animal forms. traditional hinduism teaches that each life helps the soul ( jivas ) learn until the soul becomes purified to the point of enlightenment ( unity with the cosmos ). all major indian religions, namely buddhism, hinduism, jainism, and sikh