" another friend and colleague, who went on to become premier of ontario, sir george ross, said, " mackenzie was sui generis a debater. his humorous sallies blistered like a blast from a flaming smelter. his sterling honesty is a great heritage, and will keep his memory green to all future generations. " at his eulogy, rev. dr. thomas compared him to the duke of wellington, who " stood four square, to all the winds that blow. " newspapers around the world and in canada had this to say about him. the london times – the untiring energy, the business - like accuracy, the keen perception and reliable judgment, and above all the inflexible integrity, which marked his private life, he carried without abatement of one jot into his public career. the westminster review – a man, who although, through failing health and failing voice, he had virtually passed out of public life, yet retained to the last the affectionate veneration of the canadian people as no other man of the time can be said to have done. the charlottetown patriot – in all that constitutes the real man, the honest statesman, the true patriot, the warm friend, and sincere christian, he had few equals. possessed of a clear intellect, a retentive memory, and a ready command of appropriate words, he was one of the most logical and powerful speakers we have ever heard. the st. john telegraph – he was loved by the people and his political opponents were compelled to respect him even above their own chosen leader. as a statesman, he has had few equals. the montreal star – it is one of the very foremost architects of the canadian nationality that we mourn. in the dark days of ’ 73, canadians were in a state of panic, distrusting the stability of their newly - built dominion ; no one can tell what would have happened had not the stalwart form of alexander mackenzie lifted itself above the screaming, vociferating and denying mass of politicians, and all canada felt at once, there was a man who could be trusted. the toronto globe – he was a man who loved the people and fought for their rights against privilege and monopoly in every form. the philadelphia record – like caesar, who twice refused a knightly crown, alexander mackenzie refused knighthood three times. unlike caesar, he owed his political overthrow to his incorruptible honesty and unswerving integrity. legacy in their 1999 study of the prime ministers of canada, which included