casa mila (, ), popularly known as la pedrera (, ; " the stone quarry " ) in reference to its unconventional rough - hewn appearance, is a modernista building in barcelona, catalonia, spain. it was the last private residence designed by architect antoni gaudi and was built between 1906 and 1912. the building was commissioned in 1906 by and his wife. at the time, it was controversial because of its undulating stone facade, twisting wrought iron balconies, and design by josep maria jujol. several structural innovations include a self - supporting stone facade, and a free - plan floor, underground garage and the spectacular terrace on the roof. in 1984, it was declared a world heritage site by unesco. since 2013 it has been the headquarters of the fundacio catalunya la pedrera, which manages visits to the building, exhibitions and other cultural and educational activities at casa mila. building history architect antoni gaudi i cornet was born on june 25, 1852, in catalonia, spain. as a child, gaudi ' s health was poor, suffering from rheumatism. because of this, he was afforded lengthy periods of time resting at his summer house in riudoms. here he spent a large portion of his time outdoors, allowing him to deeply study nature. this would become one of the major influences in his architecture to come. gaudi was a very practical man and a craftsman at his core. in his work he followed impulses and turned creative plans into reality. his openness to embrace new styles combined with a vivid imagination helped mold new styles of architecture and consequently helped push the limits of construction. today he is regarded as a pioneer of the modern architecture style. in 1870, gaudi moved to barcelona to study architecture. he was an inconsistent student who showed flashes of brilliance. it took him eight years to graduate due to a mix of health complications, military service as well as other activities. after completion of his education he became a prolific architect as well as designing gardens, sculptures and all other decorative arts. gaudi ' s most famous works consisted of several buildings : parque guell ; palacio guell ; casa mila ; casa vicens. he also is contributed for his work on the crypt of la sagrada familia and the nativity facade. gaudi ' s work at the time was both admired and criticized for his bold, innovative solutions. gaudi was injured on june 7, 1926, when he was run over by