engineering, and maths, " and to " create new role models for girls and women " in these fields. events have included wikipedia edit - a - thons with the aim of improving the representation of women on wikipedia in terms of articles and editors to reduce unintended gender bias on wikipedia. the ada initiative was a non - profit organisation dedicated to increasing the involvement of women in the free culture and open source movements. the engineering in computer science and telecommunications college building in zaragoza university is called the ada byron building. the computer centre in the village of porlock, near where lovelace lived, is named after her. ada lovelace house is a council - owned building in kirkby - in - ashfield, nottinghamshire, near where lovelace spent her infancy. in 2012, a google doodle and blog post honoured her on her birthday. in 2013, ada developers academy was founded and named after her. the mission of ada developers academy is to diversify tech by providing women and gender diverse people the skills, experience, and community support to become professional software developers to change the face of tech. on 17 september 2013, the bbc radio 4 biography programme great lives devoted an episode to ada lovelace ; she was sponsored by tv presenter konnie huq. as of november 2015, all new british passports have included an illustration of lovelace and babbage. in 2017, a google doodle honoured her with other women on international women ' s day. on 2 february 2018, satellogic, a high - resolution earth observation imaging and analytics company, launched a nusat type micro - satellite named in honour of ada lovelace. in march 2018, the new york times published a belated obituary for ada lovelace. on 27 july 2018, senator ron wyden submitted, in the united states senate, the designation of 9 october 2018 as national ada lovelace day : " to honor the life and contributions of ada lovelace as a leading woman in science and mathematics ". the resolution ( s. res. 592 ) was considered, and agreed to without amendment and with a preamble by unanimous consent. in november 2020 it was announced that trinity college dublin whose library had previously held forty busts, all of them of men, was commissioning four new busts of women, one of whom was to be lovelace. in march 2022, a statue of ada lovelace was installed at the site of the former ergon house in the city of westminster, london, honoring its scientific history. the redevelopment was part of a