; " 1 chronicles 17 : 16 – 17, faith ' s review and expectation " was the title of the poem with the first line " amazing grace! ( how sweet the sound ) ". critical analysis the general impact of olney hymns was immediate and it became a widely popular tool for evangelicals in britain for many years. scholars appreciated cowper ' s poetry somewhat more than newton ' s plaintive and plain language, expressing his forceful personality. the most prevalent themes in the verses written by newton in olney hymns are faith in salvation, wonder at god ' s grace, his love for jesus, and his cheerful exclamations of the joy he found in his faith. as a reflection of newton ' s connection to his parishioners, he wrote many of the hymns in first person, admitting his own experience with sin. bruce hindmarsh in sing them over again to me : hymns and hymnbooks in america considers " amazing grace " an excellent example of newton ' s testimonial style afforded by the use of this perspective. several of newton ' s hymns were recognised as great work ( " amazing grace " was not among them ), while others seem to have been included to fill in when cowper was unable to write. jonathan aitken calls newton, specifically referring to " amazing grace ", an " unashamedly middlebrow lyricist writing for a lowbrow congregation ", noting that only twenty - one of the nearly 150 words used in all six verses have more than one syllable. william phipps in the anglican theological review and author james basker have interpreted the first stanza of " amazing grace " as evidence of newton ' s realisation that his participation in the slave trade was his wretchedness, perhaps representing a wider common understanding of newton ' s motivations. newton joined forces with william wilberforce, the british member of parliament who led the parliamentarian campaign to abolish the slave trade in the british empire, culminating in the slave trade act 1807. but newton did not become an ardent and outspoken abolitionist until after he left olney in the 1780s ; he is not known to have connected writing the hymn known as " amazing grace " to anti - slavery sentiments. the lyrics in olney hymns were arranged by their association to the biblical verses that would be used by newton and cowper in their prayer meetings, and did not address any political objective. for newton, the beginning of the year was a time to reflect on one ' s spiritual progress. at the same time he completed a diary which