the two couples went on holiday together to the island of cyprus. what started as singing for fun on the beach ended up as an improvised live performance in front of the united nations soldiers stationed on the island. andersson and ulvaeus were at this time recording their first album together, lycka, which was to be released in september 1970. faltskog and lyngstad added backing vocals on several tracks during june, and the idea of their working together saw them launch a stage act, " festfolket " ( which translates from swedish to " party people " and in pronunciation also " engaged couples " ), on 1 november 1970 in gothenburg. the cabaret show attracted generally negative reviews, except for the performance of the andersson and ulvaeus hit " hej, gamle man " ( " hello, old man " ) – the first bjorn and benny recording to feature all four. they also performed solo numbers from respective albums, but the lukewarm reception convinced the foursome to shelve plans for working together for the time being, and each soon concentrated on individual projects again. first record together " hej, gamle man " " hej, gamle man ", a song about an old salvation army soldier, became the quartet ' s first hit. the record was credited to bjorn & benny and reached number five on the sales charts and number one on svensktoppen, staying on the latter chart ( which was not a chart linked to sales or airplay ) for 15 weeks. it was during 1971 that the four artists began working together more, adding vocals to the others ' recordings. faltskog, andersson and ulvaeus toured together in may, while lyngstad toured on her own. frequent recording sessions brought the foursome closer together during the summer. 1970 – 1973 : forming the group after the 1970 release of lycka, two more singles credited to " bjorn & benny " were released in sweden, " det kan ingen doktor hjalpa " ( " no doctor can help with that " ) and " tank om jorden vore ung " ( " imagine if earth was young " ), with more prominent vocals by faltskog and lyngstad – and moderate chart success. faltskog and ulvaeus, now married, started performing together with andersson on a regular basis at the swedish folkparks in the middle of 1971. stig anderson, founder and owner of polar music, was determined to break into the mainstream