, if produced at scale, they are potentially weapons of mass destruction. in 2014, 30 nations ( including china ) supported a ban on autonomous weapons under the united nations ' convention on certain conventional weapons, however the united states and others disagreed. ai provides a number of tools that are particularly useful for authoritarian governments : smart spyware, face recognition and voice recognition allow widespread surveillance ; such surveillance allows machine learning to classify potential enemies of the state and can prevent them from hiding ; recommendation systems can precisely target propaganda and misinformation for maximum effect ; deepfakes and generative ai aid in producing misinformation ; advanced ai can make authoritarian centralized decision making more competitive with liberal and decentralized systems such as markets. terrorists, criminals and rogue states can use weaponized ai such as advanced digital warfare and lethal autonomous weapons. machine - learning ai is also able to design tens of thousands of toxic molecules in a matter of hours. technological unemployment from the early days of the development of artificial intelligence there have been arguments, for example those put forward by weizenbaum, about whether tasks that can be done by computers actually should be done by them, given the difference between computers and humans, and between quantitative calculation and qualitative, value - based judgement. economists have frequently highlighted the risks of redundancies from ai, and speculated about unemployment if there is no adequate social policy for full employment. in the past, technology has tended to increase rather than reduce total employment, but economists acknowledge that " we ' re in uncharted territory " with ai. a survey of economists showed disagreement about whether the increasing use of robots and ai will cause a substantial increase in long - term unemployment, but they generally agree that it could be a net benefit if productivity gains are redistributed. risk estimates vary ; for example, in the 2010s michael osborne and carl benedikt frey estimated 47 % of u. s. jobs are at " high risk " of potential automation, while an oecd report classified only 9 % of u. s. jobs as " high risk ". the methodology of speculating about future employment levels has been criticised as lacking evidential foundation, and for implying that technology ( rather than social policy ) creates unemployment ( as opposed to redundancies ). unlike previous waves of automation, many middle - class jobs may be eliminated by artificial intelligence ; the economist stated in 2015 that " the worry that ai could do to white - collar jobs what steam power did to blue - collar ones during the industrial revolution " is " worth