with a live s - iv was launched from lc - 37. this was followed by five launches of boilerplate csms ( designated as - 101 through as - 105 ) into orbit in 1964 and 1965. the last three of these further supported the apollo program by also carrying pegasus satellites, which verified the safety of the translunar environment by measuring the frequency and severity of micrometeorite impacts. in september 1962, nasa planned to launch four crewed csm flights on the saturn i from late 1965 through 1966, concurrent with project gemini. the payload capacity would have severely limited the systems which could be included, so the decision was made in october 1963 to use the uprated saturn ib for all crewed earth orbital flights. saturn ib the saturn ib was an upgraded version of the saturn i. the s - ib first stage increased the thrust to by uprating the h - 1 engine. the second stage replaced the s - iv with the s - ivb - 200, powered by a single j - 2 engine burning liquid hydrogen fuel with lox, to produce of thrust. a restartable version of the s - ivb was used as the third stage of the saturn v. the saturn ib could send over into low earth orbit, sufficient for a partially fueled csm or the lm. saturn ib launch vehicles and flights were designated with an as - 200 series number, " as " indicating " apollo saturn " and the " 2 " indicating the second member of the saturn rocket family. saturn v saturn v launch vehicles and flights were designated with an as - 500 series number, " as " indicating " apollo saturn " and the " 5 " indicating saturn v. the three - stage saturn v was designed to send a fully fueled csm and lm to the moon. it was in diameter and stood tall with its lunar payload. its capability grew to for the later advanced lunar landings. the s - ic first stage burned rp - 1 / lox for a rated thrust of, which was upgraded to. the second and third stages burned liquid hydrogen ; the third stage was a modified version of the s - ivb, with thrust increased to and capability to restart the engine for translunar injection after reaching a parking orbit. astronauts nasa ' s director of flight crew operations during the apollo program was donald k. " deke " slayton, one of the original mercury seven astronauts who was medically grounded in september 1962 due to a heart murmur. slayton was responsible for making all gemini and apollo crew assignments. thirty - two astronauts were