was then deported from czechoslovakia on may 7, 1965, by order of the stb. vaclav havel points to ginsberg as an important inspiration. gay rights one contribution that is often considered his most significant and most controversial was his openness about homosexuality. ginsberg was an early proponent of freedom for gay people. in 1943, he discovered within himself " mountains of homosexuality. " he expressed this desire openly and graphically in his poetry. he also struck a note for gay marriage by listing peter orlovsky, his lifelong companion, as his spouse in his who ' s who entry. subsequent gay writers saw his frank talk about homosexuality as an opening to speak more openly and honestly about something often before only hinted at or spoken of in metaphor. in writing about sexuality in graphic detail and in his frequent use of language seen as indecent, he challenged — and ultimately changed — obscenity laws. he was a staunch supporter of others whose expression challenged obscenity laws ( william s. burroughs and lenny bruce, for example ). association with nambla ginsberg was a supporter and member of the north american man / boy love association ( nambla ), a pedophilia and pederasty advocacy organization in the united states that works to abolish age of consent laws and legalize sexual relations between adults and children. saying that he joined the organization " in defense of free speech ", ginsberg stated : " attacks on nambla stink of politics, witchhunting for profit, humorlessness, vanity, anger and ignorance... i ' m a member of nambla because i love boys too — everybody does, who has a little humanity ". in 1994, ginsberg appeared in a documentary on nambla called chicken hawk : men who love boys ( playing on the gay male slang term " chickenhawk " ), in which he read a " graphic ode to youth ". he read his poem " sweet boy, gimme yr ass " from the book mind breaths. in her 2002 book heartbreak, andrea dworkin claimed ginsberg had ulterior motives for allying with nambla. in reference to his onetime friend dworkin, ginsberg stated : demystification of drugs ginsberg talked often about drug use. he organized the new york city chapter of lemar ( legalize marijuana ). throughout the 1960s he took an active role in the demystification of lsd, and, with timothy leary, worked to promote its common use. he remained for many decades an advocate of