amazons at ephesus. the amazons fled to samos and dionysus pursued them and killed a great number of them at a site since called panaema ( blood - soaked field ). the christian author eusebius writes that during the reign of oxyntes, one of the mythical kings of athens, the amazons burned down the temple at ephesus. in another myth dionysus unites with the amazons to fight against cronus and the titans. polyaenus writes that after dionysus has subdued the indians, he allies with them and the amazons and takes them into his service, who serve him in his campaign against the bactrians. nonnus in his dionysiaca reports about the amazons of dionysus, but states that they do not come from thermodon. amazons and alexander the great amazons are also mentioned by biographers of alexander the great, who report of queen thalestris bearing him a child ( a story in the alexander romance ). however, other biographers of alexander dispute the claim, including the highly regarded plutarch. he noted a moment when alexander ' s naval commander onesicritus read an amazon myth passage of his alexander history to king lysimachus of thrace who had taken part in the original expedition. the king smiled at him and said : " and where was i, then? " the talmud recounts that alexander wanted to conquer a " kingdom of women " but reconsidered when the women told him : roman and ancient egyptian records virgil ' s characterization of the volsci warrior maiden camilla in the aeneid borrows from the myths of the amazons. philostratus, in heroica, writes that the mysian women fought on horses alongside the men, just as the amazons. the leader was hiera, wife of telephus. the amazons are also said to have undertaken an expedition against the island of leuke, at the mouth of the danube, where the ashes of achilles were deposited by thetis. the ghost of the dead hero so terrified the horses, that they threw off and trampled upon the invaders, who were forced to retreat. virgil touches on the amazons and their queen penthesilea in his epic aeneid ( around 20 bc ). the biographer suetonius had julius caesar remark in his de vita caesarum that the amazons once ruled a large part of asia. appian provides a vivid description of themiscyra and its