classical standard " with which all future mesopotamian states compared themselves. traditionally, the ensi was the highest functionary of the sumerian city - states. in later traditions, one became an ensi by marrying the goddess inanna, legitimising the rulership through divine consent. initially, the monarchical lugal ( lu = man, gal = great ) was subordinate to the priestly ensi, and was appointed at times of troubles, but by later dynastic times, it was the lugal who had emerged as the preeminent role, having his own " e " ( = house ) or " palace ", independent from the temple establishment. by the time of mesalim, whichever dynasty controlled the city of kish was recognised as sar kissati ( = king of kish ), and was considered preeminent in sumer, possibly because this was where the two rivers approached, and whoever controlled kish ultimately controlled the irrigation systems of the other cities downstream. as sargon extended his conquest from the " lower sea " ( persian gulf ), to the " upper sea " ( mediterranean ), it was felt that he ruled " the totality of the lands under heaven ", or " from sunrise to sunset ", as contemporary texts put it. under sargon, the ensis generally retained their positions, but were seen more as provincial governors. the title sar kissati became recognised as meaning " lord of the universe ". sargon is even recorded as having organised naval expeditions to dilmun ( bahrain ) and magan, amongst the first organised military naval expeditions in history. whether he also did in the case of the mediterranean with the kingdom of kaptara ( possibly cyprus ), as claimed in later documents, is more questionable. with naram - sin, sargon ' s grandson, this went further than with sargon, with the king not only being called " lord of the four - quarters ( of the earth ) ", but also elevated to the ranks of the dingir ( = gods ), with his own temple establishment. previously a ruler could, like gilgamesh, become divine after death but the akkadian kings, from naram - sin onward, were considered gods on earth in their lifetimes. their portraits showed them of larger size than mere mortals and at some distance from their retainers. one strategy adopted by both sargon and naram - sin, to maintain control of the country, was to install their daughters, enheduanna and emmenanna respectively, as