the leasehold of a villa in torquay named ashfield. it was here that their third and last child, agatha, was born in 1890. she described her childhood as " very happy ". the millers lived mainly in devon but often visited her step - grandmother / great - aunt margaret miller in ealing and maternal grandmother mary boehmer in bayswater. a year was spent abroad with her family, in the french pyrenees, paris, dinard, and guernsey. because her siblings were so much older, and there were few children in their neighbourhood, christie spent much of her time playing alone with her pets and imaginary companions. she eventually made friends with other girls in torquay, noting that " one of the highlights of my existence " was her appearance with them in a youth production of gilbert and sullivan ' s the yeomen of the guard, in which she played the hero, colonel fairfax. according to christie, clara believed she should not learn to read until she was eight ; thanks to her curiosity, she was reading by the age of four. her sister had been sent to a boarding school, but their mother insisted that christie receive her education at home. as a result, her parents and sister supervised her studies in reading, writing and basic arithmetic, a subject she particularly enjoyed. they also taught her music, and she learned to play the piano and the mandolin. christie was a voracious reader from an early age. among her earliest memories were of reading children ' s books by mrs molesworth and edith nesbit. when a little older, she moved on to the surreal verse of edward lear and lewis carroll. as an adolescent, she enjoyed works by anthony hope, walter scott, charles dickens, and alexandre dumas. in april 1901, aged 10, she wrote her first poem, " the cow slip ". by 1901, her father ' s health had deteriorated, because of what he believed were heart problems. fred died in november 1901 from pneumonia and chronic kidney disease. christie later said that her father ' s death when she was 11 marked the end of her childhood. the family ' s financial situation had, by this time, worsened. madge married the year after their father ' s death and moved to cheadle, cheshire ; monty was overseas, serving in a british regiment. christie now lived alone at ashfield with her mother. in 1902, she began attending miss guyer ' s girls ' school in torquay but found it difficult to adjust to the disciplined atmosphere. in 1905, her mother sent her