s conduct. some users disagree with the tos, citing the guidelines are too strict to follow coupled with the fact the tos may change without users being made aware. a considerable cause for this was likely due to alleged censorship of user - generated content during the earlier years of growth for aol. certified email in early 2005, aol stated its intention to implement a certified email system called goodmail, which will allow companies to send email to users with whom they have pre - existing business relationships, with a visual indication that the email is from a trusted source and without the risk that the email messages might be blocked or stripped by spam filters. this decision drew fire from moveon, which characterized the program as an " email tax ", and the electronic frontier foundation ( eff ), which characterized it as a shakedown of non - profits. a website called dearaol. com was launched, with an online petition and a blog that garnered hundreds of signatures from people and organizations expressing their opposition to aol ' s use of goodmail. esther dyson defended the move in an editorial in the new york times, saying " i hope goodmail succeeds, and that it has lots of competition. i also think it and its competitors will eventually transform into services that more directly serve the interests of mail recipients. instead of the fees going to goodmail and aol, they will also be shared with the individual recipients. " tim lee of the technology liberation front posted an article that questioned the electronic frontier foundation ' s adopting a confrontational posture when dealing with private companies. lee ' s article cited a series of discussions on declan mccullagh ' s politechbot mailing list on this subject between the eff ' s danny o ' brien and antispammer suresh ramasubramanian, who has also compared the eff ' s tactics in opposing goodmail to tactics used by republican political strategist karl rove. spamassassin developer justin mason posted some criticism of the eff ' s and moveon ' s " going overboard " in their opposition to the scheme. the dearaol. com campaign lost momentum and disappeared, with the last post to the now defunct dearaol. com blog — " aol starts the shakedown " being made on may 9, 2006. comcast, who also used the service, announced on its website that goodmail had ceased operations and as of february 4, 2011, they no longer used the service. search data on august 4, 2006, aol released a