gestae divi augusti, to be inscribed in bronze in front of his mausoleum. copies of the text were inscribed throughout the empire upon his death. the inscriptions in latin featured translations in greek beside it and were inscribed on many public edifices, such as the temple in ankara dubbed the monumentum ancyranum, called the " queen of inscriptions " by historian theodor mommsen. the res gestae is the only work to have survived from antiquity, though augustus is also known to have composed poems entitled sicily, epiphanus, and ajax, an autobiography of 13 books, a philosophical treatise, and a written rebuttal to brutus ' s eulogy of cato. historians are able to analyze excerpts of letters penned by augustus, preserved in other works, to others for additional facts or clues about his personal life. many consider augustus to be rome ' s greatest emperor ; his policies certainly extended the empire ' s life span and initiated the celebrated pax romana or pax augusta. the roman senate wished subsequent emperors to " be more fortunate than augustus and better than trajan ". augustus was intelligent, decisive, and a shrewd politician, but he was not perhaps as charismatic as julius caesar and was influenced on occasion by livia ( sometimes for the worse ). nevertheless, his legacy proved more enduring. the city of rome was utterly transformed under augustus, with rome ' s first institutionalized police force, firefighting force, and the establishment of the municipal prefect as a permanent office. the police force was divided into cohorts of 500 men each, while the units of firemen ranged from 500 to 1, 000 men each, with 7 units assigned to 14 divided city sectors. a praefectus vigilum, or " prefect of the watch " was put in charge of the vigiles, rome ' s fire brigade and police. with rome ' s civil wars at an end, augustus was also able to create a standing army for the roman empire, fixed at a size of 28 legions of about 170, 000 soldiers. this was supported by numerous auxiliary units of 500 non - citizen soldiers each, often recruited from recently conquered areas. with his finances securing the maintenance of roads throughout italy, augustus installed an official courier system of relay stations overseen by a military officer known as the praefectus vehiculorum. besides the advent of swifter communication among italian polities, his extensive building of roads throughout italy also allowed rome ' s armies to march swiftly and at an unprecedented pace