unless either a conditional if - then goto or an unconditional goto changes program flow out of sequence. besides halt, minsky ' s machine includes three assignment ( replacement, substitution ) operations : zero ( e. g. the contents of location replaced by 0 : l ← 0 ), successor ( e. g. l ← l + 1 ), and decrement ( e. g. l ← l − 1 ). rarely must a programmer write " code " with such a limited instruction set. but minsky shows ( as do melzak and lambek ) that his machine is turing complete with only four general types of instructions : conditional goto, unconditional goto, assignment / replacement / substitution, and halt. however, a few different assignment instructions ( e. g. decrement, increment, and zero / clear / empty for a minsky machine ) are also required for turing - completeness ; their exact specification is somewhat up to the designer. the unconditional goto is convenient ; it can be constructed by initializing a dedicated location to zero e. g. the instruction " z ← 0 " ; thereafter the instruction if z = 0 then goto xxx is unconditional. simulation of an algorithm : computer ( computor ) language : knuth advises the reader that " the best way to learn an algorithm is to try it... immediately take pen and paper and work through an example ". but what about a simulation or execution of the real thing? the programmer must translate the algorithm into a language that the simulator / computer / computor can effectively execute. stone gives an example of this : when computing the roots of a quadratic equation the computer must know how to take a square root. if they do not, then the algorithm, to be effective, must provide a set of rules for extracting a square root. this means that the programmer must know a " language " that is effective relative to the target computing agent ( computer / computor ). but what model should be used for the simulation? van emde boas observes " even if we base complexity theory on abstract instead of concrete machines, the arbitrariness of the choice of a model remains. it is at this point that the notion of simulation enters ". when speed is being measured, the instruction set matters. for example, the subprogram in euclid ' s algorithm to compute the remainder would execute much faster if the programmer had a " modulus " instruction available