eye was anatomically constructed, he went on to consider how this anatomy would behave functionally as an optical system. his understanding of pinhole projection from his experiments appears to have influenced his consideration of image inversion in the eye, which he sought to avoid. he maintained that the rays that fell perpendicularly on the lens ( or glacial humor as he called it ) were further refracted outward as they left the glacial humor and the resulting image thus passed upright into the optic nerve at the back of the eye. he followed galen in believing that the lens was the receptive organ of sight, although some of his work hints that he thought the retina was also involved. alhazen ' s synthesis of light and vision adhered to the aristotelian scheme, exhaustively describing the process of vision in a logical, complete fashion. his research in catoptrics ( the study of optical systems using mirrors ) was centred on spherical and parabolic mirrors and spherical aberration. he made the observation that the ratio between the angle of incidence and refraction does not remain constant, and investigated the magnifying power of a lens. law of reflection alhazen was the first physicist to give complete statement of the law of reflection. he was first to state that the incident ray, the reflected ray, and the normal to the surface all lie in a same plane perpendicular to reflecting plane. alhazen ' s problem his work on catoptrics in book v of the book of optics contains a discussion of what is now known as alhazen ' s problem, first formulated by ptolemy in 150 ad. it comprises drawing lines from two points in the plane of a circle meeting at a point on the circumference and making equal angles with the normal at that point. this is equivalent to finding the point on the edge of a circular billiard table at which a player must aim a cue ball at a given point to make it bounce off the table edge and hit another ball at a second given point. thus, its main application in optics is to solve the problem, " given a light source and a spherical mirror, find the point on the mirror where the light will be reflected to the eye of an observer. " this leads to an equation of the fourth degree. this eventually led alhazen to derive a formula for the sum of fourth powers, where previously only the formulas for the sums of squares and cubes had been stated. his method can be readily generalized to find the formula for the sum of any integral powers, although he did