, and tactical training with an emphasis towards furthering the efficiency of the collective security element of the csto partnership. the ministry of defense of armenia has repeatedly stated that it would expect direct military assistance from the csto in case war with azerbaijan resumes, as recently as december 2009, defense minister ohanyan made the same statement. in august 2009, nikolay bordyuzha, the csto ' s secretary - general, confirmed that official yerevan can count on such support. on 4 february 2009, an agreement to create the collective rapid reaction force ( ksor ) was reached by five of the seven csto members, with plans finalized on 14 june 2009. armenia is one of the five member states. the force is intended to be used to repulse military aggression, conduct anti - terrorist operations, fight transnational crime and drug trafficking, and neutralize the effects of natural disasters. nato armenia participates in nato ' s partnership for peace ( pip ) program and it is in a nato organization called euro - atlantic partnership council ( eapc ). armenia is in the process of implementation of individual partnership action plans ( ipaps ), which is a program for those countries that have the political will and ability to deepen their relationship with nato. cooperative best effort exercise ( the first where russia was represented ) was run on armenian territory in 2003. france on 5 october 2023, following the 2023 azerbaijani offensive in nagorno - karabakh, france announced that it would send defense aid to the armenian military. greece greece is armenia ' s closest ally in nato and the two cooperate on multiple issues. a number of armenian officers are trained in greece every year, and military aid / material assistance has been provided to armenia. in 2003, the two countries signed a military cooperation accord, under which greece will increase the number of armenian servicemen trained at the military and military - medical academies in athens. in february 2003, armenia sent 34 peacekeepers to kosovo where they became part of the greek contingent. officials in yerevan have said the armenian military plans to substantially increase the size of its peacekeeping detachment and counts on greek assistance to the effort. in june 2008, armenia sent 72 peacekeepers to kosovo for a total of 106 peacekeepers. baltic states lithuania has been sharing experience and providing consultations to the armenian defense ministry in the field of democratic control of armed forces, military and defense concepts and public relations since 2002. since 2004, armenian officers have been invited to study at the lithuanian war academy and the baltic defence college in tartu, estonia. lithuania covers all