preserved. with the advent of surrealism as a poetic movement, anagrams regained the artistic respect they had had in the baroque period. the german poet unica zurn, who made extensive use of anagram techniques, came to regard obsession with anagrams as a " dangerous fever ", because it created isolation of the author. the surrealist leader andre breton coined the anagram avida dollars for salvador dali, to tarnish his reputation by the implication of commercialism. applications while anagramming is certainly a recreation first, there are ways in which anagrams are put to use, and these can be more serious, or at least not quite frivolous and formless. for example, psychologists use anagram - oriented tests, often called " anagram solution tasks ", to assess the implicit memory of young adults and adults alike. establishment of priority natural philosophers ( astronomers and others ) of the 17th century transposed their discoveries into latin anagrams, to establish their priority. in this way they laid claim to new discoveries before their results were ready for publication. galileo used for ( latin : i have observed the most distant planet to have a triple form ) for discovering the rings of saturn in 1610. galileo announced his discovery that venus had phases like the moon in the form ( latin : these immature ones have already been read in vain by me - oy ), that is, when rearranged, ( latin : the mother of loves [ = venus ] imitates the figures of cynthia [ = the moon ] ). in both cases, johannes kepler had solved the anagrams incorrectly, assuming they were talking about the moons of mars ( ) and a red spot on jupiter ( ), respectively. by coincidence, he turned out to be right about the actual objects existing. in 1656, christiaan huygens, using a better telescope than those available to galileo, figured that galileo ' s earlier observations of saturn actually meant it had a ring ( galileo ' s tools were only sufficient to see it as bumps ) and, like galileo, had published an anagram,. upon confirming his observations, three years later he revealed it to mean ( latin : it [ saturn ] is surrounded by a thin, flat, ring, nowhere touching, inclined to the ecliptic ). when robert hooke discovered hooke ' s law in 1660, he first published it in anagram form,, for ( latin : as the extension, so the force ). pseudonyms anagrams are connected to pseudonyms, by