into one of the following : linear programming when searching for optimal solutions to a linear function bound to linear equality and inequality constraints, the constraints of the problem can be used directly in producing the optimal solutions. there are algorithms that can solve any problem in this category, such as the popular simplex algorithm. problems that can be solved with linear programming include the maximum flow problem for directed graphs. if a problem additionally requires that one or more of the unknowns must be an integer then it is classified in integer programming. a linear programming algorithm can solve such a problem if it can be proved that all restrictions for integer values are superficial, i. e., the solutions satisfy these restrictions anyway. in the general case, a specialized algorithm or an algorithm that finds approximate solutions is used, depending on the difficulty of the problem. dynamic programming when a problem shows optimal substructures — meaning the optimal solution to a problem can be constructed from optimal solutions to subproblems — and overlapping subproblems, meaning the same subproblems are used to solve many different problem instances, a quicker approach called dynamic programming avoids recomputing solutions that have already been computed. for example, floyd – warshall algorithm, the shortest path to a goal from a vertex in a weighted graph can be found by using the shortest path to the goal from all adjacent vertices. dynamic programming and memoization go together. the main difference between dynamic programming and divide and conquer is that subproblems are more or less independent in divide and conquer, whereas subproblems overlap in dynamic programming. the difference between dynamic programming and straightforward recursion is in caching or memoization of recursive calls. when subproblems are independent and there is no repetition, memoization does not help ; hence dynamic programming is not a solution for all complex problems. by using memoization or maintaining a table of subproblems already solved, dynamic programming reduces the exponential nature of many problems to polynomial complexity. the greedy method a greedy algorithm is similar to a dynamic programming algorithm in that it works by examining substructures, in this case not of the problem but of a given solution. such algorithms start with some solution, which may be given or have been constructed in some way, and improve it by making small modifications. for some problems they can find the optimal solution while for others they stop at local optima, that is, at solutions that cannot be improved by the algorithm but are not optimum. the most popular use of greedy algorithms is for finding