##urienne in france, the valais in switzerland, and northern tyrol. the areas that are not arid and receive high precipitation experience periodic flooding from rapid snowmelt and runoff. the mean precipitation in the alps ranges from a low of per year to per year, with the higher levels occurring at high altitudes. at altitudes between, snowfall begins in november and accumulates through to april or may when the melt begins. snow lines vary from, above which the snow is permanent and the temperatures hover around the freezing point even during july and august. high - water levels in streams and rivers peak in june and july when the snow is still melting at the higher altitudes. the alps are split into five climatic zones, each with different vegetation. the climate, plant life, and animal life vary among the different sections or zones of the mountains. the lowest zone is the colline zone, which exists between, depending on the location. the montane zone extends from, followed by the sub - alpine zone from. the alpine zone, extending from tree line to the snow line, is followed by the glacial zone, which covers the glaciated areas of the mountain. climatic conditions show variances within the same zones ; for example, weather conditions at the head of a mountain valley, extending directly from the peaks, are colder and more severe than those at the mouth of a valley which tend to be less severe and receive less snowfall. climate change various models of climate change have been projected into the 22nd century for the alps, with an expectation that a trend toward increased temperatures will have an effect on snowfall, snowpack, glaciation, and river runoff. significant changes, of both natural and anthropogenic origins, have already been diagnosed from observations, including a 5. 6 % reduction per decade in snow cover duration over the last 50 years, which also highlights climate change adaptation needs due to impacts on the climate and regional socio - economic activities. ecology flora thirteen thousand species of plants have been identified in the alpine regions. alpine plants are grouped by habitat and soil type which can be limestone or non - calcareous. the habitats range from meadows, bogs, and woodland ( deciduous and coniferous ) areas to soil - less scree and moraines, and rock faces and ridges. a natural vegetation limit with altitude is given by the presence of the chief deciduous trees — oak, beech, ash and sycamore maple. these do not reach the same elevation, nor are they often found growing together, but their upper limit corresponds accurately enough to the change