has no roots in f. therefore, q ( x ) has degree greater than one, since every first degree polynomial has one root in f. every polynomial is a product of first degree polynomials the field f is algebraically closed if and only if every polynomial p ( x ) of degree n ≥ 1, with coefficients in f, splits into linear factors. in other words, there are elements k, x1, x2,..., xn of the field f such that p ( x ) = k ( x − x1 ) ( x − x2 ) ( x − xn ). if f has this property, then clearly every non - constant polynomial in f [ x ] has some root in f ; in other words, f is algebraically closed. on the other hand, that the property stated here holds for f if f is algebraically closed follows from the previous property together with the fact that, for any field k, any polynomial in k [ x ] can be written as a product of irreducible polynomials. polynomials of prime degree have roots if every polynomial over f of prime degree has a root in f, then every non - constant polynomial has a root in f. it follows that a field is algebraically closed if and only if every polynomial over f of prime degree has a root in f. the field has no proper algebraic extension the field f is algebraically closed if and only if it has no proper algebraic extension. if f has no proper algebraic extension, let p ( x ) be some irreducible polynomial in f [ x ]. then the quotient of f [ x ] modulo the ideal generated by p ( x ) is an algebraic extension of f whose degree is equal to the degree of p ( x ). since it is not a proper extension, its degree is 1 and therefore the degree of p ( x ) is 1. on the other hand, if f has some proper algebraic extension k, then the minimal polynomial of an element in k \ f is irreducible and its degree is greater than 1. the field has no proper finite extension the field f is algebraically closed if and only if it has no proper finite extension because if, within the previous proof, the term " algebraic extension " is replaced by the term " finite extension ", then the proof is still valid. ( finite extensions are necessarily algebraic. ) every endomorphism of fn has some eigenvector the field f is algebraically closed if and only if, for each natural