of the 1970s - era costumes and early video effects, such as the grouping of the band members in different combinations of pairs, overlapping one singer ' s profile with the other ' s full face, and the contrasting of one member against another. in 1976, abba participated in an advertising campaign to promote the matsushita electric industrial co. ' s brand, national, in australia. the campaign was also broadcast in japan. five commercial spots, each of approximately one minute, were produced, each presenting the " national song " performed by abba using the melody and instrumental arrangements of " fernando " and revised lyrics. political use of abba ' s music in september 2010, band members andersson and ulvaeus criticised the right - wing danish people ' s party ( df ) for using the abba song " mamma mia " ( with modified lyrics referencing pia kjærsgaard ) at rallies. the band threatened to file a lawsuit against the df, saying they never allowed their music to be used politically and that they had absolutely no interest in supporting the party. their record label universal music later said that no legal action would be taken because an agreement had been reached. success in the united states during their active career, from 1972 to 1982, 20 of abba ' s singles entered the billboard hot 100 ; 14 of these made the top 40 ( 13 on the cashbox top 100 ), with 10 making the top 20 on both charts. a total of four of those singles reached the top 10, including " dancing queen ", which reached number one in april 1977. while " fernando " and " sos " did not break the top 10 on the billboard hot 100 ( reaching number 13 and 15 respectively ), they did reach the top 10 on cashbox ( " fernando " ) and record world ( " sos " ) charts. both " dancing queen " and " take a chance on me " were certified gold by the recording industry association of america for sales of over one million copies each. the group also had 12 top 20 singles on the billboard adult contemporary chart with two of them, " fernando " and " the winner takes it all ", reaching number one. " lay all your love on me " was abba ' s fourth number - one single on a billboard chart, topping the hot dance club play chart. ten abba albums have made their way into the top half of the billboard 200 album chart, with eight reaching the top 50, five reaching the top 20 and one reaching the top 10. in november 2021,