, llc is a wholly - owned subsidiary of apple inc. that sells solar energy., apple ' s solar farms in california and nevada have been declared to provide 217. 9 megawatts of solar generation capacity. in addition to the company ' s solar energy production, apple has received regulatory approval to construct a landfill gas energy plant in north carolina. apple will use the methane emissions to generate electricity. apple ' s north carolina data center is already powered entirely with energy from renewable sources. energy and resources in 2010, climate counts, a nonprofit organization dedicated to directing consumers toward the greenest companies, gave apple a score of 52 points out of a possible 100, which puts apple in their top category " striding ". this was an increase from may 2008, when climate counts only gave apple 11 points out of 100, which placed the company last among electronics companies, at which time climate counts also labeled apple with a " stuck icon ", adding that apple at the time was " a choice to avoid for the climate - conscious consumer ". following a greenpeace protest, apple released a statement on april 17, 2012, committing to ending its use of coal and shifting to 100 % renewable clean energy. by 2013, apple was using 100 % renewable energy to power their data centers. overall, 75 % of the company ' s power came from clean renewable sources. in may 2015, greenpeace evaluated the state of the green internet and commended apple on their environmental practices saying, " apple ' s commitment to renewable energy has helped set a new bar for the industry, illustrating in very concrete terms that a 100 % renewable internet is within its reach, and providing several models of intervention for other companies that want to build a sustainable internet. ", apple states that 100 % of its u. s. operations run on renewable energy, 100 % of apple ' s data centers run on renewable energy and 93 % of apple ' s global operations run on renewable energy. however, the facilities are connected to the local grid which usually contains a mix of fossil and renewable sources, so apple carbon offsets its electricity use. the electronic product environmental assessment tool ( epeat ) allows consumers to see the effect a product has on the environment. each product receives a gold, silver, or bronze rank depending on its efficiency and sustainability. every apple tablet, notebook, desktop computer, and display that epeat ranks achieves a gold rating, the highest possible. although apple ' s data centers recycle water 35 times, the increased activity in retail, corporate and data