way we want to. ' i said, ' that ' s not acting. that ' s writing. ' " recalling their experiences on lifeboat for charles chandler, author of it ' s only a movie : alfred hitchcock a personal biography, walter slezak said that hitchcock " knew more about how to help an actor than any director i ever worked with ", and hume cronyn dismissed the idea that hitchcock was not concerned with his actors as " utterly fallacious ", describing at length the process of rehearsing and filming lifeboat. critics observed that, despite his reputation as a man who disliked actors, actors who worked with him often gave brilliant performances. he used the same actors in many of his films ; cary grant and james stewart both worked with hitchcock four times, and ingrid bergman and grace kelly three. james mason said that hitchcock regarded actors as " animated props ". for hitchcock, the actors were part of the film ' s setting. he told francois truffaut : " the chief requisite for an actor is the ability to do nothing well, which is by no means as easy as it sounds. he should be willing to be used and wholly integrated into the picture by the director and the camera. he must allow the camera to determine the proper emphasis and the most effective dramatic highlights. " writing, storyboards and production hitchcock planned his scripts in detail with his writers. in writing with hitchcock ( 2001 ), steven derosa noted that hitchcock supervised them through every draft, asking that they tell the story visually. hitchcock told roger ebert in 1969 : hitchcock ' s films were extensively storyboarded to the finest detail. he was reported to have never even bothered looking through the viewfinder, since he did not need to, although in publicity photos he was shown doing so. he also used this as an excuse to never have to change his films from his initial vision. if a studio asked him to change a film, he would claim that it was already shot in a single way, and that there were no alternative takes to consider. this view of hitchcock as a director who relied more on pre - production than on the actual production itself has been challenged by bill krohn, the american correspondent of french film magazine cahiers du cinema, in his book hitchcock at work. after investigating script revisions, notes to other production personnel written by or to hitchcock, and other production material, krohn observed that hitchcock ' s work often deviated from how the screenplay was written or how the film was originally envisioned. he noted that the myth