of forming governments, johnson ' s policies received considerable public support in the north, which he took as unconditional backing for quick reinstatement of the south. while he received such support from the white south, he underestimated the determination of northerners to ensure that the war had not been fought for nothing. it was important, in northern public opinion, that the south acknowledge its defeat, that slavery be ended, and that the lot of african americans be improved. voting rights were less important — after all, only a handful of northern states ( mostly in new england ) gave african - american men the right to vote on the same basis as whites, and in late 1865, connecticut, wisconsin, and minnesota voted down african - american suffrage proposals by large margins. northern public opinion tolerated johnson ' s inaction on black suffrage as an experiment, to be allowed if it quickened southern acceptance of defeat. instead, white southerners felt emboldened. a number of southern states passed black codes, binding african - american laborers to farms on annual contracts they could not quit, and allowing law enforcement at whim to arrest them for vagrancy and rent out their labor. most southerners elected to congress were former confederates, with the most prominent being georgia senator - designate and former confederate vice president alexander stephens. congress assembled in early december 1865 ; johnson ' s conciliatory annual message to them was well received. nevertheless, congress refused to seat the southern legislators and established a committee to recommend appropriate reconstruction legislation. northerners were outraged at the idea of unrepentant confederate leaders, such as stephens, rejoining the federal government at a time when emotional wounds from the war remained raw. they saw the black codes placing african americans in a position barely above slavery. republicans also feared that restoration of the southern states would return the democrats to power. in addition, according to david o. stewart in his book on johnson ' s impeachment, " the violence and poverty that oppressed the south would galvanize the opposition to johnson ". break with the republicans : 1866 congress was reluctant to confront the president, and initially only sought to fine - tune johnson ' s policies towards the south. according to trefousse, " if there was a time when johnson could have come to an agreement with the moderates of the republican party, it was the period following the return of congress. " the president was unhappy about the provocative actions of the southern states, and about the continued control by the antebellum elite there, but made