was adopted by the international holocaust remembrance alliance. the working definition of antisemitism is among the most controversial documents related to opposition to antisemitism, and critics argue that it has been used to censor criticism of israel. evolution of usage in 1879, wilhelm marr founded the antisemiten - liga ( anti - semitic league ). identification with antisemitism and as an antisemite was politically advantageous in europe during the late 19th century. for example, karl lueger, the popular mayor of fin de siecle vienna, skillfully exploited antisemitism as a way of channeling public discontent to his political advantage. in its 1910 obituary of lueger, the new york times notes that lueger was " chairman of the christian social union of the parliament and of the anti - semitic union of the diet of lower austria. in 1895, a. c. cuza organized the alliance anti - semitique universelle in bucharest. in the period before world war ii, when animosity towards jews was far more commonplace, it was not uncommon for a person, an organization, or a political party to self - identify as an antisemite or antisemitic. the early zionist pioneer leon pinsker, a professional physician, preferred the clinical - sounding term judeophobia to antisemitism, which he regarded as a misnomer. the word judeophobia first appeared in his pamphlet " auto - emancipation ", published anonymously in german in september 1882, where it was described as an irrational fear or hatred of jews. according to pinsker, this irrational fear was an inherited predisposition. in the aftermath of the kristallnacht pogrom in 1938, german propaganda minister goebbels announced : " the german people is anti - semitic. it has no desire to have its rights restricted or to be provoked in the future by parasites of the jewish race. " after 1945 victory of the allies over nazi germany, and particularly after the full extent of the nazi genocide against the jews became known, the term antisemitism acquired pejorative connotations. this marked a full circle shift in usage, from an era just decades earlier when " jew " was used as a pejorative term. yehuda bauer wrote in 1984 : " there are no anti - semites in the world... nobody says, ' i am anti - semitic. ' you cannot, after hitler. the word has gone out of fashion. " eternalism –