s life. – andre breton ( surrealism ) art as a " free zone ", removed from the action of the social censure. unlike the avant - garde movements, which wanted to erase cultural differences in order to produce new universal values, contemporary art has enhanced its tolerance towards cultural differences as well as its critical and liberating functions ( social inquiry, activism, subversion, deconstruction, etc. ), becoming a more open place for research and experimentation. art for social inquiry, subversion or anarchy. while similar to art for political change, subversive or deconstructivist art may seek to question aspects of society without any specific political goal. in this case, the function of art may be used to criticize some aspect of society. graffiti art and other types of street art are graphics and images that are spray - painted or stencilled on publicly viewable walls, buildings, buses, trains, and bridges, usually without permission. certain art forms, such as graffiti, may also be illegal when they break laws ( in this case vandalism ). art for social causes. art can be used to raise awareness for a large variety of causes. a number of art activities were aimed at raising awareness of autism, cancer, human trafficking, and a variety of other topics, such as ocean conservation, human rights in darfur, murdered and missing aboriginal women, elder abuse, and pollution. trashion, using trash to make fashion, practiced by artists such as marina debris is one example of using art to raise awareness about pollution. art for psychological and healing purposes. art is also used by art therapists, psychotherapists and clinical psychologists as art therapy. the diagnostic drawing series, for example, is used to determine the personality and emotional functioning of a patient. the end product is not the principal goal in this case, but rather a process of healing, through creative acts, is sought. the resultant piece of artwork may also offer insight into the troubles experienced by the subject and may suggest suitable approaches to be used in more conventional forms of psychiatric therapy. art for propaganda, or commercialism. art is often used as a form of propaganda, and thus can be used to subtly influence popular conceptions or mood. in a similar way, art that tries to sell a product also influences mood and emotion. in both cases, the purpose of art here is to subtly manipulate the viewer into a particular emotional or psychological response toward a particular idea or object. art as a fitness indicator. it has been