, or proconsular imperium applicable throughout the empire that was more ( maius ) or greater than that held by the other proconsuls. this in effect gave augustus constitutional power superior to all other proconsuls in the empire. augustus stayed in rome during the renewal process and provided veterans with lavish donations to gain their support, thereby ensuring that his status of proconsular imperium maius was renewed in 13 bc. additional powers during the second settlement, augustus was also granted the power of a tribune ( tribunicia potestas ) for life, though not the official title of tribune. for some years, augustus had been awarded tribunicia sacrosanctitas, the immunity given to a tribune of the plebs. now he decided to assume the full powers of the magistracy, renewed annually, in perpetuity. legally, it was closed to patricians, a status that augustus had acquired some years earlier when adopted by julius caesar. this power allowed him to convene the senate and people at will and lay business before them, to veto the actions of either the assembly or the senate, to preside over elections, and to speak first at any meeting. also included in augustus ' s tribunician authority were powers usually reserved for the roman censor ; these included the right to supervise public morals and scrutinize laws to ensure that they were in the public interest, as well as the ability to hold a census and determine the membership of the senate. with the powers of a censor, augustus appealed to virtues of roman patriotism by banning all attire but the classic toga while entering the forum. there was no precedent within the roman system for combining the powers of the tribune and the censor into a single position, nor was augustus ever elected to the office of censor. julius caesar had been granted similar powers, wherein he was charged with supervising the morals of the state. however, this position did not extend to the censor ' s ability to hold a census and determine the senate ' s roster. the office of the tribunus plebis began to lose its prestige due to augustus ' s amassing of tribunal powers, so he revived its importance by making it a mandatory appointment for any plebeian desiring the praetorship. augustus was granted sole imperium within the city of rome in addition to being granted proconsular imperium maius and tribunician authority for life. traditionally