##hhad. mashhad fell on december 2 and although shahrokh shah was re - appointed as leader of khorasan in may 1755 he was forced to cede torshiz, bakharz, jam, khaf, and turbat - e haidari to the afghans. he invaded nishapur again and after a 7 - day siege the city fell on june 24, 1755, and was utterly destroyed. indian invasions early invasions peshawar served as a convenient point for ahmad shah for his military conquests in hindustan. from 1748 to 1767, he invaded hindustan eight times. he first crossed the indus river in 1748, the year after his ascension – his forces sacked and absorbed lahore. in 1749, ahmad shah captured the area of punjab around lahore. in the same year, the mughal ruler was induced to cede sindh and all of the punjab including the vital trans - indus river to him, in order to save his capital from being attacked by the forces of the durrani empire having thus gained substantial territories to the east without a fight, ahmad shah and his forces turned westward to take possession of herat, which was ruled by nader shah ' s grandson, shah rukh. the city fell to the afghans in 1750, after almost a year of siege and bloody conflict ; the afghan forces then pushed on into present - day iran, capturing nishapur and mashhad in 1751. following the recapture of mashhad in 1754, ahmad shah visited the eighth imam ' s sepulchre and ordered repairs to be made. ahmad shah then pardoned shah rukh and reconstituted khorasan, but a tributary of the durrani empire. this marked the westernmost border of the afghan empire as set by the pul - i - abrisham, on the mashhad - tehran road. third battle of panipat the mughal power in northern india had been declining since the reign of aurangzeb, who died in 1707. in 1751 – 52, the ahamdiya treaty was signed between the marathas and mughals, when balaji bajirao was the peshwa of the maratha empire. through this treaty, the marathas controlled large parts of india from their capital at pune and mughal rule was restricted only to delhi ( mughals remained the nominal heads of delhi ). marathas were now straining to expand their area of control towards the northwest of india. durrani sacked the mughal capital and withdrew with the booty he coveted.