leaderships. the policy labor takes into an election campaign is determined by the cabinet ( if the party is in office ) or the shadow cabinet ( if it is in opposition ), in consultation with key interest groups within the party, and is contained in the parliamentary leader ' s policy speech delivered during the election campaign. when labor is in office, the policies it implements are determined by the cabinet, subject to the platform. generally, it is accepted that while the platform binds labor governments, how and when it is implemented remains the prerogative of the parliamentary caucus. it is now rare for the platform to conflict with government policy, as the content of the platform is usually developed in close collaboration with the party ' s parliamentary leadership as well as the factions. however, where there is a direct contradiction with the platform, labor governments have sought to change the platform as a prerequisite for a change in policy. for example, privatisation legislation under the hawke government occurred only after holding a special national conference to debate changing the platform., party structure national executive and secretariat the australian labor party national executive is the party ' s chief administrative authority, subject only to labor ' s national conference. the executive is responsible for organising the triennial national conference ; carrying out the decisions of the conference ; interpreting the national constitution, the national platform and decisions of the national conference ; and directing federal members. the party holds a national conference every three years, which consists of delegates representing the state and territory branches ( many coming from affiliated trade unions, although there is no formal requirement for unions to be represented at the national conference ). the national conference decides the party ' s platform, elects the national executive and appoints office - bearers such as the national secretary, who also serves as national campaign director during elections. the current national secretary is paul erickson. the most recent national conference was the 48th conference held in december 2018. the head office of the alp, the national secretariat, is managed by the national secretary. it plays a dual role of administration and a national campaign strategy. it acts as a permanent secretariat to the national executive by managing and assisting in all administrative affairs of the party. as the national secretary also serves as national campaign director during elections, it is also responsible for the national campaign strategy and organisation. federal parliamentary labor party the elected members of the labor party in both houses of the national parliament meet as the federal parliamentary labor party, also known as the australian labor party caucus ( see also caucus ). besides discussing parliamentary business and tactics, the caucus also