amasa captain of the host instead of joab. killing absalom was against david ' s explicit command, " beware that none touch the young man absalom ". joab injured absalom with three darts through the heart and absalom was subsequently killed by ten of joab ' s armor - bearers. when david heard that absalom was killed, although not how he was killed, he greatly sorrowed. david withdrew to the city of mahanaim in mourning, until joab roused him from " the extravagance of his grief " and called on him to fulfill his duty to his people. memorial absalom had erected a monument near jerusalem to perpetuate his name : an ancient monument in the kidron valley near the old city of jerusalem, known as the tomb of absalom or absalom ' s pillar and traditionally identified as the monument of the biblical narrative, is now dated by modern archeologists to the first century ad. the jewish encyclopedia reports : " a tomb twenty feet high and twenty - four feet square, which late tradition points out as the resting - place of absalom. it is situated in the eastern part of the valley of kidron, to the east of jerusalem. in all probability it is the tomb of alexander jannæus ( conder, in hastings ' dict. bible, article " jerusalem ", p. 597 ). it existed in the days of josephus. however, archaeologists have now dated the tomb to the 1st century ad. in a 2013 conference, professor gabriel barkay suggested that it could be the tomb of herod agrippa, the grandson of herod the great, based in part on the similarity to herod ' s newly discovered tomb at herodium. for centuries, it was the custom among passers - by — jews, christians and muslims — to throw stones at the monument. residents of jerusalem would bring their unruly children to the site to teach them what became of a rebellious son. rabbinic literature the life and death of absalom offered to the rabbis a welcome theme wherewith to warn the people against false ambition, vainglory, and unfilial conduct. the vanity with which he displayed his beautiful hair, the rabbis say, became his snare and his stumbling - block. " by his long hair the nazirite entangled the people to rebel against his father, and by it he himself became entangled, to fall a victim to his pursuers "