cuisine, alternating layers of almond and hazelnut meringue are used to make the dessert dacquoise. pithivier is one of many almond cream - filled pastries. in germany, easter bread called deutsches osterbrot is baked with raisins and almonds. in greece almond flour is used to make amygdalopita, a glyka tapsiou dessert cake baking in a tray. almonds are used for kourabiedes, a greek version of the traditional quarabiya almond biscuits. a soft drink known as soumada is made from almonds in various regions. in saudi arabia, almonds are a typical embellishment for the rice dish kabsa. in iran, green almonds are dipped in sea salt and eaten as snacks on street markets ; they are called chaqale badam. candied almonds called noghl are served alongside tea and coffee. also, sweet almonds are used to prepare special food for babies, named harire badam. almonds are added to some foods, cookies, and desserts, or are used to decorate foods. people in iran consume roasted nuts for special events, for example, during new year ( nowruz ) parties. in italy, colomba di pasqua is a traditional easter cake made with almonds. bitter almonds are the base for amaretti cookies, a common dessert. almonds are also a common choice as the nuts to include in torrone. in morocco, almonds in the form of sweet almond paste are the main ingredient in pastry fillings, and several other desserts. fried blanched whole almonds are also used to decorate sweet tajines such as lamb with prunes. southwestern berber regions of essaouira and souss are also known for amlou, a spread made of almond paste, argan oil, and honey. almond paste is also mixed with toasted flour and among others, honey, olive oil or butter, anise, fennel, sesame seeds, and cinnamon to make sellou ( also called zamita in meknes or slilou in marrakech ), a sweet snack known for its long shelf life and high nutritive value. in indian cuisine, almonds are the base ingredients of pasanda - style and mughlai curries. badam halva is a sweet made from almonds with added coloring. almond flakes are added to many sweets ( such as sohan barfi ), and are usually