barricaded themselves inside the church, and again the imperial order was rescinded. there was an attempted kidnapping, and another attempt to arrest him and to force him to leave the city. several accusations were made, but unlike in the case of john chrysostom, no formal charges were brought. the emperor certainly had the power to do so, and probably did not solely because of ambrose ' popularity with the people and what they might do. when magnus maximus usurped power in gaul ( 383 ) and was considering a descent upon italy, valentinian sent ambrose to dissuade him, and the embassy was successful ( 384 ). a second, later embassy was unsuccessful. magnus maximus entered italy ( 386 - 387 ) and milan was taken. justina and her son fled, but ambrose remained, and had the plate of the church melted for the relief of the poor. theodosius while ambrose was writing de fide, theodosius published his own statement of faith in 381 in an edict establishing nicene catholic christianity as the only legitimate version of the christian faith. there is unanimity amongst scholars that this represents the emperor ' s own beliefs. the aftermath of the death ( 378 ) of valens ( emperor in the east from 364 to 378 ) had left many questions for the church unresolved, and theodosius ' edict can be seen as an effort to begin addressing those questions. theodosius ' natural generosity was tempered by his pressing need to establish himself and to publicly assert his personal piety. on 28 february 380, theodosius issued the edict of thessalonica, a decree addressed to the city of constantinople, determining that only christians who did not support arian views were catholic and could have their places of worship officially recognized as " churches ". the edict opposed arianism, and attempted to establish unity in christianity and to suppress heresy. german ancient historian writes that the edict of thessalonica was neither anti - pagan nor antisemitic ; it did not declare christianity to be the official religion of the empire ; and it gave no advantage to christians over other faiths. liebeschuetz and hill indicate that it was not until after 388, during theodosius ' stay in milan following the defeat of maximus in 388, that theodosius and ambrose first met. after the massacre of thessalonica in 390, theodosius made an act of public penance at ambrose ' s behest. ambrose was away from court