lower - court decisions, including those regarding criminal prosecutions, juvenile delinquency, and habeas corpus. the supreme court hears civil appeals and may in its discretion hear criminal appeals. state politics although in its early years of statehood alaska was a democratic state, since the early 1970s it has been characterized as republican - leaning. local political communities have often worked on issues related to land use development, fishing, tourism, and individual rights. alaska natives, while organized in and around their communities, have been active within the native corporations. these have been given ownership over large tracts of land, which require stewardship. alaska was formerly the only state in which possession of one ounce or less of marijuana in one ' s home was completely legal under state law, though the federal law remains in force. the state has an independence movement favoring a vote on secession from the united states, with the alaskan independence party. six republicans and four democrats have served as governor of alaska. in addition, republican governor wally hickel was elected to the office for a second term in 1990 after leaving the republican party and briefly joining the alaskan independence party ticket just long enough to be reelected. he officially rejoined the republican party in 1994. alaska ' s voter initiative making marijuana legal took effect on february 24, 2015, placing alaska alongside colorado and washington, as well as washington d. c., as the first three u. s. states where recreational marijuana is legal. the new law means people over 21 can consume small amounts of cannabis. the first legal marijuana store opened in valdez in october 2016. voter registration taxes to finance state government operations, alaska depends primarily on petroleum revenues and federal subsidies. this allows it to have the lowest individual tax burden in the united states. it is one of five states with no sales tax, one of seven states with no individual income tax, and — along with new hampshire — one of two that has neither. the department of revenue tax division reports regularly on the state ' s revenue sources. the department also issues an annual summary of its operations, including new state laws that directly affect the tax division. in 2014, the tax foundation ranked alaska as having the fourth most " business friendly " tax policy, behind only wyoming, south dakota, and nevada. while alaska has no state sales tax, 89 municipalities collect a local sales tax, from 1. 0 to 7. 5 %, typically 3 – 5 %. other local taxes levied include raw fish taxes, hotel, motel, and bed - and - breakfast ' bed '