areas. much of their behaviour seemed stereotyped and did not involve any actual contact between individuals. an aggressive posture involved raising the body off the ground and glaring at the opponent who often turned away submissively. if the intruder persisted, a biting lunge was usually launched at either the tail region or the naso - labial grooves. damage to either of these areas can reduce the fitness of the rival, either because of the need to regenerate tissue or because it impairs its ability to detect food. in frogs, male territorial behaviour is often observed at breeding locations ; calling is both an announcement of ownership of part of this resource and an advertisement call to potential mates. in general, a deeper voice represents a heavier and more powerful individual, and this may be sufficient to prevent intrusion by smaller males. much energy is used in the vocalization and it takes a toll on the territory holder who may be displaced by a fitter rival if he tires. there is a tendency for males to tolerate the holders of neighbouring territories while vigorously attacking unknown intruders. holders of territories have a " home advantage " and usually come off better in an encounter between two similar - sized frogs. if threats are insufficient, chest to chest tussles may take place. fighting methods include pushing and shoving, deflating the opponent ' s vocal sac, seizing him by the head, jumping on his back, biting, chasing, splashing, and ducking him under the water. defence mechanisms amphibians have soft bodies with thin skins, and lack claws, defensive armour, or spines. nevertheless, they have evolved various defence mechanisms to keep themselves alive. the first line of defence in salamanders and frogs is the mucous secretion that they produce. this keeps their skin moist and makes them slippery and difficult to grip. the secretion is often sticky and distasteful or toxic. snakes have been observed yawning and gaping when trying to swallow african clawed frogs ( xenopus laevis ), which gives the frogs an opportunity to escape. caecilians have been little studied in this respect, but the cayenne caecilian ( typhlonectes compressicauda ) produces toxic mucus that has killed predatory fish in a feeding experiment in brazil. in some salamanders, the skin is poisonous. the rough - skinned newt ( taricha granulosa ) from north america and other members of its genus contain the neurotoxin tetrodotoxin ( ttx ), the most