to introduce and use new information technologies in primary schools, thus reflecting an improvement in the quality of teaching ". in 2010, the angolan government started building the angolan media libraries network, distributed throughout several provinces in the country to facilitate the people ' s access to information and knowledge. each site has a bibliographic archive, multimedia resources and computers with internet access, as well as areas for reading, researching and socialising. the plan envisages the establishment of one media library in each angolan province by 2017. the project also includes the implementation of several media libraries, in order to provide the several contents available in the fixed media libraries to the most isolated populations in the country. at this time, the mobile media libraries are already operating in the provinces of luanda, malanje, uige, cabinda and lunda south. as for rema, the provinces of luanda, benguela, lubango and soyo have currently working media libraries. culture angolan culture has been heavily influenced by portuguese culture, especially in language and religion, and the culture of the indigenous ethnic groups of angola, predominantly bantu culture. the diverse ethnic communities — the ovimbundu, ambundu, bakongo, chokwe, mbunda and other peoples — to varying degrees maintain their own cultural traits, traditions and languages, but in the cities, where slightly more than half of the population now lives, a mixed culture has been emerging since colonial times ; in luanda, since its foundation in the 16th century. in this urban culture, portuguese heritage has become more and more dominant. african roots are evident in music and dance and is moulding the way in which portuguese is spoken. this process is well reflected in contemporary angolan literature, especially in the works of angolan authors. in 2014, angola resumed the national festival of angolan culture after a 25 - year break. the festival took place in all the provincial capitals and lasted for 20 days, with the theme " culture as a factor of peace and development. cinema in 1972, one of angola ' s first feature films, sarah maldoror ' s internationally co - produced sambizanga, was released at the carthage film festival to critical acclaim, winning the tanit d ' or, the festival ' s highest prize. sports basketball is the second most popular sport in angola. its national team has won the afrobasket 11 times and holds the record of most titles. as a top team in africa, it is a regular competitor at the