altruism is the principle and practice of concern for the well - being and / or happiness of other humans or animals. while objects of altruistic concern vary, it is an important moral value in many cultures and religions. it may be considered a synonym of selflessness, the opposite of selfishness. the word altruism was popularized ( and possibly coined ) by the french philosopher auguste comte in french, as, for an antonym of egoism. he derived it from the italian, which in turn was derived from latin, meaning " other people " or " somebody else ". altruism, as observed in populations of organisms, is when an individual performs an action at a cost to themselves ( in terms of e. g. pleasure and quality of life, time, probability of survival or reproduction ) that benefits, directly or indirectly, another individual, without the expectation of reciprocity or compensation for that action. altruism can be distinguished from feelings of loyalty or concern for the common good. the latter are predicated upon social relationships, whilst altruism does not consider relationships. whether " true " altruism is possible in human psychology is a subject of debate. the theory of psychological egoism suggests that no act of sharing, helping, or sacrificing can be truly altruistic, as the actor may receive an intrinsic reward in the form of personal gratification. the validity of this argument depends on whether such intrinsic rewards qualify as " benefits ". the term altruism may also refer to an ethical doctrine that claims that individuals are morally obliged to benefit others. used in this sense, it is usually contrasted with egoism, which claims individuals are morally obligated to serve themselves first. effective altruism is the use of evidence and reason to determine the most effective ways to benefit others. the notion of altruism the concept of altruism has a history in philosophical and ethical thought. the term was coined in the 19th century by the founding sociologist and philosopher of science auguste comte, and has become a major topic for psychologists ( especially evolutionary psychology researchers ), evolutionary biologists, and ethologists. whilst ideas about altruism from one field can affect the other fields, the different methods and focuses of these fields always lead to different perspectives on altruism. in simple terms, altruism is caring about the welfare of other people and acting to help them. scientific viewpoints anthropology marcel mauss ' s essay the gift contains a passage called " note on alms "