even when they cannot. while there is a minimum level of comprehension between all arabic dialects, this level can increase or decrease based on geographic proximity : for example, levantine and gulf speakers understand each other much better than they do speakers from the maghreb. the issue of diglossia between spoken and written language is a significant complicating factor : a single written form, significantly different from any of the spoken varieties learned natively, unites a number of sometimes divergent spoken forms. for political reasons, arabs mostly assert that they all speak a single language, despite significant issues of mutual incomprehensibility among differing spoken versions. from a linguistic standpoint, it is often said that the various spoken varieties of arabic differ among each other collectively about as much as the romance languages. this is an apt comparison in a number of ways. the period of divergence from a single spoken form is similar — perhaps 1500 years for arabic, 2000 years for the romance languages. also, while it is comprehensible to people from the maghreb, a linguistically innovative variety such as moroccan arabic is essentially incomprehensible to arabs from the mashriq, much as french is incomprehensible to spanish or italian speakers but relatively easily learned by them. this suggests that the spoken varieties may linguistically be considered separate languages. status in the arab world vis - a - vis other languages with the sole example of medieval linguist abu hayyan al - gharnati – who, while a scholar of the arabic language, was not ethnically arab – medieval scholars of the arabic language made no efforts at studying comparative linguistics, considering all other languages inferior. in modern times, the educated upper classes in the arab world have taken a nearly opposite view. yasir suleiman wrote in 2011 that " studying and knowing english or french in most of the middle east and north africa have become a badge of sophistication and modernity and... feigning, or asserting, weakness or lack of facility in arabic is sometimes paraded as a sign of status, class, and perversely, even education through a melange of code - switching practises. " as a foreign language arabic has been taught worldwide in many elementary and secondary schools, especially muslim schools. universities around the world have classes that teach arabic as part of their foreign languages, middle eastern studies, and religious studies courses. arabic language schools exist to assist students to learn arabic outside the academic world. there are many arabic language schools in the