##tita ", which was featured in the music for unicef concert after which abba decided to donate half of the royalties from the song to unicef, topped the singles charts in the netherlands, switzerland, finland, spain, mexico, south africa, rhodesia and new zealand, rose to number two in sweden, and made the top 5 in germany, austria, norway and australia, although it only reached number 29 in the us. " i have a dream " was a sizeable hit reaching number one in the netherlands, switzerland, and austria, number three in south africa, and number four in germany, although it only reached number 64 in australia. in canada, " i have a dream " became abba ' s second number one on the rpm adult contemporary chart ( after " fernando " hit the top previously ) although it did not chart in the us. " does your mother know ", a rare song in which ulvaeus sings lead vocals, was a top 5 hit in the netherlands and finland, and a top 10 hit in germany, switzerland, australia, although it only reached number 27 in new zealand. it did better in north america than " chiquitita ", reaching number 12 in canada and number 19 in the us, and made the top 20 in japan. " voulez - vous " was a top 10 hit in the netherlands and switzerland, a top 20 hit in germany and finland, but only peaked in the 80s in australia, canada and the us. also in 1979, the group released their second compilation album, greatest hits vol. 2, which featured a brand new track : " gimme! gimme! gimme! ( a man after midnight ) ", which was a top 3 hit in the uk, belgium, the netherlands, germany, austria, switzerland, finland and norway, and returned abba to the top 10 in australia. greatest hits vol. 2 went to number one in the uk, belgium, canada and japan while making the top 5 in several other countries, but only reaching number 20 in australia and number 46 in the us. in the soviet union during the late 1970s, the group were paid in oil commodities because of an embargo on the rouble. on 13 september 1979, abba began abba : the tour at northlands coliseum in edmonton, canada, with a full house of 14, 000. " the voices of the band, agnetha ' s high sauciness combined with round, rich lower tones of anni - frid, were excellent.