##n ( ) employees attempted suicide, resulting in 14 deaths — the company was the world ' s largest contract electronics manufacturer, for clients including apple, at the time. the suicides drew media attention, and employment practices at foxconn were investigated by apple. apple issued a public statement about the suicides, and company spokesperson steven dowling said : the statement was released after the results from the company ' s probe into its suppliers ' labor practices were published in early 2010. foxconn was not specifically named in the report, but apple identified a series of serious labor violations of labor laws, including apple ' s own rules, and some child labor existed in a number of factories. apple committed to the implementation of changes following the suicides. also in 2010, workers in china planned to sue iphone contractors over poisoning by a cleaner used to clean lcd screens. one worker claimed that he and his coworkers had not been informed of possible occupational illnesses. after a high suicide rate in a foxconn facility in china making ipads and iphones, albeit a lower rate than that of china as a whole, workers were forced to sign a legally binding document guaranteeing that they would not kill themselves. workers in factories producing apple products have also been exposed to hexane, a neurotoxin that is a cheaper alternative than alcohol for cleaning the products. a 2014 bbc investigation found excessive hours and other problems persisted, despite apple ' s promise to reform factory practice after the 2010 foxconn suicides. the pegatron factory was once again the subject of review, as reporters gained access to the working conditions inside through recruitment as employees. while the bbc maintained that the experiences of its reporters showed that labor violations were continuing, apple publicly disagreed with the bbc and stated : " we are aware of no other company doing as much as apple to ensure fair and safe working conditions ". in december 2014, the institute for global labour and human rights published a report which documented inhumane conditions for the 15, 000 workers at a zhen ding technology factory in shenzhen, china, which serves as a major supplier of circuit boards for apple ' s iphone and ipad. according to the report, workers are pressured into 65 - hour work weeks which leaves them so exhausted that they often sleep during lunch breaks. they are also made to reside in " primitive, dark and filthy dorms " where they sleep " on plywood, with six to ten workers in each crowded room. " omnipresent security personnel also routinely harass and beat the workers. in 2019