##rophones in their stretched form, like the alphorn, or coiled versions, such as the buchel and the allgauisches waldhorn or ackerhorn. the alphorn ' s exact origins remain indeterminate, and the ubiquity of horn - like signal instruments in valleys throughout europe may indicate a long history of cross influences regarding their construction and usage. construction and qualities the alphorn is carved from solid softwood, generally spruce but sometimes pine. in former times, the alphorn maker would find a tree bent at the base in the shape of an alphorn, but modern makers piece the wood together at the base. a cup - shaped mouthpiece carved out of a block of hard wood is added and the instrument is complete. an alphorn made at rigi - kulm, schwyz, and now in the victoria and albert museum, measures in length and has a straight tube. the swiss alphorn varies in shape according to the locality, being curved near the bell in the bernese oberland. michael praetorius mentions an alphorn - like instrument under the name of holzern trummet ( wooden trumpet ) in syntagma musicum ( wittenberg, 1615 – 1619 ; pl. viii ). the alphorn has no lateral openings and therefore gives the pure natural harmonic series of the open pipe. the notes of the natural harmonic series overlap with, but do not exactly correspond to, the notes of the familiar chromatic scale in standard western equal temperament. most prominently within the alphorn ' s range, the 7th and 11th harmonics are particularly noticeable, because they fall between adjacent notes in the chromatic scale. accomplished alphornists often command a range of nearly three octaves, consisting of the 2nd through the 16th notes of the harmonic series. the availability of the higher tones is due in part to the relatively small diameter of the bore of the mouthpiece and tubing in relation to the overall length of the horn. the well - known " ranz des vaches " ( score ; audio ) is a traditional swiss melody often heard on the alphorn. the song describes the time of bringing the cows to the high country at milk making time. rossini introduced the " ranz des vaches " into his masterpiece william tell, along with many other melodies scattered throughout the opera in vocal and instrumental parts that are well - suited to the alphorn. brahms wrote to clara schumann that the inspiration for