alchemy in the byzantine period. india the 2nd millennium bc text vedas describe a connection between eternal life and gold. a considerable knowledge of metallurgy has been exhibited in a third - century ad text called arthashastra which provides ingredients of explosives ( agniyoga ) and salts extracted from fertile soils and plant remains ( yavakshara ) such as saltpetre / nitre, perfume making ( different qualities of perfumes are mentioned ), granulated ( refined ) sugar. buddhist texts from the 2nd to 5th centuries mention the transmutation of base metals to gold. according to some scholars greek alchemy may have influenced indian alchemy but there are no hard evidences to back this claim. the 11th - century persian chemist and physician abu rayhan biruni, who visited gujarat as part of the court of mahmud of ghazni, reported that they the goals of alchemy in india included the creation of a divine body ( sanskrit divya - deham ) and immortality while still embodied ( sanskrit jivan - mukti ). sanskrit alchemical texts include much material on the manipulation of mercury and sulphur, that are homologized with the semen of the god siva and the menstrual blood of the goddess devi. some early alchemical writings seem to have their origins in the kaula tantric schools associated to the teachings of the personality of matsyendranath. other early writings are found in the jaina medical treatise kalyanakarakam of ugraditya, written in south india in the early 9th century. two famous early indian alchemical authors were nagarjuna siddha and nityanatha siddha. nagarjuna siddha was a buddhist monk. his book, rasendramangalam, is an example of indian alchemy and medicine. nityanatha siddha wrote rasaratnakara, also a highly influential work. in sanskrit, rasa translates to " mercury ", and nagarjuna siddha was said to have developed a method of converting mercury into gold. scholarship on indian alchemy is in the publication of the alchemical body by david gordon white. a modern bibliography on indian alchemical studies has been written by white. the contents of 39 sanskrit alchemical treatises have been analysed in detail in g. jan meulenbeld ' s history of indian medical literature. the discussion of these works in himl gives a summary of the contents of each work, their special features, and