had ever traveled. this speed was slightly less than the earth ' s escape velocity of, but put apollo8 into an elongated elliptical earth orbit, close enough to the moon to be captured by the moon ' s gravity. the standard lunar orbit for apollo missions was planned as a nominal circular orbit above the moon ' s surface. initial lunar orbit insertion was an ellipse with a perilune of and an apolune of, at an inclination of 12° from the lunar equator. this was then circularized at, with an orbital period of 128. 7 minutes. the effect of lunar mass concentrations ( " mascons " ) on the orbit was found to be greater than initially predicted ; over the course of the ten lunar orbits lasting twenty hours, the orbital distance was perturbated to. apollo 8 achieved a maximum distance from earth of. launch and trans - lunar injection apollo 8 was launched at 12 : 51 : 00 utc ( 07 : 51 : 00 eastern standard time ) on december 21, 1968, using the saturn v ' s three stages to achieve earth orbit. the s - ic first stage landed in the atlantic ocean at, and the s - ii second stage landed at. the s - ivb third stage injected the craft into earth orbit and remained attached to perform the tli burn that would put the spacecraft on a trajectory to the moon. once the vehicle reached earth orbit, both the crew and houston flight controllers spent the next 2hours and 38 minutes checking that the spacecraft was in proper working order and ready for tli. the proper operation of the s - ivb third stage of the rocket was crucial, and in the last uncrewed test, it had failed to reignite for this burn. collins was the first capcom on duty, and at 2hours, 27 minutes and 22 seconds after launch he radioed, " apollo8. you are go for tli. " this communication meant that mission control had given official permission for apollo8 to go to the moon. the s - ivb engine ignited on time and performed the tli burn perfectly. over the next five minutes, the spacecraft ' s speed increased from. after the s - ivb had placed the mission on course for the moon, the command and service modules ( csm ), the remaining apollo8 spacecraft, separated from it. the crew then rotated the spacecraft to take photographs of the spent stage and then practiced flying in formation with it. as the crew rotated the spacecraft, they had their first views of the earth as they moved