a collective manifested in individuals as attitudes, and in culture as myth, ideology, folklore and imagery, and in actions — social or legal discrimination, political mobilization against the jews, and collective or state violence — which results in and / or is designed to distance, displace, or destroy jews as jews. " elaborating on fein ' s definition, dietz bering of the university of cologne writes that, to antisemites, " jews are not only partially but totally bad by nature, that is, their bad traits are incorrigible. because of this bad nature : ( 1 ) jews have to be seen not as individuals but as a collective. ( 2 ) jews remain essentially alien in the surrounding societies. ( 3 ) jews bring disaster on their ' host societies ' or on the whole world, they are doing it secretly, therefore the anti - semites feel obliged to unmask the conspiratorial, bad jewish character. " for sonja weinberg, as distinct from economic and religious anti - judaism, antisemitism in its modern form shows conceptual innovation, a resort to ' science ' to defend itself, new functional forms, and organisational differences. it was anti - liberal, racialist and nationalist. it promoted the myth that jews conspired to ' judaise ' the world ; it served to consolidate social identity ; it channeled dissatisfactions among victims of the capitalist system ; and it was used as a conservative cultural code to fight emancipation and liberalism. bernard lewis defined antisemitism as a special case of prejudice, hatred, or persecution directed against people who are in some way different from the rest. according to lewis, antisemitism is marked by two distinct features : jews are judged according to a standard different from that applied to others, and they are accused of " cosmic evil. " thus, " it is perfectly possible to hate and even to persecute jews without necessarily being anti - semitic " unless this hatred or persecution displays one of the two features specific to antisemitism. there have been a number of efforts by international and governmental bodies to define antisemitism formally. the united states department of state states that " while there is no universally accepted definition, there is a generally clear understanding of what the term encompasses. " for the purposes of its 2005 report on global anti - semitism, the term was considered to mean " hatred toward jews — individually and as a group — that can be attributed to the jewish religion and / or ethnicity.