of troy, athena appears to hector disguised as his brother deiphobus and persuades him to hold his ground so that they can fight achilles together. then, hector throws his spear at achilles and misses, expecting deiphobus to hand him another, but athena disappears instead, leaving hector to face achilles alone without his spear. in sophocles ' s tragedy ajax, she punishes odysseus ' s rival ajax the great, driving him insane and causing him to massacre the achaeans ' cattle, thinking that he is slaughtering the achaeans themselves. even after odysseus himself expresses pity for ajax, athena declares, " to laugh at your enemies - what sweeter laughter can there be than that? " ( lines 78 – 9 ). ajax later commits suicide as a result of his humiliation. classical art athena appears frequently in classical greek art, including on coins and in paintings on ceramics. she is especially prominent in works produced in athens. in classical depictions, athena is usually portrayed standing upright, wearing a full - length chiton. she is most often represented dressed in armor like a male soldier and wearing a corinthian helmet raised high atop her forehead. her shield bears at its centre the aegis with the head of the gorgon ( gorgoneion ) in the center and snakes around the edge. sometimes she is shown wearing the aegis as a cloak. as athena promachos, she is shown brandishing a spear. scenes in which athena was represented include her birth from the head of zeus, her battle with the gigantes, the birth of erichthonius, and the judgement of paris. the mourning athena or athena meditating is a famous relief sculpture dating to around 470 - 460 bc that has been interpreted to represent athena polias. the most famous classical depiction of athena was the athena parthenos, a now - lost gold and ivory statue of her in the parthenon created by the athenian sculptor phidias. copies reveal that this statue depicted athena holding her shield in her left hand with nike, the winged goddess of victory, standing in her right. athena polias is also represented in a neo - attic relief now held in the virginia museum of fine arts, which depicts her holding an owl in her hand and wearing her characteristic corinthian helmet while resting her shield against a nearby herma. the roman goddess minerva adopted most of athena ' s greek iconographical associations, but was also integrated into the capitoline triad. post - classical culture