was acclaimed emperor, though he was unwilling to accept the crown. the two co - emperors barricaded themselves in the palace of blachernae and entrusted mourtzouphlos with a mission to seek help from the crusaders, or at least they informed him of their intentions. instead of contacting the crusaders, mourtzouphlos, on the night of 28 – 29 january 1204, used his access to the palace to bribe the " ax - bearers " ( the varangian guard ), and with their backing arrest the emperors. choniates states that mourtzouphlos, when bribing the guards, had the help of a eunuch with access to the imperial treasury. the support of the varangians seems to have been of major importance in the success of the coup, though mourtzouphlos also had help from his relations and associates. the young alexios iv was eventually strangled in prison ; while his father isaac, both enfeebled and blind, died at around the time of the coup, his death variously attributed to fright, sorrow, or mistreatment. kanabos was initially spared and offered an office under alexios v, but he refused both this and a further summons from the emperor and took sanctuary in the hagia sophia ; he was forcibly removed and killed on the steps of the cathedral. emperor the timing of the deaths of the deposed emperors and of kanabos, and their relation to the coronation of alexios v are problematic. alexios v appears to have been acclaimed emperor as early as the night he moved against the angeloi co - emperors, on 27 january. he was crowned soon after, on or around 5 february. finding the treasury empty, the new emperor confiscated money from the aristocracy and high officials to be put to public use. these actions endeared alexios v to the citizens, but alienated his relations and other prominent supporters. once in firm control, alexios v closed the gates of the city to the crusaders and strengthened the fortifications. sword in hand, he was active in leading attacks on sorties made by the crusaders in search of supplies. on 2 february, henry of flanders led a part of the crusader army to filea ( or phileas ), in order to obtain food supplies. as he returned towards constantinople, alexios v attacked his rearguard. the byzantines were defeated, the imperial standard and an important icon of the virgin ( the panagia nikopoios ) were captured.