the alternate world resembles a normal fantasy world, the more likely the story is to be labelled fantasy, as in poul anderson ' s " house rule " and " loser ' s night ". in both science fiction and fantasy, whether a given parallel universe is an alternate history may not be clear. the writer might allude to a pod only to explain the existence and make no use of the concept, or may present the universe without explanation of its existence. major writers explore alternate histories isaac asimov ' s short story " what if — " ( 1952 ) is about a couple who can explore alternate realities by means of a television - like device. this idea can also be found in asimov ' s novel the end of eternity ( 1955 ), in which the " eternals " can change the realities of the world, without people being aware of it. poul anderson ' s time patrol stories feature conflicts between forces intent on changing history and the patrol who work to preserve it. one story, delenda est, describes a world in which carthage triumphed over the roman republic. the big time, by fritz leiber, describes a change war ranging across all of history. keith laumer ' s worlds of the imperium is one of the earliest alternate history novels ; it was published by fantastic stories of the imagination in 1961, in magazine form, and reprinted by ace books in 1962 as one half of an ace double. besides our world, laumer describes a world ruled by an imperial aristocracy formed by the merger of european empires, in which the american revolution never happened, and a third world in post - war chaos ruled by the protagonist ' s doppelganger. philip k. dick ' s novel, the man in the high castle ( 1962 ), is an alternate history in which nazi germany and imperial japan won world war ii. this book contains an example of " alternate - alternate " history, in that one of its characters authored a book depicting a reality in which the allies won the war, itself divergent from real - world history in several aspects. the several characters live within a divided united states, in which the empire of japan takes the pacific states, governing them as a puppet, nazi germany takes the east coast of the united states and parts of the midwest, with the remnants of the old united states ' government as the neutral zone, a buffer state between the two superpowers. the book has inspired an amazon series of the same name. vladimir nabokov ' s novel, ada or ardor : a family