of the pleroma in the light of the luminary eleleth. in several texts, the luminary eleleth is the last of the luminaries ( spiritual lights ) that come forward, and it is the aeon sophia, associated with eleleth, who encounters darkness and becomes involved in the chain of events that leads to the demiurge ' s rule of this world, and the salvage effort that ensues. as such, the role of aeons of eleleth, including abraxas, sophia, and others, pertains to this outer border of the pleroma that encounters the ignorance of the world of lack and interacts to rectify the error of ignorance in the world of materiality. as a demon the catholic church later deemed abraxas a pagan god, and ultimately branded him a demon as documented in j. collin de plancy ' s infernal dictionary, abraxas ( or abracax ) is labeled the " supreme god " of the basilidians, whom he describes as " heretics of the second century ". he further indicated the basilidians attributed to abraxas the rule over " 365 skies " and " 365 virtues ". in a final statement on basilidians, de plancy states that their view was that jesus christ was merely a " benevolent ghost sent on earth by abraxas ". abraxas stones a vast number of engraved stones are in existence, to which the name " abraxas - stones " has long been given. one particularly fine example was included as part of the thetford treasure from fourth century norfolk, england. the subjects are mythological, and chiefly grotesque, with various inscriptions, in which αβρασαξ often occurs, alone or with other words. sometimes the whole space is taken up with the inscription. in certain obscure magical writings of egyptian origin αβραξας or αβρασαξ is found associated with other names which frequently accompany it on gems ; it is also found on the greek metal tesseræ among other mystic words. the meaning of the legends is seldom intelligible : but some of the gems are amulets ; and the same may be the case with nearly all. the abrasax - image alone, without external iconisms, and either without, or but a simple, inscription. the abrasax - imago proper is usually found with a shield, a sphere or wreath and whip