man : homecoming, avengers : endgame and spider - man : far from home. the r8 supercar became the personal vehicle for tony stark ( played by robert downey jr. ) for six of these films. the e - tron vehicles were promoted in endgame and far from home. several commercials were co - produced by marvel and audi to promote several new concepts and some of the latest vehicles such as the a8, sq7 and the e - tron fleet. multitronic campaign in 2001, audi promoted the new multitronic continuously variable transmission with television commercials throughout europe, featuring an impersonator of musician and actor elvis presley. a prototypical dashboard figure – later named " wackel - elvis " ( " wobble elvis " or " wobbly elvis " ) – appeared in the commercials to demonstrate the smooth ride in an audi equipped with the multitronic transmission. the dashboard figure was originally intended for use in the commercials only, but after they aired the demand for wackel - elvis fans grew among fans and the figure was mass - produced in china and marketed by audi in their factory outlet store. audi tdi as part of audi ' s attempt to promote its diesel technology in 2009, the company began audi mileage marathon. the driving tour featured a fleet of 23 audi tdi vehicles from 4 models ( audi q7 3. 0 tdi, audi q5 3. 0 tdi, audi a4 3. 0 tdi, audi a3 sportback 2. 0 tdi with s tronic transmission ) travelling across the american continent from new york to los angeles, passing major cities like chicago, dallas and las vegas during the 13 daily stages, as well as natural wonders including the rocky mountains, death valley and the grand canyon. audi e - tron the next phase of technology audi is developing is the e - tron electric drive powertrain system. they have shown several concept cars, each with different levels of size and performance. the original e - tron concept shown at the 2009 frankfurt motor show is based on the platform of the r8 and has been scheduled for limited production. power is provided by electric motors at all four wheels. the second concept was shown at the 2010 detroit motor show. power is provided by two electric motors at the rear axle. this concept is also considered to be the direction for a future mid - engined gas - powered 2 - seat performance coupe. the audi a1 e - tron concept, based on the audi a1 production model, is a hybrid vehicle with