##ized algol also made a convincing methodologic argument regarding the suitability of local effects in the context of call - by - name languages, in contrast with the global effects used by call - by - value languages such as ml. the conceptual integrity of the language made it one of the main objects of semantic research, along with programming computable functions ( pcf ) and ml. ial implementations timeline to date there have been at least 70 augmentations, extensions, derivations and sublanguages of algol 60. the burroughs dialects included special bootstrapping dialects such as espol and newp. the latter is still used for unisys mcp system software. properties algol 60 as officially defined had no i / o facilities ; implementations defined their own in ways that were rarely compatible with each other. in contrast, algol 68 offered an extensive library of transput ( input / output ) facilities. algol 60 allowed for two evaluation strategies for parameter passing : the common call - by - value, and call - by - name. call - by - name has certain effects in contrast to call - by - reference. for example, without specifying the parameters as value or reference, it is impossible to develop a procedure that will swap the values of two parameters if the actual parameters that are passed in are an integer variable and an array that is indexed by that same integer variable. think of passing a pointer to swap ( i, a [ i ] ) in to a function. now that every time swap is referenced, it is reevaluated. say i : = 1 and a [ i ] : = 2, so every time swap is referenced it will return the other combination of the values ( [ 1, 2 ], [ 2, 1 ], [ 1, 2 ] and so on ). a similar situation occurs with a random function passed as actual argument. call - by - name is known by many compiler designers for the interesting " thunks " that are used to implement it. donald knuth devised the " man or boy test " to separate compilers that correctly implemented " recursion and non - local references. " this test contains an example of call - by - name. algol 68 was defined using a two - level grammar formalism invented by adriaan van wijngaarden and which bears his name. van wijngaarden grammars use a context - free grammar to generate an infinite set of productions that will recognize a particular algol 68 program ; notably, they