called the lunar equipment conveyor ( lec ). this proved to be an inefficient tool, and later missions preferred to carry equipment and samples up to the lm by hand. armstrong reminded aldrin of a bag of memorial items in his sleeve pocket, and aldrin tossed the bag down. armstrong then jumped onto the ladder ' s third rung, and climbed into the lm. after transferring to lm life support, the explorers lightened the ascent stage for the return to lunar orbit by tossing out their plss backpacks, lunar overshoes, an empty hasselblad camera, and other equipment. the hatch was closed again at 05 : 11 : 13. they then pressurized the lm and settled down to sleep. presidential speech writer william safire had prepared an in event of moon disaster announcement for nixon to read in the event the apollo 11 astronauts were stranded on the moon. the remarks were in a memo from safire to nixon ' s white house chief of staff h. r. haldeman, in which safire suggested a protocol the administration might follow in reaction to such a disaster. according to the plan, mission control would " close down communications " with the lm, and a clergyman would " commend their souls to the deepest of the deep " in a public ritual likened to burial at sea. the last line of the prepared text contained an allusion to rupert brooke ' s world war i poem " the soldier ". while moving inside the cabin, aldrin accidentally damaged the circuit breaker that would arm the main engine for liftoff from the moon. there was a concern this would prevent firing the engine, stranding them on the moon. the nonconductive tip of a duro felt - tip pen was sufficient to activate the switch. after more than hours on the lunar surface, in addition to the scientific instruments, the astronauts left behind : an apollo 1 mission patch in memory of astronauts roger chaffee, gus grissom, and edward white, who died when their command module caught fire during a test in january 1967 ; two memorial medals of soviet cosmonauts vladimir komarov and yuri gagarin, who died in 1967 and 1968 respectively ; a memorial bag containing a gold replica of an olive branch as a traditional symbol of peace ; and a silicon message disk carrying the goodwill statements by presidents eisenhower, kennedy, johnson, and nixon along with messages from leaders of 73 countries around the world. the disk also carries a listing of the leadership of the