vladcik claims to be " the anti - pope " in one of his songs. dan simmons ' s novels endymion and the rise of endymion feature a father paul dure who is the routinely murdered antipope teilhard i. at the end of the last novel, it is mentioned that the person calling himself the pope of the technocore loyal catholics is recognized by very few even among those, and he is referred to as an antipope. in the girl genius comics series, set in a gaslamp fantasy version of europe thrown into chaos by mad science ( among other things ), there is a brief reference to the existence of seven popes — all of whom apparently ordered a particular text burned. ralph mcinerny ' s novel the red hat features a schism between liberals and conservatives following the election of a conservative african pope ; the liberal faction elect an italian cardinal who calls himself " pius xiii ". in the video game crusader kings ii by swedish developer paradox interactive, catholic rulers may appoint one of their bishops as an antipope. an emperor - tier ruler such as the holy roman emperor may declare war on the papal states to install their antipope as the " true " pope, thereby vassalizing the papacy. in the video game age of empires ii the third scenario in the game ' s barbarossa campaign is called " pope and antipope " and is based on the siege of crema and the subsequent wars of the guelphs and ghibellines. in episode 3 of the black adder ( set in the late 15th century ), " the archbishop ", baldrick remarks on selling counterfeit papal pardons, that one for the highest crimes requires the signatures of " both popes " ( implying one pope and one antipope ). at the end of the episode, the mother superior of the local convent informs edmund that he has been excommunicated by " all three popes ". the last fisherman by randy england features an anti - pope john xxiv elected in opposition to pope brendan i. bud mcfarlane ' s pierced by a sword includes an anti - pope john xxiv who is elected when the assassination attempt on pope patrick ( fictional successor to john paul ii ) is believed to have succeeded. he commits suicide at the end of the book. chilling adventures of sabrina features an antipope who leads the churches of darkness. this antipope reigns in the vatican necropolis beneath rome. see also list of papal elections papal conclave papal selection before