##i, maneshra, shahbazgarhi and kandahar. however, it is omitted in ashoka ' s inscriptions found in the kalinga region, where the rock edicts 13 and 14 have been replaced by two separate edicts that make no mention of ashoka ' s remorse. it is possible that ashoka did not consider it politically appropriate to make such a confession to the people of kalinga. another possibility is the kalinga war and its consequences, as described in ashoka ' s rock edicts, are " more imaginary than real ". this description is meant to impress those far removed from the scene, thus unable to verify its accuracy. ancient sources do not mention any other military activity of ashoka, although the 16th - century writer taranatha claims that ashoka conquered the entire jambudvipa. first contact with buddhism different sources give different accounts of ashoka ' s conversion to buddhism. according to sri lankan tradition, ashoka ' s father, bindusara, was a devotee of brahmanism, and his mother dharma was a devotee of ajivikas. the samantapasadika states that ashoka followed non - buddhist sects during the first three years of his reign. the sri lankan texts add that ashoka was not happy with the behaviour of the brahmins who received his alms daily. his courtiers produced some ajivika and nigantha teachers before him, but these also failed to impress him. the dipavamsa states that ashoka invited several non - buddhist religious leaders to his palace and bestowed great gifts upon them in the hope that they would answer a question posed by the king. the text does not state what the question was but mentions that none of the invitees were able to answer it. one day, ashoka saw a young buddhist monk called nigrodha ( or nyagrodha ), who was looking for alms on a road in pataliputra. he was the king ' s nephew, although the king was not aware of this : he was a posthumous son of ashoka ' s eldest brother sumana, whom ashoka had killed during the conflict for the throne. ashoka was impressed by nigrodha ' s tranquil and fearless appearance, and asked him to teach him his faith. in response, nigrodha offered him a sermon on appamada ( earnestness ). impressed by the sermon, ashoka offered nigrodha 400, 000 silver coins and 8 daily