was thought lost, but was discovered in the bbc archives in 2015. other audio in 2017, audible released an original audio adaptation of murder on the orient express starring tom conti as poirot. the cast included jane asher as mrs. hubbard, jay benedict as monsieur bouc, ruta gedmintas as countess andrenyi, sophie okonedo as mary debenham, eddie marsan as ratchett, walles hamonde as hector macqueen, paterson joseph as colonel arbuthnot, rula lenska as princess dragimiroff and art malik as the narrator. according to the publisher ' s summary on audible. com, " sound effects [ were ] recorded on the orient express itself. " in 2021, l. a. theatre works produced an adaptation of the murder on the links, dramatised by kate mcall. alfred molina starred as poirot, with simon helberg as hastings. video games the video game agatha christie - hercule poirot : the first cases has poirot voice acted by will de renzy - martin. parodies and references parodies of hercule poirot have appeared in a number of movies, including revenge of the pink panther, where poirot makes a cameo appearance in a mental asylum, portrayed by andrew sachs and claiming to be " the greatest detective in all of france, the greatest in all the world " ; neil simon ' s murder by death, where " milo perrier " is played by american actor james coco ; the 1977 film the strange case of the end of civilization as we know it ( 1977 ) ; the film spice world, where hugh laurie plays poirot ; and in sherlock holmes : the awakened, poirot appears as a young boy on the train transporting holmes and watson. holmes helps the boy in opening a puzzle - box, with watson giving the boy advice about using his " little grey cells ". in the book series geronimo stilton, the character hercule poirat is inspired by hercule poirot. the belgian brewery brasserie ellezelloise makes a stout called hercule with a moustachioed caricature of hercule poirot on the label. in season 2, episode 4 of tvfplay ' s indian web series permanent roommates, one of the characters refers to hercule poirot as her inspiration while she attempts to solve the mystery of the cheating spouse. throughout the episode, she is mocked as hercule poirot and agatha christie