ecosystems aquaculture is becoming a significant threat to coastal ecosystems. about 20 percent of mangrove forests have been destroyed since 1980, partly due to shrimp farming. an extended cost – benefit analysis of the total economic value of shrimp aquaculture built on mangrove ecosystems found that the external costs were much higher than the external benefits. over four decades, of indonesian mangroves have been converted to shrimp farms. most of these farms are abandoned within a decade because of the toxin build - up and nutrient loss. pollution from sea cage aquaculture salmon farms are typically sited in pristine coastal ecosystems which they then pollute. a farm with 200, 000 salmon discharges more fecal waste than a city of 60, 000 people. this waste is discharged directly into the surrounding aquatic environment, untreated, often containing antibiotics and pesticides. " there is also an accumulation of heavy metals on the benthos ( seafloor ) near the salmon farms, particularly copper and zinc. in 2016, mass fish kill events impacted salmon farmers along chile ' s coast and the wider ecology. increases in aquaculture production and its associated effluent were considered to be possible contributing factors to fish and molluscan mortality. sea cage aquaculture is responsible for nutrient enrichment of the waters in which they are established. this results from fish wastes and uneaten feed inputs. elements of most concern are nitrogen and phosphorus which can promote algal growth, including harmful algal blooms which can be toxic to fish. flushing times, current speeds, distance from the shore and water depth are important considerations when locating sea cages in order to minimize the impacts of nutrient enrichment on coastal ecosystems. the extent of the effects of pollution from sea - cage aquaculture varies depending on where the cages are located, which species are kept, how densely cages are stocked and what the fish are fed. important species - specific variables include the species ' food conversion ratio ( fcr ) and nitrogen retention. freshwater ecosystems whole - lake experiments carried out at the experimental lakes area in ontario, canada, have displayed the potential for cage aquaculture to source numerous changes in freshwater ecosystems. following the initiation of an experimental rainbow trout cage farm in a small boreal lake, dramatic reductions in mysis concentrations associated with a decrease in dissolved oxygen were observed. significant increases in ammonium and total phosphorus, a driver for eutrophication in freshwater systems, were measured in the hypolimnion of the lake. annual phosphorus inputs from aquaculture waste exceeded that of natural inputs from atmospheric deposition and inflows, and phytop