an astronaut ( from the ancient greek ( ), meaning ' star ', and ( ), meaning ' sailor ' ) is a person trained, equipped, and deployed by a human spaceflight program to serve as a commander or crew member aboard a spacecraft. although generally reserved for professional space travelers, the term is sometimes applied to anyone who travels into space, including scientists, politicians, journalists, and tourists. " astronaut " technically applies to all human space travelers regardless of nationality. however, astronauts fielded by russia or the soviet union are typically known instead as cosmonauts ( from the russian " kosmos " ( космос ), meaning " space ", also borrowed from greek ). comparatively recent developments in crewed spaceflight made by china have led to the rise of the term taikonaut ( from the mandarin " taikong " ( ), meaning " space " ), although its use is somewhat informal and its origin is unclear. in china, the people ' s liberation army astronaut corps astronauts and their foreign counterparts are all officially called hangtianyuan (, meaning " heaven navigator " or literally " heaven - sailing staff " ). since 1961, 600 astronauts have flown in space. until 2002, astronauts were sponsored and trained exclusively by governments, either by the military or by civilian space agencies. with the suborbital flight of the privately funded spaceshipone in 2004, a new category of astronaut was created : the commercial astronaut. definition the criteria for what constitutes human spaceflight vary, with some focus on the point where the atmosphere becomes so thin that centrifugal force, rather than aerodynamic force, carries a significant portion of the weight of the flight object. the federation aeronautique internationale ( fai ) sporting code for astronautics recognizes only flights that exceed the karman line, at an altitude of. in the united states, professional, military, and commercial astronauts who travel above an altitude of are awarded astronaut wings., 552 people from 36 countries have reached or more in altitude, of whom 549 reached low earth orbit or beyond. of these, 24 people have traveled beyond low earth orbit, either to lunar orbit, the lunar surface, or, in one case, a loop around the moon. three of the 24 — jim lovell, john young and eugene cernan — did so twice., under the u. s. definition, 558 people qualify as having reached space, above altitude. of eight x - 15 pilots who exceeded in altitude, only one, joseph a. walker