##us, who would later leave amasis, for reasons that herodotus does not clearly know, but suspects were personal between the two figures. amasis sent one of his eunuchs to capture phanes, but the eunuch was bested by the wise councilman and phanes fled to persia, meeting up with cambyses and providing advice for his invasion of egypt. egypt was finally lost to the persians during the battle of pelusium in 525 bc. egypt ' s wealth amasis brought egypt into closer contact with greece than ever before. herodotus relates that under his prudent administration, egypt reached a new level of wealth ; amasis adorned the temples of lower egypt especially with splendid monolithic shrines and other monuments ( his activity here is proved by existing remains ). for example, a temple built by him was excavated at tell nebesha. amasis assigned the commercial colony of naucratis on the canopic branch of the nile to the greeks, and when the temple of delphi was burnt, he contributed 1, 000 talents to the rebuilding. he also married a greek princess named ladice daughter of king battus iii and made alliances with polycrates of samos and croesus of lydia. montaigne cites the story by herodotus that ladice cured amasis of his impotence by praying to venus / aphropdite. under amasis, egypt ' s agricultural based economy reached its zenith. herodotus, who visited egypt less than a century after amasis ii ' s death, writes that : his kingdom consisted probably of egypt only, as far as the first cataract, but to this he added cyprus, and his influence was great in cyrene, libya. in his fourth year ( bce ), amasis was able to defeat an invasion of egypt by the babylonians under nebuchadnezzar ii ; henceforth, the babylonians experienced sufficient difficulties controlling their empire that they were forced to abandon future attacks against amasis. however, amasis was later faced with a more formidable enemy with the rise of persia under cyrus who ascended to the throne in 559 bce ; his final years were preoccupied by the threat of the impending persian onslaught against egypt. with great strategic skill, cyrus had destroyed lydia in 546 bce and finally defeated the babylonians in 538 bce which left amasis with no major near eastern allies to counter persia ' s increasing military might. amasis reacted by cultivating closer ties with the greek states