##crafted wooden doors, windows, and furniture, as well as hydraulic tiles and various ornamental elements. the stairways were intended as service entries, with the main access to the apartments by elevator except for the noble floor, where gaudi added a prominent interior staircase. gaudi wanted the people who lived in the flats to all know each other. therefore, there were only elevators on every other floor, so people on different floors would meet one another. structure casa mila is characterized by its self - supporting stone facade, meaning that it is free of load - bearing walls. the facade connects to the internal structure of each floor by means of curved iron beams surrounding the perimeter of each floor. this construction system allows, on one hand, large openings in the facade which give light to the homes, and on the other, free structuring of the different levels, so that internal walls can be added and demolished without affecting the stability of the building. this allows the owners to change their minds at will and to modify, without problems, the interior layout of the homes. constructive and decorative items facade the facade is composed of large blocks of limestone from the garraf massif on the first floor and from the villefranche quarry for the higher levels. the blocks were cut to follow the plot of the projection of the model, then raised to their location and adjusted to align in a continuous curve to the pieces around them. the windows of la pedrera are an integral part of the overall facade design. gaudi made sure that the windows were of varying sizes, designed to optimize the amount of natural light that could enter the building. viewed from the outside the building has three parts : the main body of the six - storey blocks with winding stone floors, two floors set a block back with a different curve, similar to waves, a smoother texture and whiter color, and with small holes that look like embrasures, and finally the body of the roof. gaudi ' s original facade had some of its lower - level ironwork removed. in 1928, the tailor mosella opened the first store in la pedrera, and he eliminated the bars. this did not concern anyone, because in the middle of twentieth century, wrought ironwork had little importance. the ironwork was lost until a few years later, when americans donated one of them to the moma, where it is on display. with restoration initiatives launched in 1987, the facade was rejoined to some pieces of stone that had fallen. in order to respect the