one at his capital pataliputra is a good candidate. another good candidate is the one at mahabodhi : the major rock edict 8 records his visit to the bodhi tree – the place of buddha ' s enlightenment at mahabodhi – after his tenth regnal year, and the minor rock edict issued during his 13th regnal year suggests that he had become a buddhist around the same time. reign after buddhist influence construction of stupas and temples both mahavamsa and ashokavadana state that ashoka constructed 84, 000 stupas or viharas. according to the mahavamsa, this activity took place during his fifth – seventh regnal years. the ashokavadana states that ashoka collected seven out of the eight relics of gautama buddha, and had their portions kept in 84, 000 boxes made of gold, silver, cat ' s eye, and crystal. he ordered the construction of 84, 000 stupas throughout the earth, in towns that had a population of 100, 000 or more. he told elder yashas, a monk at the kukkutarama monastery, that he wanted these stupas to be completed on the same day. yashas stated that he would signal the completion time by eclipsing the sun with his hand. when he did so, the 84, 000 stupas were completed at once. the mahavamsa states that ashoka ordered construction of 84, 000 viharas ( monasteries ) rather than the stupas to house the relics. like ashokavadana, the mahavamsa describes ashoka ' s collection of the relics, but does not mention this episode in the context of the construction activities. it states that ashoka decided to construct the 84, 000 viharas when moggaliputta tissa told him that there were 84, 000 sections of the buddha ' s dhamma. ashoka himself began the construction of the ashokarama vihara, and ordered subordinate kings to build the other viharas. ashokarama was completed by the miraculous power of thera indagutta, and the news about the completion of the 84, 000 viharas arrived from various cities on the same day. the construction of following stupas and viharas is credited to ashoka : sanchi, madhya pradesh, india dhamek stupa, sarnath, uttar pradesh, india mahabodhi temple, bihar, india barabar caves, bihar, india nalanda mahavihara ( some portions like sariput