popular argument set forward by martin luther, schweitzer argues that paul ' s emphasis was on the mystical union with god by " being in christ ". jaroslav pelikan, in his foreword to the mysticism of paul the apostle, points out that : paul ' s " realism " versus hellenistic " symbolism " schweitzer contrasts paul ' s " realistic " dying and rising with christ to the " symbolism " of hellenism. although paul is widely influenced by hellenistic thought, he is not controlled by it. schweitzer explains that paul focused on the idea of fellowship with the divine being through the " realistic " dying and rising with christ rather than the " symbolic " hellenistic act of becoming like christ through deification. after baptism, christians are continually renewed throughout their lifetimes due to participation in the dying and rising with christ ( most notably through the sacraments ). on the other hand, the hellenist " lives on the store of experience which he acquired in the initiation " and is not continually affected by a shared communal experience. another major difference between paul ' s " realism " and hellenistic " symbolism " is the exclusive nature of the former and the inclusive nature of the latter. schweitzer unabashedly emphasizes the fact that " paul ' s thought follows predestinarian lines ". he explains, " only the man who is elected thereto can enter into relation with god ". although every human being is invited to become a christian, only those who have undergone the initiation into the christian community through baptism can share in the " realistic " dying and rising with christ. medicine at the age of 30, in 1905, schweitzer answered the call of the society of the evangelist missions of paris, which was looking for a physician. the committee of this missionary society was not ready to accept his offer, considering his lutheran theology to be " incorrect ". he could easily have obtained a place in a german evangelical mission, but wished to follow the original call despite the doctrinal difficulties. amid a hail of protests from his friends, family and colleagues, he resigned his post and re - entered the university as a student in a three - year course towards the degree of doctorate in medicine, a subject in which he had little knowledge or previous aptitude. he planned to spread the gospel by the example of his christian labour of healing, rather than through the verbal process of preaching, and believed that this service should be acceptable within any branch of christian teaching. even in his study of medicine, and