atoms of the crystal matrix. this is referred to as an interstitial alloy. steel is an example of an interstitial alloy, because the very small carbon atoms fit into interstices of the iron matrix. stainless steel is an example of a combination of interstitial and substitutional alloys, because the carbon atoms fit into the interstices, but some of the iron atoms are substituted by nickel and chromium atoms. history and examples meteoric iron the use of alloys by humans started with the use of meteoric iron, a naturally occurring alloy of nickel and iron. it is the main constituent of iron meteorites. as no metallurgic processes were used to separate iron from nickel, the alloy was used as it was. meteoric iron could be forged from a red heat to make objects such as tools, weapons, and nails. in many cultures it was shaped by cold hammering into knives and arrowheads. they were often used as anvils. meteoric iron was very rare and valuable, and difficult for ancient people to work. bronze and brass iron is usually found as iron ore on earth, except for one deposit of native iron in greenland, which was used by the inuit. native copper, however, was found worldwide, along with silver, gold, and platinum, which were also used to make tools, jewelry, and other objects since neolithic times. copper was the hardest of these metals, and the most widely distributed. it became one of the most important metals to the ancients. around 10, 000 years ago in the highlands of anatolia ( turkey ), humans learned to smelt metals such as copper and tin from ore. around 2500 bc, people began alloying the two metals to form bronze, which was much harder than its ingredients. tin was rare, however, being found mostly in great britain. in the middle east, people began alloying copper with zinc to form brass. ancient civilizations took into account the mixture and the various properties it produced, such as hardness, toughness and melting point, under various conditions of temperature and work hardening, developing much of the information contained in modern alloy phase diagrams. for example, arrowheads from the chinese qin dynasty ( around 200 bc ) were often constructed with a hard bronze - head, but a softer bronze - tang, combining the alloys to prevent both dulling and breaking during use. amalgams mercury has been smelted from cinnabar for thousands of years. mercury dissolves many metals, such as gold, silver, and tin, to