, at 50°s, and only in tierra del fuego at 55°s ; from 50°s, several of the larger glaciers descend to sea level. the andes of chile and argentina can be divided into two climatic and glaciological zones : the dry andes and the wet andes. since the dry andes extend from the latitudes of the atacama desert to the area of the maule river, precipitation is more sporadic and there are strong temperature oscillations. the line of equilibrium may shift drastically over short periods of time, leaving a whole glacier in the ablation area or in the accumulation area. in the high andes of central chile and mendoza province, rock glaciers are larger and more common than glaciers ; this is due to the high exposure to solar radiation. in these regions glaciers occur typically at higher altitudes than rock glaciers. the lowest active rock glacier occur at 900 m a. s. l. in aconcagua. though precipitation increases with height, there are semiarid conditions in the nearly highest mountains of the andes. this dry steppe climate is considered to be typical of the subtropical position at 32 – 34° s. the valley bottoms have no woods, just dwarf scrub. the largest glaciers, for example, the plomo glacier and the horcones glaciers, do not even reach in length and have only insignificant ice thickness. at glacial times, however, c. 20, 000 years ago, the glaciers were over ten times longer. on the east side of this section of the mendozina andes, they flowed down to and on the west side to about above sea level. the massifs of cerro aconcagua ( ), cerro tupungato ( ) and nevado juncal ( ) are tens of kilometres away from each other and were connected by a joint ice stream network. the andes ' dendritic glacier arms, i. e. components of valley glaciers, were up to long, over thick and overspanned a vertical distance of. the climatic glacier snowline ( ela ) was lowered from to at glacial times. flora the andean region cuts across several natural and floristic regions, due to its extension, from caribbean venezuela to cold, windy and wet cape horn passing through the hyperarid atacama desert. rainforests and tropical dry forests used to encircle much of the northern andes but are now greatly diminished, especially in the choco and inter - andean valleys of colombia. opposite of the humid andean slopes are the relatively