central semitic languages both belonging to and outside the ancient south arabian family ( e. g. southern thamudic ) were spoken. it is believed that the ancestors of the modern south arabian languages ( non - central semitic languages ) were spoken in southern arabia at this time. to the north, in the oases of northern hejaz, dadanitic and taymanitic held some prestige as inscriptional languages. in and parts of western arabia, a language known to scholars as thamudic c is attested. in eastern arabia, inscriptions in a script derived from asa attest to a language known as hasaitic. on the northwestern frontier of arabia, various languages known to scholars as thamudic b, thamudic d, safaitic, and hismaic are attested. the last two share important isoglosses with later forms of arabic, leading scholars to theorize that safaitic and hismaic are early forms of arabic and that they should be considered old arabic. linguists generally believe that " old arabic ", a collection of related dialects that constitute the precursor of arabic, first emerged around the 1st century ce. previously, the earliest attestation of old arabic was thought to be a single 1st century ce inscription in sabaic script at, in southern present - day saudi arabia. however, this inscription does not participate in several of the key innovations of the arabic language group, such as the conversion of semitic mimation to nunation in the singular. it is best reassessed as a separate language on the central semitic dialect continuum. it was also thought that old arabic coexisted alongside — and then gradually displaced - - epigraphic ancient north arabian ( ana ), which was theorized to have been the regional tongue for many centuries. ana, despite its name, was considered a very distinct language, and mutually unintelligible, from " arabic ". scholars named its variant dialects after the towns where the inscriptions were discovered ( dadanitic, taymanitic, hismaic, safaitic ). however, most arguments for a single ana language or language family were based on the shape of the definite article, a prefixed h -. it has been argued that the h - is an archaism and not a shared innovation, and thus unsuitable for language classification, rendering the hypothesis of an ana language family untenable. safaitic and hismaic, previously considered ana, should be considered old arabic due to the fact that they participate in the innovations common to all