pairs, except the first zone, which was represented by an " efficacious ray ". this approach worked for the internal fringes, but the superposition of the efficacious ray and the direct ray did not work for the external fringes. the contribution from the " efficacious ray " was thought to be only partly canceled, for reasons involving the dynamics of the medium : where the wavefront was continuous, symmetry forbade oblique vibrations ; but near the obstacle that truncated the wavefront, the asymmetry allowed some sideways vibration towards the geometric shadow. this argument showed that fresnel had not ( yet ) fully accepted huygens ' s principle, which would have permitted oblique radiation from all portions of the front. in the same supplement, fresnel described his well - known double mirror, comprising two flat mirrors joined at an angle of slightly less than 180°, with which he produced a two - slit interference pattern from two virtual images of the same slit. a conventional double - slit experiment required a preliminary single slit to ensure that the light falling on the double slit was coherent ( synchronized ). in fresnel ' s version, the preliminary single slit was retained, and the double slit was replaced by the double mirror — which bore no physical resemblance to the double slit and yet performed the same function. this result ( which had been announced by arago in the march issue of the annales ) made it hard to believe that the two - slit pattern had anything to do with corpuscles being deflected as they passed near the edges of the slits. but 1816 was the " year without a summer " : crops failed ; hungry farming families lined the streets of rennes ; the central government organized " charity workhouses " for the needy ; and in october, fresnel was sent back to ille - et - vilaine to supervise charity workers in addition to his regular road crew. according to arago, fresnel ' s letters from december 1816 reveal his consequent anxiety. to arago he complained of being " tormented by the worries of surveillance, and the need to reprimand … " and to merimee he wrote : " i find nothing more tiresome than having to manage other men, and i admit that i have no idea what i ' m doing. " prize memoir ( 1818 ) and sequel on 17 march 1817, the academie des sciences announced that diffraction would be the topic for the biannual physics grand prix to be awarded in 1819. the deadline for entries