gyor, hungary ( tt, a3, q3 ) jakarta, indonesia, since 2011 martorell, spain, shared with seat and volkswagen ( a1, q3 ) san jose chiapa, mexico ( 2nd gen q5 ) in september 2012, audi announced the construction of its first north american manufacturing plant in puebla, mexico. this plant became operative in 2016 and produces the second generation q5. from 2002 up to 2003, audi headed the audi brand group, a subdivision of the volkswagen group ' s automotive division consisting of audi, lamborghini and seat, which was focused on sporty values, with the marques ' product vehicles and performance being under the higher responsibility of the audi brand. in january 2014, audi, along with the wireless power consortium, operated a booth which demonstrated a phone compartment using the qi open interface standard at the consumer electronics show ( ces ). in may, most of the audi dealers in the uk falsely claimed that the audi a7, a8, and r8 were euro ncap safety tested, all achieving five out of five stars. in fact none were tested. in 2015, audi admitted that at least 2. 1 million audi cars had been involved in the volkswagen emissions testing scandal in which software installed in the cars manipulated emissions data to fool regulators and allow the cars to pollute at higher than government - mandated levels. the a1, a3, a4, a5, a6, tt, q3 and q5 models were implicated in the scandal. audi promised to quickly find a technical solution and upgrade the cars so they can function within emissions regulations. ulrich hackenberg, the head of research and development at audi, was suspended in relation to the scandal. despite widespread media coverage about the scandal through the month of september, audi reported that u. s. sales for the month had increased by 16. 2 %. audi ' s parent company volkswagen announced on 18 june 2018 that audi chief executive rupert stadler had been arrested. in november 2015, the u. s. environmental protection agency implicated the 3 - liter diesel engine versions of the 2016 audi a6 quattro, a7 quattro, a8, a8l and the q5 as further models that had emissions regulation defeat - device software installed. thus, these models emitted nitrogen oxide at up to nine times the legal limit when the car detected that it was not hooked up to emissions testing equipment. in november 2016, audi expressed an intention to establish an assembly factory in pakistan, with the company ' s