to the obstacle and from the obstacle to the field point, he compared the calculated and observed positions of the fringes for diffraction by a half - plane, a slit, and a narrow strip — concentrating on the minima, which were visually sharper than the maxima. for the slit and the strip, he could not use the previously computed table of maxima and minima ; for each combination of dimensions, the intensity had to be expressed in terms of sums or differences of fresnel integrals and calculated from the table of integrals, and the extrema had to be calculated anew. the agreement between calculation and measurement was better than 1. 5 % in almost every case. near the end of the memoir, fresnel summed up the difference between huygens ' s use of secondary waves and his own : whereas huygens says there is light only where the secondary waves exactly agree, fresnel says there is complete darkness only where the secondary waves exactly cancel out. the judging committee comprised laplace, biot, and poisson ( all corpuscularists ), gay - lussac ( uncommitted ), and arago, who eventually wrote the committee ' s report. although entries in the competition were supposed to be anonymous to the judges, fresnel ' s must have been recognizable by the content. there was only one other entry, of which neither the manuscript nor any record of the author has survived. that entry ( identified as " no. 1 " ) was mentioned only in the last paragraph of the judges ' report, noting that the author had shown ignorance of the relevant earlier works of young and fresnel, used insufficiently precise methods of observation, overlooked known phenomena, and made obvious errors. in the words of john worrall, " the competition facing fresnel could hardly have been less stiff. " we may infer that the committee had only two options : award the prize to fresnel ( " no. 2 " ), or withhold it. the committee deliberated into the new year. then poisson, exploiting a case in which fresnel ' s theory gave easy integrals, predicted that if a circular obstacle were illuminated by a point - source, there should be ( according to the theory ) a bright spot in the center of the shadow, illuminated as brightly as the exterior. this seems to have been intended as a reductio ad absurdum. arago, undeterred, assembled an experiment with an obstacle