living standards he perceived between the european and african residents of the city, describing a situation in which " the ' civilised ' live like rats in holes " whereas " the ' barbarians ' live in solitude, in well - being ". however, these plans were ultimately ignored by the french administration. during world war ii, algiers was the first city to be seized from the axis by the allies in operation terminal, a part of operation torch. in 1962, after a bloody independence struggle in which hundreds of thousands ( estimates range between 350, 000 and 1, 500, 000 ) died ( mostly algerians but also french and pieds - noirs ) during fighting between the french army and the algerian front de liberation nationale, algeria gained its independence, with algiers as its capital. since then, despite losing its entire pied - noir population, the city has expanded massively. it now has about five million inhabitants, or 10 percent of algeria ' s population — and its suburbs now cover most of the surrounding mitidja plain. algerian war algiers also played a pivotal role in the algerian war ( 1954 – 1962 ), particularly during the battle of algiers when the 10th parachute division of the french army, starting on january 7, 1957, and on the orders of the french minister of justice francois mitterrand ( who authorized any means " to eliminate the insurrectionists " ), led attacks against the algerian fighters for independence. algiers remains marked by this battle, which was characterized by merciless fighting between fln forces which carried out a guerrilla campaign against the french military and police and pro - french algerian soldiers, and the french army which responded with a bloody repression, torture and blanket terrorism against the native population. the demonstrations of may 13 during the crisis of 1958 provoked the fall of the fourth republic in france, as well as the return of general de gaulle to power. independence algeria achieved independence on july 5, 1962. run by the fln that had secured independence, algiers became a member of non - aligned movement during the cold war. in october 1988, one year before the fall of the berlin wall, algiers was the site of demonstrations demanding the end of the single - party system and the creation of a real democracy baptized the " spring of algier ". the demonstrators were repressed by the authorities ( more than 300 dead ), but the movement constituted a turning point in the political history of modern algeria. in 1989, a new constitution was adopted that put an end to the one - party rule and saw the creation of more than fifty political parties