to george low, the manager of the apollo spacecraft program office at the msc, to suggest the apollo 11 crew be less flippant in naming their craft. the name snowcone was used for the cm and haystack was used for the lm in both internal and external communications during early mission planning. the lm was named eagle after the motif which was featured prominently on the mission insignia. at scheer ' s suggestion, the cm was named columbia after columbiad, the giant cannon that launched a spacecraft ( also from florida ) in jules verne ' s 1865 novel from the earth to the moon. it also referred to columbia, a historical name of the united states. in collins ' 1976 book, he said columbia was in reference to christopher columbus. mementos the astronauts had personal preference kits ( ppks ), small bags containing personal items of significance they wanted to take with them on the mission. five ppks were carried on apollo 11 : three ( one for each astronaut ) were stowed on columbia before launch, and two on eagle. neil armstrong ' s lm ppk contained a piece of wood from the wright brothers ' 1903 wright flyers left propeller and a piece of fabric from its wing, along with a diamond - studded astronaut pin originally given to slayton by the widows of the apollo 1 crew. this pin had been intended to be flown on that mission and given to slayton afterwards, but following the disastrous launch pad fire and subsequent funerals, the widows gave the pin to slayton. armstrong took it with him on apollo 11. site selection nasa ' s apollo site selection board announced five potential landing sites on february 8, 1968. these were the result of two years ' worth of studies based on high - resolution photography of the lunar surface by the five uncrewed probes of the lunar orbiter program and information about surface conditions provided by the surveyor program. the best earth - bound telescopes could not resolve features with the resolution project apollo required. the landing site had to be close to the lunar equator to minimize the amount of propellant required, clear of obstacles to minimize maneuvering, and flat to simplify the task of the landing radar. scientific value was not a consideration. areas that appeared promising on photographs taken on earth were often found to be totally unacceptable. the original requirement that the site be free of craters had to be relaxed, as no such site was found. five sites were considered : sites 1 and 2 were in the sea of tranquility ( mare tranquillitatis ) ;