##vsk. there is no evidence of living descendants of the kamchatka ainu. in the 2010 census of russia, nearly 100 people tried to register themselves as ethnic ainu in the village, but the governing council of kamchatka krai rejected their claim and enrolled them as ethnic kamchadal. in 2011, the leader of the ainu community in kamchatka, alexei vladimirovich nakamura, requested that vladimir ilyukhin ( governor of kamchatka ) and boris nevzorov ( chairman of the state duma ) include the ainu in the central list of the indigenous small - numbered peoples of the north, siberia and the far east. this request was also denied. ethnic ainu living in sakhalin oblast and khabarovsk krai are not organized politically. according to alexei nakamura, only 205 ainu live in russia ( up from just 12 people who self - identified as ainu in 2008 ). they, along with the kurile kamchadals ( itelmen of kuril islands ), are fighting for official recognition. since the ainu are not recognized in the official list of the peoples living in russia, they are counted as people without nationality, as ethnic russians, or as kamchadal. the ainu have emphasized that they were the natives of the kuril islands, and that the japanese and russians were both invaders. in 2004, the small ainu community living in russia in kamchatka krai wrote a letter to vladimir putin, urging him to reconsider any move to award the southern kuril islands to japan. in the letter they blamed the japanese, the tsarist russians, and the soviets for crimes against the ainu such as killings and assimilation ; they also urged him to recognize the japanese genocide against the ainu people. this proposal was rejected., both the kuril ainu and kuril kamchadal ethnic groups lack the fishing and hunting rights which the russian government grants to the indigenous tribal communities of the far north. in march 2017, alexei nakamura revealed that plans for an ainu village to be created in petropavlovsk - kamchatsky and plans for an ainu dictionary are underway. geography the traditional locations of the ainu are hokkaido, sakhalin, the kuril islands, kamchatka, and the northern tohoku region. many of the place names that remain in hokkaido and the kuril islands have a phonetic equivalent of the ainu place names. in 1756 ce,