wrote extensively on early islamic philosophy, especially the subjects logic, ethics and metaphysics, including treatises named logic and metaphysics. most of his works were written in arabic — then the language of science in the middle east — and some in persian. of linguistic significance even to this day are a few books that he wrote in nearly pure persian language ( particularly the danishnamah - yi ' ala ', philosophy for ala ' ad - dawla ' ). avicenna ' s commentaries on aristotle often criticized the philosopher, encouraging a lively debate in the spirit of ijtihad. avicenna ' s neoplatonic scheme of " emanations " became fundamental in the kalam ( school of theological discourse ) in the 12th century. his book of healing became available in europe in partial latin translation some fifty years after its composition, under the title sufficientia, and some authors have identified a " latin avicennism " as flourishing for some time, paralleling the more influential latin averroism, but suppressed by the parisian decrees of 1210 and 1215. avicenna ' s psychology and theory of knowledge influenced william of auvergne, bishop of paris and albertus magnus, while his metaphysics influenced the thought of thomas aquinas. metaphysical doctrine early islamic philosophy and islamic metaphysics, imbued as it is with islamic theology, distinguishes between essence and existence more clearly than aristotelianism. whereas existence is the domain of the contingent and the accidental, essence endures within a being beyond the accidental. the philosophy of avicenna, particularly that part relating to metaphysics, owes much to al - farabi. the search for a definitive islamic philosophy separate from occasionalism can be seen in what is left of his work. following al - farabi ' s lead, avicenna initiated a full - fledged inquiry into the question of being, in which he distinguished between essence ( mahiat ) and existence ( wujud ). he argued that the fact of existence cannot be inferred from or accounted for by the essence of existing things, and that form and matter by themselves cannot interact and originate the movement of the universe or the progressive actualization of existing things. existence must, therefore, be due to an agent - cause that necessitates, imparts, gives, or adds existence to an essence. to do so, the cause must be an existing thing and coexist with its effect. avicenna ' s consideration of the essence - attributes question may be