and the third finger has four. the legs were not as long or suited for speed as those of tyrannosaurids, and the claws of the toes were less developed and more hoof - like than those of earlier theropods. each foot had three weight - bearing toes and an inner dewclaw, which madsen suggested could have been used for grasping in juveniles. there was also what is interpreted as the splint - like remnant of a fifth ( outermost ) metatarsal, perhaps used as a lever between the achilles tendon and foot. skin skin impressions from allosaurus have been described. one impression, from a juvenile specimen, measures 30 cm² and is associated with the anterior dorsal ribs / pectoral region. the impression shows small scales measuring 1 – 3 mm in diameter. a large skin impression from the " big al two " specimen, associated with the base of the tail, measures 20 cm x 20 cm, and shows large scales measuring up to 2 cm in diameter. however it has been noted that these scales are more similar to those of sauropods, and due to the presence of non - theropod remains associated with the tail of " big al two " there is a possibility that this skin impression is not from allosaurus. another allosaurus fossil feature a skin impression from the mandible, showing scales measuring 1 – 2 mm in diameter. the same fossil also preserves skin impressions from the ventral side of the neck, showing broad scutes. a small skin impression from an allosaurus skull has been reported, but never described. classification allosaurus was an allosaurid, a member of a family of large theropods within the larger group carnosauria. the family name allosauridae was created for this genus in 1878 by othniel charles marsh, but the term was largely unused until the 1970s in favor of megalosauridae, another family of large theropods that eventually became a wastebasket taxon. this, along with the use of antrodemus for allosaurus during the same period, is a point that needs to be remembered when searching for information on allosaurus in publications that predate james madsen ' s 1976 monograph. major publications using the name " megalosauridae " instead of " allosauridae " include gilmore, 1920, von huene, 1926, romer, 1956 and 1966, steel, 1970, and walker, 1964. following the publication of madsen ' s influential monograph, allosauridae became the