and st. moritz, before returning to london to live in a leased flat on the top two floors of 153 cromwell road, kensington. reville, who was born just hours after hitchcock, converted from protestantism to catholicism, apparently at the insistence of hitchcock ' s mother ; she was baptised on 31 may 1927 and confirmed at westminster cathedral by cardinal francis bourne on 5 june. in 1928, when they learned that reville was pregnant, the hitchcocks purchased " winter ' s grace ", a tudor farmhouse set in eleven acres on stroud lane, shamley green, surrey, for £2, 500. their daughter and only child, patricia alma hitchcock, was born on 7 july that year. patricia died on 9 august 2021 at 93. reville became her husband ' s closest collaborator ; charles champlin wrote in 1982 : " the hitchcock touch had four hands, and two were alma ' s. " when hitchcock accepted the afi life achievement award in 1979, he said that he wanted to mention " four people who have given me the most affection, appreciation and encouragement, and constant collaboration. the first of the four is a film editor, the second is a scriptwriter, the third is the mother of my daughter, pat, and the fourth is as fine a cook as ever performed miracles in a domestic kitchen. and their names are alma reville. " reville wrote or co - wrote on many of hitchcock ' s films, including shadow of a doubt, suspicion and the 39 steps. early sound films hitchcock began work on his tenth film, blackmail ( 1929 ), when its production company, british international pictures ( bip ), converted its elstree studios to sound. the film was the first british " talkie " ; this followed the rapid development of sound films in the united states, from the use of brief sound segments in the jazz singer ( 1927 ) to the first full sound feature lights of new york ( 1928 ). blackmail began the hitchcock tradition of using famous landmarks as a backdrop for suspense sequences, with the climax taking place on the dome of the british museum. it also features one of his longest cameo appearances, which shows him being bothered by a small boy as he reads a book on the london underground. in the pbs series the men who made the movies, hitchcock explained how he used early sound recording as a special element of the film, stressing the word " knife " in a conversation with the woman suspected of murder. during this period, hitchcock directed segments for a bip revue, elstree calling ( 1930 ),