##iative law can also be expressed in functional notation thus :. generalized associative law if a binary operation is associative, repeated application of the operation produces the same result regardless of how valid pairs of parentheses are inserted in the expression. this is called the generalized associative law. for instance, a product of four elements may be written, without changing the order of the factors, in five possible ways : if the product operation is associative, the generalized associative law says that all these expressions will yield the same result. so unless the expression with omitted parentheses already has a different meaning ( see below ), the parentheses can be considered unnecessary and " the " product can be written unambiguously as as the number of elements increases, the number of possible ways to insert parentheses grows quickly, but they remain unnecessary for disambiguation. an example where this does not work is the logical biconditional. it is associative ; thus, is equivalent to, but most commonly means, which is not equivalent. examples some examples of associative operations include the following. propositional logic rule of replacement in standard truth - functional propositional logic, association, or associativity are two valid rules of replacement. the rules allow one to move parentheses in logical expressions in logical proofs. the rules ( using logical connectives notation ) are : and where " " is a metalogical symbol representing " can be replaced in a proof with ". truth functional connectives associativity is a property of some logical connectives of truth - functional propositional logic. the following logical equivalences demonstrate that associativity is a property of particular connectives. the following ( and their converses, since is commutative ) are truth - functional tautologies. associativity of disjunction associativity of conjunction associativity of equivalence joint denial is an example of a truth functional connective that is not associative. non - associative operation a binary operation on a set s that does not satisfy the associative law is called non - associative. symbolically, for such an operation the order of evaluation does matter. for example : subtraction division exponentiation vector cross product also although addition is associative for finite sums, it is not associative inside infinite sums ( series ). for example, whereas some non - associative