antonio agliardi ( 4 september 1832 – 19 march 1915 ) was an italian roman catholic cardinal, archbishop, and papal diplomat. biography agliardi was born at cologno al serio, in what is now the province of bergamo. he studied theology and canon law, and after acting as parish priest in his native diocese for twelve years was sent by the pope to canada as a bishop ' s chaplain. on his return he was appointed secretary to the congregation of the propaganda. in 1884, he was created by pope leo xiii archbishop of caesarea in partibus and sent to india as an apostolic delegate to report on the establishment of the hierarchy there. in 1887 he again visited india, to carry out the terms of the concordat arranged with portugal. the same year he was appointed secretary of the congregation super negotiis ecclesiae extraordinariis. in 1889 he became papal apostolic nuncio to bavaria at munich and in 1892 at vienna. allowing himself to be involved in the ecclesiastical disputes that divided hungary in 1895, he was made the subject of formal complaint by the hungarian government and in 1896 was recalled. in the consistory of 1896 he was elevated to cardinal - priest of santi nereo e achilleo. in 1899 he was made cardinal bishop of albano. in 1903, he was named vice - chancellor of the catholic church, and became the chancellor of the apostolic chancery in the secretariat of state in 1908. he died in rome and was buried in bergamo. episcopal lineage agliardi ' s episcopal lineage, or apostolic succession was : cardinal scipione rebiba cardinal giulio antonio santorio cardinal girolamo bernerio archbishop galeazzo sanvitale cardinal ludovico ludovisi cardinal luigi caetani cardinal ulderico carpegna cardinal paluzzo paluzzi altieri degli albertoni pope benedict xiii pope benedict xiv cardinal enrico enriquez archbishop manuel quintano bonifaz cardinal buenaventura fernandez de cordoba spinola cardinal giuseppe doria pamphili pope pius viii pope pius ix cardinal alessandro franchi cardinal giovanni simeoni cardinal antonio agliardi notes references external links catholic - hierarchy. org 1832 births 1915 deaths clergy from the province of bergamo apostolic nuncios to austria 20th - century italian cardinals cardinal - bishops of albano cartellverband members 19th - century italian roman catholic archbishops 20th - century italian roman catholic archbishops apostolic nuncios to bavaria cardinals created by pope leo xiii roman catholic titular archbishops of caesarea