riviera ) lies in the transitional zone between mediterranean ( csa ) and hot semi - arid climate ( bsh ), with its port - city of piraeus being the most extreme example, receiving just per year. the areas to the south generally see less extreme temperature variations as their climate is moderated by the saronic gulf. the northern part of the city ( i. e., kifissia ), owing to its higher elevation, features moderately lower temperatures and slightly increased precipitation year - round. the generally dry climate of the athens basin compared to the precipitation amounts seen in a typical mediterranean climate is due to the rain shadow effect caused by the pindus mountain range and the dirfys and parnitha mountains, substantially drying the westerly and northerly winds respectively. snowfall is not very common, though it occurs almost annually, but it usually does not cause heavy disruption to daily life, in contrast to the northern parts of the city, where blizzards occur on a somewhat more regular basis. the most recent examples include the snowstorms of 16 february 2021 and 24 january 2022, when the entire urban area was blanketed in snow. athens may get particularly hot in the summer, owing partly to the strong urban heat island effect characterizing the city. in fact, athens is considered to be the hottest city in mainland europe, and it ' s the first city in europe to appoint a chief heat officer to deal with severe heat waves. temperatures of 47. 5°c have been reported in several locations of the metropolitan area, including within the urban agglomeration. metropolitan athens was until 2021 the holder of the world meteorological organization record for the highest temperature ever recorded in europe with which was recorded in the areas of elefsina and tatoi on 10 july 1977. administration athens became the capital of greece in 1834, following nafplion, which was the provisional capital from 1829. the municipality ( city ) of athens is also the capital of the attica region. the term athens can refer either to the municipality of athens, to greater athens or urban area, or to the entire athens metropolitan area. the large city centre ( ) of the greek capital falls directly within the municipality of athens or athens municipality ( ) — also city of athens. athens municipality is the largest in population size in greece. piraeus also forms a significant city centre on its own within the athens urban area and it is the second largest in population size within it. athens urban area the athens urban area ( ), also known as urban