health service campaign in the uk. a fluoride mouthrinse can be used at a different time of the day to brushing. gargling is where the head is tilted back, allowing the mouthwash to sit in the back of the mouth while exhaling, causing the liquid to bubble. gargling is practiced in japan for perceived prevention of viral infection. one commonly used way is with infusions or tea. in some cultures, gargling is usually done in private, typically in a bathroom at a sink so the liquid can be rinsed away. dangerous misuse if one drinks mouthwash, serious harm and even death can quickly result from the high alcohol content and other harmful substances in mouthwash. it is a common cause of death among homeless people during winter months, because a person can feel warmer after drinking it. effects the most - commonly - used mouthwashes are commercial antiseptics, which are used at home as part of an oral hygiene routine. mouthwashes combine ingredients to treat a variety of oral conditions. variations are common, and mouthwash has no standard formulation, so its use and recommendation involves concerns about patient safety. some manufacturers of mouthwash state that their antiseptic and antiplaque mouthwashes kill the bacterial plaque that causes cavities, gingivitis, and bad breath. it is, however, generally agreed that the use of mouthwash does not eliminate the need for both brushing and flossing. the american dental association asserts that regular brushing and proper flossing are enough in most cases, in addition to regular dental check - ups, although they approve many mouthwashes. for many patients, however, the mechanical methods could be tedious and time - consuming, and, additionally, some local conditions may render them especially difficult. chemotherapeutic agents, including mouthwashes, could have a key role as adjuncts to daily home care, preventing and controlling supragingival plaque, gingivitis and oral malodor. minor and transient side effects of mouthwashes are very common, such as taste disturbance, tooth staining, sensation of a dry mouth, etc. alcohol - containing mouthwashes may make dry mouth and halitosis worse, as they dry out the mouth. soreness, ulceration and redness may sometimes occur ( e. g., aphthous stomatitis or allergic contact stomatitis ) if the person is allergic or sensitive to mouthwash ingredients, such