in april 1999 with officers and warrant officers who had participated in the first nagorno - karabakh war of 1991 – 1994. the turkish special forces command played a role in the formation of the unit. during the 2020 nagorno - karabakh war, personnel of the special forces reclaimed the city of jebrayil and nine surrounding villages from the armenian army. on november 8, aliyev congratulated the commander of the special forces on their " liberation of shusha ". the war was considered to be first time azerbaijan has actively used all of its special forces units. defense industry the ministry of defence industry of azerbaijan directs domestic military supplies for azerbaijan. it was established in 2005. the defence industries ministry subsumed the state department for military industry and for armaments and the military science center, each of which was formerly a separate agency within the azerbaijani defense ministry. the defense industry has emerged as an autonomous entity with a growing production capability. the ministry is cooperating with the defense sectors of ukraine, belarus and pakistan. along with other contracts, azerbaijani defence industries and turkish companies, azerbaijan will produce 40mm revolver grenade launchers, 107mm and 122mm mlrs systems, cobra 4×4 vehicles and joint modernization of btr vehicles in baku. the major military companies of azerbaijan are : rpe iglim, aviation and shipbuilding radiogurashdirma, communication means and radio - electronic rpe neftgazavtomat, devices and automation systems for monitoring technological processes rpe automatic lines, non - standard equipment and products for application in electrotechnical and machine engineering avia - agregat, multi - purpose aviation equipment, various airdrome conditioners, universal container of board conductor, air - to - air radiators, fuel - oil, air - to - air heat exchangers and ventilators in early 2008, reports indicated that an agreement with turkey had been signed which would lead to azerbaijan producing armoured personnel carriers, infantry fighting vehicles, and small calibre artillery pieces. international cooperation azerbaijan cooperates with about 60 countries in the military - technical sphere and has an agreement on military - technical cooperation with more than 30 countries. turkey in december 2009, an agreement on military assistance was signed by turkey and azerbaijan. the agreement envisions ankara supplying azerbaijan with weapons, military equipment, and, if necessary, soldiers in case war with armenia over karabakh resumes. turkey has provided azerbaijan with infantry weapons, tactical vehicles ( jeeps, trucks, etc. ) professional training, military organization,