been adopted on smaller boats ( partly because they stow easily on a bow roller ) but they are most effective in larger sizes. claw anchors are quite popular on charter fleets as they have a high chance to set on the first try in many bottoms. they have the reputation of not breaking out with tide or wind changes, instead slowly turning in the bottom to align with the force. bruce anchors can have difficulty penetrating weedy bottoms and grass. they offer a fairly low holding - power - to - weight ratio and generally have to be oversized to compete with newer types. scoop type anchors three time circumnavigator german rolf kaczirek invented the bugel anker in the 1980s. kaczirek wanted an anchor that was self - righting without necessitating a ballasted tip. instead, he added a roll bar and switched out the plough share for a flat blade design. as none of the innovations of this anchor were patented, copies of it abound. alain poiraud of france introduced the scoop type anchor in 1996. similar in design to the bugel anchor, poiraud ' s design features a concave fluke shaped like the blade of a shovel, with a shank attached parallel to the fluke, and the load applied toward the digging end. it is designed to dig into the bottom like a shovel, and dig deeper as more pressure is applied. the common challenge with all the scoop type anchors is that they set so well, they can be difficult to weigh. bugelanker, or wasi : this german - designed bow anchor has a sharp tip for penetrating weed, and features a roll - bar that allows the correct setting attitude to be achieved without the need for extra weight to be inserted into the tip. spade : this is a french design that has proven successful since 1996. it features a demountable shank ( hollow in some instances ) and the choice of galvanized steel, stainless steel, or aluminium construction, which means a lighter and more easily stowable anchor. the geometry also makes this anchor self stowing on a single roller. rocna : this new zealand spade design, available in galvanised or stainless steel, has been produced since 2004. it has a roll - bar ( similar to that of the bugel ), a large spade - like fluke area, and a sharp toe for penetrating weed and grass. the rocna sets quickly and holds well. mantus : this is claimed to be a fast setting anchor with high holding power