, and rookie bangers – and racing features demolition derbies, figure of eight, and oval racing. semi contact formulas include brisca f1, f2, and superstox – where bumpers are used tactically. non - contact formulas include national hot rods, stock rods, and lightning rods. one - make racing one - make, or single marque, championships often employ production - based cars from a single manufacturer or even a single model from a manufacturer ' s range. there are numerous notable one - make formulae from various countries and regions, some of which – such as the porsche supercup and, previously, iroc – have fostered many distinct national championships. single marque series are often found at the club level, to which the production - based cars, limited modifications, and close parity in performance are very well suited. some of the better - known single - make series are the mini 7 championship ( europe ' s longest - running one - make championship ), the radical european masters, john cooper mini challenge, clio cup, ginettas, caterhams, bmws, and mx5s. there are also single - chassis single seater formulae, such as formula renault and formula bmw, usually as " feeder " series for " senior " race formula ( in the fashion of farm teams ). drag racing in drag racing, the objective is to complete a given straight - line distance, from a standing start, ahead of a vehicle in a parallel lane. this distance is traditionally, though has become popular since the 1990s. the vehicles may or may not be given the signal to start at the same time, depending on the class of racing. vehicles range from the everyday car to the purpose - built dragster. speeds and elapsed time differ from class to class. average street cars cover the mile in 12 to 16 seconds, whereas a top fuel dragster takes 4. 5 seconds or less, reaching speeds of up to. drag racing was organized as a sport by wally parks in the early 1950s through the national hot rod association ( nhra ). the nhra was formed to discourage street racing. when launching, a top fuel dragster will accelerate at 3. 4 g ( 33 m / s2 ), and when braking parachutes are deployed the deceleration is 4 g ( 39 m / s2 ), more than the space shuttle experiences. a top fuel car can be heard over away and can generate a reading from 1. 5 to 3. 9 on the richter scale. drag