. is a diagonal knifehand strike to the side of the head or neck. is a punch to the torso. specific targets include the chest, abdomen, and solar plexus, sometimes referred to as, or. is a punch to the face, sometimes referred to as. beginners in particular often practice techniques from grabs, both because they are safer and because it is easier to feel the energy and the direction of the movement of force of a hold than it is for a strike. some grabs are historically derived from being held while trying to draw a weapon, whereupon a technique could then be used to free oneself and immobilize or strike the attacker while they are grabbing the defender. the following are examples of some basic grabs :, when one hand grabs one wrist., when both hands grab one wrist ; sometimes referred to as, when both hands grab both wrists ; sometimes referred to as. when one shoulder is grabbed., when both shoulders are grabbed. it is sometimes combined with an overhead strike as., when the lapel is grabbed ; sometimes referred to as. basic techniques the following are a sample of the basic or widely practiced throws and pins. many of these techniques derive from daito - ryu aiki - jujutsu, but some others were invented by morihei ueshiba. the precise terminology for some may vary between organisations and styles ; the following are the terms used by the aikikai foundation. note that despite the names of the first five techniques listed, they are not universally taught in numeric order., a control technique using one hand on the elbow and one hand near the wrist which leverages to the ground. this grip applies pressure into the ulnar nerve at the wrist. is a pronating wristlock that torques the arm and applies painful nerve pressure. ( there is an adductive wristlock or z - lock in the version. ) is a rotational wristlock that directs upward - spiraling tension throughout the arm, elbow and shoulder. is a shoulder control technique similar to, but with both hands gripping the forearm. the knuckles ( from the palm side ) are applied to the recipient ' s radial nerve against the periosteum of the forearm bone. is a technique that is visually similar to, but with an inverted grip of the wrist, medial rotation of the arm and shoulder, and downward pressure on the elbow. common in knife and other weapon take - aways. is a throw during which ' s hand is folded back past the shoulder, locking the shoulder joint. is a