twenty millions ". he also laid the groundwork at a meeting at the white house with five african american representatives on august 14, 1862. arranging for a reporter to be present, he urged his visitors to agree to the voluntary colonization of black people, apparently to make his forthcoming preliminary emancipation proclamation more palatable to racist white people. a union victory in the battle of antietam on september 17, 1862, provided lincoln with an opportunity to issue the preliminary emancipation proclamation, and the subsequent war governors ' conference added support for the proclamation. lincoln issued his preliminary emancipation proclamation on september 22, 1862. it stated that the slaves in all states in rebellion on january 1, 1863, would be free. he issued his final emancipation proclamation on january 1, 1863, keeping his promise. in his letter to albert g. hodges, lincoln explained his belief that " if slavery is not wrong, nothing is wrong.... and yet i have never understood that the presidency conferred upon me an unrestricted right to act officially upon this judgment and feeling.... i claim not to have controlled events, but confess plainly that events have controlled me. " lincoln ' s moderate approach succeeded in inducing the border states to remain in the union and war democrats to support the union. the border states ( kentucky, missouri, maryland, delaware ) and union - controlled regions around new orleans, norfolk, and elsewhere, were not covered by the emancipation proclamation. nor was tennessee, which had come under union control. missouri and maryland abolished slavery on their own ; kentucky and delaware did not. still, the proclamation did not enjoy universal support. it caused much unrest in what were then considered western states, where racist sentiments led to a great fear of abolition. there was some concern that the proclamation would lead to the secession of western states, and its issuance prompted the stationing of union troops in illinois in case of rebellion. since the emancipation proclamation was based on the president ' s war powers, it applied only in territory held by confederates at the time it was issued. however, the proclamation became a symbol of the union ' s growing commitment to add emancipation to the union ' s definition of liberty. the emancipation proclamation greatly reduced the confederacy ' s hope of being recognized or otherwise aided by britain or france. by late 1864, lincoln was playing a leading role in getting the house of representatives to vote for the thirteenth amendment to the united states constitution, which mandated the ending of chattel slavery. reconstruction the war had utterly devastated the south and posed serious questions of how the south would be re