uplifted hebrides of western scotland. the north atlantic ocean contains about 810 seamounts, most of them situated along the mid - atlantic ridge. the ospar database ( convention for the protection of the marine environment of the north - east atlantic ) mentions 104 seamounts : 74 within the national exclusive economic zone. of these seamounts, 46 are located close to the iberian peninsula. south atlantic west gondwana ( south america and africa ) broke up in the early cretaceous to form the south atlantic. the apparent fit between the coastlines of the two continents was noted on the first maps that included the south atlantic and it was also the subject of the first computer - assisted plate tectonic reconstructions in 1965. this magnificent fit, however, has since then proven problematic and later reconstructions have introduced various deformation zones along the shorelines to accommodate the northward - propagating break - up. intra - continental rifts and deformations have also been introduced to subdivide both continental plates into sub - plates. geologically the south atlantic can be divided into four segments : equatorial segment, from 10°n to the romanche fracture zone ( rfz ) ; central segment, from rfz to florianopolis fracture zone ( ffz, north of walvis ridge and rio grande rise ) ; southern segment, from ffz to the agulhas - falkland fracture zone ( affz ) ; and falkland segment, south of affz. in the southern segment the early cretaceous ( 133 – 130 ma ) intensive magmatism of the parana – etendeka large igneous province produced by the tristan hotspot resulted in an estimated volume of. it covered an area of in brazil, paraguay, and uruguay and in africa. dyke swarms in brazil, angola, eastern paraguay, and namibia, however, suggest the lip originally covered a much larger area and also indicate failed rifts in all these areas. associated offshore basaltic flows reach as far south as the falkland islands and south africa. traces of magmatism in both offshore and onshore basins in the central and southern segments have been dated to 147 – 49 ma with two peaks between 143 and 121 ma and 90 – 60 ma. in the falkland segment rifting began with dextral movements between the patagonia and colorado sub - plates between the early jurassic ( 190 ma ) and the early cretaceous ( 126. 7 ma ). around 150 ma sea - floor spreading propagated northward into the southern segment. no later than 130 ma rifting had reached