( a situation reminiscent of his own movie, the bad sleep well ). his very sanity had been called into question. worst of all, the japanese film industry — and perhaps the man himself — began to suspect that he would never make another film. a difficult decade ( 1969 – 1977 ) knowing that his reputation was at stake following the much publicised tora! tora! tora! debacle, kurosawa moved quickly to a new project to prove he was still viable. to his aid came friends and famed directors keisuke kinoshita, masaki kobayashi and kon ichikawa, who together with kurosawa established in july 1969 a production company called the club of the four knights ( yonki no kai ). although the plan was for the four directors to create a film each, it has been suggested that the real motivation for the other three directors was to make it easier for kurosawa to successfully complete a film, and therefore find his way back into the business. the first project proposed and worked on was a period film to be called dora - heita, but when this was deemed too expensive, attention shifted to dodesukaden, an adaptation of yet another shugoro yamamoto work, again about the poor and destitute. the film was shot quickly ( by kurosawa ' s standards ) in about nine weeks, with kurosawa determined to show he was still capable of working quickly and efficiently within a limited budget. for his first work in color, the dynamic editing and complex compositions of his earlier pictures were set aside, with the artist focusing on the creation of a bold, almost surreal palette of primary colors, in order to reveal the toxic environment in which the characters live. it was released in japan in october 1970, but though a minor critical success, it was greeted with audience indifference. the picture lost money and caused the club of the four knights to dissolve. initial reception abroad was somewhat more favorable, but dodesukaden has since been typically considered an interesting experiment not comparable to the director ' s best work. after struggling through the production of dodesukaden, kurosawa turned to television work the following year for the only time in his career with song of the horse, a documentary about thoroughbred race horses. it featured a voice - over narrated by a fictional man and a child ( voiced by the same actors as the beggar and his son in dodesukaden ). it is the only documentary in kurosawa ' s filmography ; the small crew included