##axeology could be used to deduce a priori theoretical economic truths and that deductive economic thought experiments could yield conclusions which follow irrefutably from the underlying assumptions. he wrote that conclusions could not be inferred from empirical observation or statistical analysis and argued against the use of probabilities in economic models. since mises ' time, some austrian thinkers have accepted his praxeological approach while others have adopted alternative methodologies. for example, fritz machlup, friedrich hayek and others did not take mises ' strong a priori approach to economics. ludwig lachmann, a radical subjectivist, also largely rejected mises ' formulation of praxeology in favor of the verstehende methode ( " interpretive method " ) articulated by max weber. in the 20th century, various austrians incorporated models and mathematics into their analysis. austrian economist steven horwitz argued in 2000 that austrian methodology is consistent with macroeconomics and that austrian macroeconomics can be expressed in terms of microeconomic foundations. austrian economist roger garrison writes that austrian macroeconomic theory can be correctly expressed in terms of diagrammatic models. in 1944, austrian economist oskar morgenstern presented a rigorous schematization of an ordinal utility function ( the von neumann – morgenstern utility theorem ) in theory of games and economic behavior. fundamental tenets in 1981, fritz machlup listed the typical views of austrian economic thinking as such : methodological individualism : in the explanation of economic phenomena, we have to go back to the actions ( or inaction ) of individuals ; groups or " collectives " cannot act except through the actions of individual members. groups do not think ; people think. methodological subjectivism : the judgments and choices made by individuals on the basis of whatever knowledge they have or believe to have, and whatever expectations they have regarding external developments and the consequences of their actions. tastes and preferences : subjective valuations of goods and services determine the demand for them so that their prices are influenced by consumers. opportunity costs : the costs of the alternative opportunities that must be foregone ; as productive services are employed for one purpose, all alternative uses have to be sacrificed. marginalism : in all economic designs, the values, costs, revenues, productivity and so on are determined by the significance of the last unit added to or subtracted from the total. time structure of production and consumption : decisions to save reflect " time preferences " regarding consumption in the immediate, distant, or indefinite future and investments