. under the rule of shah rukh the city served as the focal point of the timurid renaissance, whose glory matched florence of the italian renaissance as the center of a cultural rebirth. in the early 16th century, babur arrived from ferghana and captured kabul from the arghun dynasty. babur would go on to conquer the afghan lodi dynasty who had ruled the delhi sultanate in the first battle of panipat. between the 16th and 18th century, the uzbek khanate of bukhara, iranian safavids, and indian mughals ruled parts of the territory. during the medieval period, the northwestern area of afghanistan was referred to by the regional name khorasan, which was commonly used up to the 19th century among natives to describe their country. hotak dynasty in 1709, mirwais hotak, a local ghilzai tribal leader, successfully rebelled against the safavids. he defeated gurgin khan, the georgian governor of kandahar under the safavids, and established his own kingdom. mirwais died in 1715 and was succeeded by his brother abdul aziz, who was soon killed by mirwais ' s son mahmud for possibly planning to sign a peace with the safavids. mahmud led the afghan army in 1722 to the persian capital of isfahan, and captured the city after the battle of gulnabad and proclaimed himself king of persia. the afghan dynasty was ousted from persia by nader shah after the 1729 battle of damghan. in 1738, nader shah and his forces captured kandahar in the siege of kandahar, the last hotak stronghold, from shah hussain hotak. soon after, the persian and afghan forces invaded india, nader shah had plundered delhi, alongside his 16 - year - old commander, ahmad shah durrani who had assisted him on these campaigns. nader shah was assassinated in 1747. durrani empire after the death of nader shah in 1747, ahmad shah durrani had returned to kandahar with a contingent of 4, 000 pashtuns. the abdalis had " unanimously accepted " ahmad shah as their new leader. with his ascension in 1747, ahmad shah had led multiple campaigns against the mughal empire, maratha empire, and then - receding afsharid empire. ahmad shah had captured kabul and peshawar from the mughal appointed governor, nasir khan. ahmad shah had then conquered herat in 1750, and had also captured kashmir in 1752. ahmad shah had launched two campaigns