of ultra - violence. they assault a scholar walking home from the public library ; rob a shop, leaving the owner and his wife bloodied and unconscious ; beat up a beggar ; then scuffle with a rival gang. joyriding through the countryside in a stolen car, they break into an isolated cottage and terrorise the young couple living there, beating the husband and gang - raping his wife. in a metafictional touch, the husband is a writer working on a manuscript called " a clockwork orange ", and alex contemptuously reads out a paragraph that states the novel ' s main theme before shredding the manuscript. at the korova, alex strikes dim for his crude response to a woman ' s singing of an operatic passage, and strains within the gang become apparent. at home in his parents ' flat, alex plays classical music at top volume, which he describes as giving him orgasmic bliss before falling asleep. alex feigns illness to his parents to stay out of school the next day. following an unexpected visit from p. r. deltoid, his " post - corrective adviser ", alex visits a record store, where he meets two pre - teen girls. he invites them back to the flat, where he drugs and rapes them. that night after a nap, alex finds his droogs in a mutinous mood, waiting downstairs in the torn - up and graffitied lobby. georgie challenges alex for leadership of the gang, demanding that they focus on higher - value targets in their robberies. alex quells the rebellion by slashing dim ' s hand and fighting with georgie, then soothes the gang by agreeing to georgie ' s plan to rob the home of a wealthy elderly woman. alex breaks in and knocks the woman unconscious, but when he hears sirens and opens the door to flee, dim strikes him as revenge for the earlier fight. the gang abandons alex on the front step to be arrested by the police ; while in custody, he learns that the woman has died from her injuries. part 2 : the ludovico technique alex is convicted of murder and sentenced to 14 years in prison. his parents visit one day to inform him that georgie has been killed in a botched robbery. two years into his term, he has obtained a job in one of the prison chapels, playing music on the stereo to accompany the sunday christian services. the chaplain mistakes alex ' s bible studies for stirrings of faith ; in reality, alex only reads scripture for the violent or