zimmer bradley ' s novel the firebrand ( 1987 ). achilles is one of various ' narrators ' in colleen mccullough ' s novel the song of troy ( 1998 ). the death of achilles ( смерть ахиллеса, 1998 ) is an historical detective novel by russian writer boris akunin that alludes to various figures and motifs from the iliad. the character achilles in ender ' s shadow ( 1999 ), by orson scott card, shares his namesake ' s cunning mind and ruthless attitude. achilles is one of the main characters in dan simmons ' s novels ilium ( 2003 ) and olympos ( 2005 ). achilles is a major supporting character in david gemmell ' s troy series of books ( 2005 – 2007 ). achilles is the main character in david malouf ' s novel ransom ( 2009 ). the ghost of achilles appears in rick riordan ' s the last olympian ( 2009 ). he warns percy jackson about the curse of achilles and its side effects. achilles is a main character in terence hawkins ' 2009 novel the rage of achilles. achilles is a major character in madeline miller ' s debut novel, the song of achilles ( 2011 ), which won the 2012 orange prize for fiction. the novel explores the relationship between patroclus and achilles from boyhood to the fateful events of the iliad. achilles appears in the light novel series fate / apocrypha ( 2012 – 2014 ) as the rider of red. achilles is a main character in pat barker ' s 2018 novel the silence of the girls, much of which is narrated by his slave briseis. achilles is the main character of wrath goddess sing, a 2022 novel by maya deane, depicted as a transgender woman and daughter of athena. visual arts achilles with the daughters of lycomedes is a subject treated in paintings by anthony van dyck ( before 1618 ; museo del prado, madrid ) and nicolas poussin ( ; museum of fine arts, boston ) among others. peter paul rubens has authored a series of works on the life of achilles, comprising the titles : thetis dipping the infant achilles into the river styx, achilles educated by the centaur chiron, achilles recognized among the daughters of lycomedes, the wrath of achilles, the death of hector, thetis receiving the arms of achilles from vulcanus, the death of achilles ( museum boijmans van beuningen, rotterdam ), and briseis