" is an acronym formed from the first letters of each group member ' s first name : agnetha, bjorn, benny, anni - frid, although there has never been any official confirmation of who each letter in the sequence refers to. the earliest known example of " abba " written on paper is on a recording session sheet from the metronome studio in stockholm dated 16 october 1973. this was first written as " bjorn, benny, agnetha & frida ", but was subsequently crossed out with " abba " written in large letters on top. official logo their official logo, distinct with the backward " b ", was designed by rune soderqvist, who designed most of abba ' s record sleeves. the ambigram first appeared on the french compilation album, golden double album, released in may 1976 by disques vogue, and would henceforth be used for all official releases. the idea for the official logo was made by the german photographer on a velvet jumpsuit photo shoot for the teenage magazine bravo. in the photo, the abba members held giant initial letters of their names. after the pictures were made, heilemann found out that benny andersson reversed his letter " b ; " this prompted discussions about the mirrored " b ", and the members of abba agreed on the mirrored letter. from 1976 onward, the first " b " in the logo version of the name was " mirror - image " reversed on the band ' s promotional material, thus becoming the group ' s registered trademark. following their acquisition of the group ' s catalogue, polygram began using variations of the abba logo, employing a different font. in 1992, polygram added a crown emblem to it for the first release of the abba gold : greatest hits compilation. after universal music purchased polygram ( and, thus, abba ' s label polar music international ), control of the group ' s catalogue returned to stockholm. since then, the original logo has been reinstated on all official products. 1973 – 1976 : breakthrough eurovision song contest 1974 as the group entered the melodifestivalen with " ring ring " but failed to qualify as the 1973 swedish entry, stig anderson immediately started planning for the 1974 contest. ulvaeus, andersson and stig anderson believed in the possibilities of using the eurovision song contest as a way to make the music business aware of them as songwriters, as well as the band itself. in late 1973, they were invited by swedish television to contribute a song for the melodife