aberdeen ( ; ; ; ) is a city in north east scotland, and is the third most populous scottish city. aberdeen is one of scotland ' s 32 local government council areas ( as aberdeen city ), and has a population estimate of for the city of aberdeen, and for the local council area making it the united kingdom ' s 39th most populous built - up area. the city is northeast of edinburgh and north of london, and is the northernmost major city in the united kingdom. aberdeen has a long, sandy coastline and features an oceanic climate, with cool summers and mild, rainy winters. during the mid - 18th to mid - 20th centuries, aberdeen ' s buildings incorporated locally quarried grey granite, which may sparkle like silver because of its high mica content. since the discovery of north sea oil in 1969, aberdeen has been known as the offshore oil capital of europe. based upon the discovery of prehistoric villages around the mouths of the rivers dee and don, the area around aberdeen has been thought to have been settled for at least 6, 000 years. aberdeen received royal burgh status from david i of scotland ( 1124 – 1153 ), which transformed the city economically. the traditional industries of fishing, paper - making, shipbuilding, and textiles have been overtaken by the oil industry and aberdeen ' s seaport. aberdeen heliport is one of the busiest commercial heliports in the world, and the seaport is the largest in the north - east part of scotland. a university town, the city is known for the university of aberdeen, founded in 1495 as the fifth oldest university in the english - speaking world and located in old aberdeen. in 2012, hsbc named aberdeen as a leading business hub and one of eight ' super cities ' spearheading the uk ' s economy, marking it as the only city in scotland so designated. in 2018, aberdeen was found to be the best city in the uk to start a business in a study released by card payment firm paymentsense. history the aberdeen area has seen human settlement for at least 8, 000 years. the city began as two separate burghs : old aberdeen at the mouth of the river don ; and new aberdeen, a fishing and trading settlement, where the denburn waterway entered the river dee estuary. the earliest charter was granted by william the lion in 1179 and confirmed the corporate rights granted by david i. in 1319, the great charter of robert the bruce transformed aberdeen into a property - owning and financially independent community. granted with it was the nearby