du louvre during the french revolution ( in 1793 ) as a public museum for much of the former french royal collection certainly marked an important stage in the development of public access to art, transferring ownership to a republican state, but was a continuation of trends already well established. most modern public museums and art education programs for children in schools can be traced back to this impulse to have art available to everyone. however, museums do not only provide availability to art, but do also influence the way art is being perceived by the audience, as studies found. thus, the museum itself is not only a blunt stage for the presentation of art, but plays an active and vital role in the overall perception of art in modern society. museums in the united states tend to be gifts from the very rich to the masses. ( the metropolitan museum of art in new york city, for example, was created by john taylor johnston, a railroad executive whose personal art collection seeded the museum. ) but despite all this, at least one of the important functions of art in the 21st century remains as a marker of wealth and social status. there have been attempts by artists to create art that can not be bought by the wealthy as a status object. one of the prime original motivators of much of the art of the late 1960s and 1970s was to create art that could not be bought and sold. it is " necessary to present something more than mere objects " said the major post war german artist joseph beuys. this time period saw the rise of such things as performance art, video art, and conceptual art. the idea was that if the artwork was a performance that would leave nothing behind, or was an idea, it could not be bought and sold. " democratic precepts revolving around the idea that a work of art is a commodity impelled the aesthetic innovation which germinated in the mid - 1960s and was reaped throughout the 1970s. artists broadly identified under the heading of conceptual art... substituting performance and publishing activities for engagement with both the material and materialistic concerns of painted or sculptural form... [ have ] endeavored to undermine the art object qua object. " in the decades since, these ideas have been somewhat lost as the art market has learned to sell limited edition dvds of video works, invitations to exclusive performance art pieces, and the objects left over from conceptual pieces. many of these performances create works that are only understood by the elite who have been educated as to why an idea or video or piece of apparent garbage may