a highly elongated shape. they may play an important role in creating the bipolar outflow in the region. extragalactic ammonia was imaged using the vla in ic 342. the hot gas has temperatures above 70 k, which was inferred from ammonia line ratios and appears to be closely associated with the innermost portions of the nuclear bar seen in co. was also monitored by vla toward a sample of four galactic ultracompact hii regions : g9. 62 + 0. 19, g10. 47 + 0. 03, g29. 96 - 0. 02, and g31. 41 + 0. 31. based upon temperature and density diagnostics, it is concluded that in general such clumps are probably the sites of massive star formation in an early evolutionary phase prior to the development of an ultracompact hii region. infrared detections absorption at 2. 97 micrometres due to solid ammonia was recorded from interstellar grains in the becklin – neugebauer object and probably in ngc 2264 - ir as well. this detection helped explain the physical shape of previously poorly understood and related ice absorption lines. a spectrum of the disk of jupiter was obtained from the kuiper airborne observatory, covering the 100 to 300 cm−1 spectral range. analysis of the spectrum provides information on global mean properties of ammonia gas and an ammonia ice haze. a total of 149 dark cloud positions were surveyed for evidence of ' dense cores ' by using the ( j, k ) = ( 1, 1 ) rotating inversion line of nh3. in general, the cores are not spherically shaped, with aspect ratios ranging from 1. 1 to 4. 4. it is also found that cores with stars have broader lines than cores without stars. ammonia has been detected in the draco nebula and in one or possibly two molecular clouds, which are associated with the high - latitude galactic infrared cirrus. the finding is significant because they may represent the birthplaces for the population i metallicity b - type stars in the galactic halo that could have been borne in the galactic disk. observations of nearby dark clouds by balancing and stimulated emission with spontaneous emission, it is possible to construct a relation between excitation temperature and density. moreover, since the transitional levels of ammonia can be approximated by a 2 - level system at low temperatures, this calculation is fairly simple. this premise can be applied to dark clouds, regions suspected of having extremely low temperatures and possible sites for future star formation. detections of ammonia in dark