, there are internet ministries such as the diocese of oxford ' s online anglican i - church, which appeared on the web in 2005. ecumenism anglican interest in ecumenical dialogue can be traced back to the time of the reformation and dialogues with both orthodox and lutheran churches in the 16th century. in the 19th century, with the rise of the oxford movement, there arose greater concern for reunion of the churches of " catholic confession ". this desire to work towards full communion with other denominations led to the development of the chicago - lambeth quadrilateral, approved by the third lambeth conference of 1888. the four points ( the sufficiency of scripture, the historic creeds, the two dominical sacraments, and the historic episcopate ) were proposed as a basis for discussion, although they have frequently been taken as a non - negotiable bottom - line for any form of reunion. theological diversity anglicanism in general has always sought a balance between the emphases of catholicism and protestantism, while tolerating a range of expressions of evangelicalism and ceremony. clergy and laity from all anglican churchmanship traditions have been active in the formation of the continuing movement. while there are high church, broad - church and low - church continuing anglicans, many continuing churches are anglo - catholic with highly ceremonial liturgical practices. others belong to a more evangelical or low - church tradition and tend to support the thirty - nine articles and simpler worship services. morning prayer, for instance, is often used instead of the holy eucharist for sunday worship services, although this is not necessarily true of all low - church parishes. most continuing churches in the united states reject the 1979 revision of the book of common prayer by the episcopal church and use the 1928 version for their services instead. in addition, anglo - catholic bodies may use the anglican missal, anglican service book or english missal when celebrating mass. internal conflict a changing focus on social issues after the second world war led to lambeth conference resolutions countenancing contraception and the remarriage of divorced persons. eventually, most provinces approved the ordination of women. in more recent years, some jurisdictions have permitted the ordination of people in same - sex relationships and authorised rites for the blessing of same - sex unions ( see homosexuality and anglicanism ). " the more liberal provinces that are open to changing church doctrine on marriage in order to allow for same - sex unions include brazil, canada, new zealand, scotland, south india, south africa, the us and wales, "