also provided ' scriptural ' religious instruction - was particularly controversial. for almost forty years, nangle edited a newspaper called the achill missionary herald and western witness, which was printed in achill. he expanded his mission into mweelin, kilgeever, west achill where a school, church, rectory, cottages and a training school were built. edward ' s wife, eliza, suffered poor health in achill and died in 1852 ; she is buried with six of the nangle children on the slopes of slievemore in north achill. in 1848, at the height of the great famine, the achill mission published a prospectus seeking to raise funds for the acquisition of significant additional lands from sir richard o ' donnell. the document gives an overview, from the mission ' s perspective, of its activities in achill over the previous decade and a half including considerable sectarian unrest. in 1851, edward nangle confirmed the purchase of the land which made the achill mission the largest landowner on the island. the achill mission began to decline slowly after nangle was moved from achill and closed in the 1880s. when edward nangle died in 1883 there were opposing views on his legacy. railway in 1894, the westport – newport railway line was extended to achill sound. the railway station is now a hostel. the train provided a great service to achill, but it also is said to have fulfilled an ancient prophecy. brian rua o ' cearbhain had prophesied that ' carts on iron wheels ' would carry bodies into achill on their first and last journey. in 1894, the first train on the achill railway carried the bodies of victims of the clew bay drowning. this tragedy occurred when a boat overturned in clew bay, drowning thirty - two young people. they had been going to meet the steamer which would take them to scotland for potato picking. the kirkintilloch fire in 1937 almost fulfilled the second part of the prophecy when the bodies of ten victims were carried by rail to achill. while it was not literally the last train, the railway closed just two weeks later. these people had died in a fire in a bothy in kirkintilloch. this term referred to the temporary accommodation provided for those who went to scotland to pick potatoes, a migratory pattern that had been established in the early nineteenth century. kildamhnait kildamhnait on the south - east coast of achill is named after st. damhnait, or dym