##ic prejudices, while there are many jews who do not speak hebrew, a semitic language. though ' antisemitism ' could be construed as prejudice against people who speak other semitic languages, this is not how the term is commonly used. the term may be spelled with or without a hyphen ( antisemitism or anti - semitism ). many scholars and institutions favor the unhyphenated form. shmuel almog argued, " if you use the hyphenated form, you consider the words ' semitism ', ' semite ', ' semitic ' as meaningful... [ i ] n antisemitic parlance, ' semites ' really stands for jews, just that. " emil fackenheim supported the unhyphenated spelling, in order to " [ dispel ] the notion that there is an entity ' semitism ' which ' anti - semitism ' opposes. " others endorsing an unhyphenated term for the same reason include the international holocaust remembrance alliance, historian deborah lipstadt, padraic o ' hare, professor of religious and theological studies and director of the center for the study of jewish - christian - muslim relations at merrimack college ; and historians yehuda bauer and james carroll. according to carroll, who first cites o ' hare and bauer on " the existence of something called ' semitism, " the hyphenated word thus reflects the bipolarity that is at the heart of the problem of antisemitism ". the associated press and its accompanying ap stylebook adopted the unhyphenated spelling in 2021. style guides for other news organizations such as the new york times and wall street journal later adopted this spelling as well. it has also been adopted by many holocaust museums, such as the united states holocaust memorial museum and yad vashem. definition though the general definition of antisemitism is hostility or prejudice against jews, and, according to olaf blaschke, has become an " umbrella term for negative stereotypes about jews ", a number of authorities have developed more formal definitions. holocaust scholar and city university of new york professor helen fein defines it as " a persisting latent structure of hostile beliefs towards jews as a collective manifested in individuals as attitudes, and in culture as myth, ideology, folklore and imagery, and in actions — social or legal discrimination, political mobilization against the jews, and collective or state violence — which results in and / or is designed to