emphasizes the art quality and let limited animation techniques make up for the lack of time spent on movement. such techniques are often used not only to meet deadlines but also as artistic devices. anime scenes place emphasis on achieving three - dimensional views, and backgrounds are instrumental in creating the atmosphere of the work. the backgrounds are not always invented and are occasionally based on real locations, as exemplified in howl ' s moving castle and the melancholy of haruhi suzumiya. oppliger stated that anime is one of the rare mediums where putting together an all - star cast usually comes out looking " tremendously impressive ". the cinematic effects of anime differentiates itself from the stage plays found in american animation. anime is cinematically shot as if by camera, including panning, zooming, distance and angle shots to more complex dynamic shots that would be difficult to produce in reality. in anime, the animation is produced before the voice acting, contrary to american animation which does the voice acting first. characters the body proportions of human anime characters tend to accurately reflect the proportions of the human body in reality. the height of the head is considered by the artist as the base unit of proportion. head heights can vary, but most anime characters are about seven to eight heads tall. anime artists occasionally make deliberate modifications to body proportions to produce super deformed characters that feature a disproportionately small body compared to the head ; many super deformed characters are two to four heads tall. some anime works like crayon shin - chan completely disregard these proportions, in such a way that they resemble caricatured western cartoons. a common anime character design convention is exaggerated eye size. the animation of characters with large eyes in anime can be traced back to osamu tezuka, who was deeply influenced by such early animation characters as betty boop, who was drawn with disproportionately large eyes. tezuka is a central figure in anime and manga history, whose iconic art style and character designs allowed for the entire range of human emotions to be depicted solely through the eyes. the artist adds variable color shading to the eyes and particularly to the cornea to give them greater depth. generally, a mixture of a light shade, the tone color, and a dark shade is used. cultural anthropologist rachel thorn argues that japanese animators and audiences do not perceive such stylized eyes as inherently more or less foreign. however, not all anime characters have large eyes. for example, the works of hayao miyazaki are known for having