suryanto et al. replaced ethanol with a tetraalkyl phosphonium salt. this cation can stably undergo deprotonation – reprotonation cycles, while it enhances the medium ' s ionic conductivity. the study observed production rates of 53 ± 1 nmol / s / cm2 at 69 ± 1 % faradaic efficiency experiments under 0. 5 - bar hydrogen and 19. 5 - bar nitrogen partial pressure at ambient temperature. role in biological systems and human disease ammonia is both a metabolic waste and a metabolic input throughout the biosphere. it is an important source of nitrogen for living systems. although atmospheric nitrogen abounds ( more than 75 % ), few living creatures are capable of using atmospheric nitrogen in its diatomic form, gas. therefore, nitrogen fixation is required for the synthesis of amino acids, which are the building blocks of protein. some plants rely on ammonia and other nitrogenous wastes incorporated into the soil by decaying matter. others, such as nitrogen - fixing legumes, benefit from symbiotic relationships with rhizobia bacteria that create ammonia from atmospheric nitrogen. in humans, inhaling ammonia in high concentrations can be fatal. exposure to ammonia can cause headaches, edema, impaired memory, seizures and coma as it is neurotoxic in nature. biosynthesis in certain organisms, ammonia is produced from atmospheric nitrogen by enzymes called nitrogenases. the overall process is called nitrogen fixation. intense effort has been directed toward understanding the mechanism of biological nitrogen fixation. the scientific interest in this problem is motivated by the unusual structure of the active site of the enzyme, which consists of an ensemble. ammonia is also a metabolic product of amino acid deamination catalyzed by enzymes such as glutamate dehydrogenase 1. ammonia excretion is common in aquatic animals. in humans, it is quickly converted to urea ( by liver ), which is much less toxic, particularly less basic. this urea is a major component of the dry weight of urine. most reptiles, birds, insects, and snails excrete uric acid solely as nitrogenous waste. physiology ammonia plays a role in both normal and abnormal animal physiology. it is biosynthesised through normal amino acid metabolism and is toxic in high concentrations. the liver converts ammonia to urea through a series of reactions known as the urea cycle. liver dysfunction, such as that seen in cirrhosis, may lead to elevated