bottom, since they rely upon suction and cohesion of the bottom material, which rocky or coarse sand bottoms lack. the holding power of this anchor is at best about twice its weight until it becomes buried, when it can be as much as ten times its weight. they are available in sizes from about 5 kg up to several tons. deadweight a deadweight is an anchor that relies solely on being a heavy weight. it is usually just a large block of concrete or stone at the end of the chain. its holding power is defined by its weight underwater ( i. e., taking its buoyancy into account ) regardless of the type of seabed, although suction can increase this if it becomes buried. consequently, deadweight anchors are used where mushroom anchors are unsuitable, for example in rock, gravel or coarse sand. an advantage of a deadweight anchor over a mushroom is that if it does drag, it continues to provide its original holding force. the disadvantage of using deadweight anchors in conditions where a mushroom anchor could be used is that it needs to be around ten times the weight of the equivalent mushroom anchor. auger auger anchors can be used to anchor permanent moorings, floating docks, fish farms, etc. these anchors, which have one or more slightly pitched self - drilling threads, must be screwed into the seabed with the use of a tool, so require access to the bottom, either at low tide or by use of a diver. hence they can be difficult to install in deep water without special equipment. weight for weight, augers have a higher holding than other permanent designs, and so can be cheap and relatively easily installed, although difficult to set in extremely soft mud. high - holding - types there is a need in the oil - and - gas industry to resist large anchoring forces when laying pipelines and for drilling vessels. these anchors are installed and removed using a support tug and pennant / pendant wire. some examples are the stevin range supplied by vrijhof ankers. large plate anchors such as the stevmanta are used for permanent moorings. anchoring gear the elements of anchoring gear include the anchor, the cable ( also called a rode ), the method of attaching the two together, the method of attaching the cable to the ship, charts, and a method of learning the depth of the water. vessels may carry a number of anchors : bower anchors are the main anchors used by a vessel and normally carried at the bow of the vessel. a kedge anchor