because the wives of gulag prisoners faced the loss of work or residence permits. after the end of his internal exile, they remarried in 1957, divorcing a second time in 1972. reshetovskaya wrote negatively of solzhenitsyn in her memoirs, accusing him of having affairs, and said of the relationship that " [ solzhenitsyn ] ' s despotism... would crush my independence and would not permit my personality to develop. " in her 1974 memoir, sanya : my life with aleksandr solzhenitsyn, she wrote that she was " perplexed " that the west had accepted the gulag archipelago as " the solemn, ultimate truth ", saying its significance had been " overestimated and wrongly appraised ". pointing out that the book ' s subtitle is " an experiment in literary investigation ", she said that her husband did not regard the work as " historical research, or scientific research ". she contended that it was, rather, a collection of " camp folklore ", containing " raw material " which her husband was planning to use in his future productions. in 1973, solzhenitsyn married his second wife, natalia dmitrievna svetlova, a mathematician who had a son, dmitri turin, from a brief prior marriage. he and svetlova ( born 1939 ) had three sons : yermolai ( 1970 ), ignat ( 1972 ), and stepan ( 1973 ). dmitri turin died on 18 march 1994, aged 32, at his home in new york city. after prison after khrushchev ' s secret speech in 1956, solzhenitsyn was freed from exile and exonerated. following his return from exile, solzhenitsyn was, while teaching at a secondary school during the day, spending his nights secretly engaged in writing. in his nobel prize acceptance speech he wrote that " during all the years until 1961, not only was i convinced i should never see a single line of mine in print in my lifetime, but, also, i scarcely dared allow any of my close acquaintances to read anything i had written because i feared this would become known. " in 1960, aged 42, solzhenitsyn approached aleksandr tvardovsky, a poet and the chief editor of the novy mir magazine, with the manuscript of one day in the life of ivan denisovich. it was published in edited form in 1962, with the explicit approval of nikita khrushchev, who defended it at