alcuin of york ( ; ; 735 – 19 may 804 ) – also called ealhwine, alhwin, or alchoin – was a scholar, clergyman, poet, and teacher from york, northumbria. he was born around 735 and became the student of archbishop ecgbert at york. at the invitation of charlemagne, he became a leading scholar and teacher at the carolingian court, where he remained a figure in the 780s and 790s. before that, he was also a court chancellor in aachen. " the most learned man anywhere to be found ", according to einhard ' s life of charlemagne ( – 833 ), he is considered among the most important intellectual architects of the carolingian renaissance. among his pupils were many of the dominant intellectuals of the carolingian era. during this period, he perfected carolingian minuscule, an easily read manuscript hand using a mixture of upper - and lower - case letters. latin paleography in the eighth century leaves little room for a single origin of the script, and sources contradict his importance as no proof has been found of his direct involvement in the creation of the script. carolingian minuscule was already in use before alcuin arrived in francia. most likely he was responsible for copying and preserving the script while at the same time restoring the purity of the form. alcuin wrote many theological and dogmatic treatises, as well as a few grammatical works and a number of poems. in 796, he was made abbot of marmoutier abbey, in tours, where he remained until his death. biography background alcuin was born in northumbria, presumably sometime in the 730s. virtually nothing is known of his parents, family background, or origin. in common hagiographical fashion, the vita alcuini asserts that alcuin was " of noble english stock ", and this statement has usually been accepted by scholars. alcuin ' s own work only mentions such collateral kinsmen as wilgils, father of the missionary saint willibrord ; and beornrad ( also spelled beornred ), abbot of echternach and bishop of sens. willibrord, alcuin and beornrad were all related by blood. in his life of st willibrord, alcuin writes that wilgils, called a paterfamilias, had founded an oratory and church at the mouth of