and farther into the abyssal plains as deep - sea channels. in 1922, a historic moment in cartography and oceanography occurred. the uss stewart used a navy sonic depth finder to draw a continuous map across the bed of the atlantic. this involved little guesswork because the idea of sonar is straightforward with pulses being sent from the vessel, which bounce off the ocean floor, then return to the vessel. the deep ocean floor is thought to be fairly flat with occasional deeps, abyssal plains, trenches, seamounts, basins, plateaus, canyons, and some guyots. various shelves along the margins of the continents constitute about 11 % of the bottom topography with few deep channels cut across the continental rise. the mean depth between 60°n and 60°s is, or close to the average for the global ocean, with a modal depth between. in the south atlantic the walvis ridge and rio grande rise form barriers to ocean currents. the laurentian abyss is found off the eastern coast of canada. water characteristics surface water temperatures, which vary with latitude, current systems, and season and reflect the latitudinal distribution of solar energy, range from below to over. maximum temperatures occur north of the equator, and minimum values are found in the polar regions. in the middle latitudes, the area of maximum temperature variations, values may vary by. from october to june the surface is usually covered with sea ice in the labrador sea, denmark strait, and baltic sea. the coriolis effect circulates north atlantic water in a clockwise direction, whereas south atlantic water circulates counter - clockwise. the south tides in the atlantic ocean are semi - diurnal ; that is, two high tides occur every 24 lunar hours. in latitudes above 40° north some east – west oscillation, known as the north atlantic oscillation, occurs. salinity on average, the atlantic is the saltiest major ocean ; surface water salinity in the open ocean ranges from 33 to 37 parts per thousand ( 3. 3 – 3. 7 % ) by mass and varies with latitude and season. evaporation, precipitation, river inflow and sea ice melting influence surface salinity values. although the lowest salinity values are just north of the equator ( because of heavy tropical rainfall ), in general, the lowest values are in the high latitudes and along coasts where large rivers enter. maximum salinity values occur at about 25° north and south, in subtropical regions with low