- pop and folk music. in europe and north america, some popular music acts also make use of the instrument. additionally, the accordion is used in cajun, zydeco, jazz, and klezmer music, and in both solo and orchestral performances of classical music. many conservatories in europe have classical accordion departments. the oldest name for this group of instruments is harmonika, from the greek, meaning " harmonic, musical ". today, native versions of the name accordion are more common. these names refer to the type of accordion patented by cyrill demian, which concerned " automatically coupled chords on the bass side ". history the accordion ' s basic form is believed to have been invented in berlin, in 1822, by christian friedrich ludwig buschmann, although one instrument was discovered in 2006 that appears to have been built earlier. the earliest history of the accordion in russia is poorly documented. nevertheless, according to russian researchers, the earliest known simple accordions were made in tula, russia, by ivan sizov and timofey vorontsov around 1830, after they received an early accordion from germany. by the late 1840s, the instrument was already very widespread ; < ref > [ http : / / publ. lib. ru / archives / _ _ raritetnye _ knigi / irgo _ etnograficheskij _ sbornik _ 02 _ 1854. pdf etnograficheskii sbornik russkogo geograficheskogo obshchestva. vol. 2 ], saint petersburg, 1854. pp. 26, 162. < / ref > together the factories of the two masters were producing 10, 000 instruments a year. by 1866, over 50, 000 instruments were being produced yearly by tula and neighbouring villages, and by 1874 the yearly production was over 700, 000. by the 1860s, novgorod, vyatka and saratov governorates also had significant accordion production. by the 1880s, the list included oryol, ryazan, moscow, tver, vologda, kostroma, nizhny novgorod and simbirsk, and many of these places created their own varieties of the instrument. the accordion is one of several european inventions of the early 19th century that use free reeds driven by a bellows. an instrument called accordion was first patented in 1829 by cyrill demian, of armenian origin, in vienna. demian ' s instrument bore little resemblance to modern instruments. it