and are made in dozens of countries, with " quality ranging from finely engineered weapons to pieces of questionable workmanship. " as a result, the ak - 47 has a service / system life of approximately 6, 000, to 10, 000, to 15, 000 rounds. the ak - 47 was designed to be a cheap, simple, easy - to - manufacture rifle, perfectly matching soviet military doctrine that treats equipment and weapons as disposable items. as units are often deployed without adequate logistical support and dependent on " battlefield cannibalization " for resupply, it is more cost - effective to replace rather than repair weapons. the ak - 47 has small parts and springs that need to be replaced every few thousand rounds. however, " every time it is disassembled beyond the field stripping stage, it will take some time for some parts to regain their fit, and some parts may tend to shake loose and fall out when firing the weapon. some parts of the ak - 47 line are riveted together. repairing these can be quite a hassle since the end of the rivet has to be ground off and a new one set after the part is replaced. " variants early variants ( 7. 62×39mm ) issue of 1948 / 49 : type 1 : the very earliest models, stamped sheet metal receivers, are now very rare. issue of 1951 : type 2 : has a milled receiver. the barrel and chamber are chrome - plated to resist corrosion. issue of 1954 / 55 : type 3 : lightened, milled receiver variant. rifle weight is. aks ( aks - 47 ) : type 1, 2, or 3 receivers : featured a downward - folding metal stock similar to that of the mp 40 produced in nazi germany, for use in the restricted space in the bmp infantry combat vehicle, as well as by paratroops. akn ( aksn ) : night scope rail. modernized ( 7. 62×39mm ) akm : a simplified, lighter version of the ak - 47 ; the type 4 receiver is made from stamped and riveted sheet metal. a slanted muzzle device was added to counterclimb in automatic fire. the rifle weight is due to the lighter receiver. this is the most ubiquitous variant of the ak - 47. akms : under - folding stock version of the akm intended for airborne troops. akmn ( akmsn ) : night scope rail. akml ( akmsl ) : slotted flash suppressor