poet and the chief editor of the novy mir magazine, with the manuscript of one day in the life of ivan denisovich. it was published in edited form in 1962, with the explicit approval of nikita khrushchev, who defended it at the presidium of the politburo hearing on whether to allow its publication, and added : " there ' s a stalinist in each of you ; there ' s even a stalinist in me. we must root out this evil. " the book quickly sold out and became an instant hit. in the 1960s, while solzhenitsyn was publicly known to be writing cancer ward, he was simultaneously writing the gulag archipelago. during khrushchev ' s tenure, one day in the life of ivan denisovich was studied in schools in the soviet union, as were three more short works of solzhenitsyn ' s, including his short story " matryona ' s home ", published in 1963. these would be the last of his works published in the soviet union until 1990. one day in the life of ivan denisovich brought the soviet system of prison labour to the attention of the west. it caused as much of a sensation in the soviet union as it did in the west — not only by its striking realism and candour, but also because it was the first major piece of soviet literature since the 1920s on a politically charged theme, written by a non - party member, indeed a man who had been to siberia for " libelous speech " about the leaders, and yet its publication had been officially permitted. in this sense, the publication of solzhenitsyn ' s story was almost unheard of instance of free, unrestrained discussion of politics through literature. however, after khrushchev had been ousted from power in 1964, the time for such raw, exposing works came to an end. later years in the soviet union solzhenitsyn made an unsuccessful attempt, with the help of tvardovsky, to have his novel cancer ward legally published in the soviet union. this required the approval of the union of writers. though some there appreciated it, the work was ultimately denied publication unless it was to be revised and cleaned of suspect statements and anti - soviet insinuations. after khrushchev ' s removal in 1964, the cultural climate again became more repressive. publishing of solzhenitsyn ' s work quickly stopped ; as a writer, he became a non - person, and, by 1965, the