of civil war, telecommunications was virtually a non - existent sector, but by 2016 it had grown to a $ 2 billion industry, with 22 million mobile phone subscribers and 5 million internet users. the sector employs at least 120, 000 people nationwide. transportation due to afghanistan ' s geography, transport between various parts of the country has historically been difficult. the backbone of afghanistan ' s road network is highway 1, often called the " ring road ", which extends for and connects five major cities : kabul, ghazni, kandahar, herat and mazar - i - sharif, with spurs to kunduz and jalalabad and various border crossings, while skirting around the mountains of the hindu kush. the ring road is crucially important for domestic and international trade and the economy. a key portion of the ring road is the salang tunnel, completed in 1964, which facilitates travel through the hindu kush mountain range and connects northern and southern afghanistan. it is the only land route that connects central asia to the indian subcontinent. several mountain passes allow travel between the hindu kush in other areas. serious traffic accidents are common on afghan roads and highways, particularly on the kabul – kandahar and the kabul – jalalabad road. traveling by bus in afghanistan remains dangerous due to militant activities. air transport in afghanistan is provided by the national carrier, ariana afghan airlines, and by the private company kam air. airlines from a number of countries also provide flights in and out of the country. these include air india, emirates, gulf air, iran aseman airlines, pakistan international airlines, and turkish airlines. the country has four international airports : hamid karzai international airport ( formerly kabul international airport ), kandahar international airport, herat international airport, and mazar - e sharif international airport. including domestic airports, there are 43. bagram air base is a major military airfield. the country has three rail links : one, a line from mazar - i - sharif to the uzbekistan border ; a long line from toraghundi to the turkmenistan border ( where it continues as part of turkmen railways ) ; and a short link from aqina across the turkmen border to kerki, which is planned to be extended further across afghanistan. these lines are used for freight only and there is no passenger service. a rail line between khaf, iran and herat, western afghanistan, intended for both freight and passengers, is under construction as of 2019. about of the line will lie on