, moral ( guilt and condemnation ), and spiritual ( emptiness and meaninglessness ). according to tillich, the last of these three types of existential anxiety, i. e. spiritual anxiety, is predominant in modern times while the others were predominant in earlier periods. tillich argues that this anxiety can be accepted as part of the human condition or it can be resisted but with negative consequences. in its pathological form, spiritual anxiety may tend to " drive the person toward the creation of certitude in systems of meaning which are supported by tradition and authority " even though such " undoubted certitude is not built on the rock of reality ". according to viktor frankl, the author of man ' s search for meaning, when a person is faced with extreme mortal dangers, the most basic of all human wishes is to find a meaning of life to combat the " trauma of nonbeing " as death is near. depending on the source of the threat, psychoanalytic theory distinguishes the following types of anxiety : realistic neurotic moral test, performance, and competitive test according to yerkes - dodson law, an optimal level of arousal is necessary to best complete a task such as an exam, performance, or competitive event. however, when the anxiety or level of arousal exceeds that optimum, the result is a decline in performance. test anxiety is the uneasiness, apprehension, or nervousness felt by students who have a fear of failing an exam. students who have test anxiety may experience any of the following : the association of grades with personal worth ; fear of embarrassment by a teacher ; fear of alienation from parents or friends ; time pressures ; or feeling a loss of control. sweating, dizziness, headaches, racing heartbeats, nausea, fidgeting, uncontrollable crying or laughing and drumming on a desk are all common. because test anxiety hinges on fear of negative evaluation, debate exists as to whether test anxiety is itself a unique anxiety disorder or whether it is a specific type of social phobia. the dsm - iv classifies test anxiety as a type of social phobia. research indicates that test anxiety among u. s. high - school and college students has been rising since the late 1950s. test anxiety remains a challenge for students, regardless of age, and has considerable physiological and psychological impacts. management of test anxiety focuses on achieving relaxation and developing mechanisms to manage anxiety. the routine practice of slow, device - guided breathing ( dgb ) is a major component