nenana and the galena interior learning academy in galena. there are more than a dozen colleges and universities in alaska. accredited universities in alaska include the university of alaska anchorage, university of alaska fairbanks, university of alaska southeast, and alaska pacific university. alaska is the only state that has no collegiate athletic programs that are members of ncaa division i, although both alaska - fairbanks and alaska - anchorage maintain single sport membership in division i for men ' s ice hockey. the alaska department of labor and workforce development operates avtec, alaska ' s institute of technology. campuses in seward and anchorage offer one - week to 11 - month training programs in areas as diverse as information technology, welding, nursing, and mechanics. alaska has had a problem with a " brain drain ". many of its young people, including most of the highest academic achievers, leave the state after high school graduation and do not return., alaska did not have a law school or medical school. the university of alaska has attempted to combat this by offering partial four - year scholarships to the top 10 % of alaska high school graduates, via the alaska scholars program. beginning in 1998, schools in rural alaska must have at least 10 students to retain funding from the state, and campuses not meeting the number close. this was due to the loss in oil revenues that previously propped up smaller rural schools. in 2015, there was a proposal to raise that minimum to 25, but legislators in the state largely did not agree. transportation roads alaska has few road connections compared to the rest of the u. s. the state ' s road system, covering a relatively small area of the state, linking the central population centers and the alaska highway, the principal route out of the state through canada. the state capital, juneau, is not accessible by road, with access only being through ferry or flight ; this has spurred debate over decades about moving the capital to a city on the road system, or building a road connection from haines. the western part of alaska has no road system connecting the communities with the rest of alaska. the interstate highways in alaska consists of a total of. one unique feature of the alaska highway system is the anton anderson memorial tunnel, an active alaska railroad tunnel recently upgraded to provide a paved roadway link with the isolated community of whittier on prince william sound to the seward highway about southeast of anchorage at portage. at, the tunnel was the longest road tunnel in north america until 2007. the tunnel is the longest combination road and rail tunnel in north america. rail built