its former allies, notably by establishing friendly regimes and garrisons in smaller cities. through large gifts, tithraustes also encouraged sparta ' s former allies to start a war in order to force the recall of agesilaus from asia — even though the influence of persian gold has been exaggerated. the initiative came from thebes, which provoked a war between their ally ozolian locris and phocis in order to bring sparta to the latter ' s defence. lysander and the other king pausanias entered boeotia, which enabled the thebans to bring athens in the war. lysander then besieged haliartus without waiting for pausanias and was killed in a boeotian counter - attack. in sparta, pausanias was condemned to death by lysander ' s friends and went into exile. after its success at haliartus, thebes was able to build a coalition against sparta, with notably argos and corinth, where a war council was established, and securing the defection of most of the cities of northern and central greece. unable to wage war on two fronts and with the loss of lysander and pausanias, sparta had no choice but to recall agesilaus from asia. the asian greeks fighting for him said they wanted to continue serving with him, while agesilaus promised he would return to asia as soon as he could. agesilaus returned to greece by land, crossing the hellespont and from there along the coast of the aegean sea. in thessaly he won a cavalry battle near narthacium against the pharsalians who had made an alliance with thebes. he then entered boeotia by the thermopylae, where he received reinforcements from sparta. meanwhile, aristodamos — the regent of the young agiad king agesipolis — won a major victory at nemea near argos, which was offset by the disaster of the spartan navy at knidos against the persian fleet led by konon, an exiled athenian general. agesilaus lied to his men about the outcome of the battle of knidos to avoid demoralising them as they were about to fight a large engagement against the combined armies of thebes, athens, argos and corinth. the following battle of coroneia was a classic clash between two lines of hoplites. the anti - spartan allies were rapidly defeated, but the thebans managed to retreat in good order,