well as one who was " guided " and one of the " victors ". aaron is important in islam for his role in the events of the exodus, in which, according to the quran and islamic belief, he preached with his elder brother, moses to the pharaoh of the exodus. aaron ' s significance in islam, however, is not limited to his role as the helper of moses. islamic tradition also accords aaron the role of a patriarch, as tradition records that the priestly descent came through aaron ' s lineage, which included the entire house of amran. bahaʼi faith in the bahaʼi faith, although his father is described as both an apostle and a prophet, aaron is merely described as a prophet. the kitab - i - iqan describes imran as his father. in art aaron appears paired with moses frequently in jewish and christian art, especially in the illustrations of manuscript and printed bibles. he can usually be distinguished by his priestly vestments, especially his turban or miter and jeweled breastplate. he frequently holds a censer or, sometimes, his flowering rod. aaron also appears in scenes depicting the wilderness tabernacle and its altar, as already in the third - century frescos in the synagogue at dura - europos in syria. an eleventh - century portable silver altar from fulda, germany depicts aaron with his censor, and is located in the musee de cluny in paris. this is also how he appears in the frontispieces of early printed passover haggadot and occasionally in church sculptures. aaron has rarely been the subject of portraits, such as those by anton kern [ 1710 – 1747 ] and by pier francesco mola [ ]. christian artists sometimes portray aaron as a prophet holding a scroll, as in a twelfth - century sculpture from the cathedral of noyon in the metropolitan museum of art, new york and often in eastern orthodox icons. illustrations of the golden calf story usually include him as well – most notably in nicolas poussin ' s the adoration of the golden calf ( – 34, national gallery, london ). finally, some artists interested in validating later priesthoods have painted the ordination of aaron and his sons ( leviticus 8 ). harry anderson ' s realistic portrayal is often reproduced in the literature of the latter day saints. see also harun moses in rabbinic literature y - chromosomal aaron notes footnotes references further reading which cites numbers rabbah 9 leviticus rabbah 10 midras