the austroasiatic languages are a large language family spoken throughout mainland southeast asia, south asia and east asia. these languages are natively spoken by the majority of the population in vietnam and cambodia, and by minority populations scattered throughout parts of thailand, laos, india, myanmar, malaysia, bangladesh, nepal, and southern china. approximately 117 million people speak an austroasiatic language, of which more than two - thirds are vietnamese speakers. of the austroasiatic languages, only vietnamese, khmer, and mon have lengthy, established presences in the historical record. only two are presently considered to be the national languages of sovereign states : vietnamese in vietnam, and khmer in cambodia. the mon language is a recognized indigenous language in myanmar and thailand, while the wa language is a ' recognized national language ' in the de facto autonomous wa state within myanmar. santali is one of the 22 scheduled languages of india. the remainder of the family ' s languages are spoken by minority groups and have no official status. ethnologue identifies 168 austroasiatic languages. these form thirteen established families ( plus perhaps shompen, which is poorly attested, as a fourteenth ), which have traditionally been grouped into two, as mon – khmer, and munda. however, one recent classification posits three groups ( munda, mon - khmer, and khasi – khmuic ), while another has abandoned mon – khmer as a taxon altogether, making it synonymous with the larger family. austroasiatic languages appear to be the extant autochthonous languages in mainland southeast asia, with the neighboring kra – dai, hmong - mien, austronesian, and sino - tibetan languages having arrived via later migrations. etymology the name austroasiatic was coined by wilhelm schmidt ( ) based on, the latin word for " south " ( but idiosyncratically used by schmidt to refer to the southeast ), and " asia ". despite the literal meaning of its name, only three austroasiatic branches are actually spoken in south asia : khasic, munda, and nicobarese. typology regarding word structure, austroasiatic languages are well known for having an iambic " sesquisyllabic " pattern, with basic nouns and verbs consisting of an initial, unstressed, reduced minor syllable followed by a stressed, full syllable. this reduction of presyllables has led to a variety of phonological shapes of the same original proto - austroasiatic prefixes, such as the