– india, china, and the roman empire - which is how the abacus may have been exported to other countries. greece the earliest archaeological evidence for the use of the greek abacus dates to the 5th century bc. demosthenes ( 384 bc – 322 bc ) complained that the need to use pebbles for calculations was too difficult. a play by alexis from the 4th century bc mentions an abacus and pebbles for accounting, and both diogenes and polybius use the abacus as a metaphor for human behavior, stating " that men that sometimes stood for more and sometimes for less " like the pebbles on an abacus. the greek abacus was a table of wood or marble, pre - set with small counters in wood or metal for mathematical calculations. this greek abacus was used in achaemenid persia, the etruscan civilization, ancient rome, and the western christian world until the french revolution. a tablet found on the greek island salamis in 1846 ad ( the salamis tablet ) dates to 300 bc, making it the oldest counting board discovered so far. it is a slab of white marble in length, wide, and thick, on which are 5 groups of markings. in the tablet ' s center is a set of 5 parallel lines equally divided by a vertical line, capped with a semicircle at the intersection of the bottom - most horizontal line and the single vertical line. below these lines is a wide space with a horizontal crack dividing it. below this crack is another group of eleven parallel lines, again divided into two sections by a line perpendicular to them, but with the semicircle at the top of the intersection ; the third, sixth and ninth of these lines are marked with a cross where they intersect with the vertical line. also from this time frame, the darius vase was unearthed in 1851. it was covered with pictures, including a " treasurer " holding a wax tablet in one hand while manipulating counters on a table with the other. rome the normal method of calculation in ancient rome, as in greece, was by moving counters on a smooth table. originally pebbles ( latin : calculi ) were used. marked lines indicated units, fives, tens, etc. as in the roman numeral system. writing in the 1st century bc, horace refers to the wax abacus, a board covered with a thin layer of black wax on which columns and figures were inscribed using a stylus. one example of archaeological evidence of the roman abacus, shown nearby in reconstruction, dates to the 1st century