##do, built new fortifications in the agri decumates, advancing the limes germanicus fifteen miles forward in his province and neighboring raetia. in the east, roman suzerainty over armenia was retained by the choice in ad 140 of arsacid scion sohaemus as client king. nevertheless, antoninus was virtually unique among emperors in that he dealt with these crises without leaving italy once during his reign, but instead dealt with provincial matters of war and peace through their governors or through imperial letters to the cities such as ephesus ( of which some were publicly displayed ). this style of government was highly praised by his contemporaries and by later generations. antoninus was the last roman emperor recognised by the indian kingdoms, especially the kushan empire. raoul mclaughlin quotes aurelius victor as saying " the indians, the bactrians, and the hyrcanians all sent ambassadors to antoninus. they had all heard about the spirit of justice held by this great emperor, justice that was heightened by his handsome and grave countenance, and his slim and vigorous figure. " due to the outbreak of the antonine epidemic and wars against northern germanic tribes, the reign of marcus aurelius was forced to alter the focus of foreign policies, and matters relating to the far east were increasingly abandoned in favour of those directly concerning the empire ' s survival. economy and administration antoninus was regarded as a skilled administrator and as a builder. in spite of an extensive building directive — the free access of the people of rome to drinking water was expanded with the construction of aqueducts, not only in rome but throughout the empire, as well as bridges and roads — the emperor still managed to leave behind a sizable public treasury of around 2. 7 billion sesterces. rome would not witness another emperor leaving his successor with a surplus for a long time, but this treasury was depleted almost immediately after antoninus ' s reign due to the antonine plague brought back by soldiers after the parthian victory. the emperor also famously suspended the collection of taxes from multiple cities affected by natural disasters, such as when fires struck rome and narbona, and earthquakes affected rhodes and the province of asia. he offered hefty financial grants for rebuilding and recovery of various greek cities after two serious earthquakes : the first, circa 140, which affected mostly rhodes and other islands ; the second, in 152, which hit cyzicus ( where the huge and newly built temple to hadrian was destroyed ), ephesus, and smyrna. antoninus