##huda bauer wrote in 1984 : " there are no anti - semites in the world... nobody says, ' i am anti - semitic. ' you cannot, after hitler. the word has gone out of fashion. " eternalism – contextualism debate the study of antisemitism has become politically controversial because of differing interpretations of the holocaust and the israeli – palestinian conflict. there are two competing views of antisemitism, eternalism, and contextualism. the eternalist view sees antisemitism as separate from other forms of racism and prejudice and an exceptionalist, transhistorical force teleologically culminating in the holocaust. hannah arendt criticized this approach, writing that it provoked " the uncomfortable question : ' why the jews of all people? '... with the question begging reply : eternal hostility. " zionist thinkers and antisemites draw different conclusions from what they perceive as the eternal hatred of jews ; according to antisemites, it proves the inferiority of jews, while for zionists it means that jews need their own state as a refuge. most zionists do not believe that antisemitism can be combatted with education or other means. the contextual approach treats antisemitism as a type of racism and focuses on the historical context in which hatred of jews emerges. some contextualists restrict the use of " antisemitism " to refer exclusively to the era of modern racism, treating anti - judaism as a separate phenomenon. historian david engel has challenged the project to define antisemitism, arguing that it essentializes jewish history as one of persecution and discrimination. engel argues that the term " antisemitism " is not useful in historical analysis because it implies that there are links between anti - jewish prejudices expressed in different contexts, without evidence of such a connection. manifestations antisemitism manifests itself in a variety of ways. rene konig mentions social antisemitism, economic antisemitism, religious antisemitism, and political antisemitism as examples. konig points out that these different forms demonstrate that the " origins of anti - semitic prejudices are rooted in different historical periods. " konig asserts that differences in the chronology of different antisemitic prejudices and the irregular distribution of such prejudices over different segments of the population create " serious difficulties in the definition of the different kinds of anti - semitism. " these difficulties may contribute to the existence of different taxonomies that