, distribution and exchange. " the 1922 labor party national conference adopted a similarly worded " socialist objective, " which remained official policy for many years. the resolution was immediately qualified, however, by the " blackburn amendment, " which said that " socialisation " was desirable only when was necessary to " eliminate exploitation and other anti - social features. " in practice the socialist objective was a dead letter. only once has a federal labor government attempted to nationalise any industry ( ben chifley ' s bank nationalisation of 1947 ), and that was held by the high court to be unconstitutional. the commitment to nationalisation was dropped by gough whitlam, and bob hawke ' s government carried out many free market reforms including the floating of the dollar and privatisation of state enterprises such as qantas airways and the commonwealth bank. the labor party is commonly described as a social democratic party, and its constitution stipulates that it is a democratic socialist party. the party was created by, and has always been influenced by, the trade unions, and in practice its policy at any given time has usually been the policy of the broader labour movement. thus at the first federal election 1901 labor ' s platform called for a white australia policy, a citizen army and compulsory arbitration of industrial disputes. labor has at various times supported high tariffs and low tariffs, conscription and pacifism, white australia and multiculturalism, nationalisation and privatisation, isolationism and internationalism. historically, labor and its affiliated unions were strong defenders of the white australia policy, which banned all non - european migration to australia. this policy was partly motivated by 19th century theories about " racial purity " and by fears of economic competition from low - wage overseas workers which was shared by the vast majority of australians and all major political parties. in practice the labor party opposed all migration, on the grounds that immigrants competed with australian workers and drove down wages, until after world war ii, when the chifley government launched a major immigration program. the party ' s opposition to non - european immigration did not change until after the retirement of arthur calwell as leader in 1967. subsequently, labor has become an advocate of multiculturalism, although some of its trade union base and some of its members continue to oppose high immigration levels. world war ii and beyond the curtin and chifley governments governed australia through the latter half of the second world war and initial stages of transition to peace. labor leader john curtin became prime minister in october 1941 when two independents crossed the floor of parliament.