quoted most frequently, reads : well done, cornstalks! whipt us fair and square, was it luck that tript us? was it scare? kangaroo land ' s ' demon ', or our own want of ' devil ', coolness, nerve, backbone? on 31 august, in the charles alcock - edited magazine cricket : a weekly record of the game, there appeared a mock obituary : on 2 september a more celebrated mock obituary, written by reginald shirley brooks, appeared in the sporting times. it read : ivo bligh promised that on the 1882 – 83 tour of australia, he would, as england ' s captain, " recover those ashes ". he spoke of them several times over the course of the tour, and the australian media quickly caught on. the three - match series resulted in a two - one win to england, notwithstanding a fourth match, won by the australians, whose status remains a matter of ardent dispute. in the 20 years following bligh ' s campaign the term " the ashes " largely disappeared from public use. there is no indication that this was the accepted name for the series, at least not in england. the term became popular again in australia first, when george giffen, in his memoirs ( with bat and ball, 1899 ), used the term as if it were well known. the true and global revitalisation of interest in the concept dates from 1903, when pelham warner took a team to australia with the promise that he would regain " the ashes ". as had been the case on bligh ' s tour 20 years before, the australian media latched fervently onto the term and, this time, it stuck. having fulfilled his promise, warner published a book entitled how we recovered the ashes. although the origins of the term are not referred to in the text, the title served ( along with the general hype created in australia ) to revive public interest in the legend. the first mention of " the ashes " in wisden cricketers ' almanack occurs in 1905, while wisden ' ' ' s first account of the legend is in the 1922 edition. urn it took many years before the contests between england and australia were consistently called " the ashes ", and so there was no concept of either a trophy or a physical representation of the ashes. as late as 1925, the following verse appeared in the cricketers annual : so here ' s to chapman, hendren and hobbs, gilligan, woolley and hearne may