shipped additional software with its newton device, called the marco. sharp developed a line of newton devices called the expertpad pi - 7000 / 7100 ; those were the same as apple ' s messagepad and messagepad 100, the only difference is the physical design ( the expertpads feature a screen lid, which apple added in 1994 with the release of the messagepad 110 ) and the naming. other uses there were a number of projects that used the newton as a portable information device in cultural settings such as museums. for example, visible interactive created a walking tour in san francisco ' s chinatown but the most significant effort took place in malaysia at the petronas discovery center, known as petrosains. in 1995, an exhibit design firm, dmcd inc., was awarded the contract to design a new science museum in the petronas towers in kuala lumpur. a major factor in the award was the concept that visitors would use a newton device to access additional information, find out where they were in the museum, listen to audio, see animations, control robots and other media, and to bookmark information for printout at the end of the exhibit. the device became known as the arif, a malay word for " wise man " or " seer " and it was also an acronym for a resourceful informative friend. some 400 arifs were installed and over 300 are still in use today. the development of the arif system was extremely complex and required a team of hardware and software engineers, designers, and writers. arif is an ancestor of the pda systems used in museums today and it boasted features that have not been attempted since. anyway & company firm was involved with the petronas discovery center project back in 1998 and ndas were signed which prevents getting to know more information about this project. it was confirmed that they purchased of mp2000u or mp2100 ' s by this firm on the behalf of the project under the name of " petrosains project account ". by 1998 they had invested heavily into the r & d of this project with the newton at the center. after apple officially cancelled the newton in 1998 they had to acquire as many newtons as possible for this project. it was estimated initially 1000 newtons, but later readjusted the figure to possibly 750 newtons. they placed an “ internet call ” for newtons. they purchased them in large and small quantities. the newton was also used in healthcare applications, for example in collecting data directly from patients. newtons