a giant rock at hector which almost kills him. in book 15, hector is restored to his strength by apollo and returns to attack the ships. ajax, wielding an enormous spear as a weapon and leaping from ship to ship, holds off the trojan armies virtually single - handedly. in book 16, hector and ajax duel once again. hector then disarms ajax ( although ajax is not hurt ) and ajax is forced to retreat, seeing that zeus is clearly favoring hector. hector and the trojans succeed in burning one greek ship, the culmination of an assault that almost finishes the war. ajax is responsible for the death of many trojan lords, including phorcys. ajax often fought in tandem with his brother teucer, known for his skill with the bow. ajax would wield his magnificent shield, as teucer stood behind picking off enemy trojans. achilles was absent during these encounters because of his feud with agamemnon. in book 9, agamemnon and the other mycenaean chiefs send ajax, odysseus and phoenix to the tent of achilles in an attempt to reconcile with the great warrior and induce him to return to the fight. although ajax speaks earnestly and is well received, he does not succeed in convincing achilles. when patroclus is killed, hector tries to steal his body. ajax, assisted by menelaus, succeeds in fighting off the trojans and taking the body back with his chariot ; however, the trojans have already stripped patroclus of achilles ' armor. ajax ' s prayer to zeus to remove the fog that has descended on the battle to allow them to fight or die in the light of day has become proverbial. according to hyginus, in total, ajax killed 28 people at troy. death as the iliad comes to a close, ajax and the majority of other greek warriors are alive and well. when achilles dies, killed by paris ( with help from apollo ), ajax and odysseus are the heroes who fight against the trojans to get the body and bury it with his companion, patroclus. ajax, with his great shield and spear, manages to recover the body and carry it to the ships, while odysseus fights off the trojans. after the burial, each claims achilles ' magical armor, which had been forged on mount olympus by the smith - god hephaestus, for himself as recognition for his heroic efforts. a competition is held to determine who deserves