the signing of a treaty of friendship in 1921 and 1978 ; and india, with which a friendship treaty was signed in 1950. relations with pakistan have often been tense for various reasons such as the durand line border issue and alleged pakistani involvement in afghan insurgent groups. the present islamic emirate of afghanistan is currently internationally unrecognized, but has had notable unofficial ties with china, pakistan, and qatar. under the previous islamic republic of afghanistan, it enjoyed cordial relations with a number of nato and allied nations, particularly the united states, canada, united kingdom, germany, australia, and turkey. in 2012, the united states and the then - republic in afghanistan signed their strategic partnership agreement in which afghanistan became a major non - nato ally. such qualification was rescinded by us president joe biden in july 2022. military the armed forces of the islamic emirate of afghanistan captured a large amount of weapons, hardware, vehicles, aerocrafts, and equipment from the afghan national security forces following the 2021 taliban offensive and the fall of kabul. the total value of the captured equipment has been estimated at us $ 83 billion. human rights homosexuality is taboo in afghan society ; according to the penal code, homosexual intimacy is punished by up to a year in prison. under sharia law offenders can be punished by death. however an ancient tradition involving male homosexual acts between children and older men ( typically wealthy warlords or elite people ) called bacha bazi persists. religious minorities such as sikhs, hindus, and christians have reportedly faced persecution. since may 2022, all women in afghanistan have been required by law to wear full - body coverings when in public ( either a burqa or an abaya paired with a niqab, which leaves only the eyes uncovered ). first deputy leader sirajuddin haqqani claimed the decree is only advisory and no form of hijab is compulsory in afghanistan, though this contradicts the reality. it has been speculated that there is a genuine internal policy division over women ' s rights between hardliners, including leader hibatullah akhundzada, and pragmatists, though they publicly present a united front. another decree was issued shortly after the first, requiring female tv presenters to cover their faces during broadcasts. since the taliban takeover, suicides among women have become more common, and the country could now be one of the few where the rate of suicide among women surpasses that among men. in may 2022, the taliban dissolved afghanistan