cultural boulevards of north terrace and king william street. history before european settlement the area around modern - day adelaide was originally inhabited by the indigenous kaurna people, one of many aboriginal nations in south australia. the city and parklands area was known as tarntanya, tandanya, now the short name of tandanya national aboriginal cultural institute, tarndanya, or tarndanyangga, now the dual name for victoria square, in the kaurna language. the name means ' male red kangaroo rock ', referring to a rock formation on the site that has now been destroyed. the surrounding area was an open grassy plain with patches of trees and shrubs which had been managed by hundreds of generations. kaurna country encompassed the plains which stretched north and south of tarntanya as well as the wooded foothills of the mt lofty ranges. the river torrens was known as the karrawirra pari ( red gum forest river ). about 300 kaurna populated the adelaide area, and were referred to by the settlers as the cowandilla. there were more than 20 local clans across the plain who lived semi - nomadic lives, with extensive mound settlements where huts were built repeatedly over centuries and a complex social structure including a class of sorcerers separated from regular society. within a few decades of european settlement of south australia, kaurna culture was almost completely destroyed. the last speaker of kaurna language died in 1929. extensive documentation by early missionaries and other researchers has enabled a modern revival of both, which has included a commitment by local and state governments to rename or include kaurna names for many local places. 19th century based on the ideas of edward gibbon wakefield about colonial reform, robert gouger petitioned the british government to create a new colony in australia, resulting in the passage of the south australia act 1834. physical establishment of the colony began with the arrival of the first british colonisers in february 1836. the first governor proclaimed the commencement of colonial government in south australia on 28 december 1836, near the old gum tree in what is now the suburb of glenelg north. the event is commemorated in south australia as proclamation day. the site of the colony ' s capital was surveyed and laid out by colonel william light, the first surveyor - general of south australia, with his own original, unique, topographically sensitive design. the city was named after queen adelaide. adelaide was established as a planned colony of free immigrants, promising civil liberties and freedom from religious persecution, based upon the ideas