jimmadseni, researchers using computer modelling arrived at a best estimate of for the individual, but by varying parameters they found a range from approximately to approximately. a. europaeus has been measured up to in length and in body mass. several gigantic specimens have been attributed to allosaurus, but may in fact belong to other genera. the closely related genus saurophaganax ( omnh 1708 ) reached perhaps in length, and its single species has sometimes been included in the genus allosaurus as allosaurus maximus, though recent studies support it as a separate genus. another potential specimen of allosaurus, once assigned to the genus epanterias ( amnh 5767 ), may have measured in length. a more recent discovery is a partial skeleton from the peterson quarry in morrison rocks of new mexico ; this large allosaurid may be another individual of saurophaganax. david k. smith, examining allosaurus fossils by quarry, found that the cleveland - lloyd dinosaur quarry ( utah ) specimens are generally smaller than those from como bluff ( wyoming ) or brigham young university ' s dry mesa quarry ( colorado ), but the shapes of the bones themselves did not vary between the sites. a later study by smith incorporating garden park ( colorado ) and dinosaur national monument ( utah ) specimens found no justification for multiple species based on skeletal variation ; skull variation was most common and was gradational, suggesting individual variation was responsible. further work on size - related variation again found no consistent differences, although the dry mesa material tended to clump together on the basis of the astragalus, an ankle bone. kenneth carpenter, using skull elements from the cleveland - lloyd site, found wide variation between individuals, calling into question previous species - level distinctions based on such features as the shape of the horns, and the proposed differentiation of a. jimmadseni based on the shape of the jugal. a study published by motani et al., in 2020 suggests that allosaurus was also sexually dimorphic in the width of the femur ' s head against its length. skull the skull and teeth of allosaurus were modestly proportioned for a theropod of its size. paleontologist gregory s. paul gives a length of for a skull belonging to an individual he estimates at long. each premaxilla ( the bones that formed the tip of the snout ) held five teeth with d - shaped cross - sections, and each maxilla ( the main tooth - bearing bones in the upper jaw ) had between 14 and