fewer physician visits. loop drainage more recently, several north american hospitals have opted for less - invasive loop drainage over standard drainage and wound packing. in one study of 143 pediatric outcomes, a failure rate of 1. 4 % was reported in the loop group versus 10. 5 % in the packing group ( p <. 030 ), while a separate study reported a 5. 5 % failure rate among the loop group. primary closure closing an abscess immediately after draining it appears to speed healing without increasing the risk of recurrence. this may not apply to anorectal abscesses as while they may heal faster, there may be a higher rate of recurrence than those left open. prognosis even without treatment, skin abscesses rarely result in death, as they will naturally break through the skin. other types of abscess are more dangerous. brain abscesses may be fatal if untreated. when treated, the mortality rate reduces to 5 – 10 %, but is higher if the abscess ruptures. epidemiology skin abscesses are common and have become more common in recent years. risk factors include intravenous drug use, with rates reported as high as 65 % among users. in 2005, in the united states 3. 2 million people went to the emergency department for an abscess. in australia around 13, 000 people were hospitalized in 2008 for the disease. society and culture the latin medical aphorism " ubi pus, ibi evacua " expresses " where there is pus, there evacuate it " and is classical advice in the culture of western medicine. needle exchange programmes often administer or provide referrals for abscess treatment to injection drug users as part of a harm reduction public health strategy. etymology an abscess is so called " abscess " because there is an abscessus ( a going away or departure ) of portions of the animal tissue from each other to make room for the suppurated matter lodged between them. the word carbuncle is believed to have originated from the latin : carbunculus, originally a small coal ; diminutive of carbon -, carbo : charcoal or ember, but also a carbuncle stone, " precious stones of a red or fiery colour ", usually garnets. other types the following types of abscess are listed in the medical dictionary : references external links general surgery cutaneous lesion wikipedia medicine articles ready to translate wikipedia emergency