two football clubs competing in the turkish super lig : ankaragucu, founded in 1910, is the oldest club in ankara and is associated with ankara ' s military arsenal manufacturing company mke. they were the turkish cup winners in 1972 and 1981. genclerbirligi, founded in 1923, are known as the ankara gale or the poppies because of their colors : red and black. they were the turkish cup winners in 1987 and 2001. genclerbirligi ' s b team, hacettepe s. k. ( formerly known as genclerbirligi oftas ) played in the super lig but currently plays in the tff second league. a fourth team, buyuksehir belediye ankaraspor, played in the super lig until 2010, when they were expelled. the club was reconstituted in 2014 as osmanlıspor but have since returned to their old identity as ankaraspor. ankaraspor currently play in the tff first league at the osmanlı stadium in the sincan district of yenikent, outside the city center. keciorengucu also currently play in the tff first league. ankara has a large number of minor teams, playing at regional levels. in the tff second league : mamak fk in mamak, ankara demirspor in cankaya, etimesgut belediyespor in etimesgut ; in the tff third league : cankaya fk in kecioren ; altındagspor in altındag ; in the amateur league : turanspor in etimesgut, turk telekomspor owned by the phone company in yenimahalle, cubukspor in cubuk, and baglumspor in kecioren. in the turkish basketball league, ankara is represented by turk telekom, whose home is the ankara arena, and casa ted kolejliler, whose home is the tobb sports hall. halkbank ankara is the leading domestic powerhouse in men ' s volleyball, having won many championships and cups in the turkish men ' s volleyball league and even the cev cup in 2013. ankara buz pateni sarayı is where the ice skating and ice hockey competitions take place in the city. there are many popular spots for skateboarding which is active in the city since the 1980s. skaters in ankara usually meet in the park near the grand national assembly of turkey. the 2012 - built thf sport hall