cannstatt, and for the following century, alemannia was ruled by frankish dukes. following the treaty of verdun of 843, alemannia became a province of the eastern kingdom of louis the german, the precursor of the holy roman empire. the duchy persisted until 1268. culture language the german spoken today over the range of the former alemanni is termed alemannic german, and is recognised among the subgroups of the high german languages. alemannic runic inscriptions such as those on the pforzen buckle are among the earliest testimonies of old high german. the high german consonant shift is thought to have originated around the fifth century either in alemannia or among the lombards ; before that the dialect spoken by alemannic tribes was little different from that of other west germanic peoples. alemannia lost its distinct jurisdictional identity when charles martel absorbed it into the frankish empire, early in the eighth century. today, alemannic is a linguistic term, referring to alemannic german, encompassing the dialects of the southern two thirds of baden - wurttemberg ( german state ), in western bavaria ( german state ), in vorarlberg ( austrian state ), swiss german in switzerland and the alsatian language of the alsace ( france ). political organization the alemanni established a series of territorially defined pagi ( cantons ) on the east bank of the rhine. the exact number and extent of these pagi is unclear and probably changed over time. pagi, usually pairs of pagi combined, formed kingdoms ( regna ) which, it is generally believed, were permanent and hereditary. ammianus describes alemanni rulers with various terms : reges excelsiores ante alios ( " paramount kings " ), reges proximi ( " neighbouring kings " ), reguli ( " petty kings " ) and regales ( " princes " ). this may be a formal hierarchy, or they may be vague, overlapping terms, or a combination of both. in 357, there appear to have been two paramount kings ( chnodomar and westralp ) who probably acted as presidents of the confederation and seven other kings ( reges ). their territories were small and mostly strung along the rhine ( although a few were in the hinterland ). it is possible that the reguli were the rulers of the two pagi in each kingdom. underneath the royal class were the nobles ( called optimates by the romans ) and warriors ( called arm