##carriage is considered induced abortion or feticide. methods medical medical abortions are those induced by abortifacient pharmaceuticals. medical abortion became an alternative method of abortion with the availability of prostaglandin analogs in the 1970s and the antiprogestogen mifepristone ( also known as ru - 486 ) in the 1980s. the most common early first trimester medical abortion regimens use mifepristone in combination with misoprostol ( or sometimes another prostaglandin analog, gemeprost ) up to 10 weeks ( 70 days ) gestational age, methotrexate in combination with a prostaglandin analog up to 7 weeks gestation, or a prostaglandin analog alone. mifepristone – misoprostol combination regimens work faster and are more effective at later gestational ages than methotrexate – misoprostol combination regimens, and combination regimens are more effective than misoprostol alone, particularly in the second trimester. medical abortion regimens involving mifepristone followed by misoprostol in the cheek between 24 and 48 hours later are effective when performed before 70 days ' gestation. in very early abortions, up to 7 weeks gestation, medical abortion using a mifepristone – misoprostol combination regimen is considered to be more effective than surgical abortion ( vacuum aspiration ), especially when clinical practice does not include detailed inspection of aspirated tissue. early medical abortion regimens using mifepristone, followed 24 – 48 hours later by buccal or vaginal misoprostol are 98 % effective up to 9 weeks gestational age ; from 9 to 10 weeks efficacy decreases modestly to 94 %. if medical abortion fails, surgical abortion must be used to complete the procedure. early medical abortions account for the majority of abortions before 9 weeks gestation in britain, france, switzerland, united states, and the nordic countries. medical abortion regimens using mifepristone in combination with a prostaglandin analog are the most common methods used for second trimester abortions in canada, most of europe, china and india, in contrast to the united states where 96 % of second trimester abortions are performed surgically by dilation and evacuation. a 2020 cochrane systematic review concluded that providing women with medications to take home to complete the second stage of the