writings and legends assigned to him only appeared in 1612. flamel was not a religious scholar as were many of his predecessors, and his entire interest in the subject revolved around the pursuit of the philosopher ' s stone. his work spends a great deal of time describing the processes and reactions, but never actually gives the formula for carrying out the transmutations. most of ' his ' work was aimed at gathering alchemical knowledge that had existed before him, especially as regarded the philosopher ' s stone. through the 14th and 15th centuries, alchemists were much like flamel : they concentrated on looking for the philosophers ' stone. bernard trevisan and george ripley made similar contributions. their cryptic allusions and symbolism led to wide variations in interpretation of the art. a common idea in european alchemy in the medieval era was a metaphysical " homeric chain of wise men that link [ ed ] heaven and earth " that included ancient pagan philosophers and other important historical figures. renaissance and early modern europe during the renaissance, hermetic and platonic foundations were restored to european alchemy. the dawn of medical, pharmaceutical, occult, and entrepreneurial branches of alchemy followed. in the late 15th century, marsilio ficino translated the corpus hermeticum and the works of plato into latin. these were previously unavailable to europeans who for the first time had a full picture of the alchemical theory that bacon had declared absent. renaissance humanism and renaissance neoplatonism guided alchemists away from physics to refocus on mankind as the alchemical vessel. esoteric systems developed that blended alchemy into a broader occult hermeticism, fusing it with magic, astrology, and christian cabala. a key figure in this development was german heinrich cornelius agrippa ( 1486 – 1535 ), who received his hermetic education in italy in the schools of the humanists. in his de occulta philosophia, he attempted to merge kabbalah, hermeticism, and alchemy. he was instrumental in spreading this new blend of hermeticism outside the borders of italy. paracelsus ( philippus aureolus theophrastus bombastus von hohenheim, 1493 – 1541 ) cast alchemy into a new form, rejecting some of agrippa ' s occultism and moving away from chrysopoeia. paracelsus pioneered the use of chemicals and minerals in medicine and wrote, " many have said of al