weight of an accordion varies depending on its type, layout and playing range, which can be as small as to have only one or two rows of basses and a single octave on the right - hand keyboard, to the most common 120 - bass accordion and through to large and heavy 160 - bass free - bass converter models. pallet mechanism the accordion is an aerophone. the keyboard mechanisms of the instrument either enable the air flow, or disable it : variable components the term accordion covers a wide range of instruments, with varying components. all instruments have reed ranks of some format, apart from reedless digital accordions. not all have switches to change registers or ranks, as some have only one treble register and one bass register. the most typical accordion is the piano accordion, which is used for many musical genres. another type of accordion is the button accordion, which is used in musical traditions including cajun, conjunto and tejano music, swiss and slovenian - austro - german alpine music, and argentinian tango music. the helikon - style accordion has multiple flared horns projecting out of the left side to strengthen the bass tone. the word " helikon " refers to a deep - pitched tuba. right - hand keyboard systems different systems exist for the right - hand keyboard of an accordion, which is normally used for playing the melody ( while it can also play chords ). some use a button layout arranged in one way or another, while others use a piano - style keyboard. each system has different claimed benefits by those who prefer it. they are also used to define one accordion or another as a different " type " : chromatic button accordions and the bayan, a russian variant, use a buttonboard where notes are arranged chromatically. two major systems exist, referred to as the b - system and the c - system ( there are also regional variants ). rarely, some chromatic button accordions have a decorative right - hand keyboard in addition to the rows of buttons, an approach used by the virtuoso accordionist pietro frosini. diatonic button accordions use a buttonboard designed around the notes of diatonic scales in a small number of keys. the keys are often arranged in one row for each key available. chromatic scales may be available by combining notes from different rows. the adjective " diatonic " is also commonly used to describe bisonic or bisonoric accordions — that is, instruments whose right - hand ( and in some instances even bass ) keys each sound