was born in las vegas, nevada, to emmanuel " mike " agassi ( aghassian ), a former olympic boxer from iran, and american elizabeth " betty " agassi ( nee dudley ). his father is of armenian and assyrian heritage. andre agassi ' s mother, betty, is a breast cancer survivor. he has three older siblings – rita ( last wife of former number one pancho gonzales ), philip and tami. andre was given the middle name kirk after kirk kerkorian, an armenian american billionaire. emmanuel agassi, then a waiter at tropicana las vegas, had met kerkorian in 1963. at the age of 12, agassi and his good friend and doubles partner, roddy parks, won the 1982 national indoor boys 14s doubles championship in chicago. agassi describes memorable experiences and juvenile pranks with roddy in his book open. when he was 13, agassi was sent to nick bollettieri ' s tennis academy in florida. he was meant to stay for only three months, because that was all his father could afford. after thirty minutes of watching agassi play, bollettieri, deeply impressed by his talent, called mike and said : " take your check back. he ' s here for free. " agassi then dropped out of school in the ninth grade to pursue a full - time tennis career. professional career 1986 – 1993 : breakthrough and the first major title agassi turned professional at the age of 16 and competed in his first tournament at la quinta, california. he won his first match against john austin, but then lost his second match to mats wilander. by the end of 1986, agassi was ranked no. 91. he won his first top - level singles title in 1987 at the sul american open in itaparica and ended the year ranked no. 25. he won six additional tournaments in 1988 ( memphis, u. s. men ' s clay court championships, forest hills wct, stuttgart outdoor, volvo international and livingston open ), and, by december of that year, he had surpassed us $ 1 million in career prize money after playing in just 43 tournaments — the fastest anyone in history had reached that level. during 1988, he also set the open - era record for most consecutive victories by a male teenager ( a record that stood for 17 years until rafael nadal broke it in 2005 ). his year - end ranking was no. 3, behind second -