the angolan armed forces ( ) or faa is the military of angola. the faa consist of the angolan army ( ), the angolan navy ( ) and the national air force of angola ( ). reported total manpower in 2021 was about 107, 000. the faa is headed by the chief of the general staff antonio egidio de sousa santos since 2018, who reports to the minister of national defense, currently joao ernesto dos santos. history roots the faa succeeded to the previous people ' s armed forces for the liberation of angola ( fapla ) following the abortive bicesse accord with the armed forces of the liberation of angola ( fala ), armed wing of the national union for the total independence of angola ( unita ). as part of the peace agreement, troops from both armies were to be demilitarized and then integrated. integration was never completed as unita and fala went back to war in 1992. later, consequences for fala personnel in luanda were harsh with fapla veterans persecuting their erstwhile opponents in certain areas and reports of vigilantism. founding the angolan armed forces were created on 9 october 1991. the institutionalization of the faa was made in the bicesse accords, signed in 1991, between the angolan government and unita. the principles that would govern the faa were defined in a joint proposal presented on september 24, 1991 and approved on 9 october. on 14 november 1991, generals joao baptista de matos and abilio kamalata numa were appointed to the superior command of the armed forces. the ceremony took place at the hotel presidente luanda, and was presided over by the then - minister franca vandunem. branches army the army ( exercito ) is the land component of the faa. it is organized in six military regions ( cabinda, luanda, north, center, east and south ), with an infantry division being based in each one. distributed by the six military regions / infantry divisions, there are 25 motorized infantry brigades, one tank brigade and one engineering brigade. the army also includes an artillery regiment, the military artillery school, the army military academy, an anti - aircraft defense group, a composite land artillery group, a military police regiment, a logistical transportation regiment and a field artillery brigade. the army further includes the special forces brigade ( including commandos and special operations units ), but this unit is under the direct command of the general staff of the faa. air force the national air force