renewable energy by 2018. the commitment is a large step in apple ' s efforts to help manufacturers lower their carbon footprint in china. apple also announced that all 14 of its final assembly sites in china are now compliant with ul ' s zero waste to landfill validation. the standard, which started in january 2015, certifies that all manufacturing waste is reused, recycled, composted, or converted into energy ( when necessary ). since the program began, nearly 140, 000 metric tons of waste have been diverted from landfills. on july 21, 2020, apple announced its plan to become carbon neutral across its entire business, manufacturing supply chain, and product life cycle by 2030. in the next 10 years, apple will try to lower emissions with a series of innovative actions, including : low carbon product design, expanding energy efficiency, renewable energy, process and material innovations, and carbon removal. in april 2021, apple said that it had started a $ 200 million fund in order to combat climate change by removing 1 million metric tons of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere each year. in february 2022, the newclimate institute, a german environmental policy think tank, published a survey evaluating the transparency and progress of the climate strategies and carbon neutrality pledges announced by 25 major companies in the united states that found that apple ' s carbon neutrality pledge and climate strategy was unsubstantiated and misleading. toxins following further campaigns by greenpeace, in 2008, apple became the first electronics manufacturer to eliminate all polyvinyl chloride ( pvc ) and brominated flame retardants ( bfrs ) in its complete product line. in june 2007, apple began replacing the cold cathode fluorescent lamp ( ccfl ) backlit lcd displays in its computers with mercury - free led - backlit lcd displays and arsenic - free glass, starting with the upgraded macbook pro. apple offers comprehensive and transparent information about the co2e, emissions, materials, and electrical usage concerning every product they currently produce or have sold in the past ( and which they have enough data needed to produce the report ), in their portfolio on their homepage. allowing consumers to make informed purchasing decisions on the products they offer for sale. in june 2009, apple ' s iphone 3gs was free of pvc, arsenic, and bfrs. all apple products now have mercury - free led - backlit lcd displays, arsenic - free glass, and non - pvc cables. all apple products have epeat gold status and beat the latest energy star guidelines in