meshed walls, is square - shaped and covered with a flattened dome with an octagonal rim, which is provided with pendentives. there are original pen works left in the pendentives and dome of the library. disasters in 1714, an egyptian galleon near the gumruk ( eminonu ) pier caught fire and burned, which resulted in the deaths of 200 people. while nevsehirli damat ibrahim pasha continued his preparations for his return to istanbul, a fire broke out in the city. the districts of unkapanı, azapkapı, zeyrek, fatih, sarachane, horhor, etmeydanı, molla gurani, altımermer, ayazma gate, kantarcılar, vefa, vez neciler, old rooms, acemioglanlar barracks, cukur cesme, langa, davudpasa were burned from the fire. a large three - minute earthquake occurred on 14 may 1719. while the city walls of istanbul were destroyed in the earthquake, 4, 000 people died in izmit and yalova was destroyed. reconstruction work followed after the quake ended in istanbul. the most meaningful element to reflect the cultural aspect or weight of these works today is the topkapı palace enderun library, which was built in that year. a rich foundation was established for this institution, which is also known as the sultan ahmed - i salis library, which has a face - to - face with its architectural and valuable manuscripts. family ahmed iii is known to be the sultan with the largest family ( and harem ) of the ottoman dynasty. the hostess of his harem was dilhayat kalfa, known to be one of the greatest turkish composeress of the early modern period. consorts ahmed iii had at least twenty - one consorts : emetullah kadın. bas kadin ( first consort ) and her first concubine, she was the mother of the firstborn, fatma sultan, the ahmed ' s favorite daughter. she was ahmed ' s most beloved consort, who dedicated a mosque, a school and a fountain to her. very devoted and active in charity, she died in 1740 in the old palace. emine mihrisah kadın. she was the mother of four sons including mustafa iii, 26th sultan of the ottoman empire, but she premorted at her son ' s rise and therefore was never valide