a celestial sphere. this invention undoubtedly made him the first to realize the obliquity of the zodiac as the roman philosopher pliny the elder reports in natural history ( ii, 8 ). it is a little early to use the term ecliptic, but his knowledge and work on astronomy confirm that he must have observed the inclination of the celestial sphere in relation to the plane of the earth to explain the seasons. the doxographer and theologian aetius attributes to pythagoras the exact measurement of the obliquity. multiple worlds according to simplicius, anaximander already speculated on the plurality of worlds, similar to atomists leucippus and democritus, and later philosopher epicurus. these thinkers supposed that worlds appeared and disappeared for a while, and that some were born when others perished. they claimed that this movement was eternal, " for without movement, there can be no generation, no destruction ". in addition to simplicius, hippolytus reports anaximander ' s claim that from the infinite comes the principle of beings, which themselves come from the heavens and the worlds ( several doxographers use the plural when this philosopher is referring to the worlds within, which are often infinite in quantity ). cicero writes that he attributes different gods to the countless worlds. this theory places anaximander close to the atomists and the epicureans who, more than a century later, also claimed that an infinity of worlds appeared and disappeared. in the timeline of the greek history of thought, some thinkers conceptualized a single world ( plato, aristotle, anaxagoras and archelaus ), while others instead speculated on the existence of a series of worlds, continuous or non - continuous ( anaximenes, heraclitus, empedocles and diogenes ). meteorological phenomena anaximander attributed some phenomena, such as thunder and lightning, to the intervention of elements, rather than to divine causes. in his system, thunder results from the shock of clouds hitting each other ; the loudness of the sound is proportionate with that of the shock. thunder without lightning is the result of the wind being too weak to emit any flame, but strong enough to produce a sound. a flash of lightning without thunder is a jolt of the air that disperses and falls, allowing a less active fire to break free. thunderbolts are the result of a thicker and more violent air flow. he saw the sea as a remnant