the two major cities, yerevan and gyumri, are located. the valleys of the debed and akstafa rivers form the chief routes into armenia from the north as they pass through the mountains. lake sevan, across at its widest point and long, is by far the largest lake. it lies above sea level on the plateau and is large. other main lakes are : arpi,, sev,, akna. terrain is most rugged in the extreme southeast, which is drained by the bargushat river, and most moderate in the araks river valley to the extreme southwest. most of armenia is drained by the araks or its tributary, the hrazdan, which flows from lake sevan. the araks forms most of armenia ' s border with turkey and iran, while the zangezur mountains form the border between armenia ' s southern province of syunik and azerbaijan ' s adjacent nakhchivan autonomous republic. climate temperatures in armenia generally depend upon elevation. mountain formations block the moderating climatic influences of the mediterranean sea and the black sea, creating wide seasonal variations with cold snowy winters, and warm to hot summers. on the armenian plateau, the mean midwinter temperature is to, and the mean midsummer temperature is to. average precipitation ranges from per year in the lower araks river valley to at the highest altitudes. despite the harshness of winter in most parts ( with frosts reaching and lower in shirak region ), the fertility of the plateau ' s volcanic soil made armenia one of the world ' s earliest sites of agricultural activity. area and boundaries area : total : 29, 743 km2 country comparison to the world : 143 land : 28, 203 km2water : 1, 540 km2 area comparative australia comparative : about one third ( 33 % ) the size of tasmania canada comparative : greater than half ( 56 % ) the size of nova scotia turkey comparative : about a quarter ( 24 % ) smaller than the size of konya province. united kingdom comparative : about one third larger ( 30 % ) than wales united states comparative : slightly smaller ( 7 % ) than maryland eu comparative : slightly smaller ( 8 % ) than belgium land boundaries : total : 1, 570 kmborder countries : azerbaijan 566 km, azerbaijan - nakhchivan exclave 221 km, georgia 219 km, iran 44 km, turkey 311 km coastline : 0 km ( landlocked ) elevation extremes : lowest point : 375mhighest point : mount aragats 4, 09