alpha particles. yet there was scattering, so rutherford and his colleagues decided to investigate this scattering carefully. between 1908 and 1913, rutherford and his colleagues performed a series of experiments in which they bombarded thin foils of metal with alpha particles. they spotted alpha particles being deflected by angles greater than 90°. to explain this, rutherford proposed that the positive charge of the atom is not distributed throughout the atom ' s volume as thomson believed, but is concentrated in a tiny nucleus at the center. only such an intense concentration of charge could produce an electric field strong enough to deflect the alpha particles as observed. discovery of isotopes while experimenting with the products of radioactive decay, in 1913 radiochemist frederick soddy discovered that there appeared to be more than one type of atom at each position on the periodic table. these atoms had the same properties but different atomic weights. the term isotope was coined by margaret todd as a suitable name for atoms of differing weights that belong to the same element. j. j. thomson created a technique for isotope separation through his work on ionized gases, which subsequently led to the discovery of stable isotopes. bohr model in 1913, the physicist niels bohr proposed a model in which the electrons of an atom were assumed to orbit the nucleus but could only do so in a finite set of orbits, and could jump between these orbits only in discrete changes of energy corresponding to absorption or radiation of a photon. this quantization was used to explain why the electrons ' orbits are stable ( given that normally, charges in acceleration, including circular motion, lose kinetic energy which is emitted as electromagnetic radiation, see synchrotron radiation ) and why elements absorb and emit electromagnetic radiation in discrete spectra. later in the same year henry moseley provided additional experimental evidence in favor of niels bohr ' s theory. these results refined ernest rutherford ' s and antonius van den broek ' s model, which proposed that the atom contains in its nucleus a number of positive nuclear charges that is equal to its ( atomic ) number in the periodic table. until these experiments, atomic number was not known to be a physical and experimental quantity. that it is equal to the atomic nuclear charge remains the accepted atomic model today. chemical bonds between atoms were explained by gilbert newton lewis in 1916, as the interactions between their constituent electrons. as the chemical properties of the elements were known to largely repeat themselves according to the periodic law, in 1919 the american chemist irving langmuir suggested that this could be explained if the electrons in an