world production of almonds was 4. 1 million tonnes, led by the united states providing 57 % of the world total ( table ). other leading producers were spain, australia, and iran. united states in the united states, production is concentrated in california where and six different almond varieties were under cultivation in 2017, with a yield of of shelled almonds. california production is marked by a period of intense pollination during late winter by rented commercial bees transported by truck across the u. s. to almond groves, requiring more than half of the total u. s. commercial honeybee population. the value of total u. s. exports of shelled almonds in 2016 was $ 3. 2 billion. all commercially grown almonds sold as food in the u. s. are sweet cultivars. the u. s. food and drug administration reported in 2010 that some fractions of imported sweet almonds were contaminated with bitter almonds, which contain cyanide. spain spain has diverse commercial cultivars of almonds grown in catalonia, valencia, murcia, andalusia, and aragon regions, and the balearic islands. production in 2016 declined 2 % nationally compared to 2015 production data. the ' marcona ' almond cultivar is recognizably different from other almonds and is marketed by name. the kernel is short, round, relatively sweet, and delicate in texture. its origin is unknown and has been grown in spain for a long time ; the tree is very productive, and the shell of the nut is very hard. australia australia is the largest almond production region in the southern hemisphere. most of the almond orchards are located along the murray river corridor in new south wales, victoria, and south australia. toxicity bitter almonds contain 42 times higher amounts of cyanide than the trace levels found in sweet almonds. extract of bitter almond was once used medicinally but even in small doses, effects are severe or lethal, especially in children ; the cyanide must be removed before consumption. the acute oral lethal dose of cyanide for adult humans is reported to be of body weight ( approximately 50 bitter almonds ), so that for children consuming 5 – 10 bitter almonds may be fatal. symptoms of eating such almonds include vertigo and other typical cyanide poisoning effects. almonds may cause allergy or intolerance. cross - reactivity is common with peach allergens ( lipid transfer proteins ) and tree nut allergens. symptoms range from local signs and symptoms