been found in caves near the vercors cave system, close to grenoble and echirolles. in austria, the mondsee lake shows evidence of houses built on piles. standing stones have been found in the alpine areas of france and italy. about 200, 000 drawings and etchings have been documented, and are known as the rock drawings in valcamonica. a mummy of a neolithic human, known as otzi, was discovered on the similaun. his clothing lets modern people assume that he was an alpine farmer. while the location and manner of his death suggests that otzi was traveling. analysis of the mitochondrial dna of otzi, has shown that he belongs to the k1 subclade. from the 13th to the 6th century bc much of the alps was settled by the germanic peoples, lombards, alemanni, bavarii, and franks. celt tribes settled in modern - day switzerland between 1500 and 1000 bc. the raeti lived in the eastern regions, while the west was occupied by the helvetii and the allobroges settled in the rhone valley and in savoy. the ligures and adriatic veneti lived in northwest italy and triveneto respectively. the celts mined salt in areas such as salzburg, where evidence was found of the hallstatt culture. by the 6th century bc the la tene culture was well established in the region, and became known for high quality celtic art. between 430 and 400 bc prolonged warfare in the alps resulted in the devastation of agricultural land and human settlements, ultimately triggering the enslavement of men, women, and children, goods had to be imported as a result. the etruscan civilization responded to raids by the massalia and acquired absolute control over the alpine trade routes. aggressors in modern - day italy were dealt with and an alliance was formed with the celts. the grip of the etruscan settlements broke down, as the roman political system expanded, so as to take control over alpine trade routes that connected human settlements in the alps with settlements in the mediterranean. during the second punic war in 218 bc, the carthage general hannibal initiated one of the most celebrated achievements of any military force in ancient warfare, recorded as hannibal crossing the alps. the roman people built roads along the alpine mountain passes, which continued to be used through the medieval period. roman road markers can still be found on the alpine mountain passes. during the gallic wars in 58 bc julius caesar defeated the helvet