were inanimate things. to reinforce his points, schopenhauer referred to anecdotal reports of the look in the eyes of a monkey who had been shot and also the grief of a baby elephant whose mother had been killed by a hunter. schopenhauer was very attached to his succession of pet poodles. he criticized spinoza ' s belief that animals are a mere means for the satisfaction of humans. intellectual interests and affinities indology schopenhauer read the latin translation of the ancient hindu texts, the upanishads, translated by french writer anquetil du perron from the persian translation of prince dara shukoh entitled sirre - akbar ( " the great secret " ). he was so impressed by its philosophy that he called it " the production of the highest human wisdom ", and believed it contained superhuman concepts. schopenhauer considered india as " the land of the most ancient and most pristine wisdom, the place from which europeans could trace their descent and the tradition by which they had been influenced in so many decisive ways ", and regarded the upanishads as " the most profitable and elevating reading which [... ] is possible in the world. it has been the solace of my life, and will be the solace of my death. " schopenhauer was first introduced to anquetil du perron ' s translation by friedrich majer in 1814. they met during the winter of 1813 – 1814 in weimar at the home of schopenhauer ' s mother, according to the biographer safranski. majer was a follower of herder, and an early indologist. schopenhauer did not begin serious study of the indic texts until the summer of 1814. safranski maintains that, between 1815 and 1817, schopenhauer had another important cross - pollination with indian thought in dresden. this was through his neighbor of two years, karl christian friedrich krause. krause was then a minor and rather unorthodox philosopher who attempted to mix his own ideas with ancient indian wisdom. krause had also mastered sanskrit, unlike schopenhauer, and they developed a professional relationship. it was from krause that schopenhauer learned meditation and received the closest thing to expert advice concerning indian thought. the book oupnekhat ( upanishad ) always lay open on his table, and he invariably studied it before going to bed. he called the