ambiguity can be considered to be an instance of the logical concept of underdetermination — for example, leaves open what the value of x is — while its opposite is a self - contradiction, also called inconsistency, paradoxicalness, or oxymoron, or in mathematics an inconsistent system — such as, which has no solution. logical ambiguity and self - contradiction is analogous to visual ambiguity and impossible objects, such as the necker cube and impossible cube, or many of the drawings of m. c. escher. constructed language some languages have been created with the intention of avoiding ambiguity, especially lexical ambiguity. lojban and loglan are two related languages which have been created for this, focusing chiefly on syntactic ambiguity as well. the languages can be both spoken and written. these languages are intended to provide a greater technical precision over big natural languages, although historically, such attempts at language improvement have been criticized. languages composed from many diverse sources contain much ambiguity and inconsistency. the many exceptions to syntax and semantic rules are time - consuming and difficult to learn. biology in structural biology, ambiguity has been recognized as a problem for studying protein conformations. the analysis of a protein three - dimensional structure consists in dividing the macromolecule into subunits called domains. the difficulty of this task arises from the fact that different definitions of what a domain is can be used ( e. g. folding autonomy, function, thermodynamic stability, or domain motions ), which sometimes results in a single protein having different — yet equally valid — domain assignments. christianity and judaism christianity and judaism employ the concept of paradox synonymously with " ambiguity ". many christians and jews endorse rudolf otto ' s description of the sacred as ' mysterium tremendum et fascinans ', the awe - inspiring mystery which fascinates humans. the apocryphal book of judith is noted for the " ingenious ambiguity " expressed by its heroine ; for example, she says to the villain of the story, holofernes, " my lord will not fail to achieve his purposes ", without specifying whether my lord refers to the villain or to god. the orthodox catholic writer g. k. chesterton regularly employed paradox to tease out the meanings in common concepts which he found ambiguous or to reveal meaning often overlooked or forgotten in common phrases : the title of one of his most famous books, orthodoxy ( 1908 ), itself employed such a paradox. music in music