them on to asia minor. there, they were massacred by the turks of kilij arslan i at the battle of civetot in october 1096. the " prince ' s crusade ", the second and much more formidable host of crusaders, gradually made its way to constantinople, led in sections by godfrey of bouillon, bohemond of taranto, raymond iv of toulouse, and other important members of the western nobility. alexios used the opportunity to meet the crusader leaders separately as they arrived, extracting from them oaths of homage and the promise to turn over conquered lands to the byzantine empire. transferring each contingent into asia, alexios promised to supply them with provisions in return for their oaths of homage. the crusade was a notable success for byzantium, as alexios recovered a number of important cities and islands. the siege of nicaea by the crusaders forced the city to surrender to the emperor in 1097, and the subsequent crusader victory at dorylaion allowed the byzantine forces to recover much of western asia minor. john doukas re - established byzantine rule in chios, rhodes, smyrna, ephesus, sardis, and philadelphia in 1097 – 1099. this success is ascribed by alexios ' daughter anna to his policy and diplomacy, but by the latin historians of the crusade to his treachery and deception. in 1099, a byzantine fleet of ten ships was sent to assist the crusaders in capturing laodicea and other coastal towns as far as tripoli. the crusaders believed their oaths were made invalid when the byzantine contingent under tatikios failed to help them during the siege of antioch ; bohemund, who had set himself up as prince of antioch, briefly went to war with alexios in the balkans, but he was blockaded by the byzantine forces and agreed to become a vassal of alexios by the treaty of deabolis in 1108. around this time, in 1106, the twentieth year of his reign, hesychius of miletus records that the sky suddenly darkened and a " violent southern wind " blew the great statue of constantine at the strategion from its column, killing a number of men and women nearby. in 1116, though already terminally ill, alexios conducted a series of defensive operations in bithynia and mysia to defend his anatolian territories against the inroads of malik shah, the seljuq sultan of iconium. in 1117 he moved onto the offensive and