dose aspirin ( 75 to 100mg / day ) " for the primary prevention of cvd [ cardiovascular disease ] and crc in adults 50 to 59 years of age who have a 10 % or greater 10 - year cvd risk, are not at increased risk for bleeding, have a life expectancy of at least 10 years, and are willing to take low - dose aspirin daily for at least 10 years ". a meta - analysis through 2019 said that there was an association between taking aspirin and lower risk of cancer of the colorectum, esophagus, and stomach. in 2021, the u. s. preventive services task force raised questions about the use of aspirin in cancer prevention. it notes the results of the 2018 aspree ( aspirin in reducing events in the elderly ) trial, in which the risk of cancer - related death was higher in the aspirin - treated group than in the placebo group. psychiatry bipolar disorder aspirin, along with several other agents with anti - inflammatory properties, has been repurposed as an add - on treatment for depressive episodes in subjects with bipolar disorder in light of the possible role of inflammation in the pathogenesis of severe mental disorders. a 2022 systematic review concluded that aspirin exposure reduced the risk of depression in a pooled cohort of three studies ( hr 0. 624, 95 % ci : 0. 0503, 1. 198, p = 0. 033 ). however, further high - quality, longer - duration, double - blind randomized controlled trials ( rcts ) are needed to determine whether aspirin is an effective add - on treatment for bipolar depression. thus, notwithstanding the biological rationale, the clinical perspectives of aspirin and anti - inflammatory agents in the treatment of bipolar depression remain uncertain. dementia although cohort and longitudinal studies have shown low - dose aspirin has a greater likelihood of reducing the incidence of dementia, numerous randomized controlled trials have not validated this. schizophrenia some researchers have speculated the anti - inflammatory effects of aspirin may be beneficial for schizophrenia. small trials have been conducted but evidence remains lacking. other uses aspirin is a first - line treatment for the fever and joint - pain symptoms of acute rheumatic fever. the therapy often lasts for one to two weeks, and is rarely indicated for longer periods. after fever and pain have subsided, the aspirin is no longer necessary, since it does not decrease the incidence of heart