between lawful and unlawful abortion will be marked by the fact of having sensation and being alive. " in the catholic church, opinion was divided on how serious abortion was in comparison with such acts as contraception, oral sex, and sex in marriage for pleasure rather than procreation. the catholic church did not begin vigorously opposing abortion until the 19th century. as early as ~ 100 ce, the didache taught that abortion was sinful. several historians argue that prior to the 19th century most catholic authors did not regard termination of pregnancy before quickening or ensoulment as an abortion. among these authors were the doctors of the church, such as st. augustine, st. thomas aquinas, and st. alphonsus liguori. in 1588, pope sixtus v ( 1585 – 1590 ) was the only pope before pope pius ix ( in his 1869 bull, apostolicae sedis ) to institute a church policy labeling all abortion as homicide and condemning abortion regardless of the stage of pregnancy. sixtus v ' s pronouncement was reversed in 1591 by pope gregory xiv. in the recodification of 1917 code of canon law, apostolicae sedis was strengthened, in part to remove a possible reading that excluded excommunication of the mother. statements made in the catechism of the catholic church, the codified summary of the church ' s teachings, considers abortion from the moment of conception as homicide and called for the end of legal abortion. denominations that support abortion rights with some limits include the united methodist church, episcopal church, evangelical lutheran church in america and presbyterian church usa. a 2014 guttmacher survey of abortion patients in the united states found that many reported a religious affiliation : 24 % were catholic while 30 % were protestant. a 1995 survey reported that catholic women are as likely as the general population to terminate a pregnancy, protestants are less likely to do so, and evangelical christians are the least likely to do so. a 2019 pew research center study found that most christian denominations were against overturning roe v. wade, which in the united states legalized abortion, at around 70 %, except white evangelicals at 35 %. abortion has been a fairly common practice, and was not always illegal or controversial until the 19th century. under common law, including early english common law dating back to edward coke in 1648, abortion was generally permitted before quickening ( 14 – 26 weeks after conception, or between the fourth and sixth month ), and at women ' s discretion ; it was whether abortion was