oscar eckenstein, and in 1897 he made the first ascent of the monch without a guide. these feats led to his recognition in the alpine mountaineering community. crowley had his first significant mystical experience while on holiday in stockholm in december 1896. several biographers, including lawrence sutin, richard kaczynski, and tobias churton, believed that this was the result of crowley ' s first same - sex sexual experience, which enabled him to recognize his bisexuality. at cambridge, crowley maintained a vigorous sex life with women — largely with female prostitutes, from one of whom he caught syphilis — but eventually he took part in same - sex activities, despite their illegality. in october 1897, crowley met herbert charles pollitt, president of the cambridge university footlights dramatic club, and the two entered into a relationship. they broke apart because pollitt did not share crowley ' s increasing interest in western esotericism, a break - up that crowley would regret for many years. in 1897, crowley travelled to saint petersburg in russia, later saying that he was trying to learn russian as he was considering a future diplomatic career there. in october 1897, a brief illness triggered considerations of mortality and " the futility of all human endeavour ", and crowley abandoned all thoughts of a diplomatic career in favour of pursuing an interest in the occult. in march 1898, he obtained a. e. waite ' s the book of black magic and of pacts, and then karl von eckartshausen ' s the cloud upon the sanctuary, furthering his occult interests. that same year, crowley privately published 100 copies of his poem aceldama : a place to bury strangers in, but it was not a particular success. aceldama was issued by leonard smithers. that same year, crowley published a string of other poems, including white stains, a decadent collection of erotic poetry that was printed abroad lest its publication be prohibited by the british authorities. in july 1898, he left cambridge, not having taken any degree at all despite a " first class " showing in his 1897 exams and consistent " second class honours " results before that. the golden dawn : 1898 – 1899 in august 1898, crowley was in zermatt, switzerland, where he met the chemist julian l. baker, and the two began discussing their common interest in alchemy. back in london, baker introduced crowley to george cecil jones, baker ' s brother - in - law and a fellow member of the occult society known as the hermetic order of