poirot. another of her lesser - known characters is parker pyne, a retired civil servant who assists unhappy people in an unconventional manner. the 12 short stories which introduced him, parker pyne investigates ( 1934 ), are best remembered for " the case of the discontented soldier ", which features ariadne oliver, " an amusing and satirical self - portrait of agatha christie ". over the ensuing decades, oliver reappeared in seven novels. in most of them she assists poirot. plays in 1928, michael morton adapted the murder of roger ackroyd for the stage under the name of alibi. the play enjoyed a respectable run, but christie disliked the changes made to her work and, in future, preferred to write for the theatre herself. the first of her own stage works was black coffee, which received good reviews when it opened in the west end in late 1930. she followed this up with adaptations of her detective novels : and then there were none in 1943, appointment with death in 1945, and the hollow in 1951. in the 1950s, " the theatre... engaged much of agatha ' s attention. " she next adapted her short radio play into the mousetrap, which premiered in the west end in 1952, produced by peter saunders and starring richard attenborough as the original detective sergeant trotter. her expectations for the play were not high ; she believed it would run no more than eight months. the mousetrap has long since made theatrical history as the world ' s longest - running play, staging its 27, 500th performance in september 2018. the play temporarily closed in march 2020, when all uk theatres shut due to the coronavirus pandemic, before it re - opened on 17 may 2021. in 1953, she followed this with witness for the prosecution, whose broadway production won the new york drama critics ' circle award for best foreign play of 1954 and earned christie an edgar award from the mystery writers of america. spider ' s web, an original work written for actress margaret lockwood at her request, premiered in the west end in 1954 and was also a hit. christie became the first female playwright to have three plays running simultaneously in london : the mousetrap, witness for the prosecution and spider ' s web. she said, " plays are much easier to write than books, because you can see them in your mind ' s eye, you are not hampered by all that description which clogs you so terribly in a book and stops you from getting on with what ' s happening