, the magnitude 9. 2 megathrust earthquake remains the most powerful earthquake recorded in north american history, and the second most powerful earthquake recorded in world history. of fault ruptured at once and moved up to, releasing about 500 years of stress buildup. soil liquefaction, fissures, landslides, and other ground failures caused major structural damage in several communities and much damage to property. anchorage sustained great destruction or damage to many inadequately earthquake - engineered houses, buildings, and infrastructure ( paved streets, sidewalks, water and sewer mains, electrical systems, and other human - made equipment ), particularly in the several landslide zones along knik arm. southwest, some areas near kodiak were permanently raised by. southeast of anchorage, areas around the head of turnagain arm near girdwood and portage dropped as much as, requiring reconstruction and fill to raise the seward highway above the new high tide mark. in prince william sound, port valdez suffered a massive underwater landslide, resulting in the deaths of 32 people between the collapse of the valdez city harbor and docks, and inside the ship that was docked there at the time. nearby, a tsunami destroyed the village of chenega, killing 23 of the 68 people who lived there ; survivors out - ran the wave, climbing to high ground. post - quake tsunamis severely affected whittier, seward, kodiak, and other alaskan communities, as well as people and property in british columbia, washington, oregon, and california. tsunamis also caused damage in hawaii and japan. evidence of motion directly related to the earthquake was also reported from florida and texas. alaska had never experienced a major disaster in a highly populated area before, and had very limited resources for dealing with the effects of such an event. in anchorage, at the urging of geologist lidia selkregg, the city of anchorage and the alaska state housing authority appointed a team of 40 scientists, including geologists, soil scientists, and engineers, to assess the damage done by the earthquake to the city. the team, called the engineering and geological evaluation group, was headed by ruth a. m. schmidt, a geology professor at the university of alaska anchorage. the team of scientists came into conflict with local developers and downtown business owners who wanted to immediately rebuild ; the scientists wanted to identify future dangers to ensure that rebuilt infrastructure would be safe. the team produced a report on may 8, 1964, just a little more than a month after the earthquake. the united states military