later linked to high levels of corruption. in july 2022, ex - president jose eduardo dos santos died in spain. in august 2022, the ruling party, mpla, won another majority and president lourenco won a second five - year term in the election. however, the election was the tightest in angola ' s history. geography at, angola is the world ' s twenty - fourth largest country — comparable in size to mali, or twice the size of france or of texas. it lies mostly between latitudes 4° and 18°s, and longitudes 12° and 24°e. angola borders namibia to the south, zambia to the east, the democratic republic of the congo to the north - east and the south atlantic ocean to the west. the coastal exclave of cabinda in the north has borders with the republic of the congo to the north and with the democratic republic of the congo to the south. angola ' s capital, luanda, lies on the atlantic coast in the northwest of the country. angola had a 2018 forest landscape integrity index mean score of 8. 35 / 10, ranking it 23rd globally out of 172 countries. climate like the rest of tropical africa, angola experiences distinct, alternating rainy and dry seasons. in the north, the rainy season may last for as long as seven months — usually from september to april, with perhaps a brief slackening in january or february. in the south, the rainy season begins later, in november, and lasts until about february. the dry season ( cacimbo ) is often characterized by a heavy morning mist. in general, precipitation is higher in the north, but at any latitude it is greater in the interior than along the coast and increases with altitude. temperatures fall with distance from the equator and with altitude and tend to rise closer to the atlantic ocean. thus, at soyo, at the mouth of the congo river, the average annual temperature is about 26 °c, but it is under 16 °c at huambo on the temperate central plateau. the coolest months are july and august ( in the middle of the dry season ), when frost may sometimes form at higher altitudes. administrative divisions, angola is divided into eighteen provinces ( provincias ) and 162 municipalities. the municipalities are further divided into 559 communes ( townships ). the provinces are : exclave of cabinda with an area of approximately, the northern angolan province of cabinda is unusual in being separated from the rest of the country by a strip, some wide, of the democratic republic