, such as the hanuno ' o script, are learned one letter at a time, in no particular order, and are not used for collation where a definite order is required. however, a dozen ugaritic tablets from the fourteenth century bce preserve the alphabet in two sequences. one, the abcde order later used in phoenician, has continued with minor changes in hebrew, greek, armenian, gothic, cyrillic, and latin ; the other, hmħlq, was used in southern arabia and is preserved today in ethiopic. both orders have therefore been stable for at least 3000 years. runic used an unrelated futhark sequence, which got simplified later on. arabic uses usually uses its sequence, although arabic retains the traditional abjadi order, which is used for numbers. the brahmic family of alphabets used in india uses a unique order based on phonology : the letters are arranged according to how and where the sounds get produced in the mouth. this organization is present in southeast asia, tibet, korean hangul, and even japanese kana, which is not an alphabet. acrophony in phoenician, each letter got associated with a word that begins with that sound. this is called acrophony and is continuously used to varying degrees in samaritan, aramaic, syriac, hebrew, greek, and arabic. acrophony got abandoned in latin. it referred to the letters by adding a vowel ( usually " e ", sometimes " a ", or " u " ) before or after the consonant. two exceptions were y and z, which were borrowed from the greek alphabet rather than etruscan. they were known as y graeca " greek y " and zeta ( from greek ) — this discrepancy was inherited by many european languages, as in the term zed for z in all forms of english, other than american english. over time names sometimes shifted or were added, as in double u for w, or " double v " in french, the english name for y, and the american zee for z. comparing them in english and french gives a clear reflection of the great vowel shift : a, b, c, and d are pronounced in today ' s english, but in contemporary french they are. the french names ( from which the english names got derived ) preserve the qualities of the english vowels before the great vowel shift. by contrast, the names of f, l, m, n, and s ( ) remain the same in both languages