) beneath the lithosphere, the mantle temperature is approximately an adiabat. the slight decrease in temperature with shallowing depth is due to the decrease in pressure the shallower the material is in the earth. such temperature changes can be quantified using the ideal gas law, or the hydrostatic equation for atmospheric processes. in practice, no process is truly adiabatic. many processes rely on a large difference in time scales of the process of interest and the rate of heat dissipation across a system boundary, and thus are approximated by using an adiabatic assumption. there is always some heat loss, as no perfect insulators exist. ideal gas ( reversible process ) the mathematical equation for an ideal gas undergoing a reversible ( i. e., no entropy generation ) adiabatic process can be represented by the polytropic process equation where is pressure, is volume, and is the adiabatic index or heat capacity ratio defined as here is the specific heat for constant pressure, is the specific heat for constant volume, and is the number of degrees of freedom ( 3 for a monatomic gas, 5 for a diatomic gas or a gas of linear molecules such as carbon dioxide ). for a monatomic ideal gas,, and for a diatomic gas ( such as nitrogen and oxygen, the main components of air ),. note that the above formula is only applicable to classical ideal gases ( that is, gases far above absolute zero temperature ) and not bose – einstein or fermi gases. one can also use the ideal gas law to rewrite the above relationship between and as where t is the absolute or thermodynamic temperature. example of adiabatic compression the compression stroke in a gasoline engine can be used as an example of adiabatic compression. the model assumptions are : the uncompressed volume of the cylinder is one litre ( 1 l = 1000 cm3 = 0. 001 m3 ) ; the gas within is the air consisting of molecular nitrogen and oxygen only ( thus a diatomic gas with 5 degrees of freedom, and so ) ; the compression ratio of the engine is 10 : 1 ( that is, the 1 l volume of uncompressed gas is reduced to 0. 1 l by the piston ) ; and the uncompressed gas is at approximately room temperature and pressure ( a warm room temperature of ~ 27 °c, or 300 k, and a pressure of 1 bar = 100 kpa, i. e. typical sea - level