continually made good, " elements. ". that is only the natural development of the thought we have ascribed to thales, and there can be no doubt that anaximander at least formulated it distinctly. indeed, we can still follow to some extent the reasoning which led him to do so. thales had regarded water as the most likely thing to be that of which all others are forms ; anaximander appears to have asked how the primary substance could be one of these particular things. his argument seems to be preserved by aristotle, who has the following passage in his discussion of the infinite : " further, there cannot be a single, simple body which is infinite, either, as some hold, one distinct from the elements, which they then derive from it, or without this qualification. for there are some who make this. ( i. e. a body distinct from the elements ). the infinite, and not air or water, in order that the other things may not be destroyed by their infinity. they are in opposition one to another. air is cold, water moist, and fire hot. and therefore, if any one of them were infinite, the rest would have ceased to be by this time. accordingly they say that what is infinite is something other than the elements, and from it the elements arise. ' — aristotle physics. f, 5 204 b 22 ( ritter and preller ( 1898 ) historia philosophiae graecae, section 16 b ). " anaximander maintains that all dying things are returning to the element from which they came ( apeiron ). the one surviving fragment of anaximander ' s writing deals with this matter. simplicius transmitted it as a quotation, which describes the balanced and mutual changes of the elements : whence things have their origin, thence also their destruction happens, according to necessity ; for they give to each other justice and recompense for their injustice in conformity with the ordinance of time. simplicius mentions that anaximander said all these " in poetic terms ", meaning that he used the old mythical language. the goddess justice ( dike ) keeps the cosmic order. this concept of returning to the element of origin was often revisited afterwards, notably by aristotle, and by the greek tragedian euripides : " what comes from earth must return to earth. " friedrich nietzsche, in his philosophy in the tragic age of the greeks, stated that anaximander viewed "... all coming -