dimensional cartesian coordinate system, an angle is typically defined by its two sides, with its vertex at the origin. the initial side is on the positive x - axis, while the other side or terminal side is defined by the measure from the initial side in radians, degrees, or turns, with positive angles representing rotations toward the positive y - axis and negative angles representing rotations toward the negative y - axis. when cartesian coordinates are represented by standard position, defined by the x - axis rightward and the y - axis upward, positive rotations are anticlockwise, and negative cycles are clockwise. in many contexts, an angle of −θ is effectively equivalent to an angle of " one full turn minus θ ". for example, an orientation represented as −45° is effectively equal to an orientation defined as 360° − 45° or 315°. although the final position is the same, a physical rotation ( movement ) of −45° is not the same as a rotation of 315° ( for example, the rotation of a person holding a broom resting on a dusty floor would leave visually different traces of swept regions on the floor ). in three - dimensional geometry, " clockwise " and " anticlockwise " have no absolute meaning, so the direction of positive and negative angles must be defined in terms of an orientation, which is typically determined by a normal vector passing through the angle ' s vertex and perpendicular to the plane in which the rays of the angle lie. in navigation, bearings or azimuth are measured relative to north. by convention, viewed from above, bearing angles are positive clockwise, so a bearing of 45° corresponds to a north - east orientation. negative bearings are not used in navigation, so a north - west orientation corresponds to a bearing of 315°. equivalent angles angles that have the same measure ( i. e., the same magnitude ) are said to be equal or congruent. an angle is defined by its measure and is not dependent upon the lengths of the sides of the angle ( e. g., all right angles are equal in measure ). two angles that share terminal sides, but differ in size by an integer multiple of a turn, are called coterminal angles. the reference angle ( sometimes called related angle ) for any angle θ in standard position is the positive acute angle between the terminal side of θ and the x - axis ( positive or negative ). procedurally, the magnitude of the reference angle for a given angle may determined by taking the angle ' s