of adjustments made to the vehicle to optimize its behaviour ( performance, handling, reliability, etc. ). adjustments can occur in suspensions, brakes, transmissions, engines, tires, and many others. aerodynamics aerodynamics and airflow play big roles in the setup of a race car. aerodynamic downforce improves the race car ' s handling by lowering the center of gravity and distributing the weight of the car equally on each tire. once this is achieved, fuel consumption decreases and the forces against the car are significantly lowered. many aerodynamic experiments are conducted in wind tunnels, to simulate real - life situations while measuring the various drag forces on the car. these " rolling roads " produce many wind situations and direct air flow at certain speeds and angles. when a diffuser is installed under the car, the amount of drag force is significantly lowered, and the overall aerodynamics of the vehicle is positively adjusted. wings and canards channel the airflow in the most efficient way to get the least amount of drag from the car. it is experimentally proven that downforce is gained and the vehicle ' s handling is considerably changed when aerodynamic wings on the front and rear of the vehicle are installed. suspension suspension plays a huge part in giving the race car the ability to be driven optimally. shocks are mounted vertically or horizontally to prevent the body from rolling in the corners. the suspension is important because it makes the car stable and easier to control and keeps the tires on the road when driving on uneven terrain. it works in three different ways including vertically, longitudinally, and laterally to control movement when racing on various tracks. tyres tyres called r - compounds are commonly used in motorsports for high amounts of traction. the soft rubber allows them to expand when they are heated up, making more surface area on the pavement, therefore producing the most traction. these types of tyres do not have grooves on them. tyre pressure is dependent on the temperature of the tyre and track when racing. each time a driver pulls into the pits, the tyre pressure and temperature should be tested for optimal performance. when the tyres get too hot they will swell or inflate and need to be deflated to the correct pressure. when the tyres are not warmed up they will not perform as well. brakes brakes on a race car are imperative in slowing and stopping the car at precise times and wear quickly depending on the road or track on which the car is being raced, how many laps are being run, track conditions due to weather, and how many caution runs require more braking. there are three