in 40 years, was released on 5 november 2021 to positive critical reviews and strong sales in numerous countries. abba voyage, a concert residency featuring abba as virtual avatars, opened in may 2022 in london. abba are among the best - selling music artists in history, with record sales estimated to be between 150 million to 385 million sold worldwide and the group were ranked 3rd best - selling singles artists in the united kingdom with a total of 11. 3 million singles sold by 3 november 2012. in may 2023 abba were awarded the brit billion award which celebrates those who have surpassed the milestone of one billion uk streams in their career. abba were the first group from a non - english - speaking country to achieve consistent success in the charts of english - speaking countries, including the united kingdom, australia, united states, republic of ireland, canada, new zealand and south africa. they are the best - selling swedish band of all time and the best - selling band originating in continental europe. abba had eight consecutive number - one albums in the uk. the group also enjoyed significant success in latin america and recorded a collection of their hit songs in spanish. abba were inducted into the vocal group hall of fame in 2002. the group were inducted into the rock and roll hall of fame in 2010, the first recording artists to receive this honour from outside an anglophonic country. in 2015, their song " dancing queen " was inducted into the recording academy ' s grammy hall of fame. history 1958 – 1970 : before abba member origins and collaboration benny andersson ( born 16 december 1946 in stockholm, sweden ) became ( at age 18 ) a member of a popular swedish pop - rock group, the hep stars, that performed, among other things, covers of international hits. the hep stars were known as " the swedish beatles ". they also set up hep house, their equivalent of apple corps. andersson played the keyboard and eventually started writing original songs for his band, many of which became major hits, including " no response ", which hit number three in 1965, and " sunny girl ", " wedding ", and " consolation ", all of which hit number one in 1966. andersson also had a fruitful songwriting collaboration with lasse berghagen, with whom he wrote his first svensktoppen entry, " sagan om lilla sofie " ( " the tale of little sophie " ) in 1968. bjorn ulvaeus ( born 25 april 1945 in gothenburg, sweden ) also began his musical career at the age