agriculture had previously been dominant. ibn khaldun noted that the lands ravaged by banu hilal tribes had become completely arid desert. the almohads originating from modern day morocco, although founded by a man originating from algeria known as abd al - mu ' min would soon take control over the maghreb. during the time of the almohad dynasty abd al - mu ' min ' s tribe, the koumia, were the main supporters of the throne and the most important body of the empire. defeating the weakening almoravid empire and taking control over morocco in 1147, they pushed into algeria in 1152, taking control over tlemcen, oran, and algiers, wrestling control from the hilian arabs, and by the same year they defeated hammadids who controlled eastern algeria. following their decisive defeat in the battle of las navas de tolosa in 1212 the almohads began collapsing, and in 1235 the governor of modern - day western algeria, yaghmurasen ibn zyan declared his independence and established the kingdom of tlemcen and the zayyanid dynasty. warring with the almohad forces attempting to restore control over algeria for 13 years, they defeated the almohads in 1248 after killing their caliph in a successful ambush near oujda. the zayyanids retained their control over algeria for 3 centuries. much of the eastern territories of algeria were under the authority of the hafsid dynasty, although the emirate of bejaia encompassing the algerian territories of the hafsids would occasionally be independent from central tunisian control. at their peak the zayyanid kingdom included all of morocco as its vassal to the west and in the east reached as far as tunis which they captured during the reign of abu tashfin. after several conflicts with local barbary pirates sponsored by the zayyanid sultans, spain decided to invade algeria and defeat the native kingdom of tlemcen. in 1505, they invaded and captured mers el kebir, and in 1509 after a bloody siege, they conquered oran. following their decisive victories over the algerians in the western - coastal areas of algeria, the spanish decided to get bolder, and invaded more algerian cities. in 1510, they led a series of sieges and attacks, taking over bejaia in a large siege, and leading a semi - successful siege against algiers. they also besieged tlemcen. in 1511, they took control over cherchell