e. g. field theory, group theory, topology, vector spaces ) without any particular application in mind. the distinction between an " axiom " and a " postulate " disappears. the postulates of euclid are profitably motivated by saying that they lead to a great wealth of geometric facts. the truth of these complicated facts rests on the acceptance of the basic hypotheses. however, by throwing out euclid ' s fifth postulate, one can get theories that have meaning in wider contexts ( e. g., hyperbolic geometry ). as such, one must simply be prepared to use labels such as " line " and " parallel " with greater flexibility. the development of hyperbolic geometry taught mathematicians that it is useful to regard postulates as purely formal statements, and not as facts based on experience. when mathematicians employ the field axioms, the intentions are even more abstract. the propositions of field theory do not concern any one particular application ; the mathematician now works in complete abstraction. there are many examples of fields ; field theory gives correct knowledge about them all. it is not correct to say that the axioms of field theory are " propositions that are regarded as true without proof. " rather, the field axioms are a set of constraints. if any given system of addition and multiplication satisfies these constraints, then one is in a position to instantly know a great deal of extra information about this system. modern mathematics formalizes its foundations to such an extent that mathematical theories can be regarded as mathematical objects, and mathematics itself can be regarded as a branch of logic. frege, russell, poincare, hilbert, and godel are some of the key figures in this development. another lesson learned in modern mathematics is to examine purported proofs carefully for hidden assumptions. in the modern understanding, a set of axioms is any collection of formally stated assertions from which other formally stated assertions follow – by the application of certain well - defined rules. in this view, logic becomes just another formal system. a set of axioms should be consistent ; it should be impossible to derive a contradiction from the axioms. a set of axioms should also be non - redundant ; an assertion that can be deduced from other axioms need not be regarded as an axiom. it was the early hope of modern logicians that various branches of mathematics, perhaps all of mathematics, could be derived from a consistent collection of basic axioms. an early success of the formalist program was hilbert ' s formal