apollo or apollon is one of the olympian deities in classical greek and roman religion and greek and roman mythology. apollo has been recognized as a god of archery, music and dance, truth and prophecy, healing and diseases, the sun and light, poetry, and more. one of the most important and complex of the greek gods, he is the son of zeus and leto, and the twin brother of artemis, goddess of the hunt. he is considered to be the most beautiful god and is represented as the ideal of the kouros ( ephebe, or a beardless, athletic youth ). apollo is known in greek - influenced etruscan mythology as apulu. as the patron deity of delphi ( apollo pythios ), apollo is an oracular god — the prophetic deity of the delphic oracle and also the deity of ritual purification. his oracles were often consulted for guidance in various matters. he was in general seen as the god who affords help and wards off evil, and is referred to as, the " averter of evil ". medicine and healing are associated with apollo, whether through the god himself or mediated through his son asclepius. apollo delivered people from epidemics, yet he is also a god who could bring ill health and deadly plague with his arrows. the invention of archery itself is credited to apollo and his sister artemis. apollo is usually described as carrying a silver or golden bow and a quiver of silver or golden arrows. as the god of mousike, apollo presides over all music, songs, dance and poetry. he is the inventor of string - music and the frequent companion of the muses, functioning as their chorus leader in celebrations. the lyre is a common attribute of apollo. protection of the young is one of the best attested facets of his panhellenic cult persona. as a, apollo is concerned with the health and education of children, and he presided over their passage into adulthood. long hair, which was the prerogative of boys, was cut at the coming of age ( ) and dedicated to apollo. the god himself is depicted with long, uncut hair to symbolise his eternal youth. apollo is an important pastoral deity, and was the patron of herdsmen and shepherds. protection of herds, flocks and crops from diseases, pests and predators were his primary rustic duties. on the other hand, apollo also encouraged the founding of new towns and the establishment of civil constitutions, is associated with dominion over colonists