embarrassment. in addition, those who have high anxiety can also create future stressful life events. together, these findings suggest that anxious thoughts can lead to anticipatory anxiety as well as stressful events, which in turn cause more anxiety. such unhealthy thoughts can be targets for successful treatment with cognitive therapy. psychodynamic theory posits that anxiety is often the result of opposing unconscious wishes or fears that manifest via maladaptive defense mechanisms ( such as suppression, repression, anticipation, regression, somatization, passive aggression, dissociation ) that develop to adapt to problems with early objects ( e. g., caregivers ) and empathic failures in childhood. for example, persistent parental discouragement of anger may result in repression / suppression of angry feelings which manifests as gastrointestinal distress ( somatization ) when provoked by another while the anger remains unconscious and outside the individual ' s awareness. such conflicts can be targets for successful treatment with psychodynamic therapy. while psychodynamic therapy tends to explore the underlying roots of anxiety, cognitive behavioral therapy has also been shown to be a successful treatment for anxiety by altering irrational thoughts and unwanted behaviors. evolutionary psychology an evolutionary psychology explanation is that increased anxiety serves the purpose of increased vigilance regarding potential threats in the environment as well as increased tendency to take proactive actions regarding such possible threats. this may cause false positive reactions but an individual with anxiety may also avoid real threats. this may explain why anxious people are less likely to die due to accidents. there is ample empirical evidence that anxiety can have adaptive value. within a school, timid fish are more likely than bold fish to survive a predator. when people are confronted with unpleasant and potentially harmful stimuli such as foul odors or tastes, pet - scans show increased blood flow in the amygdala. in these studies, the participants also reported moderate anxiety. this might indicate that anxiety is a protective mechanism designed to prevent the organism from engaging in potentially harmful behaviors. social social risk factors for anxiety include a history of trauma ( e. g., physical, sexual or emotional abuse or assault ), bullying, early life experiences and parenting factors ( e. g., rejection, lack of warmth, high hostility, harsh discipline, high parental negative affect, anxious childrearing, modelling of dysfunctional and drug - abusing behaviour, discouragement of emotions, poor socialization, poor attachment, and child abuse and neglect ), cultural factors ( e. g., stoic families /