). the systematic examination of the international sign writing alphabet ( iswa ) as an equivalent usage structure to the international phonetic alphabet for spoken languages has been proposed. according to some researchers, signwriting is not a phonemic orthography and does not have a one - to - one map from phonological forms to written forms. that assertion has been disputed, and the process for each country to look at the iswa and create a phonemic / morphemic assignment of features of each sign language was proposed by researchers msc. roberto cesar reis da costa and madson barreto in a thesis forum on june 23, 2014. the signwriting community has an open project on wikimedia labs to support the various wikimedia projects on wikimedia incubator and elsewhere involving signwriting. the asl wikipedia request was marked as eligible in 2008 and the test asl wikipedia has 50 articles written in asl using signwriting. the most widely used transcription system among academics is hamnosys, developed at the university of hamburg. based on stokoe notation, hamnosys was expanded to about 200 graphs in order to allow transcription of any sign language. phonological features are usually indicated with single symbols, though the group of features that make up a handshape is indicated collectively with a symbol. several additional candidates for written asl have appeared over the years, including signfont, asl - phabet, and si5s. for english - speaking audiences, asl is often glossed using english words. such glosses are typically all - capitalized and are arranged in asl order. for example, the asl sentence dog now chase > ix = 3 cat, meaning " the dog is chasing the cat ", uses now to mark asl progressive aspect and shows asl verbal inflection for the third person ( > ix = 3 ). however, glossing is not used to write the language for speakers of asl. phonology each sign in asl is composed of a number of distinctive components, generally referred to as parameters. a sign may use one hand or both. all signs can be described using the five parameters involved in signed languages, which are handshape, movement, palm orientation, location and nonmanual markers. just as phonemes of sound distinguish meaning in spoken languages, those parameters are the phonemes that distinguish meaning in signed languages like asl. changing any one of them may change the meaning of a sign, as illustrated by the