there was nothing that could entice them back on stage again. ulvaeus said : " we will never appear on stage again. [... ] there is simply no motivation to re - group. money is not a factor and we would like people to remember us as we were. young, exuberant, full of energy and ambition. i remember robert plant saying led zeppelin were a cover band now because they cover all their own stuff. i think that hit the nail on the head. " however, on 3 january 2011, faltskog, long considered to be the most reclusive member of the group and a major obstacle to any reunion, raised the possibility of reuniting for a one - off engagement. she admitted that she has not yet brought the idea up to the other three members. in april 2013, she reiterated her hopes for reunion during an interview with die zeit, stating : " if they ask me, i ' ll say yes. " in a may 2013 interview, faltskog, aged 63 at the time, stated that an abba reunion would never occur : " i think we have to accept that it will not happen, because we are too old and each one of us has their own life. too many years have gone by since we stopped, and there ' s really no meaning in putting us together again ". faltskog further explained that the band members remained on amicable terms : " it ' s always nice to see each other now and then and to talk a little and to be a little nostalgic. " in an april 2014 interview, faltskog, when asked about whether the band might reunite for a new recording said : " it ' s difficult to talk about this because then all the news stories will be : ' abba is going to record another song! ' but as long as we can sing and play, then why not? i would love to, but it ' s up to bjorn and benny. " resurgence of public interest the same year the members of abba went their separate ways, the french production of a " tribute " show ( a children ' s tv musical named abbacadabra using 14 abba songs ) spawned new interest in the group ' s music. after receiving little attention during the mid - to - late - 1980s, abba ' s music experienced a resurgence in the early 1990s due to the uk synth - pop duo erasure, who released abba - esque, a four track extended play