the subsequent editions of fourfold root, an extensive exposition is given in § 21. the world as will in book two of the world as will and representation, schopenhauer considers what the world is beyond the aspect of it that appears to us — that is, the aspect of the world beyond representation, the world considered " in - itself " or " noumena ", its inner essence. the very being in - itself of all things, schopenhauer argues, is will ( wille ). the empirical world that appears to us as representation has plurality and is ordered in a spatio - temporal framework. the world as thing in - itself must exist outside the subjective forms of space and time. although the world manifests itself to our experience as a multiplicity of objects ( the " objectivation " of the will ), each element of this multiplicity has the same blind essence striving towards existence and life. human rationality is merely a secondary phenomenon that does not distinguish humanity from the rest of nature at the fundamental, essential level. the advanced cognitive abilities of human beings, schopenhauer argues, serve the ends of willing — an illogical, directionless, ceaseless striving that condemns the human individual to a life of suffering unredeemed by any final purpose. schopenhauer ' s philosophy of the will as the essential reality behind the world as representation is often called metaphysical voluntarism. for schopenhauer, understanding the world as will leads to ethical concerns ( see the ethics section below for further detail ), which he explores in the fourth book of the world as will and representation and again in his two prize essays on ethics, on the freedom of the will and on the basis of morality. no individual human actions are free, schopenhauer argues, because they are events in the world of appearance and thus are subject to the principle of sufficient reason : a person ' s actions are a necessary consequence of motives and the given character of the individual human. necessity extends to the actions of human beings just as it does to every other appearance, and thus we cannot speak of freedom of individual willing. albert einstein quoted the schopenhauerian idea that " a man can do as he will, but not will as he will. " yet the will as thing in - itself is free, as it exists beyond the realm of representation and thus is not constrained by any of the forms of necessity that are part of the principle of sufficient reason. according to schopenh