amsterdam. notable people media amsterdam is a prominent centre for national and international media. some locally based newspapers include het parool, a national daily paper ; de telegraaf, the largest dutch daily newspaper ; the daily newspapers trouw, de volkskrant and nrc ; de groene amsterdammer, a weekly newspaper ; the free newspapers metro and the holland times ( printed in english ). amsterdam is home to the second - largest dutch commercial tv group sbs broadcasting group, consisting of tv - stations sbs 6, net 5 and veronica. however, amsterdam is not considered ' the media city of the netherlands '. the town of hilversum, south - east of amsterdam, has been crowned with this unofficial title. hilversum is the principal centre for radio and television broadcasting in the netherlands. radio netherlands, heard worldwide via shortwave radio since the 1920s, is also based there. hilversum is home to an extensive complex of audio and television studios belonging to the national broadcast production company nos, as well as to the studios and offices of all the dutch public broadcasting organisations and many commercial tv production companies. in 2012, the music video of far east movement, ' live my life ', was filmed in various parts of amsterdam. also, several movies were filmed in amsterdam, such as james bond ' s diamonds are forever, ocean ' s twelve, girl with a pearl earring and the hitman ' s bodyguard. amsterdam is also featured in john green ' s book the fault in our stars, which has been made into a film as well that partly takes place in amsterdam. housing from the late 1960s onwards many buildings in amsterdam have been squatted both for housing and for using as social centres. a number of these squats have legalised and become well known, such as occii, ot301, paradiso and vrankrijk. sister cities manchester, greater manchester, united kingdom, 2007 zapopan, jalisco, mexico, 2011 see also list of populated places in the netherlands list of cities, towns and villages in north holland list of cities in the netherlands by province list of national capitals list of national capitals by latitude list of capital cities by elevation list of national capitals by population van dam references citations literature charles caspers & peter jan margry ( 2017 ), het mirakel van amsterdam. biografie van een betwiste devotie ( amsterdam, prometheus ). further reading de waard, m., ed. imagining global amsterdam : history