great folding. the tip of the mountain consists of gneisses from the african plate ; the base of the peak, below the glaciated area, consists of european basement rock. the sequence of tethyan marine sediments and their oceanic basement is sandwiched between rock derived from the african and european plates. the core regions of the alpine orogenic belt have been folded and fractured in such a manner that erosion produced the characteristic steep vertical peaks of the swiss alps that rise seemingly straight out of the foreland areas. peaks such as mont blanc, the matterhorn, and high peaks in the pennine alps, the brianconnais, and hohe tauern consist of layers of rock from the various orogenies including exposures of basement rock. due to the ever - present geologic instability, earthquakes continue in the alps to this day. typically, the largest earthquakes in the alps have been between magnitude 6 and 7 on the richter scale. geodetic measurements show ongoing topographic uplift at rates of up to about 2. 5 mm per year in the north, western and central alps, and at ~ 1 mm per year in the eastern and south - western alps. the underlying mechanisms that jointly drive the present - day uplift pattern are the isostatic rebound due to the melting of the last glacial maximum ice - cap or long - term erosion, detachment of the western alpine subducting slab, mantle convection as well as ongoing horizontal convergence between africa and europe, but their relative contributions to the uplift of the alps are difficult to quantify and likely to vary significantly in space and time. minerals the alps are a source of minerals that have been mined for thousands of years. in the 8th to 6th centuries, bc during the hallstatt culture, celtic tribes mined copper ; later the romans mined gold for coins in the bad gastein area. erzberg in styria furnishes high - quality iron ore for the steel industry. crystals, such as cinnabar, amethyst, and quartz, are found throughout much of the alpine region. the cinnabar deposits in slovenia are a notable source of cinnabar pigments. alpine crystals have been studied and collected for hundreds of years and began to be classified in the 18th century. leonhard euler studied the shapes of crystals, and by the 19th - century crystal hunting was common in alpine regions. david friedrich wiser amassed a collection of 8000 crystals that he studied and documented. in the 20th century robert parker wrote a well - known work about the rock crystals of