of technology. the effort to land a man on the moon already had a name : project apollo. when kennedy met with nikita khrushchev, the premier of the soviet union in june 1961, he proposed making the moon landing a joint project, but khrushchev did not take up the offer. kennedy again proposed a joint expedition to the moon in a speech to the united nations general assembly on september 20, 1963. the idea of a joint moon mission was abandoned after kennedy ' s death. an early and crucial decision was choosing lunar orbit rendezvous over both direct ascent and earth orbit rendezvous. a space rendezvous is an orbital maneuver in which two spacecraft navigate through space and meet up. in july 1962 nasa head james webb announced that lunar orbit rendezvous would be used and that the apollo spacecraft would have three major parts : a command module ( cm ) with a cabin for the three astronauts, and the only part that returned to earth ; a service module ( sm ), which supported the command module with propulsion, electrical power, oxygen, and water ; and a lunar module ( lm ) that had two stages — a descent stage for landing on the moon, and an ascent stage to place the astronauts back into lunar orbit. this design meant the spacecraft could be launched by a single saturn v rocket that was then under development. technologies and techniques required for apollo were developed by project gemini. the apollo project was enabled by nasa ' s adoption of new advances in semiconductor electronic technology, including metal – oxide – semiconductor field - effect transistors ( mosfets ) in the interplanetary monitoring platform ( imp ) and silicon integrated circuit ( ic ) chips in the apollo guidance computer ( agc ). project apollo was abruptly halted by the apollo 1 fire on january 27, 1967, in which astronauts gus grissom, ed white, and roger b. chaffee died, and the subsequent investigation. in october 1968, apollo 7 evaluated the command module in earth orbit, and in december apollo 8 tested it in lunar orbit. in march 1969, apollo 9 put the lunar module through its paces in earth orbit, and in may apollo 10 conducted a " dress rehearsal " in lunar orbit. by july 1969, all was in readiness for apollo 11 to take the final step onto the moon. the soviet union appeared to be winning the space race by beating the us to firsts, but its early lead was overtaken by the us gemini program and soviet failure to develop the n1 launcher, which would have been comparable to the saturn v. the soviets tried to