- s " in english are bound morphemes. in asl, the 3 handshape in signs like three - weeks and three - months are also bound morphemes. affixes, which are morphemes added to words to create new words or modify their meanings, are part of the derivational process. for example, in english, prefixes like " re - " and suffixes like " - able " are affixes. in asl, affixation can be used to modify the sign for chair to indicate different types of chairs. the inflectional process, on the other hand, adds grammatical information to existing units. by studying morphemes and how they can be combined or modified, linguists gain insight into the underlying structure of language and the creative ways in which it can be used to express meaning. understanding morphology is essential to understanding how languages are built and how new signs or words can be formed. furthermore, understanding morphology has practical applications in language learning and teaching. for example, teaching students the basic morphological structures of a language can help them to better understand the language ' s grammar and syntax, and can also aid in their acquisition of new vocabulary. in summary, morphology is an essential component of language and provides valuable insights into the structure and function of languages. by understanding the morphological processes involved in language formation, we can gain a deeper understanding of how languages work and how they can be effectively taught and learned. fingerspelling asl possesses a set of 26 signs known as the american manual alphabet, which can be used to spell out words from the english language. such signs make use of the 19 handshapes of asl. for example, the signs for ' p ' and ' k ' use the same handshape but different orientations. a common misconception is that asl consists only of fingerspelling ; although such a method ( rochester method ) has been used, it is not asl. fingerspelling is a form of borrowing, a linguistic process wherein words from one language are incorporated into another. in asl, fingerspelling is used for proper nouns and for technical terms with no native asl equivalent. there are also some other loan words which are fingerspelled, either very short english words or abbreviations of longer english words, e. g. o - n from english ' on ', and a - p - t from english ' apartment '. fingerspelling may also be used to emphasize a word that would normally