hardly counted, and the victim thomas overbury, as " thomas overburie ", was written as " o! o! a busie murther " ( an old form of " murder " ), with a v counted as u. william drummond of hawthornden, in an essay on the character of a perfect anagram, tried to lay down rules for permissible substitutions ( such as s standing for z ) and letter omissions. william camden provided a definition of " anagrammatisme " as " a dissolution of a name truly written into his letters, as his elements, and a new connection of it by artificial transposition, without addition, subtraction or change of any letter, into different words, making some perfect sense appliable ( i. e., applicable ) to the person named. " dryden in macflecknoe disdainfully called the pastime the " torturing of one poor word ten thousand ways ". " eleanor audeley ", wife of sir john davies, is said to have been brought before the high commission in 1634 for extravagances, stimulated by the discovery that her name could be transposed to " reveale, o daniel ", and to have been laughed out of court by another anagram submitted by sir john lambe, the dean of the arches, " dame eleanor davies ", " never soe mad a ladie ". an example from france was a flattering anagram for cardinal richelieu, comparing him to hercules or at least one of his hands ( hercules being a kingly symbol ), where armand de richelieu became ardue main d ' hercule ( " difficult hand of hercules " ). modern period examples from the 19th century are the transposition of " horatio nelson " into honor est a nilo ( latin : honor is from the nile ) ; and of " florence nightingale " into " flit on, cheering angel ". the victorian love of anagramming as recreation is alluded to by the mathematician augustus de morgan using his own name as an example ; " great gun, do us a sum! " is attributed to his son william de morgan, but a family friend john thomas graves was prolific, and a manuscript with over 2, 800 has been preserved. with the advent of surrealism as a poetic movement, anagrams regained the artistic respect they had had in the baroque period. the german poet unica zurn, who made extensive use of anagram techniques, came to regard obsession with