serpent off the edge of the cliff instead. erichthonius was one of the most important founding heroes of athens and the legend of the daughters of cecrops was a cult myth linked to the rituals of the arrhephoria festival. pausanias records that, during the arrhephoria, two young girls known as the arrhephoroi, who lived near the temple of athena polias, would be given hidden objects by the priestess of athena, which they would carry on their heads down a natural underground passage. they would leave the objects they had been given at the bottom of the passage and take another set of hidden objects, which they would carry on their heads back up to the temple. the ritual was performed in the dead of night and no one, not even the priestess, knew what the objects were. the serpent in the story may be the same one depicted coiled at athena ' s feet in pheidias ' s famous statue of the athena parthenos in the parthenon. many of the surviving sculptures of athena show this serpent. herodotus records that a serpent lived in a crevice on the north side of the summit of the athenian acropolis and that the athenians left a honey cake for it each month as an offering. on the eve of the second persian invasion of greece in 480 bc, the serpent did not eat the honey cake and the athenians interpreted it as a sign that athena herself had abandoned them. another version of the myth of the athenian maidens is told in metamorphoses by the roman poet ovid ( 43 bc17 ad ) ; in this late variant hermes falls in love with herse. herse, aglaulus, and pandrosus go to the temple to offer sacrifices to athena. hermes demands help from aglaulus to seduce herse. aglaulus demands money in exchange. hermes gives her the money the sisters have already offered to athena. as punishment for aglaulus ' s greed, athena asks the goddess envy to make aglaulus jealous of herse. when hermes arrives to seduce herse, aglaulus stands in his way instead of helping him as she had agreed. he turns her to stone. athena gave her favour to an attic girl named myrsine, a chaste girl who outdid all her fellow athletes in both the palaestra and the race. out of envy, the other athletes murdered her, but athena took pity in her and transformed her dead body into a myrtle, a