, who was 13 at the time and would later accompany the johnson family to the white house. ultimately, johnson owned at least ten slaves. andrew johnson freed his slaves on august 8, 1863 ; they remained with him as paid servants. a year later, johnson, as military governor of tennessee, proclaimed the freedom of tennessee ' s slaves. sam and margaret, johnson ' s former slaves, lived in his tailor shop while he was president, without rent. as a sign of appreciation for proclaiming freedom, andrew johnson was given a watch by newly emancipated people in tennessee inscribed with " for his untiring energy in the cause of freedom ". political rise tennessee politician johnson helped organize a mechanics ' ( working men ' s ) ticket in the 1829 greeneville municipal election. he was elected town alderman, along with his friends blackston mcdannel and mordecai lincoln. following the 1831 nat turner slave rebellion, a state convention was called to pass a new constitution, including provisions to disenfranchise free people of color. the convention also wanted to reform real estate tax rates, and provide ways of funding improvements to tennessee ' s infrastructure. the constitution was submitted for a public vote, and johnson spoke widely for its adoption ; the successful campaign provided him with statewide exposure. on january 4, 1834, his fellow aldermen elected him mayor of greeneville. in 1835, johnson made a bid for election to the " floater " seat which greene county shared with neighboring washington county in the tennessee house of representatives. according to his biographer, hans l. trefousse, johnson " demolished " the opposition in debate and won the election with almost a two to one margin. during his greeneville days, johnson joined the tennessee militia as a member of the 90th regiment. he attained the rank of colonel, though while an enrolled member, johnson was fined for an unknown offense. afterwards, he was often addressed or referred to by his rank. in his first term in the legislature, which met in the state capital of nashville, johnson did not consistently vote with either the democratic or the newly formed whig party, though he revered president andrew jackson, a democrat and fellow tennessean. the major parties were still determining their core values and policy proposals, with the party system in a state of flux. the whig party had organized in opposition to jackson, fearing the concentration of power in the executive branch of the government ; johnson differed from the whigs as he opposed more than minimal government spending and spoke against aid for the railroads