collectable. in mid - february 1981, andersson and lyngstad announced they were filing for divorce. information surfaced that their marriage had been an uphill struggle for years, and benny had already met another woman, mona norklit, whom he married in november 1981. andersson and ulvaeus had songwriting sessions in early 1981, and recording sessions began in mid - march. at the end of april, the group recorded a tv special, dick cavett meets abba with the us talk show host dick cavett. the visitors, abba ' s eighth studio album, showed a songwriting maturity and depth of feeling distinctly lacking from their earlier recordings but still placing the band squarely in the pop genre, with catchy tunes and harmonies. although not revealed at the time of its release, the album ' s title track, according to ulvaeus, refers to the secret meetings held against the approval of totalitarian governments in soviet - dominated states, while other tracks address topics like failed relationships, the threat of war, ageing, and loss of innocence. the album ' s only major single release, " one of us ", proved to be the last of abba ' s nine number - one singles in germany, this being in december 1981 ; and the swansong of their sixteen top 5 singles on the south african chart. " one of us " was also abba ' s final top 3 hit in the uk, reaching number - three on the uk singles chart. although it topped the album charts across most of europe, including ireland, the uk and germany, the visitors was not as commercially successful as its predecessors, showing a commercial decline in previously loyal markets such as france, australia and japan. a track from the album, " when all is said and done ", was released as a single in north america, australia and new zealand, and fittingly became abba ' s final top 40 hit in the us ( debuting on the us charts on 31 december 1981 ), while also reaching the us adult contemporary top 10, and number - four on the rpm adult contemporary chart in canada. the song ' s lyrics, as with " the winner takes it all " and " one of us ", dealt with the painful experience of separating from a long - term partner, though it looked at the trauma more optimistically. with the now publicised story of andersson and lyngstad ' s divorce, speculation increased of tension within the band. also released in the united states was the title track of the visitors, which hit the top