be stressed. levels of pronunciation the final short vowels ( e. g., the case endings - a - i - u and mood endings - u - a ) are often not pronounced in this language, despite forming part of the formal paradigm of nouns and verbs. the following levels of pronunciation exist : full pronunciation with pausa this is the most formal level actually used in speech. all endings are pronounced as written, except at the end of an utterance, where the following changes occur : final short vowels are not pronounced. but possibly an exception is made for feminine plural - na and shortened vowels in the jussive / imperative of defective verbs, e. g., irmi! ' throw!. the entire indefinite noun endings - in and - un ( with nunation ) are left off. the ending - an is left off of nouns preceded by a taʾ marbutah ة i. e. the - t in the ending - at - that typically marks feminine nouns ), but pronounced as - a in other nouns, hence its writing in this fashion in the arabic script. the taʼ marbutah itself typically of feminine nouns is pronounced as h. at least, this is the case in extremely formal pronunciation, e. g., some quranic recitations. in practice, this h is usually omitted. formal short pronunciation this is a formal level of pronunciation sometimes seen. it is somewhat like pronouncing all words as if they were in pausal position ( with influence from the colloquial varieties ). the following changes occur : most final short vowels are not pronounced. the following short vowels are pronounced : feminine plural - na shortened vowels in the jussive / imperative of defective verbs, e. g., irmi! ' throw! ' second - person singular feminine past - tense - ti and likewise anti ' you ( fem. sg. ) ' sometimes, first - person singular past - tense - tu sometimes, second - person masculine past - tense - ta and likewise anta ' you ( masc. sg. ) ' final - a in certain short words, e. g., laysa ' is not ', sawfa ( future - tense marker ) the nunation endings - an - in - un are not pronounced. they are pronounced in adverbial accusative formations, e. g., تقريبا ' almost, approximately ', عادة ' usually '. the taʾ marbutah ending ة is unpro