##washes, often made from plants such as coptis trifolia. indeed, aztec dentistry was more advanced than european dentistry of the age. peoples of the americas used salt water mouthwashes for sore throats, and other mouthwashes for problems such as teething and mouth ulcers. anton van leeuwenhoek, the famous 17th century microscopist, discovered living organisms ( living, because they were mobile ) in deposits on the teeth ( what we now call dental plaque ). he also found organisms in water from the canal next to his home in delft. he experimented with samples by adding vinegar or brandy and found that this resulted in the immediate immobilization or killing of the organisms suspended in water. next he tried rinsing the mouth of himself and somebody else with a mouthwash containing vinegar or brandy and found that living organisms remained in the dental plaque. he concluded — correctly — that the mouthwash either did not reach, or was not present long enough, to kill the plaque organisms. in 1892, german richard seifert invented mouthwash product odol, which was produced by company founder karl august lingner ( 1861 – 1916 ) in dresden. that remained the state of affairs until the late 1960s when harald loe ( at the time a professor at the royal dental college in aarhus, denmark ) demonstrated that a chlorhexidine compound could prevent the build - up of dental plaque. the reason for chlorhexidine ' s effectiveness is that it strongly adheres to surfaces in the mouth and thus remains present in effective concentrations for many hours. since then commercial interest in mouthwashes has been intense and several newer products claim effectiveness in reducing the build - up in dental plaque and the associated severity of gingivitis, in addition to fighting bad breath. many of these solutions aim to control the volatile sulfur compound – creating anaerobic bacteria that live in the mouth and excrete substances that lead to bad breath and unpleasant mouth taste. for example, the number of mouthwash variants in the united states of america has grown from 15 ( 1970 ) to 66 ( 1998 ) to 113 ( 2012 ). research research in the field of microbiotas shows that only a limited set of microbes cause tooth decay, with most of the bacteria in the human mouth being harmless. focused attention on cavity - causing bacteria such as streptococcus mutans has led research into new mouthwash treatments that prevent these bacteria from initially growing. while current mouthwash treatments must be used