##renous ulcer ", which may attribute to numerous illnesses, such as leprosy, syphilis, or a tumor. lee writes : " ahmad shah gained poor health as a result of all his campaigns. despite all attempts to treat it, a wound in his nose remained. the ulcer in his later years began eating into his brain ". following the advice of his physicians, he would spend part of the summer in the cooler climate of the margha plain in the toba achakzai range during the last few years of his life. he died of his illness on 4 june 1772 ( 2 rabi ' al - awwal 1186 ) in maruf, toba achakzai, east of kandahar. some other sources state that he died on 16 october 1772 he was buried in the city of kandahar adjacent to the shrine of the cloak, where a large mausoleum was built. it has been described in the following way : in his tomb his epitaph is written : durrani ' s victory over the marathas influenced the history of the subcontinent and, in particular, the policies of the east india company in the region. his refusal to continue his campaigns deeper into india prevented a clash with the company and allowed them to continue to acquire power and influence after they established complete control over the former mughal province of bengal in 1793. however, fear of another afghan invasion would influence company policy - makers for almost half a century after the battle of panipat. the acknowledgment of durrani ' s military accomplishments is reflected in an intelligence report made by company officials on the battle of panipat, which referred to ahmad shah as the ' king of kings '. this fear led in 1798 to a company envoy being sent to the persian court in part to instigate the persians in their claims on herat to forestall a possible afghan invasion of india that might have halted company expansion. mountstuart elphinstone wrote of ahmad shah : his successors, beginning with his son timur shah and ending with shuja shah durrani, proved largely incapable of governing the last afghan empire and faced with advancing enemies on all sides. much of the territory conquered by ahmad shah fell to others by the end of the 19th century. timur shah would consolidate the holdings of the durrani empire, and fight off civil war and rebellion throughout his reign, he would also lead multiple campaigns into punjab to try and repeat his fathers success. after the death of timur shah