for the material, as the proper terminology is prasiolite. other names for green quartz are vermarine or lime citrine. amethyst frequently shows color zoning, with the most intense color typically found at the crystal terminations. one of a gem cutter ’ s tasks is to make a finished product with even color. sometimes, only a thin layer of a natural, uncut amethyst is violet colored, or the color is very uneven. the uncut gem may have only a small portion that is suitable for faceting. the color of amethyst has been demonstrated to result from substitution by irradiation of trivalent iron ( fe3 + ) for silicon in the structure, in the presence of trace elements of large ionic radius, and to a certain extent, the amethyst color can naturally result from displacement of transition elements even if the iron concentration is low. natural amethyst is dichroic in reddish violet and bluish violet, but when heated, turns yellow - orange, yellow - brown, or dark brownish and may resemble citrine, but loses its dichroism, unlike genuine citrine. when partially heated, amethyst can result in ametrine. amethyst can fade in tone if overexposed to light sources, and can be artificially darkened with adequate irradiation. it does not fluoresce under either short - wave or long - wave uv light. geographic distribution amethyst is found in many locations around the world. between 2000 and 2010, the greatest production was from maraba and pau d ' arco, para, and the parana basin, rio grande do sul, brazil ; sandoval, santa cruz, bolivia ; artigas, uruguay ; kalomo, zambia ; and thunder bay, ontario. lesser amounts are found in many other locations in africa, brazil, spain, argentina, russia, afghanistan, south korea, mexico, and the united states. amethyst is produced in abundance in the state of rio grande do sul in brazil where it occurs in large geodes within volcanic rocks. many of the hollow agates of southwestern brazil and uruguay contain a crop of amethyst crystals in the interior. artigas, uruguay and neighboring brazilian state rio grande do sul are large world producers, with lesser quantities mined in minas gerais and bahia states. the largest amethyst geode found to date was the empress of uruguay, found in artigas, uruguay in 2007. it stands at a height of 3