in the colloquial use of the term ; alaska is not part of the contiguous u. s., often called " the lower 48 ". the capital city, juneau, is situated on the mainland of the north american continent but is not connected by road to the rest of the north american highway system. the state is bordered by canada ' s yukon and british columbia to the east ( making it the only state to only border a canadian territory ) ; the gulf of alaska and the pacific ocean to the south and southwest ; the bering sea, bering strait, and chukchi sea to the west ; and the arctic ocean to the north. alaska ' s territorial waters touch russia ' s territorial waters in the bering strait, as the russian big diomede island and alaskan little diomede island are only apart. alaska has a longer coastline than all the other u. s. states combined. at in total area, alaska is by far the largest state in the united states. alaska is more than twice the size of the second - largest u. s. state ( texas ), and it is larger than the next three largest states ( texas, california, and montana ) combined. alaska is the seventh largest subnational division in the world. if it was an independent nation would be the 18th largest country in the world, almost the same size as iran. with its myriad islands, alaska has nearly of tidal shoreline. the aleutian islands chain extends west from the southern tip of the alaska peninsula. many active volcanoes are found in the aleutians and in coastal regions. unimak island, for example, is home to mount shishaldin, which is an occasionally smoldering volcano that rises to above the north pacific. the chain of volcanoes extends to mount spurr, west of anchorage on the mainland. geologists have identified alaska as part of wrangellia, a large region consisting of multiple states and canadian provinces in the pacific northwest, which is actively undergoing continent building. one of the world ' s largest tides occurs in turnagain arm, just south of anchorage, where tidal differences can be more than. alaska has more than three million lakes. marshlands and wetland permafrost cover ( mostly in northern, western and southwest flatlands ). glacier ice covers about of alaska. the bering glacier is the largest glacier in north america, covering alone. regions there are no officially defined borders demarcating the various regions of alaska, but there are five / six regions that the