leave the recording studio. then, a little later, shilkret discovered there was no one to play the brief celesta solo during the slow section, so he hastily asked gershwin if he might play the solo ; gershwin said he could and so he briefly participated in the actual recording. this recording is believed to use the taxi horns in the way that gershwin had intended using the notes a - flat, b - flat, a higher d, and a lower a. the radio broadcast of the september 8, 1937, hollywood bowl george gershwin memorial concert, in which an american in paris, also conducted by shilkret, was second on the program, was recorded and was released in 1998 in a two - cd set. arthur fiedler and the boston pops orchestra recorded the work for rca victor, including one of the first stereo recordings of the music. in 1945, arturo toscanini conducting the nbc symphony orchestra recorded the piece for rca victor, one of the few commercial recordings toscanini made of music by an american composer. the seattle symphony also recorded a version in 1990 of gershwin ' s original score, before numerous edits were made resulting in the score as we hear it today. the blues section of an american in paris has been recorded separately by a number of artists ; ralph flanagan & his orchestra released it as a single in 1951 which reached no. 15 on the billboard chart. harry james released a version of the blues section on his 1953 album one night stand, recorded live at the aragon ballroom in chicago ( columbia gl 522 and cl 522 ). use in film in 1951, metro - goldwyn - mayer released the musical film an american in paris, featuring gene kelly and leslie caron and directed by vincente minnelli. winning the 1951 best picture oscar and numerous other awards, the film featured many tunes of gershwin and concluded with an extensive, elaborate dance sequence built around the symphonic poem an american in paris ( arranged for the film by johnny green ), which cost $ 500, 000. notes and references further reading external links scores, marked by leonard bernstein, andre kostelanetz, erich leinsdorf ; new york philharmonic archives 1944 recording by the new york philharmonic conducted by artur rodzinski, new york philharmonic, leonard bernstein, 1959. 1928 compositions compositions by george gershwin grammy hall of fame award recipients music about paris music commissioned by the new york philharmonic symphonic poems