beginning of the middle bronze age. the earliest identifiable reference to aries as a distinct constellation comes from the boundary stones that date from 1350 to 1000 bc. on several boundary stones, a zodiacal ram figure is distinct from the other characters. the shift in identification from the constellation as the agrarian worker to the ram likely occurred in later babylonian tradition because of its growing association with dumuzi the shepherd. by the time the mul. apin was created — in 1000 bc — modern aries was identified with both dumuzi ' s ram and a hired labourer. the exact timing of this shift is difficult to determine due to the lack of images of aries or other ram figures. in ancient egyptian astronomy, aries was associated with the god amun - ra, who was depicted as a man with a ram ' s head and represented fertility and creativity. because it was the location of the vernal equinox, it was called the " indicator of the reborn sun ". during the times of the year when aries was prominent, priests would process statues of amon - ra to temples, a practice that was modified by persian astronomers centuries later. aries acquired the title of " lord of the head " in egypt, referring to its symbolic and mythological importance. aries was not fully accepted as a constellation until classical times. in hellenistic astrology, the constellation of aries is associated with the golden ram of greek mythology that rescued phrixus and helle on orders from hermes, taking phrixus to the land of colchis. phrixus and helle were the son and daughter of king athamas and his first wife nephele. the king ' s second wife, ino, was jealous and wished to kill his children. to accomplish this, she induced famine in boeotia, then falsified a message from the oracle of delphi that said phrixus must be sacrificed to end the famine. athamas was about to sacrifice his son atop mount laphystium when aries, sent by nephele, arrived. helle fell off of aries ' s back in flight and drowned in the dardanelles, also called the hellespont in her honour. historically, aries has been depicted as a crouched, wingless ram with its head turned towards taurus. ptolemy asserted in his almagest that hipparchus depicted alpha arietis as the ram ' s muzzle, though ptolemy did not include it in his constellation figure. instead,