it did appear as international relations and public opinion were transformed as the wartime alliance gave way to the cold war. time magazine chose the book as one of the 100 best english - language novels ( 1923 to 2005 ) ; it also featured at number 31 on the modern library list of best 20th - century novels, and number 46 on the bbc ' s the big read poll. it won a retrospective hugo award in 1996 and is included in the great books of the western world selection. plot summary the animal populace of the poorly run manor farm near willingdon, england, is ripened for rebellion by neglect at the hands of the irresponsible and alcoholic farmer, mr. jones. one night, the exalted boar, old major, holds a conference, at which he calls for the overthrow of humans and teaches the animals a revolutionary song called " beasts of england ". when old major dies, two young pigs, snowball and napoleon, assume command and stage a revolt, driving mr. jones off the farm and renaming the property " animal farm ". they adopt the seven commandments of animalism, the most important of which is, " all animals are equal ". the decree is painted in large letters on one side of the barn. snowball teaches the animals to read and write, while napoleon educates young puppies on the principles of animalism. to commemorate the start of animal farm, snowball raises a green flag with a white hoof and horn. food is plentiful, and the farm runs smoothly. the pigs elevate themselves to positions of leadership and set aside special food items, ostensibly for their health. following an unsuccessful attempt by mr. jones and his associates to retake the farm ( later dubbed the " battle of the cowshed " ), snowball announces his plans to modernise the farm by building a windmill. napoleon disputes this idea, and matters come to a head, which culminates in napoleon ' s dogs chasing snowball away and napoleon effectively declaring himself supreme commander. napoleon enacts changes to the governance structure of the farm, replacing meetings with a committee of pigs who will run the farm. through a young porker named squealer, napoleon claims credit for the windmill idea, claiming that snowball was only trying to win animals to his side. the animals work harder with the promise of easier lives with the windmill. when the animals find the windmill collapsed after a violent storm, napoleon and squealer persuade the animals that snowball is trying to sabotage their project, and