table : 1s, 2s, 2p, 3s, 3p, 4s, 3d, 4p, 5s, 4d, 5p, 6s, 4f, 5d, 6p, 7s, 5f, 6d, 7p the " periodic " nature of the filling of orbitals, as well as emergence of the s, p, d, and f " blocks ", is more obvious if this order of filling is given in matrix form, with increasing principal quantum numbers starting the new rows ( " periods " ) in the matrix. then, each subshell ( composed of the first two quantum numbers ) is repeated as many times as required for each pair of electrons it may contain. the result is a compressed periodic table, with each entry representing two successive elements : although this is the general order of orbital filling according to the madelung rule, there are exceptions, and the actual electronic energies of each element are also dependent upon additional details of the atoms ( see ). the number of electrons in an electrically neutral atom increases with the atomic number. the electrons in the outermost shell, or valence electrons, tend to be responsible for an element ' s chemical behavior. elements that contain the same number of valence electrons can be grouped together and display similar chemical properties. relativistic effects for elements with high atomic number, the effects of relativity become more pronounced, and especially so for s electrons, which move at relativistic velocities as they penetrate the screening electrons near the core of high - atoms. this relativistic increase in momentum for high speed electrons causes a corresponding decrease in wavelength and contraction of 6s orbitals relative to 5d orbitals ( by comparison to corresponding s and d electrons in lighter elements in the same column of the periodic table ) ; this results in 6s valence electrons becoming lowered in energy. examples of significant physical outcomes of this effect include the lowered melting temperature of mercury ( which results from 6s electrons not being available for metal bonding ) and the golden color of gold and caesium. in the bohr model, an electron has a velocity given by, where is the atomic number, is the fine - structure constant, and is the speed of light. in non - relativistic quantum mechanics, therefore, any atom with an atomic number greater than 137 would require its 1s electrons to be traveling faster than the speed of light. even in the dirac equation, which accounts for relativistic effects