was restricted only to delhi ( mughals remained the nominal heads of delhi ). marathas were now straining to expand their area of control towards the northwest of india. durrani sacked the mughal capital and withdrew with the booty he coveted. to counter the afghans, peshwa balaji bajirao sent raghunathrao. he succeeded in ousting timur shah and his court from india and brought northwest of india up to peshawar under maratha rule. thus, upon his return to kandahar in 1757, durrani chose to return to india and confront the maratha forces to regain northwestern part of the subcontinent. in 1761, durrani set out on his campaign to win back lost territories. the early skirmishes ended in victory for the afghans against the maratha garrisons in northwest india. by 1759, durrani and his army had reached lahore and were poised to confront the marathas. by 1760, the maratha groups had coalesced into a big enough army under the command of sadashivrao bhau. once again, panipat was the scene of a battle for control of northern india. the third battle of panipat was fought between durrani ' s afghan forces and the maratha forces in january 1761, and resulted in a decisive durrani victory. central asia the afaqi brothers died in badakhshan and the ruler sultan shah delivered their bodies to the qing. ahmad shah durrani accused sultan shah of having caused the afaqi brothers to die. durrani dispatched troops to kokand after rumours that the qing dynasty planned to launch an expedition to samarkand, but the alleged expedition never happened and ahmad shah subsequently withdrew his forces when his attempt at an anti - qing alliance among central asian states failed. durrani then sent envoys to beijing to discuss the situation regarding the afaqi khojas. death and legacy according to some sources, ahmad shah may have suffered a wound on his nose during a horse - riding accident in kabul in 1768, or he may have suffered an injury due to a flying brick striking his nose when the harimandir sahib was destroyed with gunpowder, other sources state that he suffered from what afghan sources described as a " gangrenous ulcer ", which may attribute to numerous illnesses, such as leprosy, syphilis, or a tumor. lee writes : " ahmad shah gained poor health as a result of all his campaigns. despite all attempts to treat it