##usic from cognates ; and suggest words that occur in turkic and tungusic but not in mongolic. all other combinations between the five branches also occur in the book. it lists 144 items of shared basic vocabulary, including words for such items as ' eye ', ' ear ', ' neck ', ' bone ', ' blood ', ' water ', ' stone ', ' sun ', and ' two '. robbeets and bouckaert ( 2018 ) use bayesian phylolinguistic methods to argue for the coherence of the " narrow " altaic languages ( turkic, mongolic, and tungusic ) together with japonic and koreanic, which they refer to as the transeurasian languages. their results include the following phylogenetic tree : martine robbeets ( 2020 ) argues that early transeurasian speakers were originally agriculturalists in northeastern china, only becoming pastoralists later on. against the grouping weakness of lexical and typological data according to g. clauson ( 1956 ), g. doerfer ( 1963 ), and a. shcherbak ( 1963 ), many of the typological features of the supposed altaic languages, particularly agglutinative strongly suffixing morphology and subject – object – verb ( sov ) word order, often occur together in languages. those critics also argued that the words and features shared by turkic, mongolic, and tungusic languages were for the most part borrowings and that the rest could be attributed to chance resemblances. they noted that there was little vocabulary shared by turkic and tungusic languages, though more shared with mongolic languages. they reasoned that, if all three families had a common ancestor, we should expect losses to happen at random, and not only at the geographical margins of the family ; and that the observed pattern is consistent with borrowing. according to c. schonig ( 2003 ), after accounting for areal effects, the shared lexicon that could have a common genetic origin was reduced to a small number of monosyllabic lexical roots, including the personal pronouns and a few other deictic and auxiliary items, whose sharing could be explained in other ways ; not the kind of sharing expected in cases of genetic relationship. the sprachbund hypothesis instead of a common genetic origin, clauson, doerfer, and shcherbak proposed ( in 1956 – 1966 ) that turkic, mongolic, and tungusic languages form a sprach