power of assyria, which had destroyed the mitanni empire. the assyrians and hittites were then left to battle over control of eastern and southern anatolia and colonial territories in syria. the assyrians had better success than the egyptians, annexing much hittite ( and hurrian ) territory in these regions. post - hittite anatolia ( 12th – 6th century bce ) after 1180 bce, during the late bronze age collapse, the hittite empire disintegrated into several independent syro - hittite states, subsequent to losing much territory to the middle assyrian empire and being finally overrun by the phrygians, another indo - european people who are believed to have migrated from the balkans. the phrygian expansion into southeast anatolia was eventually halted by the assyrians, who controlled that region. luwians another indo - european people, the luwians, rose to prominence in central and western anatolia bce. their language belonged to the same linguistic branch as hittite. the general consensus amongst scholars is that luwian was spoken across a large area of western anatolia, including ( possibly ) wilusa ( troy ), the seha river land ( to be identified with the hermos and / or kaikos valley ), and the kingdom of mira - kuwaliya with its core territory of the maeander valley. from the 9th century bce, luwian regions coalesced into a number of states such as lydia, caria, and lycia, all of which had hellenic influence. arameans arameans encroached over the borders of south - central anatolia in the century or so after the fall of the hittite empire, and some of the syro - hittite states in this region became an amalgam of hittites and arameans. these became known as syro - hittite states. neo - assyrian empire from the 10th to late 7th centuries bce, much of anatolia ( particularly the southeastern regions ) fell to the neo - assyrian empire, including all of the syro - hittite states, tabal, commagene, the cimmerians and scythians, and swathes of cappadocia. the neo - assyrian empire collapsed due to a bitter series of civil wars followed by a combined attack by medes, persians, scythians and their own babylonian relations. the last assyrian city to fall was harran in southeast anatolia. this city was the birthplace of the last king of babylon, the assyrian nabonidus