##ese party in naples. helped by a sicilian fleet, alfonso recaptured capua and set his base in gaeta in february 1436. meanwhile, papal troops had invaded the neapolitan kingdom, but alfonso bribed their commander, cardinal giovanni vitelleschi, and their successes waned. in the meantime, rene had managed to reach naples on 19 may 1438. alfonso tried to besiege the city in the following september, but failed. his brother pedro was killed during the battle. castel nuovo, where an aragonese garrison resisted, fell to the angevine mercenaries in august 1439. after the death of his condottiero jacopo caldora, however, rene ' s fortune started to decline : alfonso could easily capture aversa, salerno, benevento, manfredonia and bitonto. rene, whose possession included now only part of the abruzzi and naples, obtained 10, 000 men from the pope, but the cardinal leading them signed a truce with alfonso. giovanni sforza came with a reduced corps, as troops sent by eugene iv had halted his father francesco in the marche. alfonso, provided with the most impressive artillery of the times, again besieged naples. the siege began on 10 november 1441, ending on 2 june the following year. after the return of rene to provence, alfonso easily reduced the remaining resistance and made his triumphal entrance in naples on 26 february 1443, as the monarch of a pacified kingdom. alfonso then reunited under his dominion the kingdoms of naples and sicily, divided since the sicilian vespers. after the personal union, he began to call himself rex utriusque siciliae ; this was then used by other kings and his successors who ruled over those territories. art and administration like many renaissance rulers, alfonso v was a patron of the arts. he founded the academy of naples under giovanni pontano, and for his entrance into the city in 1443 had a magnificent triumphal arch added to the main gate of castel nuovo. alfonso v supplied the theme of renaissance sculptures over the west entrance. alfonso was particularly attracted to classical literature. he reportedly brought copies of the works of livy and julius caesar on his campaigns ; the poet antonio beccadelli even claimed that alfonso was cured of a disease by the reading of a few pages from quintus curtius rufus ' history of alexander the great. although this reputed erudition attracted scholars to his court, alfonso apparently enjoyed pitting them against each other in spectacles of bawd