, and very instructional ". in media in 2017, agassi appeared in the documentary film love means zero, which highlighted the troubled relationship between his coach nick bollettieri and him. politics agassi has donated more than $ 100, 000 to democratic candidates, and $ 2, 000 to republicans. on september 1, 2010, when he appeared on daily wnyc public radio program the brian lehrer show, he stated that he is registered as independent. philanthropy agassi founded the andre agassi charitable association in 1994, which assists las vegas ' young people. he was awarded the atp arthur ashe humanitarian award in 1995 for his efforts to help disadvantaged youth. he has been cited as the most charitable and socially involved player in professional tennis. it has also been claimed that he may be the most charitable athlete of his generation. agassi ' s charities help in assisting children reach their athletic potential. his boys & girls club sees 2, 000 children throughout the year and boasts a world - class junior tennis team. it also has a basketball program ( the agassi stars ) and a rigorous system that encourages a mix of academics and athletics. in 2001, agassi opened the andre agassi college preparatory academy in las vegas, a tuition - free charter school for at - risk children in the area. he personally donated $ 35 million to the school. in 2009, the graduating class had a 100 percent graduation rate and expected a 100 percent college acceptance rate. among other child - related programs that agassi supports through his andre agassi charitable foundation is clark county ' s only residential facility for abused and neglected children, child haven. in 1997, agassi donated funding to child haven for a six - room classroom building now named the agassi center for education. his foundation also provided $ 720, 000 to assist in the building of the andre agassi cottage for medically fragile children. this 20 - bed facility opened in december 2001, and accommodates developmentally delayed or handicapped children and children quarantined for infectious diseases. in 2007, along with several other athletes, agassi founded the charity athletes for hope, which helps professional athletes get involved in charitable causes and aims to inspire all people to volunteer and support their communities. he created the canyon - agassi charter school facilities fund, now known as the turner - agassi charter school facilities fund. the fund is an investment initiative for social change, focusing on the " nationwide effort to move charters from stopgap buildings into permanent