##hopenhauer learned meditation and received the closest thing to expert advice concerning indian thought. the book oupnekhat ( upanishad ) always lay open on his table, and he invariably studied it before going to bed. he called the opening up of sanskrit literature " the greatest gift of our century ", and predicted that the philosophy and knowledge of the upanishads would become the cherished faith of the west. most noticeable, in the case of schopenhauer ' s work, was the significance of the chandogya upanishad, whose mahavakya, tat tvam asi, is mentioned throughout the world as will and representation. buddhism schopenhauer noted a correspondence between his doctrines and the four noble truths of buddhism. similarities centered on the principles that life involves suffering, that suffering is caused by desire ( tanha ), and that the extinction of desire leads to liberation. thus three of the four " truths of the buddha " correspond to schopenhauer ' s doctrine of the will. in buddhism, while greed and lust are always unskillful, desire is ethically variable – it can be skillful, unskillful, or neutral. for schopenhauer, will had ontological primacy over the intellect ; desire is prior to thought. schopenhauer felt this was similar to notions of purusartha or goals of life in vedanta hinduism. in schopenhauer ' s philosophy, denial of the will is attained by : personal experience of an extremely great suffering that leads to loss of the will to live ; or knowledge of the essential nature of life in the world through observation of the suffering of other people. buddhist nirvana is not equivalent to the condition that schopenhauer described as denial of the will. nirvana is not the extinguishing of the person as some western scholars have thought, but only the " extinguishing " ( the literal meaning of nirvana ) of the flames of greed, hatred, and delusion that assail a person ' s character. schopenhauer made the following statement in his discussion of religions : if i wished to take the results of my philosophy as the standard of truth, i should have to concede to buddhism pre - eminence over the others. in any case, it must be a pleasure to me to see my doctrine in such close agreement with a religion that the majority of men on earth hold as their own, for this numbers far more followers than any other.