explicitly mention a problematic feature ( such as " race " or " gender " ). the feature will correlate with other features ( like " address ", " shopping history " or " first name " ), and the program will make the same decisions based on these features as it would on " race " or " gender ". moritz hardt said “ the most robust fact in this research area is that fairness through blindness doesn ' t work. ” criticism of compas highlighted a deeper problem with the misuse of ai. machine learning models are designed to make " predictions " that are only valid if we assume that the future will resemble the past. if they are trained on data that includes the results of racist decisions in the past, machine learning models must predict that racist decisions will be made in the future. unfortunately, if an applications then uses these predictions as recommendations, some of these " recommendations " will likely be racist. thus, machine learning is not well suited to help make decisions in areas where there is hope that the future will be better than the past. it is necessarily descriptive and not proscriptive. bias and unfairness may go undetected because the developers are overwhelmingly white and male : among ai engineers, about 4 % are black and 20 % are women. at its 2022 conference on fairness, accountability, and transparency ( acm facct 2022 ) the association for computing machinery, in seoul, south korea, presented and published findings recommending that until ai and robotics systems are demonstrated to be free of bias mistakes, they are unsafe and the use of self - learning neural networks trained on vast, unregulated sources of flawed internet data should be curtailed. lack of transparency most modern ai applications can not explain how they have reached a decision. the large amount of relationships between inputs and outputs in deep neural networks and resulting complexity makes it difficult for even an expert to explain how they produced their outputs, making them a black box. there have been many cases where a machine learning program passed rigorous tests, but nevertheless learned something different than what the programmers intended. for example, justin ko and roberto novoa developed a system that could identify skin diseases better than medical professionals, however it classified any image with a ruler as " cancerous ", because pictures of malignancies typically include a ruler to show the scale. a more dangerous example was discovered by rich caruana in 2015 : a machine learning system that accurately predicted risk of death classified a patient that was over 65, asthma and difficulty breathing as " low risk "