##ify. afonso then used goa to secure the spice trade in favor of portugal and sell persian horses to vijayanagara and hindu princes in return for their assistance. conquest of malacca, 1511 afonso explained to his armies why the portuguese wanted to capture malacca : " the king of portugal has often commanded me to go to the straits, because... this was the best place to intercept the trade which the moslems... carry on in these parts. so it was to do our lord ' s service that we were brought here ; by taking malacca, we would close the straits so that never again would the moslems be able to bring their spices by this route.... i am very sure that, if this malacca trade is taken out of their hands, cairo and mecca will be completely lost. " ( the commentaries of the great afonso de albuquerque ) in february 1511, through a friendly hindu merchant, nina chatu, afonso received a letter from rui de araujo, one of the nineteen portuguese held at malacca since 1509. it urged moving forward with the largest possible fleet to demand their release, and gave details of the fortifications. afonso showed it to diogo mendes de vasconcelos, as an argument to advance as a joint fleet. in april 1511, after fortifying goa, he gathered a force of about 900 portuguese, 200 hindu mercenaries and about eighteen ships. he then sailed to malacca against orders and despite the protest of diogo mendes, who claimed command of the expedition. afonso eventually centralized the portuguese government in the indian ocean. after the malaccan conquest, he wrote a letter to the king to explain his disagreement with diogo mendes, suggesting that further divisions could be harmful to the portuguese in india. under his command was ferdinand magellan, who had participated in the failed embassy of diogo lopes de sequeira in 1509. after a false start towards the red sea, they sailed to the strait of malacca. it was the richest city that the portuguese tried to take, and a focal point in the trade network where malay traders met gujarati, chinese, japanese, javanese, bengali, persian and arabic, among others, described by tome pires as of invaluable richness. despite its wealth, it was mostly a wooden - built city, with few masonry buildings but was defended by a mercenary force estimated at 20, 000 men and more than 2000 pieces of artillery. its greatest weakness was the unpopularity