whittier on prince william sound to the seward highway about southeast of anchorage at portage. at, the tunnel was the longest road tunnel in north america until 2007. the tunnel is the longest combination road and rail tunnel in north america. rail built around 1915, the alaska railroad ( arr ) played a key role in the development of alaska through the 20th century. it links shipping lanes on the north pacific with interior alaska with tracks that run from seward by way of south central alaska, passing through anchorage, eklutna, wasilla, talkeetna, denali, and fairbanks, with spurs to whittier, palmer and north pole. the cities, towns, villages, and region served by arr tracks are known statewide as " the railbelt ". in recent years, the ever - improving paved highway system began to eclipse the railroad ' s importance in alaska ' s economy. the railroad played a vital role in alaska ' s development, moving freight into alaska while transporting natural resources southward, such as coal from the usibelli coal mine near healy to seward and gravel from the matanuska valley to anchorage. it is well known for its summertime tour passenger service. the alaska railroad was one of the last railroads in north america to use cabooses in regular service and still uses them on some gravel trains. it continues to offer one of the last flag stop routes in the country. a stretch of about of track along an area north of talkeetna remains inaccessible by road ; the railroad provides the only transportation to rural homes and cabins in the area. until construction of the parks highway in the 1970s, the railroad provided the only land access to most of the region along its entire route. in northern southeast alaska, the white pass and yukon route also partly runs through the state from skagway northwards into canada ( british columbia and yukon territory ), crossing the border at white pass summit. this line is now mainly used by tourists, often arriving by cruise liner at skagway. it was featured in the 1983 bbc television series great little railways. these two railroads are connected neither to each other nor any other railroad. the nearest link to the north american railway network is the northwest terminus of the canadian national railway at prince rupert, british columbia, several hundred miles to the southeast. in 2000, the u. s. congress authorized $ 6 million to study the feasibility of a rail link between alaska, canada, and the lower 48. as of 2021, the alaska - alberta railway development corporation had been placed into receivers