##ite " has been used as a title for dozens of books dealing with all topics even superficially connected to her domain. frequently these books do not even mention aphrodite, or mention her only briefly, but make use of her name as a selling point. modern worship in 1938, gleb botkin, a russian immigrant to the united states, founded the church of aphrodite, a neopagan religion centered around the worship of a mother goddess, whom its practitioners identified as aphrodite. the church of aphrodite ' s theology was laid out in the book in search of reality, published in 1969, two years before botkin ' s death. the book portrayed aphrodite in a drastically different light than the one in which the greeks envisioned her, instead casting her as " the sole goddess of a somewhat neoplatonic pagan monotheism ". it claimed that the worship of aphrodite had been brought to greece by the mystic teacher orpheus, but that the greeks had misunderstood orpheus ' s teachings and had not realized the importance of worshipping aphrodite alone. aphrodite is a major deity in wicca, a contemporary nature - based syncretic neopagan religion. wiccans regard aphrodite as one aspect of the goddess and she is frequently invoked by name during enchantments dealing with love and romance. wiccans regard aphrodite as the ruler of human emotions, erotic spirituality, creativity, and art. as one of the twelve olympians, aphrodite is a major deity within hellenismos ( hellenic polytheistic reconstructionism ), a neopagan religion which seeks to authentically revive and recreate the religion of ancient greece in the modern world. unlike wiccans, hellenists are usually strictly polytheistic or pantheistic. hellenists venerate aphrodite primarily as the goddess of romantic love, but also as a goddess of sexuality, the sea, and war. her many epithets include " sea born ", " killer of men ", " she upon the graves ", " fair sailing ", and " ally in war ". genealogy see also anchises cupid girdle of aphrodite history of nude art lakshmi, rose from the ocean like aphrodite and has 8 - pointed star like ishtar explanatory notes citations general and cited references homer, the iliad with an english translation by a