the plague ( ) is a 1947 absurdist novel by albert camus. it tells the story from the point of view of a narrator in the midst of a plague sweeping the french algerian city of oran. the narrator remains unknown until the start of the last chapter. the novel presents a snapshot of life in oran as seen through the author ' s distinctive absurdist point of view. camus used as source material the cholera epidemic that killed a large proportion of oran ' s population in 1849, but situated the novel in the 1940s. oran and its surroundings were struck by disease several times before camus published his novel. according to an academic study, oran was decimated by the bubonic plague in 1556 and 1678, but all later outbreaks ( in 1921 : 185 cases ; 1931 : 76 cases ; and 1944 : 95 cases ) were very far from the scale of the epidemic described in the novel. the plague is considered an existentialist classic despite camus ' objection to the label. the novel stresses the powerlessness of the individual characters to affect their destinies. the narrative tone is similar to kafka ' s, especially in the trial, whose individual sentences potentially have multiple meanings ; the material often pointedly resonating as stark allegory of phenomenal consciousness and the human condition. major characters dr. bernard rieux : dr. bernard rieux is described as a man about age 35, of moderate height, dark - skinned, with close - cropped black hair. at the beginning of the novel, rieux ' s wife, who has been ill for a year, leaves for a sanatorium. it is rieux who treats the first victim of plague and first uses the word plague to describe the disease. he urges the authorities to take action to stop the spread of the epidemic. however, at first, along with everyone else, the danger the town faces seems unreal to him. he feels uneasy but does not realise the gravity of the situation. within a short while, he grasps what is at stake and warns the authorities that unless steps are taken immediately, the epidemic could kill off half the town ' s population of two hundred thousand within a couple of months. during the epidemic, rieux heads an auxiliary hospital and works long hours treating the victims. he injects serum and lances the abscesses, but there is little more that he can do, and his duties weigh heavily upon him. he never gets home until late, and he has to distance