##ese coalition. alfonso requested support from braccio da montone, who was besieging joanna ' s troops in l ' aquila, but had to set sail for spain, where a war had broken out between his brothers and the kingdom of castile. on his way towards barcelona, alfonso sacked marseille, a possession of louis iii. in late 1423 the genoese fleet of filippo maria visconti moved in the southern tyrrhenian sea, rapidly conquering gaeta, procida, castellammare and sorrento. naples, which was held by alfonso ' s brother, pedro de aragon, was besieged in 1424 by the genoese ships and joanna ' s troops, now led by francesco sforza, the son of muzio sforza ( who had met his death at l ' aquila ). the city fell in april 1424. pedro, after a short resistance in castel nuovo, fled to sicily in august. joanna ii and louis iii again took possession of the realm, although the true power was in the hands of gianni caracciolo. an opportunity for alfonso to reconquer naples occurred in 1432, when caracciolo was killed in a conspiracy. alfonso tried to regain the favour of the queen, but failed, and had to wait for the death of both louis ( at cosenza in 1434 ) and joanna herself ( february 1435 ). in her will, she bequeathed her realm to rene of anjou, louis iii ' s younger brother. this solution was opposed by the new pope, eugene iv, who was the feudal overlord of the kingdom of naples. the neapolitans having called in the french, alfonso decided to intervene and, with the support of several barons of the kingdom, captured capua and besieged the important sea fortress of gaeta. his fleet of 25 galleys was met by the genoese ships sent by visconti, led by biagio assereto. in the battle of ponza that ensued, alfonso was defeated and taken prisoner. in milan, alfonso impressed his captor with his cultured demeanor and persuaded him to let him go by persuading that it was not in milan ' s interest to prevent the victory of the aragonese party in naples. helped by a sicilian fleet, alfonso recaptured capua and set his base in gaeta in february 1436. meanwhile, papal troops had invaded the neapolitan kingdom, but alfonso bribed their commander, cardinal giovanni vi