synthetic concept that deals with the interplay between economic systems, nutritional status and food security, and how changes in the former affect the latter. if economic and environmental changes in a community affect access to food, food security, and dietary health, then this interplay between culture and biology is in turn connected to broader historical and economic trends associated with globalization. nutritional status affects overall health status, work performance potential, and the overall potential for economic development ( either in terms of human development or traditional western models ) for any given group of people. psychological psychological anthropology is an interdisciplinary subfield of anthropology that studies the interaction of cultural and mental processes. this subfield tends to focus on ways in which humans ' development and enculturation within a particular cultural group – with its own history, language, practices, and conceptual categories – shape processes of human cognition, emotion, perception, motivation, and mental health. it also examines how the understanding of cognition, emotion, motivation, and similar psychological processes inform or constrain our models of cultural and social processes. cognitive cognitive anthropology seeks to explain patterns of shared knowledge, cultural innovation, and transmission over time and space using the methods and theories of the cognitive sciences ( especially experimental psychology and evolutionary biology ) often through close collaboration with historians, ethnographers, archaeologists, linguists, musicologists and other specialists engaged in the description and interpretation of cultural forms. cognitive anthropology is concerned with what people from different groups know and how that implicit knowledge changes the way people perceive and relate to the world around them. transpersonal transpersonal anthropology studies the relationship between altered states of consciousness and culture. as with transpersonal psychology, the field is much concerned with altered states of consciousness ( asc ) and transpersonal experience. however, the field differs from mainstream transpersonal psychology in taking more cognizance of cross - cultural issues – for instance, the roles of myth, ritual, diet, and text in evoking and interpreting extraordinary experiences. political and legal political political anthropology concerns the structure of political systems, looked at from the basis of the structure of societies. political anthropology developed as a discipline concerned primarily with politics in stateless societies, a new development started from the 1960s, and is still unfolding : anthropologists started increasingly to study more " complex " social settings in which the presence of states, bureaucracies and markets entered both ethnographic accounts and analysis of local phenomena. the turn towards complex societies meant that political themes were taken up at two main levels. firstly, anthropologists continued to study political organization and political