the afterlife, or in exceptional cases, enter heaven alive. heaven is often described as a " higher place ", the holiest place, a paradise, in contrast to hell or the underworld or the " low places ", and universally or conditionally accessible by earthly beings according to various standards of divinity, goodness, piety, faith or other virtues or right beliefs or the will of god. some believe in the possibility of a heaven on earth in a world to come. in hinduism, heaven is considered as svarga loka. there are seven positive regions the soul can go to after death and seven negative regions. after completing its stay in the respective region, the soul is subjected to rebirth in different living forms according to its karma. this cycle can be broken after a soul achieves moksha or nirvana. any place of existence, either of humans, souls or deities, outside the tangible world ( heaven, hell, or other ) is referred to as otherworld. hell, in many religious and folkloric traditions, is a place of torment and punishment in the afterlife. religions with a linear divine history often depict hell as an eternal destination, while religions with a cyclic history often depict a hell as an intermediary period between incarnations. typically, these traditions locate hell in another dimension or under the earth ' s surface and often include entrances to hell from the land of the living. other afterlife destinations include purgatory and limbo. traditions that do not conceive of the afterlife as a place of punishment or reward merely describe hell as an abode of the dead, the grave, a neutral place ( for example, sheol or hades ) located under the surface of earth. ancient religions ancient egyptian religion the afterlife played an important role in ancient egyptian religion, and its belief system is one of the earliest known in recorded history. when the body died, parts of its soul known as ka ( body double ) and the ba ( personality ) would go to the kingdom of the dead. while the soul dwelt in the fields of aaru, osiris demanded work as restitution for the protection he provided. statues were placed in the tombs to serve as substitutes for the deceased. arriving at one ' s reward in afterlife was a demanding ordeal, requiring a sin - free heart and the ability to recite the spells, passwords, and formulae of the book of the dead. in the hall of two truths, the deceased ' s heart was weighed against the shu feather of truth and justice taken from the head