upon her recent experiences there. she was disappointed when the six publishers she contacted declined the work. clara suggested that her daughter ask for advice from the successful novelist eden phillpotts, a family friend and neighbour, who responded to her enquiry, encouraged her writing, and sent her an introduction to his own literary agent, hughes massie, who also rejected snow upon the desert but suggested a second novel. meanwhile, christie ' s social activities expanded, with country house parties, riding, hunting, dances, and roller skating. she had short - lived relationships with four men and an engagement to another. in october 1912, she was introduced to archibald " archie " christie at a dance given by lord and lady clifford at ugbrooke, about from torquay. the son of a barrister in the indian civil service, archie was a royal artillery officer who was seconded to the royal flying corps in april 1913. the couple quickly fell in love. three months after their first meeting, archie proposed marriage, and agatha accepted. with the outbreak of world war i in august 1914, archie was sent to france to fight. they married on christmas eve 1914 at emmanuel church, clifton, bristol, close to the home of his mother and stepfather, when archie was on home leave. rising through the ranks, he was posted back to britain in september 1918 as a colonel in the air ministry. christie involved herself in the war effort as a member of the voluntary aid detachment of the british red cross. from october 1914 to may 1915, then from june 1916 to september 1918, she worked 3, 400 hours in the town hall red cross hospital, torquay, first as a nurse ( unpaid ) then as a dispenser at £16 ( approximately ) a year from 1917 after qualifying as an apothecary ' s assistant. her war service ended in september 1918 when archie was reassigned to london, and they rented a flat in st. john ' s wood. christie had long been a fan of detective novels, having enjoyed wilkie collins ' s the woman in white and the moonstone, and arthur conan doyle ' s early sherlock holmes stories. she wrote her first detective novel, the mysterious affair at styles, in 1916. it featured hercule poirot, a former belgian police officer with " magnificent moustaches " and a head " exactly the shape of an egg ", who had taken refuge in britain after germany invaded belgium. christie ' s inspiration for the character came from belgian refugees living in torquay, and the belgian soldiers