with the formula " attack - technique ( - modifier ) " ;, for example, refers to any technique executed when is holding one wrist. this could be further specified as ( referring to any forward - moving technique from that grab ). are strikes ( or feints ) employed during an aikido technique. some view as attacks against " vital points " meant to cause damage in and of themselves. for instance, gozo shioda described using in a brawl to quickly down a gang ' s leader. others consider, especially to the face, to be methods of distraction meant to enable other techniques ; a strike, even if it is blocked, can startle the target and break their concentration. additionally, the target may also become unbalanced while attempting to avoid a strike ( by jerking the head back, for example ) which may allow for an easier throw. many sayings about are attributed to morihei ueshiba, who considered them an essential element of technique. weapons weapons training in aikido traditionally includes the short staff ( ) ( these techniques closely resemble the use of the bayonet, or jukendo ), the wooden sword ( ), and the knife ( ). some schools incorporate firearm - disarming techniques, where either weapon - taking and / or weapon - retention may be taught. some schools, such as the iwama style of morihiro saito, usually spend substantial time practicing with both and, under the names of, and, respectively. the founder developed many of the empty - handed techniques from traditional sword, spear and bayonet movements. consequently, the practice of the weapons arts gives insight into the origin of techniques and movements, and reinforces the concepts of distance, timing, foot movement, presence and connectedness with one ' s training partner ( s ). multiple attackers and one feature of aikido is training to defend against multiple attackers, often called, or. freestyle practice with multiple attackers called is a key part of most curricula and is required for the higher - level ranks. exercises a person ' s ability to intuitively perform techniques in an unstructured environment. strategic choice of techniques, based on how they reposition the student relative to other attackers, is important in training. for instance, an technique might be used to neutralise the current attacker while turning to face attackers approaching from behind. in shodokan aikido, differs in that it is not performed with multiple persons with defined roles of defender and attacker, but between two people, where both participants attack