reforms was to move the capital of the durrani empire from kandahar to kabul. timur shah fought multiple series of rebellions to consolidate the empire, and he also led campaigns into punjab against the sikhs like his father, though more successfully. the most prominent example of his battles during this campaign was when he led his forces under zangi khan durrani – with over 18, 000 men total of afghan, qizilbash, and mongol cavalrymen – against over 60, 000 sikh men. the sikhs lost over 30, 000 in this battle and staged a durrani resurgence in the punjab region the durranis lost multan in 1772 after ahmad shah ' s death. following this victory by timur shah, timur shah was able to lay siege to multan and recapture it, incorporating it into the durrani empire once again, reintegrating it as a province until the siege of multan ( 1818 ). timur shah was succeeded by his son zaman shah durrani after his death on in may 1793. timur shah ' s reign oversaw the attempted stabilization and consolidation of the empire. however, timur shah had over 24 sons, which plunged the empire in civil war over succession crises. zaman shah durrani succeeded to the durrani throne following the death of his father, timur shah durrani. his brothers mahmud shah durrani and humayun mirza revolted against him, with humayun centered in kandahar and mahmud shah centered in herat. zaman shah would defeat humayun and force the loyalty of mahmud shah durrani. securing his position on the throne, zaman shah led three campaigns into punjab. the first two campaigns captured lahore, but he retreated due to intel about a possible qajar invasion. zaman shah embarked on his third campaign for punjab in 1800 to deal with a rebellious ranjit singh. however, he was forced to withdraw, and zaman shah ' s reign was ended by mahmud shah durrani. however, just under two years in his reign, mahmud shah durrani was deposed by his brother shah shuja durrani ( on 13 july 1803 ). shah shuja attempted to consolidate the durrani realm but was deposed by his brother at the battle of nimla ( 1809 ). mahmud shah durrani defeated shah shuja and forced him to flee, usurping the throne again. his second reign began on 3 may 1809. barakzai dynasty and