of this mating arrangement to get the male bee to collect and disseminate its pollen ; parts of its flower not only resemble the appearance of sand bees but also produce large quantities of the three alkanes in the same ratio as female sand bees. as a result, numerous males are lured to the blooms and attempt to copulate with their imaginary partner : although this endeavor is not crowned with success for the bee, it allows the orchid to transfer its pollen, which will be dispersed after the departure of the frustrated male to other blooms. production petroleum refining as stated earlier, the most important source of alkanes is natural gas and crude oil. alkanes are separated in an oil refinery by fractional distillation and processed into many products. fischer – tropsch the fischer – tropsch process is a method to synthesize liquid hydrocarbons, including alkanes, from carbon monoxide and hydrogen. this method is used to produce substitutes for petroleum distillates. laboratory preparation there is usually little need for alkanes to be synthesized in the laboratory, since they are usually commercially available. also, alkanes are generally unreactive chemically or biologically, and do not undergo functional group interconversions cleanly. when alkanes are produced in the laboratory, it is often a side - product of a reaction. for example, the use of n - butyllithium as a strong base gives the conjugate acid n - butane as a side - product : however, at times it may be desirable to make a section of a molecule into an alkane - like functionality ( alkyl group ) using the above or similar methods. for example, an ethyl group is an alkyl group ; when this is attached to a hydroxy group, it gives ethanol, which is not an alkane. to do so, the best - known methods are hydrogenation of alkenes : ( r = alkyl ) alkanes or alkyl groups can also be prepared directly from alkyl halides in the corey – house – posner – whitesides reaction. the barton – mccombie deoxygenation removes hydroxyl groups from alcohols e. g. and the clemmensen reduction removes carbonyl groups from aldehydes and ketones to form alkanes or alkyl - substituted compounds e. g. : preparation from other organic compounds alkanes can be prepared from a variety of organic compounds