after the war, hitchcock took an interest in creative writing. in june 1919, he became a founding editor and business manager of henley ' s in - house publication, the henley telegraph ( sixpence a copy ), to which he submitted several short stories. henley ' s promoted him to the advertising department, where he wrote copy and drew graphics for electric cable advertisements. he enjoyed the job and would stay late at the office to examine the proofs ; he told truffaut that this was his " first step toward cinema ". he enjoyed watching films, especially american cinema, and from the age of 16 read the trade papers ; he watched charlie chaplin, d. w. griffith and buster keaton, and particularly liked fritz lang ' s der mude tod ( 1921 ). inter - war career : 1919 – 1939 famous players – lasky while still at henley ' s, he read in a trade paper that famous players – lasky, the production arm of paramount pictures, was opening a studio in london. they were planning to film the sorrows of satan by marie corelli, so he produced some drawings for the title cards and sent his work to the studio. they hired him, and in 1919 he began working for islington studios in poole street, hoxton, as a title - card designer. donald spoto wrote that most of the staff were americans with strict job specifications, but the english workers were encouraged to try their hand at anything, which meant that hitchcock gained experience as a co - writer, art director and production manager on at least 18 silent films. the times wrote in february 1922 about the studio ' s " special art title department under the supervision of mr. a. j. hitchcock ". his work included number 13 ( 1922 ), also known as mrs. peabody ; it was cancelled because of financial problems - the few finished scenes are lost — and always tell your wife ( 1923 ), which he and seymour hicks finished together when hicks was about to give up on it. hicks wrote later about being helped by " a fat youth who was in charge of the property room... [ n ] one other than alfred hitchcock ". gainsborough pictures and work in germany when paramount pulled out of london in 1922, hitchcock was hired as an assistant director by a new firm run in the same location by michael balcon, later known as gainsborough pictures. hitchcock worked on woman to woman ( 1923 ) with the director graham cutts, designing the set, writing the script and producing. he said : " it was