presidency. johnson opposed the fourteenth amendment which gave citizenship to former slaves. in 1866, he went on an unprecedented national tour promoting his executive policies, seeking to break republican opposition. as the conflict grew between the branches of government, congress passed the tenure of office act restricting johnson ' s ability to fire cabinet officials. he persisted in trying to dismiss secretary of war edwin stanton, but ended up being impeached by the house of representatives and narrowly avoided conviction in the senate. he did not win the 1868 democratic presidential nomination and left office the following year. johnson returned to tennessee after his presidency and gained some vindication when he was elected to the senate in 1875, making him the only president to afterwards serve in the senate. he died five months into his term. johnson ' s strong opposition to federally guaranteed rights for black americans is widely criticized. historians have consistently ranked him one of the worst presidents in american history. early life and career childhood andrew johnson was born in raleigh, north carolina, on december 29, 1808, to jacob johnson ( 1778 – 1812 ) and mary ( " polly " ) mcdonough ( 1783 – 1856 ), a laundress. he was of english, scots - irish, and irish ancestry. he had a brother william, four years his senior, and an older sister elizabeth, who died in childhood. johnson ' s birth in a two - room shack was a political asset in the mid - 19th century, and he would frequently remind voters of his humble origins. jacob johnson was a poor man, as had been his father, william johnson, but he became town constable of raleigh before marrying and starting a family. jacob johnson had been a porter for the state bank of north carolina, appointed by william polk, a relative of president james k. polk. both jacob and mary were illiterate, and had worked as tavern servants, while johnson never attended school and grew up in poverty. jacob died of an apparent heart attack while ringing the town bell, shortly after rescuing three drowning men, when his son andrew was three. polly johnson worked as a washerwoman and became the sole support of her family. her occupation was then looked down on, as it often took her into other homes unaccompanied. since andrew did not resemble either of his siblings, there are rumors that he may have been fathered by another man. polly johnson eventually remarried to a man named turner doughtry, who was as poor as she was. johnson ' s mother apprenticed her son william to a tailor, james selby. andrew