in strong currents. it can dig a yard of tunnel in about five minutes, but otherwise moves fairly slowly. when leaving the burrow at night, they pause at the entrance for about ten minutes, sniffing and listening. after this period of watchfulness, it will bound out and within seconds it will be away. it will then pause, prick its ears, twisting its head to listen, then jump and move off to start foraging. aside from digging out ants and termites, the aardvark also excavates burrows in which to live, which generally fall into one of three categories : burrows made while foraging, refuge and resting location, and permanent homes. temporary sites are scattered around the home range and are used as refuges, while the main burrow is also used for breeding. main burrows can be deep and extensive, have several entrances and can be as long as. these burrows can be large enough for a person to enter. the aardvark changes the layout of its home burrow regularly, and periodically moves on and makes a new one. the old burrows are an important part of the african wildlife scene. as they are vacated, then they are inhabited by smaller animals like the african wild dog, ant - eating chat, nycteris thebaica and warthogs. other animals that use them are hares, mongooses, hyenas, owls, pythons, and lizards. without these refuges many animals would die during wildfire season. only mothers and young share burrows ; however, the aardvark is known to live in small family groups or as a solitary creature. if attacked in the tunnel, it will escape by digging out of the tunnel thereby placing the fresh fill between it and its predator, or if it decides to fight it will roll onto its back, and attack with its claws. the aardvark has been known to sleep in a recently excavated ant nest, which also serves as protection from its predators. reproduction aardvarks pair only during the breeding season ; after a gestation period of seven months, one cub weighing around is born during may – july. when born, the young has flaccid ears and many wrinkles. when nursing, it will nurse off each teat in succession. after two weeks, the folds of skin disappear and after three, the ears can be held upright. after 5 – 6 weeks, body hair starts growing. it is able to leave the burrow to accompany its mother after only two weeks and eats term