deed. assassination attempts were carried out against heads of state, some of which were successful. anarchists also took part in revolutions. many anarchists, especially the galleanists, believed that these attempts would be the impetus for a revolution against capitalism and the state. many of these attacks were done by individual assailants and the majority took place in the late 1870s, the early 1880s and the 1890s, with some still occurring in the early 1900s. their decrease in prevalence was the result of further judicial power and targeting and cataloging by state institutions. anarchist perspectives towards violence have always been controversial. anarcho - pacifists advocate for non - violence means to achieve their stateless, nonviolent ends. other anarchist groups advocate direct action, a tactic which can include acts of sabotage or terrorism. this attitude was quite prominent a century ago when seeing the state as a tyrant and some anarchists believing that they had every right to oppose its oppression by any means possible. emma goldman and errico malatesta, who were proponents of limited use of violence, stated that violence is merely a reaction to state violence as a necessary evil. anarchists took an active role in strike actions, although they tended to be antipathetic to formal syndicalism, seeing it as reformist. they saw it as a part of the movement which sought to overthrow the state and capitalism. anarchists also reinforced their propaganda within the arts, some of whom practiced naturism and nudism. those anarchists also built communities which were based on friendship and were involved in the news media. revolutionary in the current era, italian anarchist alfredo bonanno, a proponent of insurrectionary anarchism, has reinstated the debate on violence by rejecting the nonviolence tactic adopted since the late 19th century by kropotkin and other prominent anarchists afterwards. both bonanno and the french group the invisible committee advocate for small, informal affiliation groups, where each member is responsible for their own actions but works together to bring down oppression utilizing sabotage and other violent means against state, capitalism, and other enemies. members of the invisible committee were arrested in 2008 on various charges, terrorism included. overall, contemporary anarchists are much less violent and militant than their ideological ancestors. they mostly engage in confronting the police during demonstrations and riots, especially in countries such as canada, greece, and mexico. militant black bloc protest groups are known for clashing with the police ; however, anarchists not only clash with state operators, they also engage in the struggle against fascists