1992 – 93, the gdp had fallen nearly 60 % from its 1989 level. the national currency, the dram, suffered hyperinflation for the first few years after its introduction in 1993. armenia has registered strong economic growth since 1995 and inflation has been negligible for the past several years. new sectors, such as precious stone processing and jewelry making and communication technology ( primarily armentel, which is left from the ussr era and is owned by external investors ). this steady economic progress has earned armenia increasing support from international institutions. the international monetary fund ( imf ), world bank, ebrd, as well as other international financial institutions ( ifis ) and foreign countries are extending considerable grants and loans. total loans extended to armenia since 1993 exceed $ 800 million. these loans are targeted at reducing the budget deficit, stabilizing the local currency ; developing private businesses ; energy ; the agriculture, food processing, transportation, and health and education sectors ; and ongoing rehabilitation work in the earthquake zone. by 1994, however, the armenian government had launched an ambitious imf - sponsored economic liberalization program that resulted in positive growth rates in 1995 – 2005. the economic growth of armenia expressed in gdp per capita was one of strongest in the cis. gdp went from $ 350 to more than $ 800 on average between 1995 and 2003. three principal factors explain this result : the credibility of the macroeconomic policies of stabilization, the correction effect following the depression, and the importance of external transfers, in particular since 2000. armenia became a member of the world trade organization ( wto ) in january 2003. armenia also has managed to slash inflation, stabilize its currency, and privatize most small - and medium - sized enterprises. armenia ' s unemployment rate, however, remains high, despite strong economic growth. the chronic energy shortages armenia suffered in the early and mid - 1990s have been offset by the energy supplied by one of its nuclear power plants at metsamor. armenia is now a net energy exporter, although it does not have sufficient generating capacity to replace the metsamor nuclear plant, which is under international pressure to close due to its old design. the european union had classified the vver 440 model v230 light - water - cooled reactors as the " oldest and least reliable " category of all the 66 soviet reactors built in the former eastern bloc. however the iaea has found that the metsamor npp has adequate safety and can function beyond its design lifespan. the country ' s electricity distribution system was privatized in