##ret microphones and condenser microphones employ electrostatics — as the sound wave strikes the microphone ' s diaphragm, it moves and induces a voltage change. the ultrasonic systems used in medical ultrasonography employ piezoelectric transducers. these are made from special ceramics in which mechanical vibrations and electrical fields are interlinked through a property of the material itself. acoustician an acoustician is an expert in the science of sound. education there are many types of acoustician, but they usually have a bachelor ' s degree or higher qualification. some possess a degree in acoustics, while others enter the discipline via studies in fields such as physics or engineering. much work in acoustics requires a good grounding in mathematics and science. many acoustic scientists work in research and development. some conduct basic research to advance our knowledge of the perception ( e. g. hearing, psychoacoustics or neurophysiology ) of speech, music and noise. other acoustic scientists advance understanding of how sound is affected as it moves through environments, e. g. underwater acoustics, architectural acoustics or structural acoustics. other areas of work are listed under subdisciplines below. acoustic scientists work in government, university and private industry laboratories. many go on to work in acoustical engineering. some positions, such as faculty ( academic staff ) require a doctor of philosophy. subdisciplines archaeoacoustics archaeoacoustics, also known as the archaeology of sound, is one of the only ways to experience the past with senses other than our eyes. archaeoacoustics is studied by testing the acoustic properties of prehistoric sites, including caves. iegor rezkinoff, a sound archaeologist, studies the acoustic properties of caves through natural sounds like humming and whistling. archaeological theories of acoustics are focused around ritualistic purposes as well as a way of echolocation in the caves. in archaeology, acoustic sounds and rituals directly correlate as specific sounds were meant to bring ritual participants closer to a spiritual awakening. parallels can also be drawn between cave wall paintings and the acoustic properties of the cave ; they are both dynamic. because archaeoacoustics is a fairly new archaeological subject, acoustic sound is still being tested in these prehistoric sites today. aeroacoustics aeroacoustics is the study of noise generated by air movement, for instance via turbulence, and the movement of sound through the fluid air. this knowledge is applied in acoustical engineering to study how to