ascii ( ), abbreviated from american standard code for information interchange, is a character encoding standard for electronic communication. ascii codes represent text in computers, telecommunications equipment, and other devices. because of technical limitations of computer systems at the time it was invented, ascii has just 128 code points, of which only 95 are, which severely limited its scope. modern computer systems have evolved to use unicode, which has millions of code points, but the first 128 of these are the same as the ascii set. the internet assigned numbers authority ( iana ) prefers the name us - ascii for this character encoding. ascii is one of the ieee milestones. overview ascii was developed from telegraph code. its first commercial use was in the teletype model 33 and the teletype model 35 as a seven - bit teleprinter code promoted by bell data services. work on the ascii standard began in may 1961, with the first meeting of the american standards association ' s ( asa ) ( now the american national standards institute or ansi ) x3. 2 subcommittee. the first edition of the standard was published in 1963, underwent a major revision during 1967, and experienced its most recent update during 1986. compared to earlier telegraph codes, the proposed bell code and ascii were both ordered for more convenient sorting ( i. e., alphabetization ) of lists and added features for devices other than teleprinters. the use of ascii format for network interchange was described in 1969. that document was formally elevated to an internet standard in 2015. originally based on the ( modern ) english alphabet, ascii encodes 128 specified characters into seven - bit integers as shown by the ascii chart in this article. ninety - five of the encoded characters are printable : these include the digits 0 to 9, lowercase letters a to z, uppercase letters a to z, and punctuation symbols. in addition, the original ascii specification included 33 non - printing control codes which originated with s ; most of these are now obsolete, although a few are still commonly used, such as the carriage return, line feed, and tab codes. for example, lowercase i would be represented in the ascii encoding by binary 1101001 = hexadecimal 69 ( i is the ninth letter ) = decimal 105. despite being an american standard, ascii does not have a code point for the cent ( ¢ ). it also does