many rodents such as voles live underground. marmots live almost exclusively above the tree line as high as. they hibernate in large groups to provide warmth, and can be found in all areas of the alps, in large colonies they build beneath the alpine pastures. golden eagles and bearded vultures are the largest birds to be found in the alps ; they nest high on rocky ledges and can be found at altitudes of. the most common bird is the alpine chough which can be found scavenging at climber ' s huts or the jungfraujoch, a high - altitude tourist destination. reptiles such as adders and vipers live up to the snow line ; because they cannot bear the cold temperatures they hibernate underground and soak up the warmth on rocky ledges. the high - altitude alpine salamanders have adapted to living above the snow line by giving birth to fully developed young rather than laying eggs. brown trout can be found in the streams up to the snow line. molluscs such as the wood snail live up the snow line. popularly gathered as food, the snails are now protected. several species of moths live in the alps, some of which are believed to have evolved in the same habitat up to 120 million years ago, long before the alps were created. blue butterflies can commonly be seen drinking from the snowmelt ; some species of blues fly as high as. the butterflies tend to be large, such as those from the swallowtail parnassius family, with a habitat that ranges to. twelve species of beetles have habitats up to the snow line ; the most beautiful and formerly collected for its colours but now protected is rosalia alpina. spiders, such as the large wolf spider, live above the snow line and can be seen as high as. scorpions can be found in the italian alps. some of the species of moths and insects show evidence of having been indigenous to the area from as long ago as the alpine orogeny. in emosson in valais, switzerland, dinosaur tracks were found in the 1970s, dating probably from the triassic period. history prehistory when the ice melted after the wurm glaciation, paleolithic settlements were established along the lake shores and in cave systems. evidence of human habitation has been found in caves near the vercors cave system, close to grenoble and echirolles. in austria, the mondsee lake shows evidence of houses built on piles. standing stones have been found in the alpine areas of france and