with his sister adele and became close to her as her relationship with johanna and gerstenbergk also deteriorated. she informed him about their financial troubles as the banking house of a. l. muhl in danzig — in which her mother invested their whole savings and arthur a third of his — was near bankruptcy. arthur offered to share his assets, but his mother refused and became further enraged by his insulting comments. the women managed to receive only thirty percent of their savings while arthur, using his business knowledge, took a suspicious and aggressive stance towards the banker and eventually received his part in full. the affair additionally worsened the relationships among all three members of the schopenhauer family. he shortened his stay in italy because of the trouble with muhl and returned to dresden. disturbed by the financial risk and the lack of responses to his book he decided to take an academic position since it provided him with both income and an opportunity to promote his views. he contacted his friends at universities in heidelberg, gottingen and berlin and found berlin most attractive. he scheduled his lectures to coincide with those of the famous philosopher g. w. f. hegel, whom schopenhauer described as a " clumsy charlatan ". he was especially appalled by hegel ' s supposedly poor knowledge of natural sciences and tried to engage him in a quarrel about it already at his test lecture in march 1820. hegel was also facing political suspicions at the time, when many progressive professors were fired, while schopenhauer carefully mentioned in his application that he had no interest in politics. despite their differences and the arrogant request to schedule lectures at the same time as his own, hegel still voted to accept schopenhauer to the university. only five students turned up to schopenhauer ' s lectures, and he dropped out of academia. a late essay, " on university philosophy ", expressed his resentment towards the work conducted in academies. later life after his trying in academia, he continued to travel extensively, visiting leipzig, nuremberg, stuttgart, schaffhausen, vevey, milan and spending eight months in florence. before he left for his three - year travel, schopenhauer had an incident with his berlin neighbor, 47 - year - old seamstress caroline louise marquet. the details of the august 1821 incident are unknown. he claimed that he had just pushed her from his entrance after she had rudely refused to leave, and that she had purposely fallen to the ground so that she could sue him. she claimed that he had attacked her so