three autonomous religious orders based in palestine and politically largely independent – the knights templars, the hospitallers, and the knights of the holy sepulchre, whose influences might have been expected to cancel one another out. the will has greatly puzzled historians, who have read it as a bizarre gesture of extreme piety uncharacteristic of alfonso ' s character, one that effectively undid his life ' s work. elena lourie ( 1975 ) suggested instead that it was alfonso ' s attempt to neutralize the papacy ' s interest in a disputed succession – aragon had been a fief of the papacy since 1068 – and to fend off urraca ' s son from her first marriage, alfonso vii of castile, for the papacy would be bound to press the terms of such a pious testament. generous bequests to important churches and abbeys in castile had the effect of making the noble churchmen there beneficiaries who would be encouraged by the will to act as a brake on alfonso vii ' s ambitions to break it – and yet among the magnates witnessing the will in 1131 there was not a single cleric. in the event it was a will that his nobles refused to carry out – instead bringing his brother ramiro from the monastery to assume royal powers – an eventuality that lourie suggests was alfonso ' s hidden intent. his final campaigns were against mequinenza ( 1133 ) and fraga ( 1134 ), where garcia ramirez, the future king of navarre, and a mere 500 other knights fought with him. it fell on 17 july. he was dead by september. his tomb is in the monastery of san pedro in huesca. death succession the testament of alfonso leaving his kingdom to the three orders was dismissed out of hand by the nobility of his kingdoms, and possible successors were sought. alfonso ' s only brother, ramiro, had been a benedictine monk since childhood, and his commitment to the church, his temperament and vow of celibacy made him ill - suited to rule a kingdom under constant military threat and in need of a stable line of succession. the step - son of the deceased king, alfonso vii of leon, as reigning monarch and legitimate descendant of sancho iii of navarre, put himself forward but garnered no local support. the nobility of navarre aligned behind pedro de atares, the grandson of alfonso ' s illegitimate uncle, while the aragonese nobility rallied around the abbot - bishop ramiro. a convention was called at borja in order to develop a consensus. pedro de