in maternal mortality have been observed after other countries have liberalized their abortion laws, such as romania and nepal. a 2011 study concluded that in the united states, some state - level anti - abortion laws are correlated with lower rates of abortion in that state. the analysis, however, did not take into account travel to other states without such laws to obtain an abortion. in addition, a lack of access to effective contraception contributes to unsafe abortion. it has been estimated that the incidence of unsafe abortion could be reduced by up to 75 % ( from 20 million to 5 million annually ) if modern family planning and maternal health services were readily available globally. rates of such abortions may be difficult to measure because they can be reported variously as miscarriage, " induced miscarriage ", " menstrual regulation ", " mini - abortion ", and " regulation of a delayed / suspended menstruation ". forty percent of the world ' s women are able to access therapeutic and elective abortions within gestational limits, while an additional 35 percent have access to legal abortion if they meet certain physical, mental, or socioeconomic criteria. while maternal mortality seldom results from safe abortions, unsafe abortions result in 70, 000 deaths and 5 million disabilities per year. complications of unsafe abortion account for approximately an eighth of maternal mortalities worldwide, though this varies by region. secondary infertility caused by an unsafe abortion affects an estimated 24 million women. the rate of unsafe abortions has increased from 44 % to 49 % between 1995 and 2008. health education, access to family planning, and improvements in health care during and after abortion have been proposed to address consequences of unsafe abortion. incidence there are two commonly used methods of measuring the incidence of abortion : abortion rate – number of abortions annually per 1, 000 women between 15 and 44 years of age ; some sources use a range of 15 – 49. abortion percentage – number of abortions out of 100 known pregnancies ; pregnancies include live births, abortions, and miscarriages. in many places, where abortion is illegal or carries a heavy social stigma, medical reporting of abortion is not reliable. for this reason, estimates of the incidence of abortion must be made without determining certainty related to standard error. the number of abortions performed worldwide seems to have remained stable in the early 2000s, with 41. 6 million having been performed in 2003 and 43. 8 million having been performed in 2008. the abortion rate worldwide was 28 per 1000 women per year, though it was 24