the eventual, ever - increasing effects of senescence. the higher mortality rate in adults may explain their more common preservation. very large animals were rare because few individuals survived long enough to attain such size. high infant mortality rates, followed by reduced mortality among juveniles and a sudden increase in mortality after sexual maturity, with very few animals reaching maximum size, is a pattern observed in many modern large mammals, including elephants, african buffalo, and rhinoceros. the same pattern is also seen in other tyrannosaurids. the comparison with modern animals and other tyrannosaurids lends support to this life history hypothesis, but bias in the fossil record may still play a large role, especially since more than two - thirds of all albertosaurus specimens are known from the exact same locality. pack behaviour the dry island bonebed discovered by barnum brown and his crew contains the remains of 26 albertosaurus, the most individuals found in one locality of any large cretaceous theropod and the second - most of any large theropod dinosaur behind the allosaurus assemblage at the cleveland - lloyd dinosaur quarry in utah. the group seems to be composed of one very old adult, eight adults between 17 and 23 years old, seven sub - adults undergoing their rapid growth phases at between 12 and 16 years old, and six juveniles between the ages of 2 and 11 years old that had not yet reached the growth phase. the near - absence of herbivore remains and the similar state of preservation common to the many individuals at the albertosaurus bonebed quarry led currie to conclude that the locality was not a predator trap, such as the la brea tar pits in california, and that all of the preserved animals died at the same time. currie claims this as evidence of pack behavior. other scientists are skeptical, observing that the animals may have been driven together by a drought, flood, or other reasons. there is plentiful evidence for gregarious behaviour among herbivorous dinosaurs, including ceratopsians and hadrosaurs. however, only rarely are so many dinosaurian predators found at the same site. small theropods, like deinonychus and coelophysis, have been found in aggregations, as have larger predators, such as allosaurus and mapusaurus. there is some evidence of gregarious behaviour in other tyrannosaurids as well, as fragmentary remains of smaller individuals were found alongside " sue ", the tyrannosaurus mounted in the field museum of natural history in chicago, and