life, major decisions are taken by a small elite. authority ultimately rests solely on power, regardless of whether that power is open or transparent, as it still has the ability to coerce people. another anarchist argument against states is that the people constituting a government, even the most altruistic among officials, will unavoidably seek to gain more power, leading to corruption. anarchists consider the idea that the state is the collective will of the people to be an unachievable fiction due to the fact that the ruling class is distinct from the rest of society. specific anarchist attitudes towards the state vary. robert paul wolff believed that the tension between authority and autonomy would mean the state could never be legitimate. bakunin saw the state as meaning " coercion, domination by means of coercion, camouflaged if possible but unceremonious and overt if need be. " a. john simmons and leslie green, who leaned toward philosophical anarchism, believed that the state could be legitimate if it is governed by consensus, although they saw this as highly unlikely. beliefs on how to abolish the state also differ. gender, sexuality, and free love as gender and sexuality carry along them dynamics of hierarchy, many anarchists address, analyse, and oppose the suppression of one ' s autonomy imposed by gender roles. sexuality was not often discussed by classical anarchists but the few that did felt that an anarchist society would lead to sexuality naturally developing. sexual violence was a concern for anarchists such as benjamin tucker, who opposed age of consent laws, believing they would benefit predatory men. a historical current that arose and flourished during 1890 and 1920 within anarchism was free love. in contemporary anarchism, this current survives as a tendency to support polyamory, relationship anarchy, and queer anarchism. free love advocates were against marriage, which they saw as a way of men imposing authority over women, largely because marriage law greatly favoured the power of men. the notion of free love was much broader and included a critique of the established order that limited women ' s sexual freedom and pleasure. those free love movements contributed to the establishment of communal houses, where large groups of travelers, anarchists and other activists slept in beds together. free love had roots both in europe and the united states ; however, some anarchists struggled with the jealousy that arose from free love. anarchist feminists were advocates of free love, against marriage, and pro - choice ( utilising a contemporary term ), and had a similar agenda