##nairy helped him get appointed as a prosecuting attorney in the western district of north carolina, which would later become the state of tennessee. while traveling to assume his new position, jackson stopped in jonesborough. while there, he bought his first slave, a woman who was around his age. he also fought his first duel, accusing another lawyer, waightstill avery, of impugning his character. the duel ended with both men firing in the air. jackson began his new career in the frontier town of nashville in 1788 and quickly moved up in social status. he became a protege of william blount, one of the most powerful men in the territory. jackson was appointed attorney general of the mero district in 1791 and judge - advocate for the militia the following year. he also got involved in land speculation, eventually forming a partnership with fellow lawyer john overton. their partnership mainly dealt with claims made under a " land grab " act of 1783 that opened cherokee and chickasaw territory to north carolina ' s white residents. while boarding at the home of rachel stockly donelson, the widow of john donelson, jackson became acquainted with their daughter, rachel donelson robards. the younger rachel was in an unhappy marriage with captain lewis robards, and the two were separated by 1789. after the separation, jackson and rachel became romantically involved, living together as husband and wife. robards petitioned for divorce, which was granted on the basis of rachel ' s infidelity. the couple legally married in january 1794. in 1796, they acquired their first plantation, hunter ' s hill, on of land near nashville. early public career jackson became a member of the democratic - republican party, the dominant party in tennessee. he was elected as a delegate to the tennessee constitutional convention in 1796. when tennessee achieved statehood that year, he was elected to be its u. s. representative. in congress, jackson argued against the jay treaty, criticized george washington for allegedly removing democratic - republicans from public office, and joined several other democratic - republican congressmen in voting against a resolution of thanks for washington. he advocated for the right of tennesseans to militarily oppose native american interests. the state legislature elected him to be a u. s. senator in 1797, but he resigned after serving only six months. upon returning to tennessee, jackson was elected as a judge of the tennessee superior court. in 1802, he also became major general, or commander, of the tennessee militia, a position that was determined by a vote of