autpert ambrose ( ambroise ) ( ) ( ca. 730 – 784 ) was a frankish benedictine monk. an abbot of san vincenzo al volturno in south italy in the time of desiderius, king of the lombards, autpert wrote a considerable number of works on the bible and religious subjects generally. among these are commentaries on the apocalypse, on the psalms, and on the song of songs ; a life of the founders of the monastery of san vincenzo ( ) ; and a conflictus vitiorum et virtutum ( combat between the virtues and the vices ). jean mabillon calls him " sanctissimus " because of his great virtue and the bollandists gave him the title " saint ". his cultus has been approved. biography autpert ambrose was born in gaul, probably provence, at the beginning of the eighth century. he moved to italy and entered the benedictine monastery of san vincenzo al volturno, near benevento, in southern italy, where he received his intellectual and spiritual formation and was ordained a priest sometime before 761. he became abbot on 4 october 777. in 774 charlemagne had defeated the lombards, but had not subjugated the duchy of benevento : autpert ' s election aggravated the disputes between french and lombard monks, and on 28 december 778 he was forced to leave the monastery to the lombard poto and flee to spoleto. summoned to rome by charlemagne to resolve the conflict, he died on the way, perhaps murdered, in 784. information about his life is available primarily from the fragmentary chronicon vulturnense written by a monk named john, and from brief autobiographical references in some of his own writings. the same chronicle places him in the court of charlemagne. this is apparently an error due to the confusion of autpert with a certain aspertus or asbertus, who was chancellor of prince arnolfus from 888 to 892. in 2009, pope benedict xvi gave a homily about him in saint peter ' s square. in this homily, autpert ' s death date is given as 784 ( older scholarship had given a date between 778 and 779 ). works autpert ’ s most famous work is his lengthy expositio in apocalypsin which is dependent upon a variety of patristic authors whom autpert explicitly acknowledges, including jerome, victorinus, ticonius, augustine of hip