to earth was delivered by asteroid impacts after the collision that produced the moon. in 2009, the presence of water ice was confirmed on the surface of 24 themis using nasa ' s infrared telescope facility. the surface of the asteroid appears completely covered in ice. as this ice layer is sublimating, it may be getting replenished by a reservoir of ice under the surface. organic compounds were also detected on the surface. the presence of ice on 24 themis makes the initial theory plausible. in october 2013, water was detected on an extrasolar body for the first time, on an asteroid orbiting the white dwarf gd 61. on 22 january 2014, european space agency ( esa ) scientists reported the detection, for the first definitive time, of water vapor on ceres, the largest object in the asteroid belt. the detection was made by using the far - infrared abilities of the herschel space observatory. the finding is unexpected because comets, not asteroids, are typically considered to " sprout jets and plumes ". according to one of the scientists, " the lines are becoming more and more blurred between comets and asteroids. " findings have shown that solar winds can react with the oxygen in the upper layer of the asteroids and create water. it has been estimated that " every cubic metre of irradiated rock could contain up to 20 litres " ; study was conducted using an atom probe tomography, numbers are given for the itokawa s - type asteroid. acfer 049, a meteorite discovered in algeria in 1990, was shown in 2019 to have an ultraporous lithology ( upl ) : porous texture that could be formed by removal of ice that filled these pores, this suggests that upl " represent fossils of primordial ice ". organic compounds asteroids contain traces of amino acids and other organic compounds, and some speculate that asteroid impacts may have seeded the early earth with the chemicals necessary to initiate life, or may have even brought life itself to earth ( an event called " panspermia " ). in august 2011, a report, based on nasa studies with meteorites found on earth, was published suggesting dna and rna components ( adenine, guanine and related organic molecules ) may have been formed on asteroids and comets in outer space. in november 2019, scientists reported detecting, for the first time, sugar molecules, including ribose, in meteorites, suggesting that chemical processes on asteroids can produce some fundamentally essential bio - ingredients important to life, and supporting the notion of an rna world prior