at both cern and fermilab ) were extremely energetic and were not well suited to study. to resolve this hurdle, and to gain a better understanding of antihydrogen, two collaborations were formed in the late 1990s, namely, athena and atrap. in 1999, cern activated the antiproton decelerator, a device capable of decelerating antiprotons from to – still too " hot " to produce study - effective antihydrogen, but a huge leap forward. in late 2002 the athena project announced that they had created the world ' s first " cold " antihydrogen. the atrap project released similar results very shortly thereafter. the antiprotons used in these experiments were cooled by decelerating them with the antiproton decelerator, passing them through a thin sheet of foil, and finally capturing them in a penning – malmberg trap. the overall cooling process is workable, but highly inefficient ; approximately 25 million antiprotons leave the antiproton decelerator and roughly 25, 000 make it to the penning – malmberg trap, which is about or 0. 1 % of the original amount. the antiprotons are still hot when initially trapped. to cool them further, they are mixed into an electron plasma. the electrons in this plasma cool via cyclotron radiation, and then sympathetically cool the antiprotons via coulomb collisions. eventually, the electrons are removed by the application of short - duration electric fields, leaving the antiprotons with energies less than. while the antiprotons are being cooled in the first trap, a small cloud of positrons is captured from radioactive sodium in a surko - style positron accumulator. this cloud is then recaptured in a second trap near the antiprotons. manipulations of the trap electrodes then tip the antiprotons into the positron plasma, where some combine with antiprotons to form antihydrogen. this neutral antihydrogen is unaffected by the electric and magnetic fields used to trap the charged positrons and antiprotons, and within a few microseconds the antihydrogen hits the trap walls, where it annihilates. some hundreds of millions of antihydrogen atoms have been made in this fashion. in 2005, athena disbanded and some of the former members ( along with others ) formed the alpha collaboration, which is also