orellana ) ; the party stopped for a few weeks to build a boat just upriver from this confluence. they continued downriver through an uninhabited area, where they could not find food. orellana offered and was ordered to follow the napo river, then known as rio de la canela ( " cinnamon river " ), and return with food for the party. based on intelligence received from a captive native chief named delicola, they expected to find food within a few days downriver by ascending another river to the north. de orellana took about 57 men, the boat, and some canoes and left pizarro ' s troops on 26 december 1541. however, de orellana missed the confluence ( probably with the aguarico ) where he was searching supplies for his men. by the time he and his men reached another village, many of them were sick from hunger and eating " noxious plants ", and near death. seven men died in that village. his men threatened to mutiny if the expedition turned back to attempt to rejoin pizarro, the party being over 100 leagues downstream at this point. he accepted to change the purpose of the expedition to discover new lands in the name of the king of spain, and the men built a larger boat in which to navigate downstream. after a journey of down the napo river, they reached a further major confluence, at a point near modern iquitos, and then followed the upper amazon, now known as the solimoes, for a further to its confluence with the rio negro ( near modern manaus ), which they reached on 3 june 1542. regarding the initial mission of finding cinnamon, pizarro reported to the king that they had found cinnamon trees, but that they could not be profitably harvested. true cinnamon ( cinnamomum verum ) is not native to south america. other related cinnamon - containing plants ( of the family lauraceae ) are fairly common in that part of the amazon and pizarro probably saw some of these. the expedition reached the mouth of the amazon on 24 august 1542, demonstrating the practical navigability of the great river. in 1560, another spanish conquistador, lope de aguirre, may have made the second descent of the amazon. historians are uncertain whether the river he descended was the amazon or the orinoco river, which runs more or less parallel to the amazon further north. portuguese explorer pedro teixeira was the first european to travel up the entire