into two congruent triangles, as shown in the figure to the right. it follows that the area of each triangle is half the area of the parallelogram : ( triangle ). similar arguments can be used to find area formulas for the trapezoid as well as more complicated polygons. area of curved shapes circles the formula for the area of a circle ( more properly called the area enclosed by a circle or the area of a disk ) is based on a similar method. given a circle of radius, it is possible to partition the circle into sectors, as shown in the figure to the right. each sector is approximately triangular in shape, and the sectors can be rearranged to form an approximate parallelogram. the height of this parallelogram is, and the width is half the circumference of the circle, or. thus, the total area of the circle is : ( circle ). though the dissection used in this formula is only approximate, the error becomes smaller and smaller as the circle is partitioned into more and more sectors. the limit of the areas of the approximate parallelograms is exactly, which is the area of the circle. this argument is actually a simple application of the ideas of calculus. in ancient times, the method of exhaustion was used in a similar way to find the area of the circle, and this method is now recognized as a precursor to integral calculus. using modern methods, the area of a circle can be computed using a definite integral : ellipses the formula for the area enclosed by an ellipse is related to the formula of a circle ; for an ellipse with semi - major and semi - minor axes and the formula is : non - planar surface area most basic formulas for surface area can be obtained by cutting surfaces and flattening them out ( see : developable surfaces ). for example, if the side surface of a cylinder ( or any prism ) is cut lengthwise, the surface can be flattened out into a rectangle. similarly, if a cut is made along the side of a cone, the side surface can be flattened out into a sector of a circle, and the resulting area computed. the formula for the surface area of a sphere is more difficult to derive : because a sphere has nonzero gaussian curvature, it cannot be flattened out. the formula for the surface area of a sphere was first obtained by archimedes in his work on the sphere and cylinder. the formula is : ( sphere ), where is