##smological relationship within the culture. most scholars who deal with rock paintings or objects recovered from prehistoric contexts that cannot be explained in utilitarian terms and are thus categorized as decorative, ritual or symbolic, are aware of the trap posed by the term ' art '. – silva tomaskova motivated functions motivated purposes of art refer to intentional, conscious actions on the part of the artists or creator. these may be to bring about political change, to comment on an aspect of society, to convey a specific emotion or mood, to address personal psychology, to illustrate another discipline, to ( with commercial arts ) sell a product, or used as a form of communication. communication. art, at its simplest, is a form of communication. as most forms of communication have an intent or goal directed toward another individual, this is a motivated purpose. illustrative arts, such as scientific illustration, are a form of art as communication. maps are another example. however, the content need not be scientific. emotions, moods and feelings are also communicated through art. [ art is a set of ] artefacts or images with symbolic meanings as a means of communication. – steve mithen art as entertainment. art may seek to bring about a particular emotion or mood, for the purpose of relaxing or entertaining the viewer. this is often the function of the art industries of motion pictures and video games. the avant - garde. art for political change. one of the defining functions of early 20th - century art has been to use visual images to bring about political change. art movements that had this goal — dadaism, surrealism, russian constructivism, and abstract expressionism, among others — are collectively referred to as the avant - garde arts. by contrast, the realistic attitude, inspired by positivism, from saint thomas aquinas to anatole france, clearly seems to me to be hostile to any intellectual or moral advancement. i loathe it, for it is made up of mediocrity, hate, and dull conceit. it is this attitude which today gives birth to these ridiculous books, these insulting plays. it constantly feeds on and derives strength from the newspapers and stultifies both science and art by assiduously flattering the lowest of tastes ; clarity bordering on stupidity, a dog ' s life. – andre breton ( surrealism ) art as a " free zone ", removed from the action of the social censure. unlike the avant - garde movements, which wanted to erase cultural differences in order to produce new universal values,