agrippa. however, augustus handed over to his co - consul piso all of his official documents, an account of public finances, and authority over listed troops in the provinces while augustus ' s supposedly favored nephew marcellus came away empty - handed. this was a surprise to many who believed augustus would have named an heir to his position as an unofficial emperor. augustus bestowed only properties and possessions to his designated heirs, as an obvious system of institutionalized imperial inheritance would have provoked resistance and hostility among the republican - minded romans fearful of monarchy. with regards to the principate, it was obvious to augustus that marcellus was not ready to take on his position ; nonetheless, by giving his signet ring to agrippa, augustus intended to signal to the legions that agrippa was to be his successor and that they should continue to obey agrippa, constitutional procedure notwithstanding. soon after his bout of illness subsided, augustus gave up his consulship. the only other times augustus would serve as consul would be in the years 5 and 2 bc, both times to introduce his grandsons into public life. this was a clever ploy by augustus ; ceasing to serve as one of two annually elected consuls allowed aspiring senators a better chance to attain the consular position while allowing augustus to exercise wider patronage within the senatorial class. although augustus had resigned as consul, he desired to retain his consular imperium not just in his provinces but throughout the empire. this desire, as well as the marcus primus affair, led to a second compromise between him and the senate known as the second settlement. the primary reasons for the second settlement were as follows. first, after augustus relinquished the annual consulship, he was no longer in an official position to rule the state, yet his dominant position remained unchanged over his roman, ' imperial ' provinces where he was still a proconsul. when he annually held the office of consul, he had the power to intervene with the affairs of the other provincial proconsuls appointed by the senate throughout the empire, when he deemed necessary. a second problem later arose showing the need for the second settlement in what became known as the " marcus primus affair ". in late 24 or early 23 bc, charges were brought against marcus primus, the former proconsul ( governor ) of macedonia, for waging a war without prior approval of the senate on the odrysian kingdom of thrace, whose king was a roman ally. he was defended by lucius licinius varro muren