had the authority to regulate and fund the continental army, but it lacked the power to compel the states to comply with requests for either troops or funding. this left the military vulnerable to inadequate funding, supplies, and even food. further, although the articles enabled the states to present a unified front when dealing with the european powers, as a tool to build a centralized war - making government, they were largely a failure ; historian bruce chadwick wrote : phelps wrote : the continental congress, before the articles were approved, had promised soldiers a pension of half pay for life. however congress had no power to compel the states to fund this obligation, and as the war wound down after the victory at yorktown the sense of urgency to support the military was no longer a factor. no progress was made in congress during the winter of 1783 – 84. general henry knox, who would later become the first secretary of war under the constitution, blamed the weaknesses of the articles for the inability of the government to fund the army. the army had long been supportive of a strong union. knox wrote : as congress failed to act on the petitions, knox wrote to gouverneur morris, four years before the philadelphia convention was convened, " as the present constitution is so defective, why do not you great men call the people together and tell them so ; that is, to have a convention of the states to form a better constitution. " once the war had been won, the continental army was largely disbanded. a very small national force was maintained to man the frontier forts and to protect against native american attacks. meanwhile, each of the states had an army ( or militia ), and 11 of them had navies. the wartime promises of bounties and land grants to be paid for service were not being met. in 1783, george washington defused the newburgh conspiracy, but riots by unpaid pennsylvania veterans forced congress to leave philadelphia temporarily. the congress from time to time during the revolutionary war requisitioned troops from the states. any contributions were voluntary, and in the debates of 1788, the federalists ( who supported the proposed new constitution ) claimed that state politicians acted unilaterally, and contributed when the continental army protected their state ' s interests. the anti - federalists claimed that state politicians understood their duty to the union and contributed to advance its needs. dougherty ( 2009 ) concludes that generally the states ' behavior validated the federalist analysis. this helps explain why the articles of confederation needed reforms. foreign policy the 1783 treaty of paris, which