exile by 500 li ; if injury occurs in process, death by hanging '. from 1275 in england ; as part of its provisions on rape, the statute of westminster 1275 made it a misdemeanor to " ravish " a " maiden within age, " whether with or without her consent. the phrase " within age " was later interpreted by jurist sir edward coke ( england, 17th century ) as meaning the age of marriage, which at the time was twelve years of age. 大 明 · 之 二 十 五 · ·, ( great ming code, 25th section, criminal code on rape ) came into effect from 1373, raised the age of consent to 12 by stating ' 十 二 下 女 有 心 和 同 成 。 girls younger than 12 lack rational sexual desires, therefore any intercourse with them is considered the same as rape and therefore punishable by death with hanging. ' the american colonies followed the english tradition, and the law was more of a guide. for example, mary hathaway ( virginia, 1689 ) was only nine when she was married to william williams. sir edward coke " made it clear that the marriage of girls under 12 was normal, and the age at which a girl who was a wife was eligible for a dower from her husband ' s estate was 9 even though her husband be only four years old. " in the 16th century, a small number of italian and german states set the minimum age for sexual intercourse for girls, setting it at twelve years. towards the end of the 18th century, other european countries also began to enact similar laws. the first french constitution of 1791 established the minimum age at eleven years. portugal, spain, denmark and the swiss cantons initially set the minimum age at ten to twelve years. age of consent laws were historically difficult to follow and enforce. legal norms based on age were not, in general, common until the 19th century, because clear proof of exact age and precise date of birth were often unavailable. in 18th century australia it was thought that children were inherently sinful and vulnerable to sexual temptations. punishment for " giving in " to these temptations was generally left to parents and was not seen as a government matter, except in the case of rape. australian children had few rights and were legally considered the chattel of their parents. from the late 18th century, and especially in the 19th century, attitudes started to change. by the mid