locally are used in the preparation of herbs and medicines. the trees within the forests are primarily fir, oak, beech and pine. conservation albania has been an active participant in numerous international agreements and conventions aimed at strengthing its commitment to the preservation and sustainable management of biological diversity. since 1994, the country is a party to the convention on biological diversity ( cbd ) and its associated cartagena and nagoya protocols. to uphold these commitments, it has developed and implemented a comprehensive national biodiversity strategy and action plan ( nbsap ). furthermore, albania has established a partnership with the international union for conservation of nature ( iucn ), advancing its conservation efforts on both national and international scales. guided by the iucn, the country has made substantial progress in the foundation of protected areas within its boundaries, encompassing 12 national parks among others butrint, karaburun - sazan, llogara, prespa and vjosa. as a signatory to the ramsar convention, albania has granted special recognition upon four wetlands, designating them as wetlands of international importance, including buna - shkoder, butrint, karavasta and prespa. the country ' s dedication to protection extends further into the sphere of unesco ' s world network of biosphere reserves, operating within the framework of the man and the biosphere programme, evidenced by its engagement in the ohrid - prespa transboundary biosphere reserve. furthermore, albania is host to two natural world heritage sites, which encompass the ohrid region and both the gashi river and rrajca as part of ancient and primeval beech forests of the carpathians and other regions of europe. protected areas the protected areas of albania are areas designated and managed by the albanian government. there are 12 national parks, 4 ramsar sites, 1 biosphere reserve and 786 other types of conservation reserves in albania. located in the north, the albanian alps national park, comprising the former theth national park and valbone valley national park, is surrounded amidst the towering peaks of the albanian alps. in the east, portions of the rugged korab, nemercka and shebenik mountains are conserved within the boundaries of fir of hotove - dangelli national park, shebenik national park and prespa national park, with the latter encompassing albania ' s share of the great and small lakes of prespa. to the south, the ceraunian mountains define the albanian ionian sea coast, shaping the landscape of llogara national park