and shadow ( diceless ) was released publicly in full - color print and pdf, along with additional supplements and continued support. setting the game is set in the multiverse described in zelazny ' s chronicles of amber. the first book assumes that gamemasters will set their campaigns after the patternfall war ; that is, after the end of the fifth book in the series, the courts of chaos, but uses material from the following books to describe those parts of zelazny ' s cosmology that were featured there in more detail. the amber multiverse consists of amber, a city at one pole of the universe wherein is found the pattern, the symbol of order ; the courts of chaos, an assembly of worlds at the other pole where can be found the logrus, the manifestation of chaos, and the abyss, the source or end of all reality ; and shadow, the collection of all possible universes ( shadows ) between and around them. inhabitants of either pole can use one or both of the pattern and the logrus to travel through shadow. it is assumed that players will portray the children of the main characters from the books – the ruling family of amber, known as the elder amberites – or a resident of the courts. however, since some feel that being the children of the main characters is too limiting, it is fairly common to either start with king oberon ' s death before the book begins and roleplay the elder amberites as they vie for the throne ; or to populate amber from scratch with a different set of elder amberites. the former option is one presented in the book ; the latter is known in the amber community as an " amethyst " game. a third option is to have the players portray corwin ' s children, in an amber - like city built around corwin ' s pattern ; this is sometimes called an " argent " game, since one of corwin ' s heraldic colours is silver. system attributes characters in amber drpg are represented by four attributes : psyche, strength, endurance and warfare. psyche is used for feats of willpower or magic strength is used for feats of strength or unarmed combat endurance is used for feats of endurance warfare is used for armed combat, from duelling to commanding armies the attributes run from −25 ( normal human level ), through −10 ( normal level for a denizen of the courts of chaos ) and 0 ( normal level for an inhabitant of amber ), upwards without limit. scores above 0 are " ranked "