differentiation of a. jimmadseni based on the shape of the jugal. a. europaeus was found in the kimmeridgian - age porto novo member of the lourinha formation, but it may be the same as a. fragilis. allosaurus material from portugal was first reported in 1999 on the basis of mhnul / and. 001, a partial skeleton including a quadrate, vertebrae, ribs, gastralia, chevrons, part of the hips, and legs. this specimen was assigned to a. fragilis, but the subsequent discovery of a partial skull and neck ( ml 415 ) near lourinha, in the kimmeridgian - age porto novo member of the lourinha formation, spurred the naming of the new species as a. europaeus by octavio mateus and colleagues. the species appeared earlier in the jurassic than a. fragilis and differs from other species of allosaurus in cranial details. however, more material may show it to be a. fragilis, as originally described. the issue of species and potential synonyms is complicated by the type specimen of allosaurus fragilis ( ypm 1930 ) being extremely fragmentary, consisting of a few incomplete vertebrae, limb fragments, rib fragments, and a single tooth. because of this, several scientists have interpreted the type specimen as potentially dubious, meaning the genus allosaurus itself or at least the species a. fragilis would be a nomen dubium ( " dubious name ", based on a specimen too incomplete to compare to other specimens or to classify ). to address this situation, gregory s. paul and kenneth carpenter ( 2010 ) submitted a petition to the iczn to have the name " a. fragilis " officially transferred to the more complete specimen usnm4734 ( as a neotype ). synonyms creosaurus, epanterias, and labrosaurus are regarded as junior synonyms of allosaurus. most of the species that are regarded as synonyms of a. fragilis, or that were misassigned to the genus, are obscure and based on very scrappy remains. one exception is labrosaurus ferox, named in 1884 by marsh for an oddly formed partial lower jaw, with a prominent gap in the tooth row at the tip of the jaw, and a rear section greatly expanded and turned down. later researchers suggested that the bone was pathologic, showing an injury to the living animal, and that