increase the productivity of the wild karuka fruit trees to support the hunter - gatherer way of life. the gunditjmara and other groups developed eel farming and fish trapping systems from some 5, 000 years ago. there is evidence of ' intensification ' across the whole continent over that period. in two regions of australia, the central west coast and eastern central, early farmers cultivated yams, native millet, and bush onions, possibly in permanent settlements. revolution in the middle ages, compared to the roman period, agriculture in western europe became more focused on self - sufficiency. the agricultural population under feudalism was typically organized into manors consisting of several hundred or more acres of land presided over by a lord of the manor with a roman catholic church and priest. thanks to the exchange with the al - andalus where the arab agricultural revolution was underway, european agriculture transformed, with improved techniques and the diffusion of crop plants, including the introduction of sugar, rice, cotton and fruit trees ( such as the orange ). after 1492, the columbian exchange brought new world crops such as maize, potatoes, tomatoes, sweet potatoes, and manioc to europe, and old world crops such as wheat, barley, rice, and turnips, and livestock ( including horses, cattle, sheep and goats ) to the americas. irrigation, crop rotation, and fertilizers advanced from the 17th century with the british agricultural revolution, allowing global population to rise significantly. since 1900, agriculture in developed nations, and to a lesser extent in the developing world, has seen large rises in productivity as mechanization replaces human labor, and assisted by synthetic fertilizers, pesticides, and selective breeding. the haber - bosch method allowed the synthesis of ammonium nitrate fertilizer on an industrial scale, greatly increasing crop yields and sustaining a further increase in global population. modern agriculture has raised or encountered ecological, political, and economic issues including water pollution, biofuels, genetically modified organisms, tariffs and farm subsidies, leading to alternative approaches such as the organic movement. unsustainable farming practices in north america led to the dust bowl of the 1930s. types pastoralism involves managing domesticated animals. in nomadic pastoralism, herds of livestock are moved from place to place in search of pasture, fodder, and water. this type of farming is practised in arid and semi - arid regions of sahara, central asia and some parts of india. in shifting cultivation, a small area of forest is cleared by cutting and