cohim, kochi ) securely on his throne. in return, the king of cochin gave the portuguese permission to build the portuguese fort immanuel ( fort kochi ) and establish trade relations with quilon ( coulao, kollam ). this laid the foundation for the eastern portuguese empire. second expedition to india, 1506 albuquerque returned home in july 1504 and was well received by king manuel i. after he assisted with the creation of a strategy for the portuguese efforts in the east, king manuel entrusted him with the command of a squadron of five vessels in the fleet of sixteen sailing for india in early 1506, headed by tristao da cunha. the aim of the expedition was to conquer socotra and build a fortress there, hoping to close the trade in the red sea. albuquerque went as " chief - captain for the coast of arabia ", sailing under da cunha ' s orders until reaching mozambique. he carried a sealed letter with a secret mission ordered by the king : after fulfilling the first mission, he was to replace the first viceroy of india, francisco de almeida, whose term ended two years later. before departing, he legitimized his son bras ( " braz " in the old portuguese spelling ), born to a common portuguese woman named joana vicente in 1500. first conquest of socotra and ormuz, 1507 the fleet left lisbon on 6 april 1506. albuquerque piloted his ship himself, having lost his appointed pilot on departure. in mozambique channel, they rescued captain joao da nova, who had encountered difficulties on his return from india ; da nova and his ship, the frol de la mar, joined da cunha ' s fleet. from malindi, da cunha sent envoys to ethiopia, which at the time was thought to be closer to india than it actually is, under the aegis of albuquerque. after failing to reach ethiopia, he managed to land the envoys in filuk. after successful attacks on arab cities on the east african coast, the expedition conquered the island of socotra and built a fortress at suq, hoping to establish a base to stop the red sea commerce to the indian ocean. however, socotra was abandoned four years later, as it was eventually realised to be a poor location for a base. at socotra, they parted ways : tristao da cunha sailed for india, where he would relieve the portuguese besieged at cannanore, while afonso took seven ships