to him as phoebus. there was a tradition that the delphic oracle was consulted as early as the period of the kings of rome during the reign of tarquinius superbus. on the occasion of a pestilence in the 430s bce, apollo ' s first temple at rome was established in the flaminian fields, replacing an older cult site there known as the " apollinare ". during the second punic war in 212 bce, the ludi apollinares ( " apollonian games " ) were instituted in his honor, on the instructions of a prophecy attributed to one marcius. in the time of augustus, who considered himself under the special protection of apollo and was even said to be his son, his worship developed and he became one of the chief gods of rome. after the battle of actium, which was fought near a sanctuary of apollo, augustus enlarged apollo ' s temple, dedicated a portion of the spoils to him, and instituted quinquennial games in his honour. he also erected a new temple to the god on the palatine hill. sacrifices and prayers on the palatine to apollo and diana formed the culmination of the secular games, held in 17 bce to celebrate the dawn of a new era. festivals the chief apollonian festival was the pythian games held every four years at delphi and was one of the four great panhellenic games. also of major importance was the delia held every four years on delos. athenian annual festivals included the boedromia, metageitnia, pyanepsia, and thargelia. spartan annual festivals were the carneia and the hyacinthia. thebes every nine years held the daphnephoria. attributes and symbols apollo ' s most common attributes were the bow and arrow. other attributes of his included the kithara ( an advanced version of the common lyre ), the plectrum and the sword. another common emblem was the sacrificial tripod, representing his prophetic powers. the pythian games were held in apollo ' s honor every four years at delphi. the bay laurel plant was used in expiatory sacrifices and in making the crown of victory at these games. the palm tree was also sacred to apollo because he had been born under one in delos. animals sacred to apollo included wolves, dolphins, roe deer, swans, cicadas ( symbolizing music and song ), ravens, hawks, crows ( apollo had hawks and crows