self - care assistive technology, technologies involved typically include adaptive clothing, adaptive eating devices, incontinence products, assistive products for manicure, pedicure, hair and facial care, dental care, or assistive products for sexual activities. in comparison, emerging self - care assistive technologies include health and emotion monitoring, smart diapers, smart medication dispensing and management or feeding assistant robot. although the distinction between conventional and emerging technologies is not always clear - cut, emerging assistive technology tends to be " smarter ", using ai and being more connected and interactive, and including body - integrated solutions or components. to a great extent this « conventional » versus « emerging » classification is based on the who ' s priority assistive products list and the iso 9999 standard for assistive products for persons with disabilities, the apl delineating the absolute minimum that countries should be offering to their citizens and iso 9999 defining those products which are already well established in the market. this " well - established status " is reflected in the patent filings between 2013 and 2017. patent registrations for assistive technologies identified as conventional are nearly eight times larger than the ones for emerging assistive technologies. however, patent filings related to more recent emerging assistive technologies are growing almost three times as fast as those pertaining to conventional ones. patent filings in both conventional and emerging assistive technology are highly concentrated on mobility, hearing and vision. investment in emerging assistive technology also focuses on environment. in the conventional sector, mobility represent 54 % of all patents fillings, and is an indication of increased interest in advanced mobility assistive product categories, such as advanced prosthetics, walking aids, wheelchairs, and exoskeletons. in the past, the top patent offices for filing, and therefore perceived target markets, in assistive technology have been the u. s. and japan. patenting activity has, however, been declining in these two jurisdictions. at the same time, there has been a surge in patent filings in china and an increase in filings in the republic of korea. this pattern is observed for both conventional and emerging assistive technology, with china ' s annual filings surpassing those of the u. s. in 2008 for conventional and 2014 for emerging assistive technology. patent filings related to conventional assistive technology have also declined in europe, especially in germany, france, the netherlands and norway. patenting activity indicates the amount of interest and the investment made in respect to an invention ' s