of acute rheumatic fever. the therapy often lasts for one to two weeks, and is rarely indicated for longer periods. after fever and pain have subsided, the aspirin is no longer necessary, since it does not decrease the incidence of heart complications and residual rheumatic heart disease. naproxen has been shown to be as effective as aspirin and less toxic, but due to the limited clinical experience, naproxen is recommended only as a second - line treatment. along with rheumatic fever, kawasaki disease remains one of the few indications for aspirin use in children in spite of a lack of high quality evidence for its effectiveness. low - dose aspirin supplementation has moderate benefits when used for prevention of pre - eclampsia. this benefit is greater when started in early pregnancy. aspirin has also demonstrated anti - tumoral effects, via inhibition of the pttg1 gene, which is often overexpressed in tumors. resistance for some people, aspirin does not have as strong an effect on platelets as for others, an effect known as aspirin - resistance or insensitivity. one study has suggested women are more likely to be resistant than men, and a different, aggregate study of 2, 930 people found 28 % were resistant. a study in 100 italian people found, of the apparent 31 % aspirin - resistant subjects, only 5 % were truly resistant, and the others were noncompliant. another study of 400 healthy volunteers found no subjects who were truly resistant, but some had " pseudoresistance, reflecting delayed and reduced drug absorption ". meta - analysis and systematic reviews have concluded that laboratory confirmed aspirin resistance confers increased rates of poorer outcomes in cardiovascular and neurovascular diseases. although the majority of research conducted has surrounded cardiovascular and neurovascular, there is emerging research into the risk of aspirin resistance after orthopaedic surgery where aspirin is used for venous thromboembolism prophylaxis. aspirin resistance in orthopaedic surgery, specifically after total hip and knee arthroplasties, is of interest as risk factors for aspirin resistance are also risk factors for venous thromboembolisms and osteoarthritis ; the sequalae of requiring a total hip or knee arthroplasty. some of these risk factors include obesity, advancing age, diabetes mellitus, dyslip