" worthy ", " proper ". among the ancient greek philosophers an axiom was a claim which could be seen to be self - evidently true without any need for proof. the root meaning of the word postulate is to " demand " ; for instance, euclid demands that one agree that some things can be done ( e. g., any two points can be joined by a straight line ). ancient geometers maintained some distinction between axioms and postulates. while commenting on euclid ' s books, proclus remarks that " geminus held that this [ 4th ] postulate should not be classed as a postulate but as an axiom, since it does not, like the first three postulates, assert the possibility of some construction but expresses an essential property. " boethius translated ' postulate ' as petitio and called the axioms notiones communes but in later manuscripts this usage was not always strictly kept. historical development early greeks the logico - deductive method whereby conclusions ( new knowledge ) follow from premises ( old knowledge ) through the application of sound arguments ( syllogisms, rules of inference ) was developed by the ancient greeks, and has become the core principle of modern mathematics. tautologies excluded, nothing can be deduced if nothing is assumed. axioms and postulates are thus the basic assumptions underlying a given body of deductive knowledge. they are accepted without demonstration. all other assertions ( theorems, in the case of mathematics ) must be proven with the aid of these basic assumptions. however, the interpretation of mathematical knowledge has changed from ancient times to the modern, and consequently the terms axiom and postulate hold a slightly different meaning for the present day mathematician, than they did for aristotle and euclid. the ancient greeks considered geometry as just one of several sciences, and held the theorems of geometry on par with scientific facts. as such, they developed and used the logico - deductive method as a means of avoiding error, and for structuring and communicating knowledge. aristotle ' s posterior analytics is a definitive exposition of the classical view. an " axiom ", in classical terminology, referred to a self - evident assumption common to many branches of science. a good example would be the assertion that : when an equal amount is taken from equals, an equal amount results. at the foundation of the various sciences lay certain additional hypotheses that were accepted without proof. such a hypothesis was termed a postulate. while the axioms were common to