paris following the 1914 german invasion of belgium. their friendship later declined, due to du bos ' s perception that gide had disavowed or betrayed his spiritual faith, in contrast to du bos ' s own return to faith. du bos ' s essay dialogue avec andre gide was published in 1929. the essay, informed by du bos ' s catholic convictions, condemned gide ' s homosexuality. gide and du bos ' s mutual friend ernst robert curtius criticised the book in a letter to gide, writing that " he [ du bos ] judges you according to catholic morals suffices to neglect his complete indictment. it can only touch those who think like him and are convinced in advance. he has abdicated his intellectual liberty. " in the 1920s, gide became an inspiration for such writers as albert camus and jean - paul sartre. in 1923, he published a book on fyodor dostoyevsky. but, when he defended homosexuality in the public edition of corydon ( 1924 ), he received widespread condemnation. he later considered this his most important work. in 1923, gide sired a daughter, catherine, by elisabeth van rysselberghe, a much younger woman. he had known her for a long time, as she was the daughter of his friends maria monnom and theo van rysselberghe, a belgian neo - impressionist painter. this caused the only crisis in the long - standing relationship between allegret and gide, and damaged his friendship with van rysselberghe. this was possibly gide ' s only sexual relationship with a woman, and it was brief in the extreme. catherine was his only descendant by blood. he liked to call elisabeth " la dame blanche " ( " the white lady " ). elisabeth eventually left her husband to move to paris and manage the practical aspects of gide ' s life ( they had adjoining apartments built on the rue vavin ). she worshipped him, but evidently they no longer had a sexual relationship. in 1924, he published an autobiography, if it die... ( french : si le grain ne meurt ). in the same year, he produced the first french - language editions of joseph conrad ' s heart of darkness and lord jim. after 1925, gide began to campaign for more humane conditions for convicted criminals. his legal wife, madeleine gide, died in 1938. later he explored their unconsummated marriage in his memoir of madeleine, et nunc manet