. some of the other possible formation reactions are : interstellar destruction mechanisms there are 113 total proposed reactions leading to the destruction of. of these, 39 were tabulated in extensive tables of the chemistry among c, n and o compounds. a review of interstellar ammonia cites the following reactions as the principal dissociation mechanisms : with rate constants of 4. 39×10−9 and 2. 2×10−9, respectively. the above equations (, ) run at a rate of 8. 8×10−9 and 4. 4×10−13, respectively. these calculations assumed the given rate constants and abundances of [ ] / [ ] = 10−5, [ ] / [ ] = 2×10−5, [ ] / [ ] = 2×10−9, and total densities of n = 105, typical of cold, dense, molecular clouds. clearly, between these two primary reactions, equation ( ) is the dominant destruction reaction, with a rate ≈10, 000 times faster than equation ( ). this is due to the relatively high abundance of. single antenna detections radio observations of from the effelsberg 100 - m radio telescope reveal that the ammonia line is separated into two components – a background ridge and an unresolved core. the background corresponds well with the locations previously detected co. the 25 m chilbolton telescope in england detected radio signatures of ammonia in h ii regions, hnh2o masers, h – h objects, and other objects associated with star formation. a comparison of emission line widths indicates that turbulent or systematic velocities do not increase in the central cores of molecular clouds. microwave radiation from ammonia was observed in several galactic objects including w3 ( oh ), orion a, w43, w51, and five sources in the galactic centre. the high detection rate indicates that this is a common molecule in the interstellar medium and that high - density regions are common in the galaxy. interferometric studies vla observations of in seven regions with high - velocity gaseous outflows revealed condensations of less than 0. 1 pc in l1551, s140, and cepheus a. three individual condensations were detected in cepheus a, one of them with a highly elongated shape. they may play an important role in creating the bipolar outflow in the region. extragalactic ammonia was imaged using the vla in ic 342. the hot gas has temperatures above 70 k, which was infer