second world war ; the university park on the campus of aarhus university includes the natural history museum with 5, 000 species of animals, many in their natural surroundings ; and the steno museum is a museum of the history of science and medicine with a planetarium. kunsthal aarhus ( aarhus art hall ) hosts exhibitions of contemporary art including painting, sculpture, photography, performance art, film and video. strictly speaking it is not a museum but an arts centre, one of the oldest in europe, built and founded in 1917. libraries and community centres public libraries in denmark are also cultural and community centres. they play an active role in cultural life and host many events, exhibitions, discussion groups, workshops, educational courses and facilitate everyday cultural activities for and by the citizens. in june 2015, the large central library and cultural centre of dokk1 opened at the harbour front. dokk1 also includes civil administrations and services, commercial office rentals and a large underground robotic car park and aims to be a landmark for the city and a public meeting place. the building of dokk1 and the associated squares and streetscape is also collectively known as urban mediaspace aarhus and it is the largest construction project aarhus municipality has yet undertaken. apart from this large main library, some neighbourhoods in aarhus have a local library engaged in similar cultural and educational activities, but on a more local scale. the state library ( statsbiblioteket ) at the university campus has status of a national library. the city is a member of the icorn organisation ( international cities of refuge network ) in an effort to provide a safe haven to authors and writers persecuted in their countries of origin. there are several cultural and community centres throughout the city. this includes folkestedet in the central aparken, facilitating events for and by non - commercial associations, organisations and clubs, and activities for the elderly, the nearby godsbanen at the railway yard, with workshops, events and exhibitions, and globus1 in brabrand facilitating sports and various cultural activities. performing arts the city enjoys strong musical traditions, both classical and alternative, underground and popular, with educational and performance institutions such as the concert halls of musikhuset, the opera of den jyske opera, aarhus symfoniorkester ( aarhus symphony orchestra ) and det jyske musikkonservatorium ( royal academy of music, aarhus / aalborg ). musikhuset is the largest concert hall in scandinavia, with seating for more than 3, 600 people. other major music venues include voxhall