##ies, such as portugal, spain, and france, where profit mostly or exclusively benefited the monarchy and its allies. trans - atlantic trade also resulted in increasing urbanization : in european countries facing the atlantic, urbanization grew from 8 % in 1300, 10. 1 % in 1500, to 24. 5 % in 1850 ; in other european countries from 10 % in 1300, 11. 4 % in 1500, to 17 % in 1850. likewise, gdp doubled in atlantic countries but rose by only 30 % in the rest of europe. by end of the 17th century, the volume of the trans - atlantic trade had surpassed that of the mediterranean trade. economy the atlantic has contributed significantly to the development and economy of surrounding countries. besides major transatlantic transportation and communication routes, the atlantic offers abundant petroleum deposits in the sedimentary rocks of the continental shelves. the atlantic harbors petroleum and gas fields, fish, marine mammals ( seals and whales ), sand and gravel aggregates, placer deposits, polymetallic nodules, and precious stones. gold deposits are a mile or two under water on the ocean floor, however, the deposits are also encased in rock that must be mined through. currently, there is no cost - effective way to mine or extract gold from the ocean to make a profit. various international treaties attempt to reduce pollution caused by environmental threats such as oil spills, marine debris, and the incineration of toxic wastes at sea. fisheries the shelves of the atlantic hosts one of the world ' s richest fishing resources. the most productive areas include the grand banks of newfoundland, the scotian shelf, georges bank off cape cod, the bahama banks, the waters around iceland, the irish sea, the bay of fundy, the dogger bank of the north sea, and the falkland banks. fisheries have, however, undergone significant changes since the 1950s and global catches can now be divided into three groups of which only two are observed in the atlantic : fisheries in the eastern central and south - west atlantic oscillate around a globally stable value, the rest of the atlantic is in overall decline following historical peaks. the third group, " continuously increasing trend since 1950 ", is only found in the indian ocean and western pacific. un fao partitioned atlantic in major fishing areas : north - east atlantic north - east atlantic is schematically limited to the 40°00 ' west longitude ( except around greenland ), south to the 36°00 ' north latitude, and to the 68°30 ' east longitude, with both