for one of the dams was across the valley floor near nibutani village, the home of a large community of ainu people and an important center of ainu culture and history. when the government commenced construction on the dam in the early 1980s, two ainu landowners refused to agree to the expropriation of their property. these landowners were kaizawa tadashi and kayano shigeru — well - known and important leaders in the ainu community. after kaizawa and kayano declined to sell their land, the hokkaido development bureau applied for and was subsequently granted a project authorization, which required the men to vacate their land. when their appeal of the authorization was denied, kayano and kaizawa ' s son koichi ( kaizawa died in 1992 ) filed suit against the hokkaido development bureau. the final decision denied the relief sought by the plaintiffs for pragmatic reasons ( the dam was already in place ), but the decision was nonetheless heralded as a landmark victory for the ainu people. nearly all of the plaintiffs ' claims were recognized. moreover, the decision marked the first time japanese case law acknowledged the ainu as an indigenous people and contemplated the responsibility of the japanese nation to the indigenous people within its borders. the decision included broad fact - finding that underscored the long history of the oppression of the ainu people by japan ' s majority, referred to as wajin in the case and discussions about the case. the decision was issued on march 27, 1997. because of the broad implications for ainu rights, the plaintiffs decided not to appeal the decision, which became final two weeks later. after the decision was issued, on 8 may, 1997, the diet passed the ainu culture law and repealed the ainu protection act — the 1899 law that had been the vehicle of ainu oppression for almost one hundred years. while the ainu culture law has been widely criticized for its shortcomings, the shift that it represents in japan ' s view of the ainu people is a testament to the importance of the nibutani decision. in 2007, the ' cultural landscape along the sarugawa river resulting from ainu tradition and modern settlement ' was designated an important cultural landscape of japan. a later action seeking restoration of ainu assets held in trust by the japanese government was dismissed in 2008. governmental bodies on ainu affairs there is no single government body to coordinate ainu affairs. rather, various advisory boards are set up by the hokkaido government to advise on specific matters. one such committee operated in the late