regions of nakhchivan autonomous republic. the maximum annual precipitation falls in lankaran ( ) and the minimum in absheron ( ). rivers and lakes form the principal part of the water systems of azerbaijan, they were formed over a long geological timeframe and changed significantly throughout that period. this is particularly evidenced by remnants of ancient rivers found throughout the country. the country ' s water systems are continually changing under the influence of natural forces and human - introduced industrial activities. artificial rivers ( canals ) and ponds are a part of azerbaijan ' s water systems. in terms of water supply, azerbaijan is below the average in the world with approximately per year of water per square kilometer. all big water reservoirs are built on kur. the hydrography of azerbaijan basically belongs to the caspian sea basin. the kura and aras are the major rivers in azerbaijan. they run through the kura - aras lowland. the rivers that directly flow into the caspian sea, originate mainly from the north - eastern slope of the major caucasus and talysh mountains and run along the samur – devechi and lankaran lowlands. yanar dag, translated as " burning mountain ", is a natural gas fire which blazes continuously on a hillside on the absheron peninsula on the caspian sea near baku, which itself is known as the " land of fire. " flames jet out into the air from a thin, porous sandstone layer. it is a tourist attraction to visitors to the baku area. biodiversity the first reports on the richness and diversity of animal life in azerbaijan can be found in travel notes of eastern travelers. animal carvings on architectural monuments, ancient rocks, and stones survived up to the present times. the first information on flora and fauna of azerbaijan was collected during the visits of naturalists to azerbaijan in the 17th century. there are 106 species of mammals, 97 species of fish, 363 species of birds, 10 species of amphibians, and 52 species of reptiles which have been recorded and classified in azerbaijan. the national animal of azerbaijan is the karabakh horse, a mountain - steppe racing and riding horse endemic to azerbaijan. the karabakh horse has a reputation for its good temper, speed, elegance, and intelligence. it is one of the oldest breeds, with ancestry dating to the ancient world, but today the horse is an endangered species. azerbaijan ' s flora consists of more than 4, 500 species of higher plants. due to the unique climate in azerbaijan, the flora is much richer in the number of species than the