and thus prevent the incumbent government from being re - elected. alex inadvertently reveals that he was the ringleader of the home invasion ; he is removed from the cottage and locked in an upper - storey bedroom as a relentless barrage of classical music plays over speakers. he attempts suicide by leaping from the window. alex wakes up in a hospital, where he is courted by government officials, anxious to counter the bad publicity created by his suicide attempt. he is informed that f. alexander has been " put away " for alex ' s protection and his own. alex is offered a well - paying job if he agrees to side with the government once discharged. a round of tests reveals that his old violent impulses have returned, indicating that the hospital doctors have undone the effects of his conditioning. as photographers snap pictures, alex daydreams of orgiastic violence and reflects, " i was cured all right. " in the final chapter, alex — now 18 years old and working for the nation ' s musical recording archives — finds himself halfheartedly preparing for another night of crime with a new gang ( len, rick, and bully ). after a chance encounter with pete, who has reformed and married, alex finds himself taking less and less pleasure in acts of senseless violence. he begins contemplating giving up crime himself to become a productive member of society and start a family of his own while reflecting on the notion that his children could end up being just as destructive as he has been, if not more so. omission of the final chapter in the us the book has three parts, each with seven chapters. burgess has stated that the total of 21 chapters was an intentional nod to the age of 21 being recognised as a milestone in human maturation. the 21st chapter was omitted from the editions published in the united states prior to 1986. in the introduction to the updated american text ( these newer editions include the missing 21st chapter ), burgess explains that when he first brought the book to an american publisher, he was told that us audiences would never go for the final chapter, in which alex sees the error of his ways, decides he has lost his taste for violence and resolves to turn his life around. at the american publisher ' s insistence, burgess allowed their editors to cut the redeeming final chapter from the us version, so that the tale would end on a darker note, with alex becoming his old, ultraviolent self again – an ending which the publisher insisted would be " more realistic " and appealing to a us audience. the film adaptation,