cape floristic region ( gcfr ) along the coast of south africa. during the latest glacial stages, the now - submerged plains of the agulhas bank were exposed above sea level, extending the south african coastline farther south by hundreds of kilometers. a small population of modern humansprobably fewer than a thousand reproducing individualssurvived glacial maxima by exploring the high diversity offered by these palaeo - agulhas plains. the gcfr is delimited to the north by the cape fold belt and the limited space south of it resulted in the development of social networks out of which complex stone age technologies emerged. human history thus begins on the coasts of south africa where the atlantic benguela upwelling and indian ocean agulhas current meet to produce an intertidal zone on which shellfish, fur seal, fish and sea birds provided the necessary protein sources. the african origin of this modern behaviour is evidenced by 70, 000 years - old engravings from blombos cave, south africa. old world mitochondrial dna ( mtdna ) studies indicate that 80 – 60, 000 years ago a major demographic expansion within africa, derived from a single, small population, coincided with the emergence of behavioral complexity and the rapid mis 5 – 4 environmental changes. this group of people not only expanded over the whole of africa, but also started to disperse out of africa into asia, europe, and australasia around 65, 000 years ago and quickly replaced the archaic humans in these regions. during the last glacial maximum ( lgm ) 20, 000 years ago humans had to abandon their initial settlements along the european north atlantic coast and retreat to the mediterranean. following rapid climate changes at the end of the lgm this region was repopulated by magdalenian culture. other hunter - gatherers followed in waves interrupted by large - scale hazards such as the laacher see volcanic eruption, the inundation of doggerland ( now the north sea ), and the formation of the baltic sea. the european coasts of the north atlantic were permanently populated about 9 – 8. 5 thousand years ago. this human dispersal left abundant traces along the coasts of the atlantic ocean. 50 kya - old, deeply stratified shell middens found in ysterfontein on the western coast of south africa are associated with the middle stone age ( msa ). the msa population was small and dispersed and the rate of their reproduction and exploitation was less intense than those of later generations. while their middens