##ticore a comparison is repeatedly made between the protagonist ' s problematic relations with his father and those of the biblical absalom and king david. paradoxically, in the modern version, it is the rebellious son who has the first name " david ". the book also introduces the term " absalonism ", as a generic term for a son ' s rebellion against his father. absalom appears as a prominent character in peter shaffer ' s play yonadab, which portrays amnon ' s rape of tamar and his murder at absalom ' s hands. a scene in the swedish writer frans g. bengtsson ' s historical novel " the long ships " depicts a 10th century christian missionary recounting the story of absalom ' s rebellion to the assembled danish court, including the aging king harald bluetooth and his son sweyn forkbeard ; thereupon, king harald exclaims " some people can learn a lesson from this story! ", casting a meaningful glance at his son sweyn — whom the king ( rightly ) suspects of plotting a rebellion. in the novel the book of tamar by nel havas, the story of absalom is presented from the viewpoint of his sister. while closely following the main events as related in the bible, havas concentrates on the motives behind absalom ' s actions, which havas presents as more complex than depicted in the scriptures. in the novel ender ' s shadow by orson scott card, the main character bean invokes the quote to give solace to the kamikaze pilots ender had unknowingly sent to their deaths to defeat the formics. the role played by luxuriant hair in the death of absalom is referenced to telling effect in the ghost story the diary of mr poynter by master of the genre m. r. james. the ghost in question is that of dissolute young nobleman sir everard charlett, known to his oxford university cronies by the nickname absalom, on account of his beautiful, long hair and debauched lifestyle. sir everard has commemorated his flowing locks by the unusual expedient of having them portrayed in a wallpaper pattern, which later proves to have the power to summon his malign, hair - covered ghost - much to the horror of james ’ s unfortunate protagonist, mr. james denton. music josquin des prez composed the motet " absalon, fili mi "