criticized for becoming merely a " business artist ". critics panned his 1980 exhibition ten portraits of jews of the twentieth century at the jewish museum in manhattan, which warhol — who was uninterested in judaism and jews — had described in his diary as " they ' re going to sell. " in hindsight, however, some critics have come to view warhol ' s superficiality and commerciality as " the most brilliant mirror of our times ", contending that " warhol had captured something irresistible about the zeitgeist of american culture in the 1970s. " in 1981, warhol worked on a project with peter sellars and lewis allen that would create a traveling stage show called, a no man show, with a life - sized animatronic robot in the exact image of warhol. the andy warhol robot would then be able to read warhol ' s diaries as a theatrical production. the play would be based on warhol ' s books the philosophy of andy warhol and exposures. warhol was quoted as saying, " i ' d like to be a machine, wouldn ' t you? " warhol also had an appreciation for intense hollywood glamour. he once said : " i love los angeles. i love hollywood. they ' re so beautiful. everything ' s plastic, but i love plastic. i want to be plastic. " warhol occasionally walked the fashion runways and did product endorsements, represented by zoli agency and later ford models. before the 1984 sarajevo winter olympics, he teamed with 15 other artists, including david hockney and cy twombly, and contributed a speed skater print to the art and sport collection. the speed skater was used for the official sarajevo winter olympics poster. in 1984, vanity fair commissioned warhol to produce a portrait of prince, in order to accompany an article that celebrated the success of purple rain and its accompanying movie. referencing the many celebrity portraits produced by warhol across his career, orange prince ( 1984 ) was created using a similar composition to the marilyn " flavors " series from 1962, among some of warhol ' s first celebrity portraits. prince is depicted in a pop color palette commonly used by warhol, in bright orange with highlights of bright green and blue. the facial features and hair are screen - printed in black over the orange background. in september 1985, warhol ' s joint exhibition with basquiat, paintings, opened to negative reviews at the tony shafrazi gallery. that month, despite apprehension from warhol, his silkscreen series