small. ( the largest species of salamanders do not go through a metamorphosis. ) amphibians that lay eggs on land often go through the whole metamorphosis inside the egg. an anamniotic terrestrial egg is less than 1 cm in diameter due to diffusion problems, a size which puts a limit on the amount of posthatching growth. the smallest amphibian ( and vertebrate ) in the world is a microhylid frog from new guinea ( paedophryne amauensis ) first discovered in 2012. it has an average length of and is part of a genus that contains four of the world ' s ten smallest frog species. the largest living amphibian is the chinese giant salamander ( andrias davidianus ) but this is a great deal smaller than the largest amphibian that ever existed — the extinct prionosuchus, a crocodile - like temnospondyl dating to 270 million years ago from the middle permian of brazil. the largest frog is the african goliath frog ( conraua goliath ), which can reach and weigh. amphibians are ectothermic ( cold - blooded ) vertebrates that do not maintain their body temperature through internal physiological processes. their metabolic rate is low and as a result, their food and energy requirements are limited. in the adult state, they have tear ducts and movable eyelids, and most species have ears that can detect airborne or ground vibrations. they have muscular tongues, which in many species can be protruded. modern amphibians have fully ossified vertebrae with articular processes. their ribs are usually short and may be fused to the vertebrae. their skulls are mostly broad and short, and are often incompletely ossified. their skin contains little keratin and lacks scales, apart from a few fish - like scales in certain caecilians. the skin contains many mucous glands and in some species, poison glands ( a type of granular gland ). the hearts of amphibians have three chambers, two atria and one ventricle. they have a urinary bladder and nitrogenous waste products are excreted primarily as urea. most amphibians lay their eggs in water and have aquatic larvae that undergo metamorphosis to become terrestrial adults. amphibians breathe by means of a pump action in which air is first drawn into the buccopharyngeal region through the nostrils. these are then