broke out within tribes. about 12, 000 indian warriors fought for the confederacy and smaller numbers for the union. the most prominent cherokee was brigadier general stand watie, the last confederate general to surrender. after the fall of vicksburg in july 1863, general kirby smith in texas was informed by jefferson davis that he could expect no further help from east of the mississippi river. although he lacked resources to beat union armies, he built up a formidable arsenal at tyler, along with his own kirby smithdom economy, a virtual " independent fiefdom " in texas, including railroad construction and international smuggling. the union, in turn, did not directly engage him. its 1864 red river campaign to take shreveport, louisiana, was a failure and texas remained in confederate hands throughout the war. lower seaboard theater background the lower seaboard theater refers to military and naval operations that occurred near the coastal areas of the southeast ( alabama, florida, louisiana, mississippi, south carolina, and texas ) as well as the southern part of the mississippi river ( port hudson and south ). union naval activities were dictated by the anaconda plan. battles one of the earliest battles of the war was fought at port royal sound ( november 1861 ), south of charleston. much of the war along the south carolina coast concentrated on capturing charleston. in attempting to capture charleston, the union military tried two approaches : by land over james or morris islands or through the harbor. however, the confederates were able to drive back each union attack. one of the most famous of the land attacks was the second battle of fort wagner, in which the 54th massachusetts infantry took part. the union suffered a serious defeat in this battle, losing 1, 515 soldiers while the confederates lost only 174. however, the 54th was hailed for its valor in that battle, which encouraged the general acceptance of the recruitment of african american soldiers into the union army, which reinforced the union ' s numerical advantage. fort pulaski on the georgia coast was an early target for the union navy. following the capture of port royal, an expedition was organized with engineer troops under the command of captain quincy a. gillmore, forcing a confederate surrender. the union army occupied the fort for the rest of the war after repairing it. in april 1862, a union naval task force commanded by commander david d. porter attacked forts jackson and st. philip, which guarded the river approach to new orleans from the south. while part of the fleet bombarded the forts, other vessels forced a break in the obstructions in the river and enabled