a critically and commercially successful venture, earning more than any previous kurosawa film. the movie and its blackly comic tone were also widely imitated abroad. sergio leone ' s a fistful of dollars was a virtual ( unauthorized ) scene - by - scene remake with toho filing a lawsuit on kurosawa ' s behalf and prevailing. following the success of yojimbo, kurosawa found himself under pressure from toho to create a sequel. kurosawa turned to a script he had written before yojimbo, reworking it to include the hero of his previous film. sanjuro was the first of three kurosawa films to be adapted from the work of the writer shugoro yamamoto ( the others would be red beard and dodeskaden ). it is lighter in tone and closer to a conventional period film than yojimbo, though its story of a power struggle within a samurai clan is portrayed with strongly comic undertones. the film opened on january 1, 1962, quickly surpassing yojimbos box office success and garnering positive reviews. kurosawa had meanwhile instructed toho to purchase the film rights to king ' s ransom, a novel about a kidnapping written by american author and screenwriter evan hunter, under his pseudonym of ed mcbain, as one of his 87th precinct series of crime books. the director intended to create a work condemning kidnapping, which he considered one of the very worst crimes. the suspense film, titled high and low, was shot during the latter half of 1962 and released in march 1963. it broke kurosawa ' s box office record ( the third film in a row to do so ), became the highest grossing japanese film of the year, and won glowing reviews. however, his triumph was somewhat tarnished when, ironically, the film was blamed for a wave of kidnappings which occurred in japan about this time ( he himself received kidnapping threats directed at his young daughter, kazuko ). high and low is considered by many commentators to be among the director ' s strongest works. kurosawa quickly moved on to his next project, red beard. based on a short story collection by shugoro yamamoto and incorporating elements from dostoevsky ' s novel the insulted and injured, it is a period film, set in a mid - nineteenth century clinic for the poor, in which kurosawa ' s humanist themes receive perhaps their fullest statement. a conceited and materialistic, foreign - trained young doctor, yasumoto, is forced to become an