crete, where he was " quietly put out of the way " sometime after the excitement had abated. the soldiers then fought a three - day battle against the populace of rome, and this battle ended after several parts of the city were set on fire. dio was among those who gave a highly critical account of military discipline during the time, saying that the soldiers would rather just surrender to the enemy. different reasons are given for this issue ; campbell points to... the decline in the prestige of the severan dynasty, the feeble nature of alexander himself, who appeared to be no soldier and to be completely dominated by his mother ' s advice, and lack of real military success at a time during which the empire was coming under increasing pressure. herodian, on the other hand, was convinced that " the emperor ' s miserliness ( partly the result of his mother ' s greed ) and slowness to bestow donatives " were instrumental in the fall of military discipline under alexander. germanic war after the persian war, alexander returned to antioch with origen, one of the fathers of the christian church. alexander ' s mother, julia mamaea, asked for origen to tutor alexander in christianity. while alexander was being educated in the christian doctrines, the northern portion of his empire was being invaded by germanic and sarmatian tribes. a new and menacing enemy started to emerge directly after alexander ' s success in the persian war. in 234, the barbarians crossed the rhine and danube in hordes that caused alarm as far as rome. the soldiers serving under alexander, already demoralized after their costly war against the persians, were further discontented with their emperor when their homes were destroyed by the barbarian invaders. as word of the invasion spread, the emperor took the front line and went to battle against the germanic invaders. the romans prepared heavily for the war, building a fleet to carry the entire army across. however, at this point in alexander ' s career, he still knew little about being a general. because of this, he hoped the mere threat of his armies would be sufficient to persuade the hostile tribes to surrender. severus enforced a strict military discipline in his men that sparked a rebellion among his legions. due to incurring heavy losses against the persians, and on the advice of his mother, alexander attempted to buy the germanic tribes off, so as to gain time. it was this decision that resulted in the legionaries looking down upon alexander. they considered him dishonorable and feared he was unfit to be