and is notable for its highly ornate interior dome with carved stucco decoration, complex arch shapes, and minor muqarnas cupolas in the corners of the structure. the central nave of the expanded qarawiyyin mosque notably features the earliest full - fledged example of muqarnas vaulting in the western islamic world. the complexity of these muqarnas vaults at such an early date – only several decades after the first simple muqarnas vaults appeared in distant iraq – has been noted by architectural historians as surprising. another high point of almoravid architecture is the intricate ribbed dome in front of the mihrab of the great mosque of tlemcen, which likely traces its origins to the 10th - century ribbed domes of the great mosque of cordoba. the structure of the dome is strictly ornamental, consisting of multiple ribs or intersecting arches forming a twelve - pointed star pattern. it is also partly see - through, allowing some outside light to filter through a screen of pierced and carved arabesque decoration that fills the spaces between the ribs. aside from more ornamental religious structures, the almoravids also built many fortifications, although most of these in turn were demolished or modified by the almohads and later dynasties. the new capital, marrakesh, initially had no city walls but a fortress known as the ksar el - hajjar ( " fortress of stone " ) was built by the city ' s founder, abu bakr ibn umar, in order to house the treasury and serve as an initial residence. eventually, circa 1126, ali ibn yusuf also constructed a full set of walls, made of rammed earth, around the city in response to the growing threat of the almohads. these walls, although much restored and partly expanded in later centuries, continue to serve as the walls of the medina of marrakesh today. the medina ' s main gates were also first built at this time, although many of them have since been significantly modified. bab doukkala, one of the western gates, is believed to have best preserved its original almoravid layout. it has a classic bent entrance configuration, of which variations are found throughout the medieval period of the maghreb and al - andalus. elsewhere, the archaeological site of tasghimut, southeast of marrakesh, and amargu, northeast of fes, provide evidence about other almoravid forts. built out of rubble stone or rammed earth, they illustrate similarities with older hammadid fortifications, as