in may 1937. named randall gair, crowley nicknamed him aleister ataturk. he died in a car accident in 2002 at the age of 65. crowley continued to socialize with friends, holding curry parties in which he cooked particularly spicy food for them. in 1936, he published his first book in six years, the equinox of the gods, which contained a facsimile of the book of the law and was considered to be volume iii, number 3, of the equinox periodical. the work sold well, resulting in a second print run. in 1937, he gave a series of public lectures on yoga in soho. crowley was now living largely off contributions supplied by the o. t. o. ' s agape lodge in california, led by rocket scientist john whiteside " jack " parsons. crowley was intrigued by the rise of nazism in germany, and influenced by his friend martha kuntzel believed that adolf hitler might convert to thelema ; when the nazis abolished the german o. t. o. and imprisoned germer, who fled to the us, crowley then lambasted hitler as a black magician. second world war and death : 1939 – 1947 when the second world war broke out, crowley wrote to the naval intelligence division offering his services, but they declined. he associated with a variety of figures in britain ' s intelligence community at the time, including dennis wheatley, roald dahl, ian fleming, and maxwell knight, and claimed to have been behind the " v for victory " sign first used by the bbc ; this has never been proven. in 1940, his asthma worsened, and with his german - produced medication unavailable, he returned to using heroin, once again becoming addicted. as the blitz hit london, crowley relocated to torquay, where he was briefly admitted to hospital with asthma, and entertained himself with visits to the local chess club. tiring of torquay, he returned to london, where he was visited by american thelemite grady mcmurtry, to whom crowley awarded the title of " hymenaeus alpha ". he stipulated that though germer would be his immediate successor, mcmurty should succeed germer as head of the o. t. o. after the latter ' s death. with o. t. o. initiate lady frieda harris, crowley developed plans to produce a tarot card set, designed by him and painted by harris. accompanying this was a book, published in a limited edition as the book of thoth by