, thermometers ( for hypothermia risk ), flooding and unlit gas sensors ( for people with mild dementia ). notably, these alerts can be customized to the particular person ' s risks. when the alert is triggered, a message is sent to a caregiver or contact center who can respond appropriately. accessibility software in human – computer interaction, computer accessibility ( also known as accessible computing ) refers to the accessibility of a computer system to all people, regardless of disability or severity of impairment, examples include web accessibility guidelines. another approach is for the user to present a token to the computer terminal, such as a smart card, that has configuration information to adjust the computer speed, text size, etc. to their particular needs. this is useful where users want to access public computer based terminals in libraries, atm, information kiosks etc. the concept is encompassed by the cen en 1332 - 4 identification card systems – man - machine interface. this development of this standard has been supported in europe by snapi and has been successfully incorporated into the lasseo specifications, but with limited success due to the lack of interest from public computer terminal suppliers. hearing impairments people in the d / deaf and hard of hearing community have a more difficult time receiving auditory information as compared to hearing individuals. these individuals often rely on visual and tactile mediums for receiving and communicating information. the use of assistive technology and devices provides this community with various solutions to auditory communication needs by providing higher sound ( for those who are hard of hearing ), tactile feedback, visual cues and improved technology access. individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing utilize a variety of assistive technologies that provide them with different access to information in numerous environments. most devices either provide amplified sound or alternate ways to access information through vision and / or vibration. these technologies can be grouped into three general categories : hearing technology, alerting devices, and communication support. hearing aids a hearing aid or deaf aid is an electro - acoustic device which is designed to amplify sound for the wearer, usually with the aim of making speech more intelligible, and to correct impaired hearing as measured by audiometry. this type of assistive technology helps people with hearing loss participate more fully in their hearing communities by allowing them to hear more clearly. they amplify any and all sound waves through use of a microphone, amplifier, and speaker. there is a wide variety of hearing aids available, including digital, in - the - ear, in - the