work of art, conveying the content or essential main idea, while all other interpretations can be discarded. it defines the subject as the persons or idea represented, and the content as the artist ' s experience of that subject. for example, the composition of napoleon i on his imperial throne is partly borrowed from the statue of zeus at olympia. as evidenced by the title, the subject is napoleon, and the content is ingres ' s representation of napoleon as " emperor - god beyond time and space ". similarly to extreme formalism, philosophers typically reject extreme intentionalism, because art may have multiple ambiguous meanings and authorial intent may be unknowable and thus irrelevant. its restrictive interpretation is " socially unhealthy, philosophically unreal, and politically unwise ". finally, the developing theory of post - structuralism studies art ' s significance in a cultural context, such as the ideas, emotions, and reactions prompted by a work. the cultural context often reduces to the artist ' s techniques and intentions, in which case analysis proceeds along lines similar to formalism and intentionalism. however, in other cases historical and material conditions may predominate, such as religious and philosophical convictions, sociopolitical and economic structures, or even climate and geography. art criticism continues to grow and develop alongside art. skill and craft art can connote a sense of trained ability or mastery of a medium. art can also refer to the developed and efficient use of a language to convey meaning with immediacy or depth. art can be defined as an act of expressing feelings, thoughts, and observations. there is an understanding that is reached with the material as a result of handling it, which facilitates one ' s thought processes. a common view is that the epithet art, particular in its elevated sense, requires a certain level of creative expertise by the artist, whether this be a demonstration of technical ability, an originality in stylistic approach, or a combination of these two. traditionally skill of execution was viewed as a quality inseparable from art and thus necessary for its success ; for leonardo da vinci, art, neither more nor less than his other endeavors, was a manifestation of skill. rembrandt ' s work, now praised for its ephemeral virtues, was most admired by his contemporaries for its virtuosity. at the turn of the 20th century, the adroit performances of john singer sargent were alternately admired and viewed with skepticism for their manual fluency, yet at nearly the same time the artist who would become the era '