, polished and expanded it and then pitched it to daiei, who were happy to accept the project due to its low budget. the shooting of rashomon began on july 7, 1950, and, after extensive location work in the primeval forest of nara, wrapped on august 17. just one week was spent in hurried post - production, hampered by a studio fire, and the finished film premiered at tokyo ' s imperial theatre on august 25, expanding nationwide the following day. the movie was met by lukewarm reviews, with many critics puzzled by its unique theme and treatment, but it was nevertheless a moderate financial success for daiei. kurosawa ' s next film, for shochiku, was the idiot, an adaptation of the novel by the director ' s favorite writer, fyodor dostoevsky. the story is relocated from russia to hokkaido, but otherwise adheres closely to the original, a fact seen by many critics as detrimental to the work. a studio - mandated edit shortened it from kurosawa ' s original cut of 265 minutes to just 166 minutes, making the resulting narrative exceedingly difficult to follow. the severely edited film version is widely considered to be one of the director ' s least successful works and the original full - length version no longer exists. contemporary reviews of the much shortened edited version were very negative, but the film was a moderate success at the box office, largely because of the popularity of one of its stars, setsuko hara. meanwhile, unbeknownst to kurosawa, rashomon had been entered in the venice film festival, due to the efforts of giuliana stramigioli, a japan - based representative of an italian film company, who had seen and admired the movie and convinced daiei to submit it. on september 10, 1951, rashomon was awarded the festival ' s highest prize, the golden lion, shocking not only daiei but the international film world, which at the time was largely unaware of japan ' s decades - old cinematic tradition. after daiei briefly exhibited a subtitled print of the film in los angeles, rko purchased distribution rights to rashomon in the united states. the company was taking a considerable gamble. it had put out only one prior subtitled film in the american market, and the only previous japanese talkie commercially released in new york had been mikio naruse ' s comedy, wife! be like a rose!, in 1937 : a critical and box - office flop. however, rashomo