guest of the bacchanalia, and many ancient ceramics depict him being at ease amidst the maenads and satyrs. apollo also participated in musical contests when challenged by others. he was the victor in all those contests, but he tended to punish his opponents severely for their hubris. apollo ' s lyre the invention of the lyre is attributed either to hermes or to apollo himself. distinctions have been made that hermes invented lyre made of tortoise shell, whereas the lyre apollo invented was a regular lyre. myths tell that the infant hermes stole a number of apollo ' s cows and took them to a cave in the woods near pylos, covering their tracks. in the cave, he found a tortoise and killed it, then removed the insides. he used one of the cow ' s intestines and the tortoise shell and made his lyre. upon discovering the theft, apollo confronted hermes and asked him to return his cattle. when hermes acted innocent, apollo took the matter to zeus. zeus, having seen the events, sided with apollo, and ordered hermes to return the cattle. hermes then began to play music on the lyre he had invented. apollo fell in love with the instrument and offered to exchange the cattle for the lyre. hence, apollo then became the master of the lyre. according to other versions, apollo had invented the lyre himself, whose strings he tore in repenting of the excess punishment he had given to marsyas. hermes ' lyre, therefore, would be a reinvention. contest with pan once pan had the audacity to compare his music with that of apollo and to challenge the god of music to a contest. the mountain - god tmolus was chosen to umpire. pan blew on his pipes, and with his rustic melody gave great satisfaction to himself and his faithful follower, midas, who happened to be present. then, apollo struck the strings of his lyre. it was so beautiful that tmolus at once awarded the victory to apollo, and everyone was pleased with the judgement. only midas dissented and questioned the justice of the award. apollo did not want to suffer such a depraved pair of ears any longer, and caused them to become the ears of a donkey. contest with marsyas marsyas was a satyr who was punished by apollo for his hubris. he had found an aulos on the ground, tossed away after being invented by athena because it made her cheeks puffy.