the governor of alabama is the head of government of the u. s. state of alabama. the governor is the head of the executive branch of alabama ' s state government and is charged with enforcing state laws. there have officially been 54 governors of the state of alabama ; this official numbering skips acting and military governors. the first governor, william wyatt bibb, served as the only governor of the alabama territory. five people have served as acting governor, bringing the total number of people serving as governor to 59, spread over 63 distinct terms. four governors have served multiple non - consecutive terms : bibb graves, jim folsom, and fob james each served two, and george wallace served three non - consecutive periods. officially, these non - consecutive terms are numbered only with the number of their first term. william d. jelks also served non - consecutive terms, but his first term was in an acting capacity. the longest - serving governor was george wallace, who served 16 years over four terms. the shortest term for a non - acting governor was that of hugh mcvay, who served four and a half months after replacing the resigning clement comer clay. lurleen wallace, the first wife of george wallace, was the first woman to serve as governor of alabama, and the third woman to serve as governor of any state. the current governor is republican kay ivey, who took office on april 10, 2017 following robert j. bentley ' s resignation amidst a corruption scandal. she is the second female governor of alabama. governors governor of the territory of alabama alabama territory was formed on march 3, 1817, from mississippi territory. it had only one governor appointed by the president of the united states before it became a state ; he became the first state governor. governors of the state of alabama alabama was admitted to the union on december 14, 1819. it seceded from the union on january 11, 1861, and was a founding member of the confederate states of america on february 4, 1861. following the end of the american civil war, alabama during reconstruction was part of the third military district, which exerted some control over governor appointments and elections. alabama was readmitted to the union on july 14, 1868. the first alabama constitution, ratified in 1819, provided that a governor be elected every two years, limited to serve no more than 4 out of every 6 years. this limit remained in place until the constitution of 1868, which simply allowed governors to serve terms of two years. the current constitution of 1901 increased terms to