own death 28 years later. the family ' s share of the company allowed them to appoint 50 % of the board and the chairman, and retain a veto over new treatments, updated versions, and republications of her works. in 2004, hicks ' obituary in the telegraph noted that she had been " determined to remain true to her mother ' s vision and to protect the integrity of her creations " and disapproved of " merchandising " activities. upon her death on 28 october 2004, the greenway estate passed to her son mathew prichard. after his stepfather ' s death in 2005, prichard donated greenway and its contents to the national trust. christie ' s family and family trusts, including great - grandson james prichard, continue to own the 36 % stake in agatha christie limited, and remain associated with the company. in 2020, james prichard was the company ' s chairman. mathew prichard also holds the copyright to some of his grandmother ' s later literary works including the mousetrap. christie ' s work continues to be developed in a range of adaptations. in 1998, booker sold its shares in agatha christie limited ( at the time earning £2, 100, 000, approximately annual revenue ) for £10, 000, 000 ( approximately ) to chorion, whose portfolio of authors ' works included the literary estates of enid blyton and dennis wheatley. in february 2012, after a management buyout, chorion began to sell off its literary assets. this included the sale of chorion ' s 64 % stake in agatha christie limited to acorn media uk. in 2014, rlj entertainment inc. ( rlje ) acquired acorn media uk, renamed it acorn media enterprises, and incorporated it as the rlje uk development arm. in late february 2014, media reports stated that the bbc had acquired exclusive tv rights to christie ' s works in the uk ( previously associated with itv ) and made plans with acorn ' s co - operation to air new productions for the 125th anniversary of christie ' s birth in 2015. as part of that deal, the bbc broadcast partners in crime and and then there were none, both in 2015. subsequent productions have included the witness for the prosecution but plans to televise ordeal by innocence at christmas 2017 were delayed because of controversy surrounding one of the cast members. the three - part adaptation aired in april 2018. a three - part adaptation of the a. b. c. murders starring john malkovich and rupert grint