. next we might try specifying the least element from each set. but some subsets of the real numbers do not have least elements. for example, the open interval ( 0, 1 ) does not have a least element : if x is in ( 0, 1 ), then so is x / 2, and x / 2 is always strictly smaller than x. so this attempt also fails. additionally, consider for instance the unit circle s, and the action on s by a group g consisting of all rational rotations. namely, these are rotations by angles which are rational multiples of π. here g is countable while s is uncountable. hence s breaks up into uncountably many orbits under g. using the axiom of choice, we could pick a single point from each orbit, obtaining an uncountable subset x of s with the property that all of its translates by g are disjoint from x. the set of those translates partitions the circle into a countable collection of disjoint sets, which are all pairwise congruent. since x is not measurable for any rotation - invariant countably additive finite measure on s, finding an algorithm to form a set from selecting a point in each orbit requires that one add the axiom of choice to our axioms of set theory. see non - measurable set for more details. the reason that we are able to choose least elements from subsets of the natural numbers is the fact that the natural numbers are well - ordered : every nonempty subset of the natural numbers has a unique least element under the natural ordering. one might say, " even though the usual ordering of the real numbers does not work, it may be possible to find a different ordering of the real numbers which is a well - ordering. then our choice function can choose the least element of every set under our unusual ordering. " the problem then becomes that of constructing a well - ordering, which turns out to require the axiom of choice for its existence ; every set can be well - ordered if and only if the axiom of choice holds. criticism and acceptance a proof requiring the axiom of choice may establish the existence of an object without explicitly defining the object in the language of set theory. for example, while the axiom of choice implies that there is a well - ordering of the real numbers, there are models of set theory with the axiom of choice in which no well - ordering of the reals is definable. similarly