, perhaps from an akkadian expression for the " sunrise " or possibly echoing the name of the assuwa league in western anatolia. the romans used it as the name of their province, comprising the west of the peninsula plus the nearby aegean islands. as the name " asia " broadened its scope to apply to the vaster region east of the mediterranean, some greeks in late antiquity came to use the name asia minor ( μικρα ασια, mikra asia ), meaning " lesser asia " to refer to present - day anatolia, whereas the administration of the empire preferred the description ανατολη ( anatole ; ). the endonym ρωμανια ( romania " the land of the romans, i. e. the eastern roman empire " ) was understood as another name for the province by the invading seljuq turks, who founded a sultanate of rum in 1077. thus ( land of the ) rum became another name for anatolia. by the 12th century europeans had started referring to anatolia as turchia. during the era of the ottoman empire, mapmakers outside the empire referred to the mountainous plateau in eastern anatolia as armenia. other contemporary sources called the same area kurdistan. geographers have variously used the terms east anatolian plateau and armenian plateau to refer to the region, although the territory encompassed by each term largely overlaps with the other. according to archaeologist lori khatchadourian, this difference in terminology " primarily result [ s ] from the shifting political fortunes and cultural trajectories of the region since the nineteenth century ". turkey ' s first geography congress in 1941 created two geographical regions of turkey to the east of the gulf of iskenderun - black sea line, the eastern anatolia region and the southeastern anatolia region, the former largely corresponding to the western part of the armenian highlands, the latter to the northern part of the mesopotamian plain. according to richard hovannisian, this changing of toponyms was " necessary to obscure all evidence " of the armenian presence as part of the policy of armenian genocide denial embarked upon by the newly established turkish government and what hovannisian calls its " foreign collaborators ". history prehistoric anatolia human habitation in anatolia dates back to the paleolithic. neolithic settlements include catalhoyuk, cayonu, nevali cori, asıklı hoyuk, boncuklu hoyuk, hacilar, gobekli tepe, nor