feeling of dignity and displayed wisdom that i have seldom come across on such a scale. dovzhenko had obviously understood wherein the sense of life resides. [... ] this trespassing of the border between nature and mankind is an ideal place for the existence of man. dovzhenko understood this. " he was also not a fan of blockbusters or science fiction, largely dismissing the latter for its " comic book " trappings and vulgar commercialism. however, in notable exceptions tarkovsky praised the james cameron blockbuster film the terminator, saying that its " vision of the future and the relation between man and its destiny is pushing the frontier of cinema as an art ". he was critical of the " brutality and low acting skills ", but was nevertheless impressed by the film. he equally liked george lucas ' s star wars according to his son, andrei a. tarkovsky. cinematic style in a 1962 interview, tarkovsky argued : " all art, of course, is intellectual, but for me, all the arts, and cinema even more so, must above all be emotional and act upon the heart. " his films are characterized by metaphysical themes, extremely long takes, and images often considered by critics to be of exceptional beauty. recurring motifs are dreams, memory, childhood, running water accompanied by fire, rain indoors, reflections, levitation, and characters re - appearing in the foreground of long panning movements of the camera. he once said : " juxtaposing a person with an environment that is boundless, collating him with a countless number of people passing by close to him and far away, relating a person to the whole world, that is the meaning of cinema. " tarkovsky incorporated levitation scenes into several of his films, most notably solaris. to him these scenes possess great power and are used for their photogenic value and magical inexplicability. water, clouds, and reflections were used by him for their surreal beauty and photogenic value, as well as their symbolism, such as waves or the forms of brooks or running water. bells and candles are also frequent symbols. these are symbols of film, sight and sound, and tarkovsky ' s film frequently has themes of self - reflection. tarkovsky developed a theory of cinema that he called " sculpting in time ". by this he meant that the unique characteristic of cinema as a medium was to take our experience of time and alter it. unedited movie footage transcribes time in real time. by