had accidentally shut down engine three ' s liquid oxygen due to a miswired connection. as a result, engine three failed within one second of engine two ' s shutdown. further investigation revealed the same problem for the third - stage engine — a faulty igniter line. the team modified the igniter lines and fuel conduits, hoping to avoid similar problems on future launches. the teams tested their solutions in august 1968 at the msfc. a saturn stage ic was equipped with shock - absorbing devices to demonstrate the team ' s solution to the problem of pogo oscillation, while a saturn stage ii was retrofitted with modified fuel lines to demonstrate their resistance to leaks and ruptures in vacuum conditions. once nasa administrators were convinced that the problems had been solved, they gave their approval for a crewed mission using as - 503. the apollo 8 spacecraft was placed on top of the rocket on september 21, and the rocket made the slow journey to the launch pad atop one of nasa ' s two massive crawler - transporters on october9. testing continued all through december until the day before launch, including various levels of readiness testing from december5 through 11. final testing of modifications to address the problems of pogo oscillation, ruptured fuel lines, and bad igniter lines took place on december 18, three days before the scheduled launch. mission parameter summary as the first crewed spacecraft to orbit more than one celestial body, apollo8 ' s profile had two different sets of orbital parameters, separated by a translunar injection maneuver. apollo lunar missions would begin with a nominal circular earth parking orbit. apollo8 was launched into an initial orbit with an apogee of and a perigee of, with an inclination of 32. 51° to the equator, and an orbital period of 88. 19 minutes. propellant venting increased the apogee by over the 2hours, 44 minutes, and 30 seconds spent in the parking orbit. this was followed by a trans - lunar injection ( tli ) burn of the s - ivb third stage for 318 seconds, accelerating the command and service module and lm test article from an orbital velocity of to the injection velocity of which set a record for the highest speed, relative to earth, that humans had ever traveled. this speed was slightly less than the earth ' s escape velocity of, but put apollo8 into an elongated elliptical earth orbit, close enough to the moon to be captured by the moon ' s gravity. the standard lunar orbit for apollo