alger republicain was banned in 1940 and camus flew to paris to take a new job at paris - soir as editor - in - chief. in paris, he almost completed his " first cycle " of works dealing with the absurd and the meaningless — the novel l ' etranger ( the outsider ( uk ), or the stranger ( us ) ), the philosophical essay le mythe de sisyphe ( the myth of sisyphus ) and the play caligula. each cycle consisted of a novel, an essay and a theatrical play. world war ii, resistance and combat soon after camus moved to paris, the outbreak of world war ii began to affect france. camus volunteered to join the army but was not accepted because he once had tuberculosis. as the germans were marching towards paris, camus fled. he was laid off from paris - soir and ended up in lyon, where he married pianist and mathematician francine faure on 3 december 1940. camus and faure moved back to algeria ( oran ) where he taught in primary schools. because of his tuberculosis, he moved to the french alps on medical advice. there he began writing his second cycle of works, this time dealing with revolt — a novel la peste ( the plague ) and a play le malentendu ( the misunderstanding ). by 1943 he was known because of his earlier work. he returned to paris where he met and became friends with jean - paul sartre. he also became part of a circle of intellectuals including simone de beauvoir, andre breton, and others. among them was the actress maria casares, who would later have an affair with camus. camus took an active role in the underground resistance movement against the germans during the french occupation. upon his arrival in paris, he started working as a journalist and editor of the banned newspaper combat. he continued writing for the paper after the liberation of france. camus used a pseudonym for his combat articles and used false id cards to avoid being captured. during that period he composed four lettres a un ami allemand ( letters to a german friend ), explaining why resistance was necessary. post – world war ii after the war, camus lived in paris with faure, who gave birth to twins, catherine and jean, in 1945. camus was now a celebrated writer known for his role in the resistance. he gave lectures at various universities in the united states and latin america during two separate trips. he also visited algeria once more, only to leave