an allegiance is a duty of fidelity said to be owed, or freely committed, by the people, subjects or citizens to their state or sovereign. etymology the word allegiance comes from middle english ( see medieval latin, " a liegance " ). the al - prefix was probably added through confusion with another legal term, allegeance, an " allegation " ( the french comes from the english ). allegiance is formed from " liege, " from old french, " liege, free ", of germanic origin. the connection with latin, " to bind, " is erroneous. usage traditionally, english legal commentators used the term allegiance in two ways. in one sense, it referred to the deference which anyone, even foreigners, was expected to pay to the institutions of the country where one lived. in the other sense, it meant national character and the subjection due to that character. types local allegiance natural allegiance united kingdom the english doctrine, which was at one time adopted in the united states, asserted that allegiance was indelible : " nemo potest exuere patriam ". as the law stood prior to 1870, every person who by birth or naturalisation satisfied the conditions set forth, even if removed in infancy to another country where their family resided, owed an allegiance to the british crown which they could never resign or lose, except by act of parliament or by the recognition of the independence or the cession of the portion of british territory in which they resided. this refusal to accept any renunciation of allegiance to the crown led to conflict with the united states over impressment, which led to further conflicts during the war of 1812, when thirteen irish american prisoners of war were executed as traitors after the battle of queenston heights ; winfield scott urged american reprisal, but none was carried out. allegiance was the tie which bound the subject to the sovereign, in return for that protection which the sovereign afforded the subject. it was the mutual bond and obligation between monarch and subjects, whereby subjects were called their liege subjects, because they are bound to obey and serve them ; and the monarch was called their liege lord, because they should maintain and defend them ( ex parte anderson ( 1861 ) 3 el & el 487 ; 121 er 525 ; china navigation co v attorney - general ( 1932 ) 48 tlr 375 ; attorney - general v nissan [ 1969 ] 1 all er 629 ; oppenheimer v cattermole [ 1972 ] 3 all er 1106 ). the duty of the crown towards its