this was seen as too complicated to use. a scholar, salama musa agreed with the idea of applying a latin alphabet to arabic, as he believed that would allow egypt to have a closer relationship with the west. he also believed that latin script was key to the success of egypt as it would allow for more advances in science and technology. this change in alphabet, he believed, would solve the problems inherent with arabic, such as a lack of written vowels and difficulties writing foreign words that made it difficult for non - native speakers to learn. ahmad lutfi as sayid and muhammad azmi, two egyptian intellectuals, agreed with musa and supported the push for romanization. the idea that romanization was necessary for modernization and growth in egypt continued with abd al - aziz fahmi in 1944. he was the chairman for the writing and grammar committee for the arabic language academy of cairo. this effort failed as the egyptian people felt a strong cultural tie to the arabic alphabet. in particular, the older egyptian generations believed that the arabic alphabet had strong connections to arab values and history, due to the long history of the arabic alphabet ( shrivtiel, 189 ) in muslim societies. see also arabic ontology arabic diglossia arabic language influence on the spanish language arabic language international council arabic literature arabic – english lexicon arabist a dictionary of modern written arabic glossary of islam international association of arabic dialectology list of arab newspapers list of arabic - language television channels list of arabic given names list of arabophones list of countries where arabic is an official language list of french words of arabic origin replacement of loanwords in turkish notes references citations sources suileman, yasir. arabic, self and identity : a study in conflict and displacement. oxford university press, 2011.. external links languages attested from the 9th century bc articles containing video clips central semitic languages fusional languages languages of algeria languages of bahrain languages of cameroon languages of chad languages of the comoros languages of djibouti languages of eritrea languages of gibraltar languages of israel languages of iran languages of iraq languages of jordan languages of kurdistan languages of kuwait languages of lebanon languages of libya languages of mali languages of mauritania languages of morocco languages of niger languages of oman languages of the state of palestine languages of qatar languages of saudi arabia languages of senegal languages of south sudan languages of sicily languages of somalia languages of sudan languages of syria languages of the united arab emirates languages of tunisia languages of yemen languages with own distinct writing systems lingua francas stress - timed languages subject – verb – object languages verb – subject –