unsepttrium, element 173, may be an even better heavier homologue of ununennium ; with a predicted electron configuration of [ usb ] 6g1, it returns to the alkali - metal - like situation of having one easily removed electron far above a closed p - shell in energy, and is expected to be even more reactive than caesium. the probable properties of further alkali metals beyond unsepttrium have not been explored yet as of 2019, and they may or may not be able to exist. in periods 8 and above of the periodic table, relativistic and shell - structure effects become so strong that extrapolations from lighter congeners become completely inaccurate. in addition, the relativistic and shell - structure effects ( which stabilise the s - orbitals and destabilise and expand the d -, f -, and g - orbitals of higher shells ) have opposite effects, causing even larger difference between relativistic and non - relativistic calculations of the properties of elements with such high atomic numbers. interest in the chemical properties of ununennium, unhexpentium, and unsepttrium stems from the fact that they are located close to the expected locations of islands of stability, centered at elements 122 ( 306ubb ) and 164 ( 482uhq ). pseudo - alkali metals many other substances are similar to the alkali metals in their tendency to form monopositive cations. analogously to the pseudohalogens, they have sometimes been called " pseudo - alkali metals ". these substances include some elements and many more polyatomic ions ; the polyatomic ions are especially similar to the alkali metals in their large size and weak polarising power. hydrogen the element hydrogen, with one electron per neutral atom, is usually placed at the top of group 1 of the periodic table because of its electron configuration. but hydrogen is not normally considered to be an alkali metal. metallic hydrogen, which only exists at very high pressures, is known for its electrical and magnetic properties, not its chemical properties. under typical conditions, pure hydrogen exists as a diatomic gas consisting of two atoms per molecule ( h2 ) ; however, the alkali metals form diatomic molecules ( such as dilithium, li2 ) only at high temperatures, when they are in the gaseous state. hydrogen, like the alkali metals, has one valence electron and reacts easily with