2005, he has been a member of the public chamber of russia. he has involved himself in several humanitarian causes, such as advocating the use of iodised salt. on december 17, 2012, karpov supported the law in the russian parliament banning adoption of russian orphans by u. s. citizens. karpov expressed support of the annexation of crimea by the russian federation, and accused europe of trying to demonize putin. in august 2019, maxim dlugy said that karpov had been waiting since march for the approval of a non - immigrant visa to the united states, despite frequently visiting the country since 1972. karpov had been scheduled to teach a summer camp at the chess max academy. dlugy said that karpov had been questioned at the us embassy in moscow about whether he planned to communicate with american politicians. karpov was among the russian state duma members placed under sanctions by the eu and uk during the russo - ukrainian war. in march 2022, after the start of the russian invasion of ukraine, the fide council suspended karpov ' s title of fide ambassador for life. in november 2022, karpov received a head injury that left him concussed ; according to some sources, he was placed in an induced coma. sources vary on the cause of the injury, including allegations that he was attacked while heavily intoxicated. karpov ' s daughter sofia claimed that he had accidentally fallen ; this was echoed by the russian chess federation. however, he has made a full recovery since the incident. candidate for fide presidency in march 2010, karpov announced that he would be a candidate for the presidency of fide. the election took place in september 2010 at the 39th chess olympiad. in may, a fundraising event took place in new york with the participation of kasparov and magnus carlsen, who both supported his bid and campaigned for him. nigel short also supported karpov ' s candidacy. on september 29, 2010, kirsan ilyumzhinov was reelected as president of fide, 95 votes to 55. style karpov ' s " boa constrictor " playing style is solidly positional, taking minimal risks but reacting mercilessly to the slightest error by his opponent. as a result, he is often compared to jose raul capablanca, the third world champion. karpov himself describes his style as follows : let us say the game may be continued in two ways : one of them is a beautiful tactical blow