to enter the market. abalone started to become popular in the us after the panama – pacific international exposition in 1915, which exhibited 365 varieties of fish with cooking demonstrations, and a 1, 300 - seat dining hall. in japan, live and raw abalones are used in awabi sushi, or served steamed, salted, boiled, chopped, or simmered in soy sauce. salted, fermented abalone entrails are the main component of tottsuru, a local dish from honshu. tottsuru is mainly enjoyed with sake. in south korea, abalone is called jeonbok ( / juhn - bok / ) and used in various recipes. jeonbok porridge and pan - fried abalone steak with butter are popular but also commonly used in soups or ramyeon. in california, abalone meat can be found on pizza, sauteed with caramelized mango, or in steak form dusted with cracker meal and flour. sport harvesting australia tasmania supplies about 25 % of the yearly world abalone harvest. around 12, 500 tasmanians recreationally fish for blacklip and greenlip abalone. for blacklip abalone, the size limit varies between for the southern end of the state and for the northern end of the state. greenlip abalones have a minimum size of, except for an area around perkins bay in the north of the state where the minimum size is. with a recreational abalone licence, the bag limit is 10 per day, with a total possession limit of 20. scuba diving for abalone is allowed, and has a rich history in australia. ( scuba diving for abalone in the states of new south wales and western australia is illegal ; a free - diving catch limit of two is allowed ). victoria has had an active abalone fishery since the late 1950s. the state is sectioned into three fishing zones, eastern, central and western, with each fisher required a zone - allocated licence. harvesting is performed by divers using surface - supplied air " hookah " systems operating from runabout - style, outboard - powered boats. while the diver seeks out colonies of abalone amongst the reef beds, the deckhand operates the boat, known as working " live " and stays above where the diver is working. bags of abalone pried from the rocks are brought to the surface by the diver or by way of " shot line ", where the deckhand drops a weighted rope for the catch bag to