the equations in which poisson put so much faith did not even predict viscosity. the implication was clear : given that the behavior of light had not been satisfactorily explained except by transverse waves, it was not the responsibility of the wave - theorists to abandon transverse waves in deference to pre - conceived notions about the aether ; rather, it was the responsibility of the aether modelers to produce a model that accommodated transverse waves. according to robert h. silliman, poisson eventually accepted the wave theory shortly before his death in 1840. among the french, poisson ' s reluctance was an exception. according to eugene frankel, " in paris no debate on the issue seems to have taken place after 1825. indeed, almost the entire generation of physicists and mathematicians who came to maturity in the 1820s — pouillet, savart, lame, navier, liouville, cauchy — seem to have adopted the theory immediately. " fresnel ' s other prominent french opponent, biot, appeared to take a neutral position in 1830, and eventually accepted the wave theory — possibly by 1846 and certainly by 1858. in 1826, the british astronomer john herschel, who was working on a book - length article on light for the encyclopædia metropolitana, addressed three questions to fresnel concerning double refraction, partial reflection, and their relation to polarization. the resulting article, titled simply " light ", was highly sympathetic to the wave theory, although not entirely free of selectionist language. it was circulating privately by 1828 and was published in 1830. meanwhile, young ' s translation of fresnel ' s de la lumiere was published in installments from 1827 to 1829. george biddell airy, the former lucasian professor at cambridge and future astronomer royal, unreservedly accepted the wave theory by 1831. in 1834, he famously calculated the diffraction pattern of a circular aperture from the wave theory, thereby explaining the limited angular resolution of a perfect telescope. by the end of the 1830s, the only prominent british physicist who held out against the wave theory was brewster, whose objections included the difficulty of explaining photochemical effects and ( in his opinion ) dispersion. a german translation of de la lumiere was published in installments in 1825 and 1828. the wave theory was adopted by fraunhofer in the early 1820s and by franz ernst neumann in the 1830s, and then began to find favor in german textbooks. the economy of assumptions