##menid empire. it is likely that ashoka ' s messages were also inscribed on more perishable materials, such as wood, and sent to various parts of the empire. none of these records survive now. scholars are still attempting to analyse both the expressed and implied political ideas of the edicts ( particularly in regard to imperial vision ), and make inferences pertaining to how that vision was grappling with problems and political realities of a " virtually subcontinental, and culturally and economically highly variegated, 3rd century bce indian empire. nonetheless, it remains clear that ashoka ' s inscriptions represent the earliest corpus of royal inscriptions in the indian subcontinent, and therefore prove to be a very important innovation in royal practices. " most of ashoka ' s inscriptions are written in a mixture of various prakrit dialects, in the brahmi script. several of ashoka ' s inscriptions appear to have been set up near towns, on important routes, and at places of religious significance. many of the inscriptions have been discovered in hills, rock shelters, and places of local significance. various theories have been put forward about why ashoka or his officials chose such places, including that they were centres of megalithic cultures, were regarded as sacred spots in ashoka ' s time, or that their physical grandeur may be symbolic of spiritual dominance. ashoka ' s inscriptions have not been found at major cities of the maurya empire, such as pataliputra, vidisha, ujjayini, and taxila. it is possible that many of these inscriptions are lost ; the 7th century chinese pilgrim xuanzang refers to some of ashoka ' s pillar edicts, which have not been discovered by modern researchers. it appears that ashoka dispatched every message to his provincial governors, who in turn, relayed it to various officials in their territory. for example, the minor rock edict 1 appears in several versions at multiple places : all the versions state that ashoka issued the proclamation while on a tour, having spent 256 days on tour. the number 256 indicates that the message was dispatched simultaneously to various places. three versions of a message, found at edicts in the neighbouring places in karnataka ( brahmagiri, siddapura, and jatinga - rameshwara ), were sent from the southern province ' s capital suvarnagiri to various places. all three versions contain the same message, preceded by an initial greeting from the arya - putra ( presumably ashoka ' s son and the provincial governor )