yasujiro ozu, who championed the film, that sanshiro sugata was finally accepted for release on march 25, 1943. ( kurosawa had just turned 33. ) the movie became both a critical and commercial success. nevertheless, the censorship office would later decide to cut out some 18 minutes of footage, much of which is now considered lost. he next turned to the subject of wartime female factory workers in the most beautiful, a propaganda film which he shot in a semi - documentary style in early 1944. to elicit realistic performances from his actresses, the director had them live in a real factory during the shoot, eat the factory food and call each other by their character names. he would use similar methods with his performers throughout his career. during production, the actress playing the leader of the factory workers, yoko yaguchi, was chosen by her colleagues to present their demands to the director. she and kurosawa were constantly at odds, and it was through these arguments that the two paradoxically became close. they married on may 21, 1945, with yaguchi two months pregnant ( she never resumed her acting career ), and the couple would remain together until her death in 1985. they had two children, both surviving kurosawa : a son, hisao, born december 20, 1945, who served as producer on some of his father ' s last projects, and kazuko, a daughter, born april 29, 1954, who became a costume designer. shortly before his marriage, kurosawa was pressured by the studio against his will to direct a sequel to his debut film. the often blatantly propagandistic sanshiro sugata part ii, which premiered in may 1945, is generally considered one of his weakest pictures. kurosawa decided to write the script for a film that would be both censor - friendly and less expensive to produce. the men who tread on the tiger ' s tail, based on the kabuki play kanjincho and starring the comedian enoken, with whom kurosawa had often worked during his assistant director days, was completed in september 1945. by this time, japan had surrendered and the occupation of japan had begun. the new american censors interpreted the values allegedly promoted in the picture as overly " feudal " and banned the work. it was not released until 1952, the year another kurosawa film,, was also released. ironically, while in production, the film had already been savaged by japanese wartime censors as too western and "