- reactive gas which they called argon. before isolating the gas, they had determined that nitrogen produced from chemical compounds was 0. 5 % lighter than nitrogen from the atmosphere. the difference was slight, but it was important enough to attract their attention for many months. they concluded that there was another gas in the air mixed in with the nitrogen. argon was also encountered in 1882 through independent research of h. f. newall and w. n. hartley. each observed new lines in the emission spectrum of air that did not match known elements. until 1957, the symbol for argon was " a ", but now it is " ar ". occurrence argon constitutes 0. 934 % by volume and 1. 288 % by mass of earth ' s atmosphere. air is the primary industrial source of purified argon products. argon is isolated from air by fractionation, most commonly by cryogenic fractional distillation, a process that also produces purified nitrogen, oxygen, neon, krypton and xenon. earth ' s crust and seawater contain 1. 2 ppm and 0. 45 ppm of argon, respectively. isotopes the main isotopes of argon found on earth are ( 99. 6 % ), ( 0. 34 % ), and ( 0. 06 % ). naturally occurring, with a half - life of 1. 25 years, decays to stable ( 11. 2 % ) by electron capture or positron emission, and also to stable ( 88. 8 % ) by beta decay. these properties and ratios are used to determine the age of rocks by k – ar dating. in earth ' s atmosphere, is made by cosmic ray activity, primarily by neutron capture of followed by two - neutron emission. in the subsurface environment, it is also produced through neutron capture by, followed by proton emission. is created from the neutron capture by followed by an alpha particle emission as a result of subsurface nuclear explosions. it has a half - life of 35 days. between locations in the solar system, the isotopic composition of argon varies greatly. where the major source of argon is the decay of in rocks, will be the dominant isotope, as it is on earth. argon produced directly by stellar nucleosynthesis is dominated by the alpha - process nuclide. correspondingly, solar argon contains 84. 6 % ( according to solar wind measurements ), and the ratio of the three isotopes 36ar : 38