such as a aaiu = ' on ' ; u instead of { a [ i ] = ' \ n ' ; } c trigraphs were created to solve this problem for ansi c, although their late introduction and inconsistent implementation in compilers limited their use. many programmers kept their computers on us - ascii, so plain - text in swedish, german etc. ( for example, in e - mail or usenet ) contained " {, } " and similar variants in the middle of words, something those programmers got used to. for example, a swedish programmer mailing another programmer asking if they should go for lunch, could get " n { jag har sm | rg } sar " as the answer, which should be " na jag har smorgasar " meaning " no i ' ve got sandwiches ". in japan and korea, still a variation of ascii is used, in which the backslash ( 5c hex ) is rendered as ¥ ( a yen sign, in japan ) or ₩ ( a won sign, in korea ). this means that, for example, the file path c : \ users \ smith is shown as c : ¥users¥smith ( in japan ) or c : ₩users₩smith ( in korea ). in europe, teletext character sets, which are variants of ascii, are used for broadcast tv subtitles, defined by world system teletext and broadcast using the dvb - txt standard for embedding teletext into dvb transmissions. in the case that the subtitles were initially authored for teletext and converted, the derived subtitle formats are constrained to the same character sets. 8 - bit codes eventually, as 8 -, 16 -, and 32 - bit ( and later 64 - bit ) computers began to replace 12 -, 18 -, and 36 - bit computers as the norm, it became common to use an 8 - bit byte to store each character in memory, providing an opportunity for extended, 8 - bit relatives of ascii. in most cases these developed as true extensions of ascii, leaving the original character - mapping intact, but adding additional character definitions after the first 128 ( i. e., 7 - bit ) characters. encodings include iscii ( india ), viscii ( vietnam ). although these encodings are sometimes referred to as ascii, true ascii is defined strictly only by the ansi standard. most early home