contact with bone. the 7. 62×39mm round produces significant wounding in cases where the bullet tumbles ( yaws ) in tissue, but produces relatively minor wounds in cases where the bullet exits before beginning to yaw. in the absence of yaw, the m43 round can pencil through tissue with relatively little injury. most, if not all, of the 7. 62×39mm ammunition found today is of the upgraded m67 variety. this variety deleted the steel insert, shifting the center of gravity rearward, and allowing the projectile to destabilize ( or yaw ) at about, nearly earlier in tissue than the m43 round. this change also reduces penetration in ballistic gelatin to ~ for the newer m67 round versus ~ for the older m43 round. however, the wounding potential of m67 is mostly limited to the small permanent wound channel the bullet itself makes, especially when the bullet yaws. operating mechanism to fire, the operator inserts a loaded magazine, pulls back and releases the charging handle, and then pulls the trigger. in semi - automatic, the firearm fires only once, requiring the trigger to be released and depressed again for the next shot. in fully automatic, the rifle continues to fire automatically cycling fresh rounds into the chamber until the magazine is exhausted or pressure is released from the trigger. after ignition of the cartridge primer and propellant, rapidly expanding propellant gases are diverted into the gas cylinder above the barrel through a vent near the muzzle. the build - up of gases inside the gas cylinder drives the long - stroke piston and bolt carrier rearward and a cam guide machined into the underside of the bolt carrier, along with an ejector spur on the bolt carrier rail guide, rotates the bolt approximately 35° and unlocks it from the barrel extension via a camming pin on the bolt. the moving assembly has about of free travel, which creates a delay between the initial recoil impulse of the piston and the bolt unlocking sequence, allowing gas pressures to drop to a safe level before the seal between the chamber and the bolt is broken. the ak - 47 does not have a gas valve ; excess gases are ventilated through a series of radial ports in the gas cylinder. unlike many other rifle platforms, such as the ar - 15 platform, the kalashnikov platform bolt locking lugs are chamfered allowing for primary extraction upon bolt rotation which aids reliable feeding and extraction, albeit not with that much force due to the short distance the bolt carrier travels before