of all working ages and women under 40, current population survey data showed a sharp drop in the employment of disabled workers, leading at least two economists to attribute the cause to the act. by contrast, a study in 2003 found that while the act may have led to short term reactions by employers, in the long term, there were either positive or neutral consequences for wages and employment. in 2005, the rate of employment among disabled people increased to 45 % of the population of disabled people. societal attitudes " professional plaintiffs " since enforcement of the act began in july 1992, it has quickly become a major component of employment law. the ada allows private plaintiffs to receive only injunctive relief ( a court order requiring the public accommodation to remedy violations of the accessibility regulations ) and attorneys ' fees, and does not provide monetary rewards to private plaintiffs who sue non - compliant businesses. unless a state law, such as the california unruh civil rights act, provides for monetary damages to private plaintiffs, persons with disabilities do not obtain direct financial benefits from suing businesses that violate the ada. the attorneys ' fees provision of title iii does provide incentive for lawyers to specialize and engage in serial ada litigation, but a disabled plaintiff does not obtain a financial reward from attorneys ' fees unless they act as their own attorney, or as mentioned above, a disabled plaintiff resides in a state that provides for minimum compensation and court fees in lawsuits. moreover, there may be a benefit to these private attorneys general who identify and compel the correction of illegal conditions : they may increase the number of public accommodations accessible to persons with disabilities. " civil rights law depends heavily on private enforcement. moreover, the inclusion of penalties and damages is the driving force that facilitates voluntary compliance with the ada. " courts have noted : however, in states that have enacted laws that allow private individuals to win monetary awards from non - compliant businesses ( as of 2008, these include california, florida, hawaii, and illinois ), " professional plaintiffs " are typically found. at least one of these plaintiffs in california has been barred by courts from filing lawsuits unless he receives prior court permission. through the end of fiscal year 1998, 86 % of the 106, 988 ada charges filed with and resolved by the equal employment opportunity commission, were either dropped or investigated and dismissed by eeoc but not without imposing opportunity costs and legal fees on employers. case law there have been some notable cases regarding the ada. for example, a major hotel room marketer ( hotels. com ) with their business presence on the internet was sued because their