- triggered lipoxins, aspirin - triggered resolvins, and aspirin - triggered maresins. these mediators possess potent anti - inflammatory activity. it is proposed that this aspirin - triggered transition of cox - 2 from cyclooxygenase to lipoxygenase activity and the consequential formation of specialized proresolving mediators contributes to the anti - inflammatory effects of aspirin. additional mechanisms aspirin has been shown to have at least three additional modes of action. it uncouples oxidative phosphorylation in cartilaginous ( and hepatic ) mitochondria, by diffusing from the inner membrane space as a proton carrier back into the mitochondrial matrix, where it ionizes once again to release protons. aspirin buffers and transports the protons. when high doses are given, it may actually cause fever, owing to the heat released from the electron transport chain, as opposed to the antipyretic action of aspirin seen with lower doses. in addition, aspirin induces the formation of no - radicals in the body, which have been shown in mice to have an independent mechanism of reducing inflammation. this reduced leukocyte adhesion is an important step in the immune response to infection ; however, evidence is insufficient to show aspirin helps to fight infection. more recent data also suggest salicylic acid and its derivatives modulate signalling through nf - κb. nf - κb, a transcription factor complex, plays a central role in many biological processes, including inflammation. aspirin is readily broken down in the body to salicylic acid, which itself has anti - inflammatory, antipyretic, and analgesic effects. in 2012, salicylic acid was found to activate amp - activated protein kinase, which has been suggested as a possible explanation for some of the effects of both salicylic acid and aspirin. the acetyl portion of the aspirin molecule has its own targets. acetylation of cellular proteins is a well - established phenomenon in the regulation of protein function at the post - translational level. aspirin is able to acetylate several other targets in addition to cox isoenzymes. these acetylation reactions may explain many hitherto unexplained effects of aspirin. formulations aspirin is produced in many formulations, with some differences in effect