that reuben should merit the world to come directly, and not have to die again as a result of being reincarnated. torah scholar, commentator and kabbalist, nachmanides ( ramban 1195 – 1270 ), attributed job ' s suffering to reincarnation, as hinted in job ' s saying " god does all these things twice or three times with a man, to bring back his soul from the pit to... the light of the living ' ( job 33 : 29, 30 ). " reincarnation, called gilgul, became popular in folk belief, and is found in much yiddish literature among ashkenazi jews. among a few kabbalists, it was posited that some human souls could end up being reincarnated into non - human bodies. these ideas were found in a number of kabbalistic works from the 13th century, and also among many mystics in the late 16th century. martin buber ' s early collection of stories of the baal shem tov ' s life includes several that refer to people reincarnating in successive lives. among well known ( generally non - kabbalist or anti - kabbalist ) rabbis who rejected the idea of reincarnation are saadia gaon, david kimhi, hasdai crescas, yedayah bedershi ( early 14th century ), joseph albo, abraham ibn daud, the rosh and leon de modena. saadia gaon, in emunoth ve - deoth ( hebrew : " beliefs and opinions " ) concludes section vi with a refutation of the doctrine of metempsychosis ( reincarnation ). while rebutting reincarnation, saadia gaon further states that jews who hold to reincarnation have adopted non - jewish beliefs. by no means do all jews today believe in reincarnation, but belief in reincarnation is not uncommon among many jews, including orthodox. other well - known rabbis who are reincarnationists include yonassan gershom, abraham isaac kook, talmud scholar adin steinsaltz, dovber pinson, david m. wexelman, zalman schachter, and many others. reincarnation is cited by authoritative biblical commentators, including ramban ( nachmanides ), menachem recanti and rabbenu bachya. among the many volumes of yitzchak luria, most of which come down from the pen of his primary disciple,