were used instead of numbers. the a missions were uncrewed saturn v validation ; b was uncrewed lm validation using the saturn ib ; c was crewed csm earth orbit validation using the saturn ib ; d was the first crewed csm / lm flight ( this replaced as - 258, using a single saturn v launch ) ; e would be a higher earth orbit csm / lm flight ; f would be the first lunar mission, testing the lm in lunar orbit but without landing ( a " dress rehearsal " ) ; and g would be the first crewed landing. the list of types covered follow - on lunar exploration to include h lunar landings, i for lunar orbital survey missions, and j for extended - stay lunar landings. the delay in the csm caused by the fire enabled nasa to catch up on human - rating the lm and saturnv. apollo4 ( as - 501 ) was the first uncrewed flight of the saturnv, carrying a blocki csm on november 9, 1967. the capability of the command module ' s heat shield to survive a trans - lunar reentry was demonstrated by using the service module engine to ram it into the atmosphere at higher than the usual earth - orbital reentry speed. apollo 5 ( as - 204 ) was the first uncrewed test flight of the lm in earth orbit, launched from pad 37 on january 22, 1968, by the saturn ib that would have been used for apollo 1. the lm engines were successfully test - fired and restarted, despite a computer programming error which cut short the first descent stage firing. the ascent engine was fired in abort mode, known as a " fire - in - the - hole " test, where it was lit simultaneously with jettison of the descent stage. although grumman wanted a second uncrewed test, george low decided the next lm flight would be crewed. this was followed on april 4, 1968, by apollo 6 ( as - 502 ) which carried a csm and a lm test article as ballast. the intent of this mission was to achieve trans - lunar injection, followed closely by a simulated direct - return abort, using the service module engine to achieve another high - speed reentry. the saturn v experienced pogo oscillation, a problem caused by non - steady engine combustion, which damaged fuel lines in the second and third stages. two s - ii engines shut down prematurely, but the remaining engines were able to compensate. the damage