acts were not withdrawn. the british attempted to disarm the americans and the resulting fighting at the battle of lexington on april 19, 1775, in effect ignited the war. in june, the second continental congress formalized patriot militias into the continental army and appointed george washington its commander - in - chief. the coercion policy advocated by the north ministry was opposed by a faction within the british parliament, but both sides began to see military conflict as inevitable. congress sent the olive branch petition to king george iii in july 1775, but he rejected it, and the british parliament declared the colonies to be in a state of rebellion in august. as the revolutionary war formally launched, washington ' s forces drove the british army out of boston during the siege of boston in march 1776, and british commander in chief william howe responded by launching the new york and new jersey campaign. howe captured new york city in november, and washington responded by clandestinely crossing the delaware river and winning small but significant victories at trenton and princeton, which restored patriot confidence. in summer 1777, as howe was poised to capture philadelphia, the continental congress prepared for philadelphia ' s fall by fleeing the city for baltimore. in october 1777, a separate british force under the command of john burgoyne was forced to surrender at saratoga in an american victory that proved crucial in convincing france and spain that an independent united states was a viable possibility. with philadelphia still occupied by the british, washington and 12, 000 continental army troops secured refuge in valley forge from december 1777 to june 1778. at valley forge, general von steuben drilled the continental army into a more viable fighting unit, but as many as 2, 000 continental army troops died from disease and possibly malnutrition over a brutal winter. france provided the continental army with informal economic and military support from the beginning of the war. after saratoga, the two countries signed a commercial agreement and a treaty of alliance in february 1778. in 1779, spain also allied with france against britain in the treaty of aranjuez, though spain did not formally ally with the americans. access to ports in spanish louisiana allowed american patriots to import arms and supplies, while the spanish gulf coast campaign deprived the british royal navy of key bases in the american south. closure of american ports undermined the 1778 strategy devised by howe ' s replacement henry clinton, which intended to take the war against the americans into the south. despite some initial success, cornwallis was besieged by a franco - american force in yorktown in september and october 1781. cornwallis attempted to resup