##een before flowing into lake thun. near the west end of lake thun, the river indirectly receives the waters of the kander, which has just been joined by the simme, by the lake of thun. lake thun marks the head of navigation. on flowing out of the lake it passes through thun, and then flows through the city of bern, passing beneath eighteen bridges and around the steeply - flanked peninsula on which the old city is located. to the south of the old city peninsula is the, a weir which provides water for the small matte hydroelectric power plant. river swimming in the aare is popular in bern, and the river is sometimes full of bathers on summer days. the river soon changes its northwesterly flow for a due westerly direction, but after receiving the saane or la sarine it turns north until it nears aarberg. there, in one of the major swiss engineering feats of the 19th century, the jura water correction, the river, which had previously rendered the countryside north of bern a swampland through frequent flooding, was diverted by the aare - hagneck canal into the lac de bienne. from the upper end of the lake, at nidau, the river issues through the nidau - buren canal, also called the aare canal, and then runs east to buren. the lake absorbs huge amounts of eroded gravel and snowmelt that the river brings from the alps, and the former swamps have become fruitful plains : they are known as the " vegetable garden of switzerland ". from here the aare flows northeast for a long distance, past the ambassador town solothurn ( below which the grosse emme flows in on the right ), aarburg ( where it is joined by the wigger ), olten, aarau, near which is the junction with the suhre, and wildegg, where the seetal aabach falls in on the right. a short distance further, below brugg, it receives first the reuss, its major tributary, and shortly afterwards the limmat, its second strongest tributary. it now turns due north, and soon becomes itself a tributary of the rhine, which it even surpasses in volume when the two rivers unite downstream from koblenz ( switzerland ), opposite waldshut in germany. the rhine, in turn, empties into the north sea after crossing into the netherlands. tributaries limmat ( after and northeast of brugg,