employed paradox to tease out the meanings in common concepts which he found ambiguous or to reveal meaning often overlooked or forgotten in common phrases : the title of one of his most famous books, orthodoxy ( 1908 ), itself employed such a paradox. music in music, pieces or sections which confound expectations and may be or are interpreted simultaneously in different ways are ambiguous, such as some polytonality, polymeter, other ambiguous meters or rhythms, and ambiguous phrasing, or ( stein 2005, p. 79 ) any aspect of music. the music of africa is often purposely ambiguous. to quote sir donald francis tovey ( 1935, p. 195 ), " theorists are apt to vex themselves with vain efforts to remove uncertainty just where it has a high aesthetic value. " visual art in visual art, certain images are visually ambiguous, such as the necker cube, which can be interpreted in two ways. perceptions of such objects remain stable for a time, then may flip, a phenomenon called multistable perception. the opposite of such ambiguous images are impossible objects. pictures or photographs may also be ambiguous at the semantic level : the visual image is unambiguous, but the meaning and narrative may be ambiguous : is a certain facial expression one of excitement or fear, for instance? social psychology and the bystander effect in social psychology, ambiguity is a factor used in determining peoples ' responses to various situations. high levels of ambiguity in an emergency ( e. g. an unconscious man lying on a park bench ) make witnesses less likely to offer any sort of assistance, due to the fear that they may have misinterpreted the situation and acted unnecessarily. alternately, non - ambiguous emergencies ( e. g. an injured person verbally asking for help ) elicit more consistent intervention and assistance. with regard to the bystander effect, studies have shown that emergencies deemed ambiguous trigger the appearance of the classic bystander effect ( wherein more witnesses decrease the likelihood of any of them helping ) far more than non - ambiguous emergencies. computer science in computer science, the si prefixes kilo -, mega - and giga - were historically used in certain contexts to mean either the first three powers of 1024 ( 1024, 10242 and 10243 ) contrary to the metric system in which these units unambiguously mean one thousand, one million, and one billion. this usage is particularly prevalent with electronic memory devices ( e. g. dram ) addressed directly by a binary machine register where a decimal