greek anthology, there are poems referring to alexander. throughout time, art objects related to alexander were being created. in addition to speech works, sculptures and paintings, in modern times alexander is still the subject of musical and cinematic works. the song ' alexander the great ' by the british heavy metal band iron maiden is indicative. some films that have been shot with the theme of alexander are : sikandar ( 1941 ), an indian production directed by sohrab modi about the conquest of india by alexander alexander the great ( 1956 ), produced by mgm and starring richard burton sikandar - e - azam ( 1965 ), an indian production directed by kedar kapoor alexander ( 2004 ), directed by oliver stone, starring colin farrell there are also many references to other movies and tv series. newer novels about alexander are : the trilogy " alexander the great " by valerio massimo manfredi consisting of " the son of the dream ", " the sand of amon ", and " the ends of the world ". the trilogy of mary renault consisting of " fire from heaven ", " the persian boy " and " funeral games ". the virtues of war, about alexander the great ( 2004 ), and " * the afghan campaign, about alexander the great ' s conquests in afghanistan ( 2006 ), " by steven pressfield. irish playwright aubrey thomas de vere wrote alexander the great, a dramatic poem. historiography apart from a few inscriptions and fragments, texts written by people who actually knew alexander or who gathered information from men who served with alexander were all lost. contemporaries who wrote accounts of his life included alexander ' s campaign historian callisthenes ; alexander ' s generals ptolemy and nearchus ; aristobulus, a junior officer on the campaigns ; and onesicritus, alexander ' s chief helmsman. their works are lost, but later works based on these original sources have survived. the earliest of these is diodorus siculus ( 1st century bc ), followed by quintus curtius rufus ( mid - to - late 1st century ad ), arrian ( 1st to 2nd century ad ), the biographer plutarch ( 1st to 2nd century ad ), and finally justin, whose work dated as late as the 4th century. of these, arrian is generally considered the most reliable, given that he used ptolemy and aristobulus as his sources, closely followed by diodorus. see also ancient macedonian army military tactics of alexander the great bucephalus chronology of european exploration of