, often invisible under new snowfall, which causes the greatest danger to mountaineers. glaciers end in ice caves ( the rhone glacier ), by trailing into a lake or river, or by shedding snowmelt on a meadow. sometimes a piece of glacier will detach or break resulting in flooding, property damage, and loss of life. high levels of precipitation cause the glaciers to descend to permafrost levels in some areas whereas in other, more arid regions, glaciers remain above about the level. the of the alps covered by glaciers in 1876 had shrunk to by 1973, resulting in decreased river run - off levels. forty percent of the glaciation in austria has disappeared since 1850, and 30 % of that in switzerland. although the alpine topography shows marked glacial morphologies, the mechanisms by which glacial reshaping occurs are unclear. numerical modeling suggests that glacial erosion propagates from low elevations to high elevations leading to an early increase of local relief followed by lowering of the mean orogen elevation. rivers and lakes the alps provide lowland europe with drinking water, irrigation, and hydroelectric power. although the area is only about 11 % of the surface area of europe, the alps provide up to 90 % of water to lowland europe, particularly to arid areas and during the summer months. cities such as milan depend on 80 % of water from alpine runoff. water from the rivers is used in at least 550 hydroelectricity power plants, considering only those producing at least 10mw of electricity. major european rivers flow from the alps, such as the rhine, the rhone, the inn, and the po, all of which have headwaters in the alps and flow into neighbouring countries, finally emptying into the north sea, the mediterranean sea, the adriatic sea and the black sea. other rivers such as the danube have major tributaries flowing into them that originate in the alps. the rhone is second to the nile as a freshwater source to the mediterranean sea ; the river begins as glacial meltwater, flows into lake geneva, and from there to france where one of its uses is to cool nuclear power plants. the rhine originates in a area in switzerland and represents almost 60 % of water exported from the country. tributary valleys, some of which are complicated, channel water to the main valleys which can experience flooding during the snowmelt season when rapid runoff causes debris torrents and swollen rivers. the rivers form lakes, such as lake geneva, a crescent - shaped lake crossing the swiss border with lausanne on the swiss side and the town of evian - les