to do what selectionist theory could not : generate testable formulae covering a comprehensive range of optical phenomena, from mechanical assumptions. photoelasticity, multiple - prism experiments ( 1822 ) in 1815, brewster reported that colors appear when a slice of isotropic material, placed between crossed polarizers, is mechanically stressed. brewster himself immediately and correctly attributed this phenomenon to stress - induced birefringence — now known as photoelasticity. in a memoir read in september 1822, fresnel announced that he had verified brewster ' s diagnosis more directly, by compressing a combination of glass prisms so severely that one could actually see a double image through it. in his experiment, fresnel lined up seven 45° – 90° – 45° prisms, short side to short side, with their 90° angles pointing in alternating directions. two half - prisms were added at the ends to make the whole assembly rectangular. the prisms were separated by thin films of turpentine ( terebenthine ) to suppress internal reflections, allowing a clear line of sight along the row. when the four prisms with similar orientations were compressed in a vise across the line of sight, an object viewed through the assembly produced two images with perpendicular polarizations, with an apparent spacing of 1. 5mm at one metre. at the end of that memoir, fresnel predicted that if the compressed prisms were replaced by ( unstressed ) monocrystalline quartz prisms with matching directions of optical rotation, and with their optic axes aligned along the row, an object seen by looking along the common optic axis would give two images, which would seem unpolarized when viewed through an analyzer but, when viewed through a fresnel rhomb, would be polarized at ±45° to the plane of reflection of the rhomb ( indicating that they were initially circularly polarized in opposite directions ). this would show directly that optical rotation is a form of birefringence. in the memoir of december 1822, in which he introduced the term circular polarization, he reported that he had confirmed this prediction using only one 14° – 152° – 14° prism and two glass half - prisms. but he obtained a wider separation of the images by replacing the glass half - prism with quartz half - prisms whose rotation was opposite to that of the 14° – 152° – 14° prism. he added in passing that one could further increase the separation by