martyres / riad el feth – jardin d ' essais palais de la culture – oued kniss sports algiers is the sporting centre of algeria. the city has a number of professional clubs in the variety of sports, which have won national and international titles. among the sports facilities within the city, there is an enormous sporting complex – complex of oco – mohamed boudiaf. this includes the stade 5 juillet 1962 ( capacity ), a venue for athletics, an olympic swimming pool, a multisports room ( the cupola ), an 18 - hole golf course, and several tennis courts. the following major sporting events have been held in algiers ( not - exhaustive list ) : football clubs major association football club based in algiers include : international relations twin towns – sister cities algiers is twinned with : montreal, canada moscow, russia sofia, bulgaria in addition, many of the wards and cities within algiers maintain sister - city relationships with other foreign cities. cooperation agreements algiers has cooperation agreements with : lisbon, portugal paris, france films about algiers algiers, 1938, starring charles boyer and hedy lamarr, and directed by john cromwell ; the battle of algiers, 1966, directed by gillo pontecorvo ; tahya ya didou, alger insolite, 1970, mohammed zinet ; bab el - oued city, 1994, directed by merzak allouache ; viva laldjerie, 2003, directed by nadir mokneche, with biyouna and lubna azabal ; bab el web, 2004, directed by merzak allouache, with samy naceri, julie gayet, faudel ; once upon a time in the oued, 2005, directed by djamel bensalah ; beur, white, red, 2005, directed by mahmoud zemmouri. delice paloma, 2007, directed by nadir mokneche, with biyouna and nadia kaci. abbott and costello in the foreign legion, 1950, starring bud abbott and lou costello. carry on spying 1964, directed by gerald thomas with kenneth williams, charles hawtrey, barbara windsor & renee houston notable people see also barbary pirates botanical garden hamma list of ottoman governors of algiers references citations bibliography carroll, david. albert camus the algerian ( columbia university press, 2007 ). emerson, charles. 1913 : in search of the world before the great war ( 2013 ) compares algiers to 20 major world cities ;