directly by stellar nucleosynthesis is dominated by the alpha - process nuclide. correspondingly, solar argon contains 84. 6 % ( according to solar wind measurements ), and the ratio of the three isotopes 36ar : 38ar : 40ar in the atmospheres of the outer planets is 8400 : 1600 : 1. this contrasts with the low abundance of primordial in earth ' s atmosphere, which is only 31. 5 ppmv ( = 9340 ppmv × 0. 337 % ), comparable with that of neon ( 18. 18 ppmv ) on earth and with interplanetary gasses, measured by probes. the atmospheres of mars, mercury and titan ( the largest moon of saturn ) contain argon, predominantly as, and its content may be as high as 1. 93 % ( mars ). the predominance of radiogenic is the reason the standard atomic weight of terrestrial argon is greater than that of the next element, potassium, a fact that was puzzling when argon was discovered. mendeleev positioned the elements on his periodic table in order of atomic weight, but the inertness of argon suggested a placement before the reactive alkali metal. henry moseley later solved this problem by showing that the periodic table is actually arranged in order of atomic number ( see history of the periodic table ). compounds argon ' s complete octet of electrons indicates full s and p subshells. this full valence shell makes argon very stable and extremely resistant to bonding with other elements. before 1962, argon and the other noble gases were considered to be chemically inert and unable to form compounds ; however, compounds of the heavier noble gases have since been synthesized. the first argon compound with tungsten pentacarbonyl, w ( co ) 5ar, was isolated in 1975. however, it was not widely recognised at that time. in august 2000, another argon compound, argon fluorohydride ( harf ), was formed by researchers at the university of helsinki, by shining ultraviolet light onto frozen argon containing a small amount of hydrogen fluoride with caesium iodide. this discovery caused the recognition that argon could form weakly bound compounds, even though it was not the first. it is stable up to 17 kelvins ( −256 °c ). the metastable dication, which is valence - isoelectronic with carbonyl fluoride