odd atomic numbers and they are not as common as the elements with even atomic numbers adjacent to them ( the noble gases and the alkaline earth metals ) in the solar system. the heavier alkali metals are also less abundant than the lighter ones as the alkali metals from rubidium onward can only be synthesised in supernovae and not in stellar nucleosynthesis. lithium is also much less abundant than sodium and potassium as it is poorly synthesised in both big bang nucleosynthesis and in stars : the big bang could only produce trace quantities of lithium, beryllium and boron due to the absence of a stable nucleus with 5 or 8 nucleons, and stellar nucleosynthesis could only pass this bottleneck by the triple - alpha process, fusing three helium nuclei to form carbon, and skipping over those three elements. on earth the earth formed from the same cloud of matter that formed the sun, but the planets acquired different compositions during the formation and evolution of the solar system. in turn, the natural history of the earth caused parts of this planet to have differing concentrations of the elements. the mass of the earth is approximately 5. 98 kg. it is composed mostly of iron ( 32. 1 % ), oxygen ( 30. 1 % ), silicon ( 15. 1 % ), magnesium ( 13. 9 % ), sulfur ( 2. 9 % ), nickel ( 1. 8 % ), calcium ( 1. 5 % ), and aluminium ( 1. 4 % ) ; with the remaining 1. 2 % consisting of trace amounts of other elements. due to planetary differentiation, the core region is believed to be primarily composed of iron ( 88. 8 % ), with smaller amounts of nickel ( 5. 8 % ), sulfur ( 4. 5 % ), and less than 1 % trace elements. the alkali metals, due to their high reactivity, do not occur naturally in pure form in nature. they are lithophiles and therefore remain close to the earth ' s surface because they combine readily with oxygen and so associate strongly with silica, forming relatively low - density minerals that do not sink down into the earth ' s core. potassium, rubidium and caesium are also incompatible elements due to their large ionic radii. sodium and potassium are very abundant in earth, both being among the ten most common elements in earth ' s crust ; sodium makes up approximately 2. 6 % of the earth ' s crust measured by weight, making it the