of rupescissa ( – 1366 ), the latter of whom regarded it as a life - preserving substance able to prevent all diseases ( the aqua vitae or " water of life ", also called by john the quintessence of wine ). nomenclature etymology the word " alcohol " derives from the arabic kohl ( ), a powder used as an eyeliner. the first part of the word ( ) is the arabic definite article, equivalent to the in english. the second part of the word ( ) has several antecedents in semitic languages, ultimately deriving from the akkadian ( ), meaning stibnite or antimony. like its antecedents in arabic and older languages, the term alcohol was originally used for the very fine powder produced by the sublimation of the natural mineral stibnite to form antimony trisulfide. it was considered to be the essence or " spirit " of this mineral. it was used as an antiseptic, eyeliner, and cosmetic. later the meaning of alcohol was extended to distilled substances in general, and then narrowed again to ethanol, when " spirits " was a synonym for hard liquor. paracelsus and libavius both used the term alcohol to denote a fine powder, the latter speaking of an alcohol derived from antimony. at the same time paracelsus uses the word for a volatile liquid ; alcool or alcool vini occurs often in his writings. bartholomew traheron, in his 1543 translation of john of vigo, introduces the word as a term used by " barbarous " authors for " fine powder. " vigo wrote : " the barbarous auctours use alcohol, or ( as i fynde it sometymes wryten ) alcofoll, for moost fine poudre. " the 1657 lexicon chymicum, by william johnson glosses the word as " antimonium sive stibium. " by extension, the word came to refer to any fluid obtained by distillation, including " alcohol of wine, " the distilled essence of wine. libavius in alchymia ( 1594 ) refers to " ". johnson ( 1657 ) glosses alcohol vini as ". " the word ' s meaning became restricted to " spirit of wine " ( the chemical known today as ethanol ) in the 18th century and was extended to the class of substances so - called as " alcohols " in modern chemistry