bae systems ; optus ; raytheon ; topcon ; lockheed martin australia electronic systems. research park at thebarton : businesses involved in materials engineering, biotechnology, environmental services, information technology, industrial design, laser / optics technology, health products, engineering services, radar systems, telecommunications and petroleum services. science park ( adjacent to flinders university ) : playford capital. the basil hetzel institute for translational health research in woodville the research arm of the queen elizabeth hospital, adelaide the joanna briggs institute, a global research collaboration for evidence - based healthcare with its headquarters in north adelaide. cultural life while established as a british province, and very much english in terms of its culture, adelaide attracted immigrants from other parts of europe early on, including german and other european non - conformists escaping religious persecution. the first german lutherans arrived in 1838, bringing with them the vine cuttings that they used to found the acclaimed wineries of the barossa valley. the royal adelaide show is an annual agricultural show and state fair, established in 1839 and now a huge event held in the adelaide showground annually. adelaide ' s arts scene flourished in the 1960s and 1970s with the support of successive premiers from both major political parties. the renowned adelaide festival of arts was established in 1960 under thomas playford, which in the same year spawned an unofficial uncurated series of performances and exhibits which grew into the adelaide fringe. construction of the adelaide festival centre began under steele hall in 1970 and was completed under the subsequent government of don dunstan, who also established the south australian film corporation in 1972 and the state opera of south australia in 1976. over time, the adelaide festival expanded to include adelaide writers ' week and womadelaide, and other separate festivals were established, such as the adelaide cabaret festival ( 2002 ), the adelaide festival of ideas ( 1999 ), the adelaide film festival ( 2013 ), feast ( 1999, a queer culture ), tasting australia ( 1997, a food and wine affair ), and illuminate adelaide ( 2021 ). with the festival, the fringe, womadelaide, writers ' week and the adelaide 500 street motor racing event ( along with evening music concerts ) all happening in early march, the period became known colloquially as " mad march ". in 2014, ghil ' ad zuckermann founded the adelaide language festival. there are many international cultural fairs, most notably the german schutzenfest and greek glendi. adelaide holds an annual christmas pageant, the world ' s largest christmas parade. north terrace