each other and that congregations of this genus are the result of lone individuals feeding on the same carcasses. discovery and history early discoveries and research the discovery and early study of allosaurus is complicated by the multiplicity of names coined during the bone wars of the late 19th century. the first described fossil in this history was a bone obtained secondhand by ferdinand vandeveer hayden in 1869. it came from middle park, near granby, colorado, probably from morrison formation rocks. the locals had identified such bones as " petrified horse hoofs ". hayden sent his specimen to joseph leidy, who identified it as half of a tail vertebra and tentatively assigned it to the european dinosaur genus poekilopleuron as poicilopleuron valens. he later decided it deserved its own genus, antrodemus. allosaurus itself is based on ypm 1930, a small collection of fragmentary bones including parts of three vertebrae, a rib fragment, a tooth, a toe bone, and ( most useful for later discussions ) the shaft of the right humerus ( upper arm ). othniel charles marsh gave these remains the formal name allosaurus fragilis in 1877. allosaurus comes from the greek words /, meaning " strange " or " different ", and /, meaning " lizard " or " reptile ". it was named ' different lizard ' because its vertebrae were different from those of other dinosaurs known at the time of its discovery. the species epithet fragilis is latin for " fragile ", referring to lightening features in the vertebrae. the bones were collected from the morrison formation of garden park, north of canon city. o. c. marsh and edward drinker cope, who were in scientific competition with each other, went on to coin several other genera based on similarly sparse material that would later figure in the taxonomy of allosaurus. these include marsh ' s creosaurus and labrosaurus, as well as cope ' s epanterias. in their haste, cope and marsh did not always follow up on their discoveries ( or, more commonly, those made by their subordinates ). for example, after the discovery by benjamin mudge of the type specimen of allosaurus in colorado, marsh elected to concentrate work in wyoming. when work resumed at garden park in 1883, m. p. felch found an almost complete allosaurus and several partial skeletons. in addition, one of cope ' s collectors, h. f. hubbell, found a specimen in the como bluff area