overseen by a military officer known as the praefectus vehiculorum. besides the advent of swifter communication among italian polities, his extensive building of roads throughout italy also allowed rome ' s armies to march swiftly and at an unprecedented pace across the country. in the year 6 augustus established the aerarium militare, donating 170 million sesterces to the new military treasury that provided for both active and retired soldiers. one of the most enduring institutions of augustus was the establishment of the praetorian guard in 27 bc, originally a personal bodyguard unit on the battlefield that evolved into an imperial guard as well as an important political force in rome. they had the power to intimidate the senate, install new emperors, and depose ones they disliked ; the last emperor they served was maxentius, as it was constantine i who disbanded them in the early 4th century and destroyed their barracks, the castra praetoria. although the most powerful individual in the roman empire, augustus wished to embody the spirit of republican virtue and norms. he also wanted to relate to and connect with the concerns of the plebs and lay people. he achieved this through various means of generosity and a cutting back of lavish excess. in the year 29 bc, augustus gave 400 sesterces ( equal to 1 / 10 of a roman pound of gold ) each to 250, 000 citizens, 1, 000 sesterces each to 120, 000 veterans in the colonies, and spent 700 million sesterces in purchasing land for his soldiers to settle upon. he also restored 82 different temples to display his care for the roman pantheon of deities. in 28 bc, he melted down 80 silver statues erected in his likeness and in honor of him, an attempt of his to appear frugal and modest. the longevity of augustus ' s reign and its legacy to the roman world should not be overlooked as a key factor in its success. as tacitus wrote, the younger generations alive in ad 14 had never known any form of government other than the principate. had augustus died earlier, matters might have turned out differently. the attrition of the civil wars on the old republican oligarchy and the longevity of augustus, therefore, must be seen as major contributing factors in the transformation of the roman state into a de facto monarchy in these years. augustus ' s own experience, his patience, his tact, and his political acumen also played their parts. he directed the future of the empire down many lasting paths