##ical study published in 2013 by eric snively and colleagues found that allosaurus had an unusually low attachment point on the skull for the longissimus capitis superficialis neck muscle compared to other theropods such as tyrannosaurus. this would have allowed the animal to make rapid and forceful vertical movements with the skull. the authors found that vertical strikes as proposed by bakker and rayfield are consistent with the animal ' s capabilities. they also found that the animal probably processed carcasses by vertical movements in a similar manner to falcons, such as kestrels : the animal could have gripped prey with the skull and feet, then pulled back and up to remove flesh. this differs from the prey - handling envisioned for tyrannosaurids, which probably tore flesh with lateral shakes of the skull, similar to crocodilians. in addition, allosaurus was able to " move its head and neck around relatively rapidly and with considerable control ", at the cost of power. other aspects of feeding include the eyes, arms, and legs. the shape of the skull of allosaurus limited potential binocular vision to 20° of width, slightly less than that of modern crocodilians. as with crocodilians, this may have been enough to judge prey distance and time attacks. the arms, compared with those of other theropods, were suited for both grasping prey at a distance or clutching it close, and the articulation of the claws suggests that they could have been used to hook things. finally, the top speed of allosaurus has been estimated at 30 to 55 kilometers per hour ( 19 to 34 miles per hour ). a paper on the cranio - dental morphology of allosaurus and how it worked has deemed the hatchet jaw attack unlikely, reinterpreting the unusually wide gape as an adaptation to allow allosaurus to deliver a muscle - driven bite to large prey, with the weaker jaw muscles being a trade - off to allow for the widened gape. social behavior it has been speculated since the 1970s that allosaurus preyed on sauropods and other large dinosaurs by hunting in groups. such a depiction is common in semitechnical and popular dinosaur literature. robert t. bakker has extended social behavior to parental care, and has interpreted shed allosaur teeth and chewed bones of large prey animals as evidence that adult allosaurs brought food to lairs for their young to eat until they were grown, and prevented other carnivores from scavenging