split the continental army into positions on manhattan and across the east river in western long island. on august 27 at the battle of long island, howe outflanked washington and forced him back to brooklyn heights, but he did not attempt to encircle washington ' s forces. through the night of august 28, general henry knox bombarded the british. knowing they were up against overwhelming odds, washington ordered the assembly of a war council on august 29 ; all agreed to retreat to manhattan. washington quickly had his troops assembled and ferried them across the east river to manhattan on flat - bottomed freight boats without any losses in men or ordnance, leaving general thomas mifflin ' s regiments as a rearguard. howe met with a delegation from the second continental congress at the september staten island peace conference, but it failed to conclude peace, largely because the british delegates only had authority to offer pardons and could not recognize independence. on september 15, howe seized control of new york city when the british landed at kip ' s bay and unsuccessfully engaged the americans at the battle of harlem heights the following day. on october 18, howe failed to encircle the americans at the battle of pell ' s point, and the americans withdrew. howe declined to close with washington ' s army on october 28 at the battle of white plains, and instead attacked a hill that was of no strategic value. washington ' s retreat isolated his remaining forces and the british captured fort washington on november 16. the british victory there amounted to washington ' s most disastrous defeat with the loss of 3, 000 prisoners. the remaining american regiments on long island fell back four days later. general henry clinton wanted to pursue washington ' s disorganized army, but he was first required to commit 6, 000 troops to capture newport, rhode island to secure the loyalist port. general charles cornwallis pursued washington, but howe ordered him to halt, leaving washington unmolested. the outlook following the defeat at fort washington appeared bleak for the american cause. the reduced continental army had dwindled to fewer than 5, 000 men and was reduced further when enlistments expired at the end of the year. popular support wavered, and morale declined. on december 20, 1776, the continental congress abandoned the revolutionary capital of philadelphia and moved to baltimore, where it remained for over two months, until february 27, 1777. loyalist activity surged in the wake of the american defeat, especially in new york state. in london, news of the victorious long island campaign was well received with festivities