vegetable ; japan, over 20 species such as nori and aonori ; ireland, dulse ; chile, cochayuyo. laver is used to make laverbread in wales, where it is known as. in korea, green laver is used to make. it is also used along the west coast of north america from california to british columbia, in hawaii and by the maori of new zealand. sea lettuce and badderlocks are salad ingredients in scotland, ireland, greenland, and iceland. algae is being considered a potential solution for world hunger problem. two popular forms of algae are used in cuisine : chlorella : this form of alga is found in freshwater and contains photosynthetic pigments in its chloroplast. it is high in iron, zinc, magnesium, vitamin b2 and omega - 3 fatty acids. furthermore, it contains all nine of the essential amino acids the body does not produce on its own spirulina : known otherwise as a cyanobacterium ( a prokaryote or a " blue - green alga " ) the oils from some algae have high levels of unsaturated fatty acids. for example, parietochloris incisa is high in arachidonic acid, where it reaches up to 47 % of the triglyceride pool. some varieties of algae favored by vegetarianism and veganism contain the long - chain, essential omega - 3 fatty acids, docosahexaenoic acid ( dha ) and eicosapentaenoic acid ( epa ). fish oil contains the omega - 3 fatty acids, but the original source is algae ( microalgae in particular ), which are eaten by marine life such as copepods and are passed up the food chain. algae have emerged in recent years as a popular source of omega - 3 fatty acids for vegetarians who cannot get long - chain epa and dha from other vegetarian sources such as flaxseed oil, which only contains the short - chain alpha - linolenic acid ( ala ). pollution control sewage can be treated with algae, reducing the use of large amounts of toxic chemicals that would otherwise be needed. algae can be used to capture fertilizers in runoff from farms. when subsequently harvested, the enriched algae can be used as fertilizer. aquaria and ponds can be filtered using algae, which absorb nutrients from the water in a device called an algae scrubber, also known as an algae turf