agricultural science ( or agriscience for short ) is a broad multidisciplinary field of biology that encompasses the parts of exact, natural, economic and social sciences that are used in the practice and understanding of agriculture. professionals of the agricultural science are called agricultural scientists or agriculturists. history in the 18th century, johann friedrich mayer conducted experiments on the use of gypsum ( hydrated calcium sulphate ) as a fertilizer. in 1843, john bennet lawes and joseph henry gilbert began a set of long - term field experiments at rothamsted research in england, some of which are still running as of 2018. in the united states, a scientific revolution in agriculture began with the hatch act of 1887, which used the term " agricultural science ". the hatch act was driven by farmers ' interest in knowing the constituents of early artificial fertilizer. the smith – hughes act of 1917 shifted agricultural education back to its vocational roots, but the scientific foundation had been built. for the next 44 years after 1906, federal expenditures on agricultural research in the united states outpaced private expenditures. prominent agricultural scientists wilbur olin atwater robert bakewell norman borlaug luther burbank george washington carver carl henry clerk george c. clerk rene dumont sir albert howard kailas nath kaul thomas lecky justus von liebig jay laurence lush gregor mendel louis pasteur m. s. swaminathan jethro tull artturi ilmari virtanen sewall wright fields or related disciplines scope agriculture, agricultural science, and agronomy are often confused. however, they cover different concepts : agriculture is the set of activities that transform the environment for the production of animals and plants for human use. agriculture concerns techniques, including the application of agronomic research. agronomy is research and development related to studying and improving plant - based crops. soil forming factors and soil degradation agricultural sciences include research and development on : improving agricultural productivity in terms of quantity and quality ( e. g., selection of drought - resistant crops and animals, development of new pesticides, yield - sensing technologies, simulation models of crop growth, in - vitro cell culture techniques ) minimizing the effects of pests ( weeds, insects, pathogens, mollusks, nematodes ) on crop or animal production systems. transformation of primary products into end - consumer products ( e. g., production, preservation, and packaging of dairy products ) prevention and correction of adverse environmental effects ( e