. s. defense department, the alaska national guard founded the alaska division of emergency services to respond to any future disasters. alaska oil boom the 1968 discovery of oil at prudhoe bay and the 1977 completion of the trans - alaska pipeline system led to an oil boom. royalty revenues from oil have funded large state budgets from 1980 onward. oil production was not the only economic value of alaska ' s land, however. in the second half of the 20th century, alaska discovered tourism as an important source of revenue. tourism became popular after world war ii, when military personnel stationed in the region returned home praising its natural splendor. the alcan highway, built during the war, and the alaska marine highway system, completed in 1963, made the state more accessible than before. tourism became increasingly important in alaska, and today over 1. 4 million people visit the state each year. with tourism more vital to the economy, environmentalism also rose in importance. the alaska national interest lands conservation act ( anilca ) of 1980 added 53. 7 million acres ( 217, 000 km2 ) to the national wildlife refuge system, parts of 25 rivers to the national wild and scenic rivers system, 3. 3 million acres ( 13, 000 km2 ) to national forest lands, and 43. 6 million acres ( 176, 000 km2 ) to national park land. because of the act, alaska now contains two - thirds of all american national parklands. today, more than half of alaskan land is owned by the federal government. in 1989, the exxon valdez hit a reef in the prince william sound, spilling more than of crude oil over of coastline. today, the battle between philosophies of development and conservation is seen in the contentious debate over oil drilling in the arctic national wildlife refuge and the proposed pebble mine. geography located at the northwest corner of north america, alaska is the northernmost and westernmost state in the united states, but also has the most easterly longitude in the united states because the aleutian islands extend into the eastern hemisphere. alaska is the only non - contiguous u. s. state on continental north america ; about of british columbia ( canada ) separates alaska from washington. it is technically part of the continental u. s., but is not usually included in the colloquial use of the term ; alaska is not part of the contiguous u. s., often called " the lower 48 ". the capital city, juneau, is situated on the mainland of the north american continent but is