in 1831. until then, it was known chiefly through an extract printed in 1823 and 1825. the memoir introducing the parallelepiped form of the fresnel rhomb, read in march 1818, was mislaid until 1846, and then attracted such interest that it was soon republished in english. most of fresnel ' s writings on polarized light before 1821 — including his first theory of chromatic polarization ( submitted 7 october 1816 ) and the crucial " supplement " of january 1818 — were not published in full until his oeuvres completes ( " complete works " ) began to appear in 1866. the " supplement " of july 1816, proposing the " efficacious ray " and reporting the famous double - mirror experiment, met the same fate, as did the " first memoir " on double refraction. publication of fresnel ' s collected works was itself delayed by the deaths of successive editors. the task was initially entrusted to felix savary, who died in 1841. it was restarted twenty years later by the ministry of public instruction. of the three editors eventually named in the oeuvres, senarmont died in 1862, verdet in 1866, and leonor fresnel in 1869, by which time only two of the three volumes had appeared. at the beginning of vol. 3 ( 1870 ), the completion of the project is described in a long footnote by " j. lissajous. " not included in the oeuvres are two short notes by fresnel on magnetism, which were discovered among ampere ' s manuscripts. in response to ørsted ' s discovery of electromagnetism in 1820, ampere initially supposed that the field of a permanent magnet was due to a macroscopic circulating current. fresnel suggested instead that there was a microscopic current circulating around each particle of the magnet. in his first note, he argued that microscopic currents, unlike macroscopic currents, would explain why a hollow cylindrical magnet does not lose its magnetism when cut longitudinally. in his second note, dated 5 july 1821, he further argued that a macroscopic current had the counterfactual implication that a permanent magnet should be hot, whereas microscopic currents circulating around the molecules might avoid the heating mechanism. he was not to know that the fundamental units of permanent magnetism are even smaller than molecules. the two notes, together with ampere ' s acknowledgment, were eventually published in 1885. lost works fresnel ' s essay reveries of 1814 has not