nitrogen excretion product, is highly toxic to fish at accumulated levels, particularly when oxygen concentrations are low. many of these interactions and effects cause stress in the fish, which can be a major factor in facilitating fish disease. for many parasites, infestation depends on the host ' s degree of mobility, the density of the host population and vulnerability of the host ' s defence system. sea lice are the primary parasitic problem for finfish in aquaculture, high numbers causing widespread skin erosion and haemorrhaging, gill congestion, and increased mucus production. there are also a number of prominent viral and bacterial pathogens that can have severe effects on internal organs and nervous systems. improving welfare the key to improving welfare of marine cultured organisms is to reduce stress to a minimum, as prolonged or repeated stress can cause a range of adverse effects. attempts to minimise stress can occur throughout the culture process. understanding and providing required environmental enrichment can be vital for reducing stress and benefit aquaculture objects such as improved growth body condition and reduced damage from aggression. during grow - out it is important to keep stocking densities at appropriate levels specific to each species, as well as separating size classes and grading to reduce aggressive behavioural interactions. keeping nets and cages clean can assist positive water flow to reduce the risk of water degradation. not surprisingly disease and parasitism can have a major effect on fish welfare and it is important for farmers not only to manage infected stock but also to apply disease prevention measures. however, prevention methods, such as vaccination, can also induce stress because of the extra handling and injection. other methods include adding antibiotics to feed, adding chemicals into water for treatment baths and biological control, such as using cleaner wrasse to remove lice from farmed salmon. many steps are involved in transport, including capture, food deprivation to reduce faecal contamination of transport water, transfer to transport vehicle via nets or pumps, plus transport and transfer to the delivery location. during transport water needs to be maintained to a high quality, with regulated temperature, sufficient oxygen and minimal waste products. in some cases anaesthetics may be used in small doses to calm fish before transport. aquaculture is sometimes part of an environmental rehabilitation program or as an aid in conserving endangered species. coastal ecosystems aquaculture is becoming a significant threat to coastal ecosystems. about 20 percent of mangrove forests have been destroyed since 1980, partly due to shrimp farming. an extended cost – benefit analysis of the total economic value of shrimp aquaculture built on mangrove ecosystems found