to earth on december 25, christmas day. unplanned manual realignment later, lovell used some otherwise idle time to do some navigational sightings, maneuvering the module to view various stars by using the computer keyboard. he accidentally erased some of the computer ' s memory, which caused the inertial measurement unit ( imu ) to contain data indicating that the module was in the same relative orientation it had been in before lift - off ; the imu then fired the thrusters to " correct " the module ' s attitude. once the crew realized why the computer had changed the module ' s attitude, they realized that they would have to reenter data to tell the computer the module ' s actual orientation. it took lovell ten minutes to figure out the right numbers, using the thrusters to get the stars rigel and sirius aligned, and another 15 minutes to enter the corrected data into the computer. sixteen months later, during the apollo13 mission, lovell would have to perform a similar manual realignment under more critical conditions after the module ' s imu had to be turned off to conserve energy. cruise back to earth and reentry the cruise back to earth was mostly a time for the crew to relax and monitor the spacecraft. as long as the trajectory specialists had calculated everything correctly, the spacecraft would reenter earth ' s atmosphere two - and - a - half days after tei and splash down in the pacific. on christmas afternoon, the crew made their fifth television broadcast. this time, they gave a tour of the spacecraft, showing how an astronaut lived in space. when they finished broadcasting, they found a small present from slayton in the food locker : a real turkey dinner with stuffing, in the same kind of pack given to the troops in vietnam. another slayton surprise was a gift of three miniature bottles of brandy, which borman ordered the crew to leave alone until after they landed. they remained unopened, even years after the flight. there were also small presents to the crew from their wives. the next day, at about 124 hours into the mission, the sixth and final tv transmission showed the mission ' s best video images of the earth, during a four - minute broadcast. after two uneventful days, the crew prepared for reentry. the computer would control the reentry, and all the crew had to do was put the spacecraft in the correct attitude, with the blunt end forward. in the event of computer failure, borman was ready to take over. separation