liberal constitutional process, spanish conservatives wanted to continue with the traditional organic laws, such as the fuero juzgo, the novisima recopilacion and the partidas of alfonso x. this led to a third cause of instability, the independence of most of the american possessions, recognized between 1823 and 1850. when queen isabella ii and her husband were forced to leave spain by the revolution of 1868, alfonso accompanied them to paris. from there, he was sent to the theresianum in vienna to continue his studies. on 25 june 1870, he was recalled to paris, where his mother abdicated in his favour, in the presence of a number of spanish nobles who had tied their fortunes to those of the exiled queen. he assumed the name alfonso xii, for although no king of united spain had borne the name " alfonso ", the spanish monarchy was regarded as continuous with the more ancient monarchy represented by the 11 kings of asturias, leon and castile also named alfonso. the republic after the revolution, the cortes decided to set up a new dynasty on the throne. prince amadeo of savoy, the younger son of king victor emmanuel ii of italy and a distant cousin of alfonso by common descent from charles iii, was recognized as king of spain in november 1870. during a tumultuous reign, amadeo was targeted by assassination attempts and struggled with opposition from both carlists and republicans while his own faction split. after the carlists revolted and the third carlist war broke out, he abdicated and returned to italy in early 1873. following amadeo ' s abandonment, the first spanish republic was established, including the territories of cuba, puerto rico and the pacific archipelagos. the first act of president estanislao figueras was to extend the abolition of slavery to puerto rico ; cuban slaves would have to wait until 1889. the republicans were not in agreement either, and they had to contend with a war in cuba and muslim uprisings in spanish morocco. in the midst of these crises, the carlist war continued and the carlist party made itself strong in areas with claims over their national and institutional specificity such as catalonia and the basque country. this unrest led to the creation of a group in favour of the bourbon restoration, led by the moderate conservative antonio canovas del castillo. alfonso was well - educated and cultured, especially compared to his mother. his tutors took great care to have him educated in good schools and to familiarize him with different cultures, languages and government models throughout europe.