arrive. motorways two main motorways of greece begin in athens, namely the a1 / e75, heading north towards greece ' s second largest city, thessaloniki ; and the border crossing of evzones and the a8 / e94 heading west, towards greece ' s third largest city, patras, which incorporated the gr - 8a. before their completion much of the road traffic used the gr - 1 and the gr - 8. athens ' metropolitan area is served by the motorway network of the attiki odos toll - motorway ( code : a6 ). its main section extends from the western industrial suburb of elefsina to athens international airport ; while two beltways, namely the aigaleo beltway ( a65 ) and the hymettus beltway ( a64 ) serve parts of western and eastern athens respectively. the span of the attiki odos in all its length is, making it the largest metropolitan motorway network in all of greece. education located on panepistimiou street, the old campus of the university of athens, the national library, and the athens academy form the " athens trilogy " built in the mid - 19th century. the largest and oldest university in athens is the national and kapodistrian university of athens. most of the functions of nkua have been transferred to a campus in the eastern suburb of zografou. the national technical university of athens is located on patision street. the university of west attica is the second largest university in athens. the seat of the university is located in the western area of athens, where the philosophers of ancient athens delivered lectures. all the activities of uniwa are carried out in the modern infrastructure of the three university campuses within the metropolitan region of athens ( egaleo park, ancient olive groove and athens ), which offer modern teaching and research spaces, entertainment and support facilities for all students. other universities that lie within athens are the athens university of economics and business, the panteion university, the agricultural university of athens and the university of piraeus. there are overall ten state - supported institutions of higher ( or tertiary ) education located in the athens urban area, these are by chronological order : athens school of fine arts ( 1837 ), national technical university of athens ( 1837 ), national and kapodistrian university of athens ( 1837 ), agricultural university of athens ( 1920 ), athens university of economics and business ( 1920 ), panteion university of social and political sciences ( 1927 ), university