argue that archaeology does not indicate a spread of migrating farmers into africa, but rather a gradual incorporation of animal husbandry into indigenous foraging cultures. ehret, in a separate publication, argued that the two principles in linguistic approaches for determining the origin of languages which are the principles of fewest moves and greatest diversity had put “ beyond reasonable doubt ” that the language family “ had originated in the horn of africa ”. a significant minority of scholars supports an asian origin of afroasiatic, most of whom are specialists in semitic or egyptian studies. the main proponent of an asian origin is the linguist alexander militarev, who argues that proto - afroasiatic was spoken by early agriculturalists in the levant and subsequently spread to africa. militarev associates the speakers of proto - afroasiatic with the levantine post - natufian culture, arguing that the reconstructed lexicon of flora and fauna, as well as farming and pastoralist vocabulary indicates that proto - aa must have been spoken in this area. scholar jared diamond and archaeologist peter bellwood have taken up militarev ' s arguments as part of their general argument that the spread of linguistic macrofamilies ( such as indo - european, bantu, and austro - asiatic ) can be associated with the development of agriculture ; they argue that there is clear archaeological support for farming spreading from the levant into africa via the nile valley. phonological characteristics afroasiatic languages share a number of phonetic and phonological features. syllable structure egyptian, cushitic, berber, omotic, and most languages in the semitic branch all require a syllable to begin with a consonant ( with the exception of some grammatical prefixes ). igor diakonoff argues that this constraint goes back to proto - afroasiatic. some chadic languages allow a syllable to begin with a vowel ; however, in many chadic languages verbs must begin with a consonant. in cushitic and chadic languages, a glottal stop or glottal fricative may be inserted to prevent a word from beginning with a vowel. typically, syllables only begin with a single consonant. with the exception of some chadic languages, all afroasiatic languages allow both closed and open syllables ; many chadic languages do not allow a syllable to end in a consonant. most words end in a vowel in omotic and cushitic, making syllable - final consonant clusters rare. diakonoff argues that proto - afroasiatic syllables disallowed consonant clusters or vowels at the end of a syllable. syllable weight