##hol museum. television : andy warhol dreamed of a television special about a favorite subject of hisnothingthat he would call the nothing special. later in his career he did create two cable television shows, andy warhol ' s tv in 1982 and andy warhol ' s fifteen minutes ( based on his famous " fifteen minutes of fame " quotation ) for mtv in 1986. besides his own shows he regularly made guest appearances on other programs, including the love boat wherein a midwestern wife ( marion ross ) fears andy warhol will reveal to her husband ( tom bosley, who starred alongside ross in sitcom happy days ) her secret past as a warhol superstar named marina del rey. warhol also produced a tv commercial for schrafft ' s restaurants in new york city, for an ice cream dessert appropriately titled the " underground sundae ". fashion : warhol is quoted for having said : " i ' d rather buy a dress and put it up on the wall, than put a painting, wouldn ' t you? " one of his best - known superstars, edie sedgwick, aspired to be a fashion designer, and his good friend halston was a famous one. warhol ' s work in fashion includes silkscreened dresses, a short sub - career as a catwalk - model and books on fashion as well as paintings with fashion ( shoes ) as a subject. warhol himself has been described as a modern dandy, whose authority " rested more on presence than on words ". performance art : warhol and his friends staged theatrical multimedia happenings at parties and public venues, combining music, film, slide projections and even gerard malanga in an s & m outfit cracking a whip. the exploding plastic inevitable in 1966 was the culmination of this area of his work. theater : warhol ' s play andy warhol ' s pork opened on may 5, 1971, at lamama theater in new york for a two - week run and was brought to the roundhouse in london for a longer run in august 1971. pork was based on tape - recorded conversations between brigid berlin and andy during which brigid would play for andy tapes she had made of phone conversations between herself and her mother, socialite honey berlin. the play featured jayne county as " vulva " and cherry vanilla as " amanda pork ". in 1974, andy warhol also produced the stage musical man on the moon, which was written by john phillips of the mamas and the papas. photography : to