, iron, copper, titanium, chromium, manganese, cobalt, molybdenum, complex ore and antimony. in september 1994, a 30 - year contract was signed between the state oil company of azerbaijan republic ( socar ) and 13 oil companies, among them amoco, bp, exxonmobil, lukoil and statoil. as western oil companies are able to tap deepwater oilfields untouched by the soviet exploitation, azerbaijan is considered one of the most important spots in the world for oil exploration and development. meanwhile, the state oil fund of azerbaijan was established as an extra - budgetary fund to ensure the macroeconomic stability, transparency in the management of oil revenue, and the safeguarding of resources for future generations. azeriqaz, a sub - company of socar, intends to ensure full gasification of the country by 2021. transportation the convenient location of azerbaijan on the crossroad of major international traffic arteries, such as the silk road and the south – north corridor, highlights the strategic importance of the transportation sector for the country ' s economy. the transport sector in the country includes roads, railways, aviation, and maritime transport. azerbaijan is also an important economic hub in the transportation of raw materials. the baku - tbilisi - ceyhan pipeline ( btc ) became operational in may 2006 and extends more than 1, 774 kilometers through the territories of azerbaijan, georgia and turkey. the btc is designed to transport up to 50 million tons of crude oil annually and carries oil from the caspian sea oilfields to global markets. the south caucasus pipeline, also stretching through the territory of azerbaijan, georgia and turkey, became operational at the end of 2006 and offers additional gas supplies to the european market from the shah deniz gas field. shah deniz is expected to produce up to 296 billion cubic meters of natural gas per year. azerbaijan also plays a major role in the eu - sponsored silk road project. in 2002, the azerbaijani government established the ministry of transport with a broad range of policy and regulatory functions. in the same year, the country became a member of the vienna convention on road traffic. the highest priority being ; upgrading the transport network and transforming transportation services into one of the key comparative advantages of the country, as this would be highly conducive to the development of other sectors of the economy. in 2012, the construction of kars – tbilisi – baku railway expected to provide transportation between asia and europe through connecting the railways of china and kazakhstan in the east with turkey '