quarter of the british import trade to almost half. meanwhile, the war created employment for arms makers, ironworkers, and ships to transport weapons. lincoln ' s administration initially failed to appeal to european public opinion. at first, diplomats explained that the united states was not committed to the ending of slavery, and instead repeated legalistic arguments about the unconstitutionality of secession. confederate representatives, on the other hand, started off much more successful, by ignoring slavery and instead focusing on their struggle for liberty, their commitment to free trade, and the essential role of cotton in the european economy. the european aristocracy was " absolutely gleeful in pronouncing the american debacle as proof that the entire experiment in popular government had failed. european government leaders welcomed the fragmentation of the ascendant american republic. " however, there was still a european public with liberal sensibilities, that the u. s. sought to appeal to by building connections with the international press. as early as 1861, many union diplomats such as carl schurz realized emphasizing the war against slavery was the union ' s most effective moral asset in the struggle for public opinion in europe. seward was concerned that an overly radical case for reunification would distress the european merchants with cotton interests ; even so, seward supported a widespread campaign of public diplomacy. u. s. minister to britain charles francis adams proved particularly adept and convinced britain not to openly challenge the union blockade. the confederacy purchased several warships from commercial shipbuilders in britain (,,,,, and some others ). the most famous, the, did considerable damage and led to serious postwar disputes. however, public opinion against slavery in britain created a political liability for british politicians, where the anti - slavery movement was powerful. war loomed in late 1861 between the u. s. and britain over the trent affair, which began when u. s. navy personnel boarded the british ship and seized two confederate diplomats. however, london and washington were able to smooth over the problem after lincoln released the two men. prince albert had left his deathbed to issue diplomatic instructions to lord lyons during the trent affair. his request was honored, and, as a result, the british response to the united states was toned down and helped avert the british becoming involved in the war. in 1862, the british government considered mediating between the union and confederacy, though even such an offer would have risked war with the united states. british prime minister lord palmerston reportedly read uncle tom ' s cabin three times when deciding on what his decision