phoenician alphabet was that it could write different languages since it recorded words phonemically. the phoenician script was spread across the mediterranean by the phoenicians. the greek alphabet was the first alphabet in which vowels have independent letter forms separate from those of consonants. the greeks chose letters representing sounds that did not exist in phoenician to represent vowels. the syllabical linear b, a script that was used by the mycenaean greeks from the 16th century bce, had 87 symbols, including five vowels. in its early years, there were many variants of the greek alphabet, causing many different alphabets to evolve from it. european alphabets the greek alphabet, in euboean form, was carried over by greek colonists to the italian peninsula - 600 bce giving rise to many different alphabets used to write the italic languages, like the etruscan alphabet. one of these became the latin alphabet, which spread across europe as the romans expanded their republic. after the fall of the western roman empire, the alphabet survived in intellectual and religious works. it came to be used for the descendant languages of latin ( the romance languages ) and most of the other languages of western and central europe. today, it is the most widely used script in the world. the etruscan alphabet remained nearly unchanged for several hundred years. only evolving once the etruscan language changed itself. the letters used for non - existent phonemes were dropped. afterwards, however, the alphabet went through many different changes. the final classical form of etruscan contained 20 letters. four of them are vowels ( a, e, i, and u ). six fewer letters than the earlier forms. the script in its classical form was used until the 1st century ce. the etruscan language itself was not used in imperial rome, but the script was used for religious texts. some adaptations of the latin alphabet have ligatures, a combination of two letters make one, such as æ in danish and icelandic and in algonquian ; borrowings from other alphabets, such as the thorn þ in old english and icelandic, which came from the futhark runes ; and modified existing letters, such as the eth ð of old english and icelandic, which is a modified d. other alphabets only use a subset of the latin alphabet, such as hawaiian and italian, which uses the letters j, k, x, y, and w only in foreign words. another notable script is elder futhark, believed to