, and hence enabled dutch fishermen to follow the herring shoals far from the coasts, giving them a monopoly in the industry. the herring industry relied on international trade cooperation and large initial investments in ships, which needed many highly skilled and unskilled workers cooperating, which required the import of the necessary raw materials to turn an unfinished product into a marketable one, which required merchants to then sell it throughout the continent and book - keepers and accountants to divide the profit. in short, the herring industry was setting up the foundations for what would later become the transcontinental trade system and the dutch golden age, with amsterdam at its centre, hence the saying " amsterdam is built on herring bones ". conflict with spain the low countries were part of the hapsburg inheritance and came under the spanish monarchy in the early sixteenth century. the dutch rebelled against philip ii of spain, who led a defense of catholicism during the protestant reformation. the main reasons for the uprising were the imposition of new taxes, the tenth penny, and the religious persecution of protestants by the newly introduced inquisition. the revolt escalated into the eighty years ' war, which ultimately led to dutch independence. strongly pushed by dutch revolt leader william the silent, the dutch republic became known for its relative religious tolerance. jews from the iberian peninsula, protestant huguenots from france, prosperous merchants and printers from flanders, and economic and religious refugees from the spanish - controlled parts of the low countries found safety in amsterdam. the influx of flemish printers and the city ' s intellectual tolerance made amsterdam a centre for the european free press. centre of the dutch golden age during the 17th century, amsterdam experienced what is considered its golden age, during which it became the wealthiest city in the western world. ships sailed from amsterdam to the baltic sea, the caribbean, north america, and africa, as well as present - day indonesia, india, sri lanka, and brazil, forming the basis of a worldwide trading network. amsterdam ' s merchants had the largest share in both the dutch east india company ( voc ) and the dutch west india company. these companies acquired overseas possessions that later became dutch colonies. amsterdam was europe ' s most important hub for the shipment of goods and was the leading financial centre of the western world. in 1602, the amsterdam office of the dutch east india company became the world ' s first stock exchange by trading in its own shares. the bank of amsterdam started operations in 1609, acting as a full - service bank for dutch merchant bankers and as a reserve bank. beginning during this period,