to be a chapel. the mythological elements are so important : apparently guell and gaudi ' s conception of the park was also inspired by the temple of apollo of delphi. on the other hand, many experts have tried to link the park to various symbols because of the complex iconography that gaudi applied to the urban project. such references go from political vindication to religious exaltation, passing through mythology, history and philosophy. specifically, many studies claim to see references to freemasonry, despite the deep religious beliefs of both gaudi and count guell. these references have not been proven in the historiography of the modern architect. the multiplicity of symbols found in park guell is, as previously mentioned, associated with political and religious signs, with a touch of mystery according to the preferences of that time for enigmas and puzzles. origins as a housing development the park was originally part of a commercially unsuccessful housing site, the idea of count eusebi guell, after whom the park was named. it was inspired by the english garden city movement ; the original english name park ( in catalan the name is " parc guell " ; in spanish, " parque guell " ). the site was a rocky hill with little vegetation and few trees, called muntanya pelada ( bare mountain ). it already included a large country house called larrard house or muntaner de dalt house and was next to a neighbourhood of upper - class houses called la salut ( the health ). the intention was to exploit the fresh air ( well away from smoky factories ) and beautiful views from the site, with sixty triangular lots being provided for luxury houses. count eusebi guell added to the prestige of the development by moving in 1906 to live in larrard house. ultimately, only two houses were built, neither designed by gaudi. one was intended to be a show house, but on being completed in 1904 was put up for sale, and as no buyers came forward, gaudi, at guell ' s suggestion, bought it with his savings and moved in with his family and his father in 1906. this house, where gaudi lived from 1906 to 1926 ( his death ), was built by francesc berenguer in 1904. it contains original works by gaudi and several of his collaborators. it has been the gaudi house museum ( casa museu gaudi ) since 1963. in 1969, it was declared a historical artistic monument of national interest. municipal garden it has since