applies force intentionally to another person without their consent. it can also occur when a person attempts to apply such force, or threatens to do so, without the consent of the other person. an injury need not occur for an assault to be committed, but the force used in the assault must be offensive in nature with an intention to apply force. it can be an assault to " tap ", " pinch ", " push ", or direct another such minor action toward another, but an accidental application of force is not an assault. the potential punishment for an assault in canada varies depending on the manner in which the charge proceeds through the court system and the type of assault that is committed. the criminal code defines assault as a dual offence ( indictable or summary offence ). police officers can arrest someone without a warrant for an assault if it is in the public ' s interest to do so notwithstanding s. 495 ( 2 ) ( d ) of the code. this public interest is usually satisfied by preventing a continuation or repetition of the offence on the same victim. some variations on the ordinary crime of assault include : assault : the offence is defined by section 265 of the code. assault with a weapon : section 267 ( a ) of the code. assault causing bodily harm : see assault causing bodily harm section 267 ( b ) of the code. aggravated assault : section 268 of the code. assaulting a peace officer, etc. : section 270 of the code. sexual assault : section 271 of the code. sexual assault with a weapon or threats or causing bodily harm : section 272 of the code. aggravated sexual assault : see aggravated sexual assault. an individual cannot consent to an assault with a weapon, assault causing bodily harm, aggravated assault, or any sexual assault. consent will also be vitiated if two people consent to fight but serious bodily harm is intended and caused ( r v paice ; r v jobidon ). a person cannot consent to serious bodily harm. ancient greece assault in ancient greece was normally termed hubris. contrary to modern usage, the term did not have the extended connotation of overweening pride, self - confidence or arrogance, often resulting in fatal retribution. in ancient greece, " hubris " referred to actions which, intentionally or not, shamed and humiliated the victim, and frequently the perpetrator as well. it was most evident in the public and private actions of the powerful and rich. violations of the law against hubris included, what would today be termed, assault and battery ; sexual crimes ranging from for