jelly - like substance, which was a more powerful explosive than dynamite. gelignite, or blasting gelatin, as it was named, was patented in 1876 ; and was followed by a host of similar combinations, modified by the addition of potassium nitrate and various other substances. gelignite was more stable, transportable and conveniently formed to fit into bored holes, like those used in drilling and mining, than the previously used compounds. it was adopted as the standard technology for mining in the " age of engineering ", bringing nobel a great amount of financial success, though at a cost to his health. an offshoot of this research resulted in nobel ' s invention of ballistite, the precursor of many modern smokeless powder explosives and still used as a rocket propellant. nobel prize there is a well known story about the origin of the nobel prize, although historians have been unable to verify it and some dismiss the story as a myth. in 1888, the death of his brother ludvig supposedly caused several newspapers to publish obituaries of alfred in error. one french newspaper condemned him for his invention of military explosives — in many versions of the story, dynamite is quoted, although this was mainly used for civilian applications — and this is said to have brought about his decision to leave a better legacy after his death. the obituary stated, ( " the merchant of death is dead " ), and went on to say, " dr. alfred nobel, who became rich by finding ways to kill more people faster than ever before, died yesterday. " nobel read the obituary and was appalled at the idea that he would be remembered in this way. his decision to posthumously donate the majority of his wealth to found the nobel prize has been credited to him wanting to leave behind a better legacy. however, it has been questioned whether or not the obituary in question actually existed. on 27 november 1895, at the swedish - norwegian club in paris, nobel signed his last will and testament and set aside the bulk of his estate to establish the nobel prizes, to be awarded annually without distinction of nationality. after taxes and bequests to individuals, nobel ' s will allocated 94 % of his total assets, 31, 225, 000 swedish kronor, to establish the five nobel prizes. this converted to £1, 687, 837 ( gbp ) at the time. in 2012, the capital was worth around sek 3. 1 billion ( us $ 472 million, eur 337 million ), which is almost twice the amount of the initial