, so that enclaves in the alps could be eliminated. during the napoleonic wars in the late 18th century and early 19th century, napoleon annexed territory formerly controlled by the house of habsburg, and the house of savoy. in 1798, the helvetic republic was established, two years later an army across the great st bernard pass. in 1799 the russian imperial military engaged the revolutionary french army in the alps, this episode has been recorded as significant achievement in mountain warfare. in october 1799 the troops commanded by alexander suvorov were surrounded in the alps by much larger french troops. the russian troops broke out, mauled the french troops, and retreated through the panix pass. after the fall of napoleon, many alpine countries developed heavy protections to prevent further invasion. thus, savoy built a series of fortifications to protect the major alpine passes, such as the col du mont - cenis, which was crossed by charlemagne to obliterate the lombards. in the 19th century, the monasteries built in the alps to shelter humans became tourist destinations. the benedictines had built monasteries in lucerne, and oberammergau. the cistercians built their temple at lake constance. meanwhile, the augustinians maintained abbeys in savoy and one in interlaken. exploration radiocarbon - dated charcoal placed around 50, 000 years ago was found in the drachloch ( dragon ' s hole ) cave above the village of vattis in the canton of st. gallen, proving that the high peaks were visited by prehistoric people. seven bear skulls from the cave may have been buried by the same prehistoric people. the peaks, however, were mostly ignored except for a few notable examples, and long left to the exclusive attention of the people of the adjoining valleys. the mountain peaks were seen as terrifying, the abode of dragons and demons, to the point that people blindfolded themselves to cross the alpine passes. the glaciers remained a mystery and many still believed the highest areas to be inhabited by dragons. charles vii of france ordered his chamberlain to climb mont aiguille in 1356. the knight reached the summit of rocciamelone where he left a bronze triptych of three crosses, a feat which he conducted with the use of ladders to traverse the ice. in 1492, antoine de ville climbed mont aiguille, without reaching the summit, an experience he described as " horrifying and terrifying. " leonardo da vinci was fascinated by variations of light in the higher altitudes, and climbed a mountain — scholars are