asteroids was immediately successful upon release. it displaced space invaders by popularity in the united states and became atari ' s best selling arcade game of all time, with over 70, 000 units sold. atari earned an estimated $ 150 million in sales from the game, and arcade operators earned a further $ 500 million from coin drops. atari had been in the process of manufacturing another vector game, lunar lander, but demand for asteroids was so high " that several hundred asteroids games were shipped in lunar lander cabinets ". asteroids was so popular that some video arcade operators had to install large boxes to hold the number of coins spent by players. it replaced space invaders at the top of the us replay amusement arcade charts in april 1980, though space invaders remained the top game at street locations. asteroids went on to become the highest - grossing arcade video game of 1980 in the united states, dethroning space invaders. it shipped 70, 000 arcade units worldwide in 1980, including over 60, 000 sold in the united states that year, and grossed about worldwide ( adjusted for inflation ) by 1980. the game remained at the top of the us replay charts through march 1981. however, the game did not perform as well overseas in europe and asia. it sold 30, 000 arcade units overseas, for a total of 100, 000 arcade units sold worldwide. atari manufactured 76, 312 units from its us and ireland plants, including 21, 394 asteroids deluxe units. it was a commercial failure in japan when it released there in 1980, partly due to its complex controls and partly due to the japanese market beginning to lose interest in space shoot ' em ups at the time. asteroids received positive reviews from video game critics and has been regarded as logg ' s magnum opus. richard a. edwards reviewed the 1981 asteroids home cartridge in the space gamer no. 46. edwards commented that " this home cartridge is a virtual duplicate of the ever - popular atari arcade game. [... ] if blasting asteroids is the thing you want to do then this is the game, but at this price i can ' t wholeheartedly recommend it ". video games player magazine reviewed the atari vcs version, rating the graphics and sound a b, while giving the game an overall b + rating. electronic fun with computers & games magazine gave the atari vcs version an a rating. william cassidy, writing for gamespy ' s " classic gaming ", noticed its innovations, including being one of the first video games to track initials and allow players to enter their initials for appearing in the top 10