in mathematics and computer science, an algorithm ( ) is a finite sequence of rigorous instructions, typically used to solve a class of specific problems or to perform a computation. algorithms are used as specifications for performing calculations and data processing. more advanced algorithms can use conditionals to divert the code execution through various routes ( referred to as automated decision - making ) and deduce valid inferences ( referred to as automated reasoning ), achieving automation eventually. using human characteristics as descriptors of machines in metaphorical ways was already practiced by alan turing with terms such as " memory ", " search " and " stimulus ". in contrast, a heuristic is an approach to problem solving that may not be fully specified or may not guarantee correct or optimal results, especially in problem domains where there is no well - defined correct or optimal result. as an effective method, an algorithm can be expressed within a finite amount of space and time and in a well - defined formal language for calculating a function. starting from an initial state and initial input ( perhaps empty ), the instructions describe a computation that, when executed, proceeds through a finite number of well - defined successive states, eventually producing " output " and terminating at a final ending state. the transition from one state to the next is not necessarily deterministic ; some algorithms, known as randomized algorithms, incorporate random input. history ancient algorithms since antiquity, step - by - step procedures for solving mathematical problems have been attested. this includes babylonian mathematics ( around 2500 bc ), egyptian mathematics ( around 1550 bc ), indian mathematics ( around 800 bc and later ; e. g. shulba sutras, kerala school, and brahmasphutasiddhanta ), the ifa oracle ( around 500 bc ), greek mathematics ( around 240 bc, e. g. sieve of eratosthenes and euclidean algorithm ), and arabic mathematics ( 9th century, e. g. cryptographic algorithms for code - breaking based on frequency analysis ). al - khwarizmi and the term algorithm around 825, muhammad ibn musa al - khwarizmi wrote kitab al - hisab al - hindi ( " book of indian computation " ) and kitab al - jam ' wa ' l - tafriq al - hisab al - hindi ( " addition and subtraction in indian arithmetic " ). both of these texts are lost in the original arabic at this time. ( however, his other book on algebra remains. ) in the early 12th century, latin translations of said