the use of the term ordo ( order ) at that time was closer to what we now understand as family, rather than order. in creating his scheme he used a modified form of linnaeus ' sexual classification but using the respective topography of stamens to carpels rather than just their numbers. while de jussieu ' s stamina perigynia also included a number of ' orders ' that would eventually form families within the asparagales such as the asphodeli ( asphodelaceae ), narcissi ( amaryllidaceae ) and irides ( iridaceae ), the remainder are now allocated to other orders. jussieu ' s asparagi soon came to be referred to as asparagacees in the french literature ( latin : asparagaceae ). meanwhile, the ' narcissi ' had been renamed as the ' amaryllidees ' ( amaryllideae ) in 1805, by jean henri jaume saint - hilaire, using amaryllis as the type species rather than narcissus, and thus has the authority attribution for amaryllidaceae. in 1810, brown proposed that a subgroup of liliaceae be distinguished on the basis of the position of the ovaries and be referred to as amaryllideae and in 1813 de candolle described liliacees juss. and amaryllidees brown as two quite separate families. the literature on the organisation of genera into families and higher ranks became available in the english language with samuel frederick gray ' s a natural arrangement of british plants ( 1821 ). gray used a combination of linnaeus ' sexual classification and jussieu ' s natural classification to group together a number of families having in common six equal stamens, a single style and a perianth that was simple and petaloid, but did not use formal names for these higher ranks. within the grouping he separated families by the characteristics of their fruit and seed. he treated groups of genera with these characteristics as separate families, such as amaryllideae, liliaceae, asphodeleae and asparageae. the circumscription of asparagales has been a source of difficulty for many botanists from the time of john lindley ( 1846 ), the other important british taxonomist of the early nineteenth century. in his first taxonomic work, an introduction to the natural system of botany ( 1830 ) he partly followed jussieu by describing a subclass he called