expressed anger with his actions, the 1867 elections generally went democratic. no seats in congress were directly elected in the polling, but the democrats took control of the ohio general assembly, allowing them to defeat for reelection one of johnson ' s strongest opponents, senator benjamin wade. voters in ohio, connecticut, and minnesota turned down propositions to grant african americans the vote. the adverse results momentarily put a stop to republican calls to impeach johnson, who was elated by the elections. nevertheless, once congress met in november, the judiciary committee reversed itself and passed a resolution of impeachment against johnson. after much debate about whether anything the president had done was a high crime or misdemeanor, the standard under the constitution, the resolution was defeated by the house of representatives on december 7, 1867, by a vote of 57 in favor to 108 opposed. johnson notified congress of stanton ' s suspension and grant ' s interim appointment. in january 1868, the senate disapproved of his action, and reinstated stanton, contending the president had violated the tenure of office act. grant stepped aside over johnson ' s objection, causing a complete break between them. johnson then dismissed stanton and appointed lorenzo thomas to replace him. stanton refused to leave his office, and on february 24, 1868, the house impeached the president for intentionally violating the tenure of office act, by a vote of 128 to 47. the house subsequently adopted eleven articles of impeachment, for the most part alleging that he had violated the tenure of office act, and had questioned the legitimacy of congress. on march 5, 1868, the impeachment trial began in the senate and lasted almost three months ; congressmen george s. boutwell, benjamin butler and thaddeus stevens acted as managers for the house, or prosecutors, and william m. evarts, benjamin r. curtis and former attorney general stanbery were johnson ' s counsel ; chief justice chase served as presiding judge. the defense relied on the provision of the tenure of office act that made it applicable only to appointees of the current administration. since lincoln had appointed stanton, the defense maintained johnson had not violated the act, and also argued that the president had the right to test the constitutionality of an act of congress. johnson ' s counsel insisted that he make no appearance at the trial, nor publicly comment about the proceedings, and except for a pair of interviews in april, he complied. johnson maneuvered to gain an acquittal ; for example, he pledged to iowa senator james w. grimes that