gravitationally, as they are connected by a faint stream of gas and dust. arp 276 is a different pair of interacting galaxies in aries, consisting of ngc 935 and ic 1801. ngc 821 is an e6 elliptical galaxy. it is unusual because it has hints of an early spiral structure, which is normally only found in lenticular and spiral galaxies. ngc 821 is 2. 6 by 2. 0 arcminutes and has a visual magnitude of 11. 3. its diameter is 61, 000 light - years and it is 80 million light - years away. another unusual galaxy in aries is segue 2, a dwarf and satellite galaxy of the milky way, recently discovered to be a potential relic of the epoch of reionization. meteor showers aries is home to several meteor showers. the daytime arietid meteor shower is one of the strongest meteor showers that occurs during the day, lasting from 22 may to 2 july. it is an annual shower associated with the marsden group of comets that peaks on 7 june with a maximum zenithal hourly rate of 54 meteors. its parent body may be the asteroid icarus. the meteors are sometimes visible before dawn, because the radiant is 32 degrees away from the sun. they usually appear at a rate of 1 – 2 per hour as " earthgrazers ", meteors that last several seconds and often begin at the horizon. because most of the daytime arietids are not visible to the naked eye, they are observed in the radio spectrum. this is possible because of the ionized gas they leave in their wake. other meteor showers radiate from aries during the day ; these include the daytime epsilon arietids and the northern and southern daytime may arietids. the jodrell bank observatory discovered the daytime arietids in 1947 when james hey and g. s. stewart adapted the world war ii - era radar systems for meteor observations. the delta arietids are another meteor shower radiating from aries. peaking on 9 december with a low peak rate, the shower lasts from 8 december to 14 january, with the highest rates visible from 8 to 14 december. the average delta arietid meteor is very slow, with an average velocity of per second. however, this shower sometimes produces bright fireballs. this meteor shower has northern and southern components, both of which are likely associated with 1990 ha, a near - earth asteroid. the autumn arietids also radiate from aries. the shower lasts from 7 september to 27 october