vernaculars developed based on the bedouin dialects of najd, probably in connection with the court of al - hira. during the first islamic century, the majority of arabic poets and arabic - writing persons spoke arabic as their mother tongue. their texts, although mainly preserved in far later manuscripts, contain traces of non - standardized classical arabic elements in morphology and syntax. standardization abu al - aswad al - du ' ali ( – 689 ) is credited with standardizing arabic grammar, or an - nahw ( " the way " ), and pioneering a system of diacritics to differentiate consonants ( nuqat l – i ' jam " pointing for non - arabs " ) and indicate vocalization ( at - tashkil ). al - khalil ibn ahmad al - farahidi ( 718 – 786 ) compiled the first arabic dictionary, kitab al - ' ayn ( " the book of the letter ع " ), and is credited with establishing the rules of arabic prosody. al - jahiz ( 776 – 868 ) proposed to al - akhfash al - akbar an overhaul of the grammar of arabic, but it would not come to pass for two centuries. the standardization of arabic reached completion around the end of the 8th century. the first comprehensive description of the ʿarabiyya " arabic ", sibawayhi ' s al - kitab, is based first of all upon a corpus of poetic texts, in addition to qur ' an usage and bedouin informants whom he considered to be reliable speakers of the ʿarabiyya. spread arabic spread with the spread of islam. following the early muslim conquests, arabic gained vocabulary from middle persian and turkish. in the early abbasid period, many classical greek terms entered arabic through translations carried out at baghdad ' s house of wisdom. by the 8th century, knowledge of classical arabic had become an essential prerequisite for rising into the higher classes throughout the islamic world, both for muslims and non - muslims. for example, maimonides, the andalusi jewish philosopher, authored works in judeo - arabic — arabic written in hebrew script. development ibn jinni of mosul, a pioneer in phonology, wrote prolifically in the 10th century on arabic morphology and phonology in works such as kitab al - munsif, kitab al - muhtasab, and. ibn mada ' of cordoba ( 1116 – 1196 ) realized the overhaul of arabic grammar