alfonso xii ( alfonso francisco de asis fernando pio juan maria de la concepcion gregorio pelayo de borbon y borbon ; 28 november 185725 november 1885 ), also known as el pacificador ( spanish : the peacemaker ), was king of spain from 29 december 1874 to his death in 1885. after the glorious revolution of 1868 deposed his mother isabella ii from the throne, alfonso studied in austria and france. his mother abdicated in his favour in 1870, and he returned to spain as king in 1874 following a military coup against the first spanish republic. alfonso died aged 27 in 1885, and was succeeded by his son, alfonso xiii, born the following year. the elder alfonso ' s wife maria christina would serve as regent for the remainder of her pregnancy and until the younger alfonso came of age. paternity, early life, and exile alfonso was born in madrid as the eldest son of the reigning queen isabella ii on 28 november 1857. his official father, isabella ' s husband francisco de asis, has been generally viewed as effeminate, impotent or homosexual, leading writers to question his biological paternity. there is speculation that alfonso ' s biological father may have been enrique puigmolto y mayans, a captain of the guard. others have assigned the fatherhood to federico puig romero, a colonel who was murdered under unclear circumstances in 1866. the relationship of the queen with puigmolto was so much of a public hearsay at the time that francisco de asis initially refused to attend the baptism ceremony of alfonso ( the heir apparent ), though he was eventually forced to do so. these rumours were used as political propaganda against alfonso by the carlists, and he came to be widely nicknamed " puigmoltejo " in reference to his supposed father. his mother ' s accession had created a second cause of instability, the carlist wars, where the supporters of don carlos, count of molina as king of spain rose to have him enthroned. in addition, within the context of the post - napoleonic restorations and revolutions which engulfed europe and the americas, both the carlistas and the isabelino conservatives were opposed to the new napoleonic constitutional system. much like in britain, which subtracted itself from the liberal constitutional process, spanish conservatives wanted to continue with the traditional organic laws, such as the fuero juzgo, the novisima recopilacion and the partidas of alfonso x. this led to a third cause of instability,