in space, since this would require infinite particle momentum. in chemistry, erwin schrodinger, linus pauling, mulliken and others noted that the consequence of heisenberg ' s relation was that the electron, as a wave packet, could not be considered to have an exact location in its orbital. max born suggested that the electron ' s position needed to be described by a probability distribution which was connected with finding the electron at some point in the wave - function which described its associated wave packet. the new quantum mechanics did not give exact results, but only the probabilities for the occurrence of a variety of possible such results. heisenberg held that the path of a moving particle has no meaning if we cannot observe it, as we cannot with electrons in an atom. in the quantum picture of heisenberg, schrodinger and others, the bohr atom number n for each orbital became known as an n - sphere in a three - dimensional atom and was pictured as the most probable energy of the probability cloud of the electron ' s wave packet which surrounded the atom. orbital names orbital notation and subshells orbitals have been given names, which are usually given in the form : where x is the energy level corresponding to the principal quantum number ; type is a lower - case letter denoting the shape or subshell of the orbital, corresponding to the angular momentum quantum number. for example, the orbital 1s ( pronounced as the individual numbers and letters : " ' one ' ' ess ' " ) is the lowest energy level ( ) and has an angular quantum number of, denoted as s. orbitals with are denoted as p, d and f respectively. the set of orbitals for a given n and is called a subshell, denoted. the superscript y shows the number of electrons in the subshell. for example, the notation 2p4 indicates that the 2p subshell of an atom contains 4 electrons. this subshell has 3 orbitals, each with n = 2 and = 1. x - ray notation there is also another, less common system still used in x - ray science known as x - ray notation, which is a continuation of the notations used before orbital theory was well understood. in this system, the principal quantum number is given a letter associated with it. for, the letters associated with those numbers are k, l, m, n, o,... respectively. hydrogen - like orbitals the simplest atomic orbitals are those