in a socialist commonwealth ". business cycles the austrian theory of the business cycle ( abct ) focuses on banks ' issuance of credit as the cause of economic fluctuations. although later elaborated by hayek and others, the theory was first set forth by mises, who posited that fractional reserve banks extend credit at artificially low interest rates, causing businesses to invest in relatively roundabout production processes which leads to an artificial " boom ". mises stated that this artificial " boom " then led to a misallocation of resources which he called " malinvestment " – which eventually must end in a " bust ". mises surmised how government manipulation of money and credit in the banking system throws savings and investment out of balance, resulting in misdirected investment projects that are eventually found to be unsustainable, at which point the economy has to rebalance itself through a period of corrective recession. austrian economist fritz machlup summarized the austrian view by stating, " monetary factors cause the cycle but real phenomena constitute it. " for austrians, the only prudent strategy for government is to leave money and the financial system to the free market ' s competitive forces to eradicate the business cycle ' s inflationary booms and recessionary busts, allowing markets to keep people ' s saving and investment decisions in place for well - coordinated economic stability and growth. a keynesian would suggest government intervention during a recession to inject spending into the economy when people will not. however, the heart of austrian macroeconomic theory states the government " fine tuning " through expansions and contractions in the money supply orchestrated by the government are actually the cause of business cycles because of the differing impact of the resulting interest rate changes on different stages in the structure of production. austrian economist thomas woods further supports this view by arguing it is not consumption, but rather production that should be emphasized. a country cannot become rich by consuming, and therefore, by using up all their resources. instead, production is what enables consumption as a possibility in the first place, since a producer would be working for nothing, if not for the desire to consume. central banks according to ludwig von mises, central banks enable the commercial banks to fund loans at artificially low interest rates, thereby inducing an unsustainable expansion of bank credit and impeding any subsequent contraction and argued for a gold standard to constrain growth in fiduciary media. friedrich hayek took a different perspective not focusing on gold but focusing on regulation of the banking sector