##ways. typically, the production of asphalt concrete involves mixing fine and coarse aggregates such as sand, gravel and crushed rock with asphalt, which acts as the binding agent. other materials, such as recycled polymers ( e. g., rubber tyres ), may be added to the bitumen to modify its properties according to the application for which the bitumen is ultimately intended. a further 10 % of global bitumen production is used in roofing applications, where its waterproofing qualities are invaluable. the remaining 5 % of bitumen is used mainly for sealing and insulating purposes in a variety of building materials, such as pipe coatings, carpet tile backing and paint. bitumen is applied in the construction and maintenance of many structures, systems, and components, such as the following : highways airport runways footways and pedestrian ways car parks racetracks tennis courts roofing damp proofing dams reservoir and pool linings soundproofing pipe coatings cable coatings paints building water proofing tile underlying waterproofing newspaper ink production and many other applications rolled asphalt concrete the largest use of bitumen is for making asphalt concrete for road surfaces ; this accounts for approximately 85 % of the bitumen consumed in the united states. there are about 4, 000 asphalt concrete mixing plants in the us, and a similar number in europe. asphalt concrete pavement mixes are typically composed of 5 % bitumen ( known as asphalt cement in the us ) and 95 % aggregates ( stone, sand, and gravel ). due to its highly viscous nature, bitumen must be heated so it can be mixed with the aggregates at the asphalt mixing facility. the temperature required varies depending upon characteristics of the bitumen and the aggregates, but warm - mix asphalt technologies allow producers to reduce the temperature required. the weight of an asphalt pavement depends upon the aggregate type, the bitumen, and the air void content. an average example in the united states is about 112 pounds per square yard, per inch of pavement thickness. when maintenance is performed on asphalt pavements, such as milling to remove a worn or damaged surface, the removed material can be returned to a facility for processing into new pavement mixtures. the bitumen in the removed material can be reactivated and put back to use in new pavement mixes. with some 95 % of paved roads being constructed of or surfaced with asphalt, a substantial amount of asphalt pavement material is reclaimed each year. according to industry surveys conducted annually by the federal highway administration and the national asphalt pavement association, more than 99 % of the bit