the four beads, and pressing the " clearing " button put the upper bead in the upper position, and the lower bead in the lower position. the abacus is still manufactured in japan even with the proliferation, practicality, and affordability of pocket electronic calculators. the use of the soroban is still taught in japanese primary schools as part of mathematics, primarily as an aid to faster mental calculation. using visual imagery can complete a calculation as quickly as a physical instrument. korea the chinese abacus migrated from china to korea around 1400 ad. koreans call it jupan ( 주판 ), supan ( 수판 ) or jusan ( 주산 ). the four - beads abacus ( 1 : 4 ) was introduced during the goryeo dynasty. the 5 : 1 abacus was introduced to korea from china during the ming dynasty. native america some sources mention the use of an abacus called a nepohualtzintzin in ancient aztec culture. this mesoamerican abacus used a 5 - digit base - 20 system. the word nepohualtzintzin comes from nahuatl, formed by the roots ; ne – personal - ; pohual or pohualli – the account - ; and tzintzin – small similar elements. its complete meaning was taken as : counting with small similar elements. its use was taught in the calmecac to the temalpouhqueh, who were students dedicated to taking the accounts of skies, from childhood. the nepohualtzintzin was divided into two main parts separated by a bar or intermediate cord. in the left part were four beads. beads in the first row have unitary values ( 1, 2, 3, and 4 ), and on the right side, three beads had values of 5, 10, and 15, respectively. in order to know the value of the respective beads of the upper rows, it is enough to multiply by 20 ( by each row ), the value of the corresponding count in the first row. the device featured 13 rows with 7 beads, 91 in total. this was a basic number for this culture. it had a close relation to natural phenomena, the underworld, and the cycles of the heavens. one nepohualtzintzin ( 91 ) represented the number of days that a season of the year lasts, two nepohualtzitzin ( 182 ) is the number of days of the corn '