remnants of the old united states ' government as the neutral zone, a buffer state between the two superpowers. the book has inspired an amazon series of the same name. vladimir nabokov ' s novel, ada or ardor : a family chronicle ( 1969 ), is a story of incest that takes place within an alternate north america settled in part by czarist russia and that borrows from dick ' s idea of " alternate - alternate " history ( the world of nabokov ' s hero is wracked by rumors of a " counter - earth " that apparently is ours ). some critics believe that the references to a counter - earth suggest that the world portrayed in ada is a delusion in the mind of the hero ( another favorite theme of dick ' s novels ). strikingly, the characters in ada seem to acknowledge their own world as the copy or negative version, calling it " anti - terra ", while its mythical twin is the real " terra ". like history, science has followed a divergent path on anti - terra : it boasts all the same technology as our world, but all based on water instead of electricity ; e. g., when a character in ada makes a long - distance call, all the toilets in the house flush at once to provide hydraulic power. guido morselli described the defeat of italy ( and subsequently france ) in world war i in his novel, past conditional ( 1975 ; ), wherein the static alpine front line which divided italy from austria during that war collapses when the germans and the austrians forsake trench warfare and adopt blitzkrieg twenty years in advance. kingsley amis set his novel, the alteration ( 1976 ), in the 20th century, but major events in the reformation did not take place, and protestantism is limited to the breakaway republic of new england. martin luther was reconciled to the roman catholic church and later became pope germanian i. in nick hancock and chris england ' s 1997 book what didn ' t happen next : an alternative history of football it is suggested that, had gordon banks been fit to play in the 1970 fifa world cup quarter - final, there would have been no thatcherism and the post - war consensus would have continued indefinitely. kim stanley robinson ' s novel, the years of rice and salt ( 2002 ), starts at the point of divergence with timur turning his army away from europe, and the black death has killed 99 % of europe ' s population, instead of only a third. robinson explores world history from that point in