then shared by all the villagers to graze their cattle and sheep. each family would then have two or three small pieces of land scattered about the village, which they used to grow crops. for many years people lived in the village and then in 1845 famine struck in achill as it did in the rest of ireland. most of the families moved to the nearby village of dooagh, which is beside the sea, while some others emigrated. living beside the sea meant that fish and shellfish could be used for food. the village was completely abandoned which is where the name ' deserted village ' came from. no one has lived in these houses since the time of the famine, however, the families that moved to dooagh and their descendants, continued to use the village as a ' booley village '. this means that during the summer season, the younger members of the family, teenage boys and girls, would take the cattle to graze on the hillside and they would stay in the houses of the deserted village. this custom continued until the 1940s. boolying was also carried out in other areas of achill, including annagh on croaghaun mountain and in curraun. at ailt, kildownet, the remains of a similar deserted village can be found. this village was deserted in 1855 when the tenants were evicted by the local landlord so the land could be used for cattle grazing ; the tenants were forced to rent holdings in currane, dooega and slievemore. others emigrated to america. archaeology recent archaeological research suggests the village was occupied year - round at least as early as the 19th century, though it is known to have served as a seasonally occupied ' booley village ' by the first half of the 20th century. a booley village ( a number of which exist in a ruined state on the island ) is a village occupied only during part of the year, such as a resort community, a lake community, or ( as the case on achill ) a place to live while tending flocks or herds of ruminants during winter or summer pasturing. specifically, some of the people of dooagh and pollagh would migrate in the summer to slievemore and then go back to dooagh in the autumn. the summer 2009 field school excavated round house 2 on slievemore mountain under the direction of archaeologist stuart rathbone. only the outside north wall, entrance way and inside of the round house were completely excavated. from 2004 to 2006, the achill island maritime archaeology