s cross roads near mill springs before the u. s. forces could unite. at the battle of mill springs on january 19, 1862, the ill - prepared confederates, after a night march in the rain, attacked the u. s. soldiers with some initial success. as the battle progressed, zollicoffer was killed and the confederates were turned back and routed by a u. s. bayonet charge, suffering 533 casualties from their force of 4, 000 while crittenden ' s conduct in the battle was so inept that subordinates accused him of being drunk. the confederate troops who escaped were assigned to other units as general crittenden faced an investigation of his conduct. after the confederate defeat at mill springs, davis sent johnston a brigade and a few other scattered reinforcements. he also assigned him gen. p. g. t. beauregard, who was supposed to attract recruits because of his victories early in the war and act as a competent subordinate for johnston. the brigade was led by brig. gen. john b. floyd, considered incompetent. he took command at fort donelson as the senior general present just before u. s. brig. gen. ulysses s. grant attacked the fort. historians believe the assignment of beauregard to the west stimulated u. s. commanders to attack the forts before beauregard could make a difference in the theater. u. s. army officers heard that he was bringing 15 regiments with him, but this was an exaggeration of his forces. fort henry, fort donelson, nashville based on the assumption that kentucky neutrality would act as a shield against a direct invasion from the north, circumstances that no longer applied in september 1861, tennessee initially had sent men to virginia and concentrated defenses in the mississippi valley. even before johnston arrived in tennessee, construction of two forts had been started to defend the tennessee and the cumberland rivers, which provided avenues into the state from the north. both forts were located in tennessee to respect kentucky neutrality, but these were not in ideal locations. fort henry on the tennessee river was in an unfavorable low - lying location, commanded by hills on the kentucky side of the river. fort donelson on the cumberland river, although in a better location, had a vulnerable land side and did not have enough heavy artillery to defend against gunboats. maj. gen. polk ignored the problems of the forts when he took command. after johnston took command, polk at first refused to comply with johnston ' s order to send an engineer, lt