##sitrons in the cosmic rays arrive with no directionality, and with energies that range from 10 gev to 250 gev. in september, 2014, new results with almost twice as much data were presented in a talk at cern and published in physical review letters. a new measurement of positron fraction up to 500 gev was reported, showing that positron fraction peaks at a maximum of about 16 % of total electron + positron events, around an energy of 275 ± 32 gev. at higher energies, up to 500 gev, the ratio of positrons to electrons begins to fall again. the absolute flux of positrons also begins to fall before 500 gev, but peaks at energies far higher than electron energies, which peak about 10 gev. these results on interpretation have been suggested to be due to positron production in annihilation events of massive dark matter particles. cosmic ray antiprotons also have a much higher energy than their normal - matter counterparts ( protons ). they arrive at earth with a characteristic energy maximum of 2 gev, indicating their production in a fundamentally different process from cosmic ray protons, which on average have only one - sixth of the energy. there is an ongoing search for larger antimatter nuclei, such as antihelium nuclei ( that is, anti - alpha particles ), in cosmic rays. the detection of natural antihelium could imply the existence of large antimatter structures such as an antistar. a prototype of the ams - 02 designated ams - 01, was flown into space aboard the on sts - 91 in june 1998. by not detecting any antihelium at all, the ams - 01 established an upper limit of 1. 1×10−6 for the antihelium to helium flux ratio. ams - 02 revealed in december 2016 that it had discovered a few signals consistent with antihelium nuclei amidst several billion helium nuclei. the result remains to be verified, and the team is currently trying to rule out contamination. artificial production positrons positrons were reported in november 2008 to have been generated by lawrence livermore national laboratory in larger numbers than by any previous synthetic process. a laser drove electrons through a gold target ' s nuclei, which caused the incoming electrons to emit energy quanta that decayed into both matter and antimatter. positrons were detected at a higher rate and in greater density than ever previously detected in a laboratory. previous experiments made smaller quantities of positrons using lasers