reads, " ' to kahl and lh and ʿaththar ' ( b - khl w - lh w - ʿtr ) ". cognates of the name " allah " exist in other semitic languages, including hebrew and aramaic. the corresponding aramaic form is ʼelah ( ), but its emphatic state is ( ). it is written as ( ) in biblical aramaic and ( ) in syriac as used by the assyrian church, both meaning simply " god ". the unusual syriac form is likely an imitation of the arabic. history of usage pre - islamic arabians regional variants of the word allah occur in both pagan and christian pre - islamic inscriptions. different theories have been proposed regarding the role of allah in pre - islamic polytheistic cults. according to the islamic scholar ibn kathir, arab pagans considered allah as an unseen god who created and controlled the universe. pagans believed worship of humans or animals who had lucky events in their life brought them closer to god. pre - islamic meccans worshiped allah alongside a host of lesser gods and those whom they called the " daughters of allah. " islam forbade worship of anyone or anything other than god. some authors have suggested that polytheistic arabs used the name as a reference to a creator god or a supreme deity of their pantheon. the term may have been vague in the meccan religion. according to one hypothesis, which goes back to julius wellhausen, allah ( the supreme deity of the tribal federation around quraysh ) was a designation that consecrated the superiority of hubal ( the supreme deity of quraysh ) over the other gods. however, there is also evidence that allah and hubal were two distinct deities. according to that hypothesis, the kaaba was first consecrated to a supreme deity named allah and then hosted the pantheon of quraysh after their conquest of mecca, about a century before the time of muhammad. some inscriptions seem to indicate the use of allah as a name of a polytheist deity centuries earlier, but nothing precise is known about this use. some scholars have suggested that allah may have represented a remote creator god who was gradually eclipsed by more particularized local deities. there is disagreement on whether allah played a major role in the meccan religious cult. no iconic representation of allah is known to have existed. allah is the only god in mecca that did not have an idol. muhammad ' s father ' s name was meaning " the slave of allah ". islam in islam, allah is the unique, omni