practical science includes ethics and politics ; his poetical science means the study of fine arts including poetry ; his theoretical science covers physics, mathematics and metaphysics. physics five elements in his on generation and corruption, aristotle related each of the four elements proposed earlier by empedocles, earth, water, air, and fire, to two of the four sensible qualities, hot, cold, wet, and dry. in the empedoclean scheme, all matter was made of the four elements, in differing proportions. aristotle ' s scheme added the heavenly aether, the divine substance of the heavenly spheres, stars and planets. motion aristotle describes two kinds of motion : " violent " or " unnatural motion ", such as that of a thrown stone, in the physics ( 254b10 ), and " natural motion ", such as of a falling object, in on the heavens ( 300a20 ). in violent motion, as soon as the agent stops causing it, the motion stops also : in other words, the natural state of an object is to be at rest, since aristotle does not address friction. with this understanding, it can be observed that, as aristotle stated, heavy objects ( on the ground, say ) require more force to make them move ; and objects pushed with greater force move faster. this would imply the equation, incorrect in modern physics. natural motion depends on the element concerned : the aether naturally moves in a circle around the heavens, while the 4 empedoclean elements move vertically up ( like fire, as is observed ) or down ( like earth ) towards their natural resting places. in the physics ( 215a25 ), aristotle effectively states a quantitative law, that the speed, v, of a falling body is proportional ( say, with constant c ) to its weight, w, and inversely proportional to the density, ρ, of the fluid in which it is falling : ; aristotle implies that in a vacuum the speed of fall would become infinite, and concludes from this apparent absurdity that a vacuum is not possible. opinions have varied on whether aristotle intended to state quantitative laws. henri carteron held the " extreme view " that aristotle ' s concept of force was basically qualitative, but other authors reject this. archimedes corrected aristotle ' s theory that bodies move towards their natural resting places ; metal boats can float if they displace enough water ; floating depends in archimedes ' scheme on the mass and volume of the object, not, as aristotle thought, its elementary composition. aristotle '