john lindley ( 1846 ), the other important british taxonomist of the early nineteenth century. in his first taxonomic work, an introduction to the natural system of botany ( 1830 ) he partly followed jussieu by describing a subclass he called endogenae, or monocotyledonous plants ( preserving de candolle ' s endogenæ phanerogamæ ) divided into two tribes, the petaloidea and glumaceae. he divided the former, often referred to as petaloid monocots, into 32 orders, including the liliaceae ( defined narrowly ), but also most of the families considered to make up the asparagales today, including the amaryllideae. by 1846, in his final scheme lindley had greatly expanded and refined the treatment of the monocots, introducing both an intermediate ranking ( alliances ) and tribes within orders ( i. e. families ). lindley placed the liliaceae within the liliales, but saw it as a paraphyletic ( " catch - all " ) family, being all liliales not included in the other orders, but hoped that the future would reveal some characteristic that would group them better. the order liliales was very large and included almost all monocotyledons with colourful tepals and without starch in their endosperm ( the lilioid monocots ). the liliales was difficult to divide into families because morphological characters were not present in patterns that clearly demarcated groups. this kept the liliaceae separate from the amaryllidaceae ( narcissales ). of these, liliaceae was divided into eleven tribes ( with 133 genera ) and amaryllidaceae into four tribes ( with 68 genera ), yet both contained many genera that would eventually segregate to each other ' s contemporary orders ( liliales and asparagales respectively ). the liliaceae would be reduced to a small ' core ' represented by the tribe tulipae, while large groups such scilleae and asparagae would become part of asparagales either as part of the amaryllidaceae or as separate families. while of the amaryllidaceae, the agaveae would be part of asparagaceae but the alstroemeriae would become a family within the liliales. the number of known genera ( and species ) continued to grow and by the time of the next major british classification, that of the bentham & hooker system