the base ingredients of pasanda - style and mughlai curries. badam halva is a sweet made from almonds with added coloring. almond flakes are added to many sweets ( such as sohan barfi ), and are usually visible sticking to the outer surface. almonds form the base of various drinks which are supposed to have cooling properties. almond sherbet or sherbet - e - badaam, is a popular summer drink. almonds are also sold as a snack with added salt. in israel almonds are used as a topping for tahini cookies or eaten as a snack. in spain marcona almonds are usually toasted in oil and lightly salted. they are used by spanish confectioners to prepare a sweet called turron. in arabian cuisine, almonds are commonly used as garnishing for mansaf. certain natural food stores sell " bitter almonds " or " apricot kernels " labeled as such, requiring significant caution by consumers for how to prepare and eat these products. milk almonds can be processed into a milk substitute called almond milk ; the nut ' s soft texture, mild flavor, and light coloring ( when skinned ) make for an efficient analog to dairy, and a soy - free choice for lactose intolerant people and vegans. raw, blanched, and lightly toasted almonds work well for different production techniques, some of which are similar to that of soy milk and some of which use no heat, resulting in raw milk. almond milk, along with almond butter and almond oil, are versatile products used in both sweet and savoury dishes. in moroccan cuisine, sharbat billooz, a common beverage, is made by blending blanched almonds with milk, sugar and other flavorings. flour and skins almond flour or ground almond meal combined with sugar or honey as marzipan is often used as a gluten - free alternative to wheat flour in cooking and baking. almonds contain polyphenols in their skins consisting of flavonols, flavan - 3 - ols, hydroxybenzoic acids and flavanones analogous to those of certain fruits and vegetables. these phenolic compounds and almond skin prebiotic dietary fiber have commercial interest as food additives or dietary supplements. syrup historically, almond syrup was an emulsion of sweet and bitter almonds, usually made with barley syrup ( orgeat syrup ) or in a syrup of orange flower water and sugar, often flavor