##dered rage of achilles can defy fate itself. finally, achilles finds his prey. achilles chases hector around the wall of troy three times before athena, in the form of hector ' s favorite and dearest brother, deiphobus, persuades hector to stop running and fight achilles face to face. after hector realizes the trick, he knows the battle is inevitable. wanting to go down fighting, he charges at achilles with his only weapon, his sword, but misses. accepting his fate, hector begs achilles not to spare his life, but to treat his body with respect after killing him. achilles tells hector it is hopeless to expect that of him, declaring that " my rage, my fury would drive me now to hack your flesh away and eat you raw – such agonies you have caused me ". achilles then kills hector and drags his corpse by its heels behind his chariot. after having a dream where patroclus begs achilles to hold his funeral, achilles hosts a series of funeral games in honour of his companion. at the onset of his duel with hector, achilles is referred to as the brightest star in the sky, which comes on in the autumn, orion ' s dog ( sirius ) ; a sign of evil. during the cremation of patroclus, he is compared to hesperus, the evening / western star ( venus ), while the burning of the funeral pyre lasts until phosphorus, the morning / eastern star ( also venus ) has set ( descended ). with the assistance of the god hermes ( argeiphontes ), hector ' s father priam goes to achilles ' tent to plead with achilles for the return of hector ' s body so that he can be buried. achilles relents and promises a truce for the duration of the funeral, lasting 9 days with a burial on the 10th ( in the tradition of niobe ' s offspring ). the poem ends with a description of hector ' s funeral, with the doom of troy and achilles himself still to come. later epic accounts : fighting penthesilea and memnon the aethiopis ( 7th century bc ) and a work named posthomerica, composed by quintus of smyrna in the fourth century ce, relate further events from the trojan war. when penthesilea, queen of the amazons and daughter of ares, arrives in troy, priam hopes that she will defeat achilles. after his temporary truce with priam, achilles fights and kills the warrior queen, only to gr