the abacus ( : abaci or abacuses ), also called a counting frame, is a hand - operated calculating tool of unknown origin used since ancient times in the ancient near east, europe, china, and russia, millennia before the adoption of the hindu - arabic numeral system. the abacus consists of a two - dimensional array of slidable beads ( or similar objects ). in their earliest designs, the beads could be loose on a flat surface or sliding in grooves. later the beads were made to slide on rods and built into a frame, allowing faster manipulation. each rod typically represents one digit of a multi - digit number laid out using a positional numeral system such as base ten ( though some cultures used different numerical bases ). roman and east asian abacuses use a system resembling bi - quinary coded decimal, with a top deck ( containing one or two beads ) representing fives and a bottom deck ( containing four or five beads ) representing ones. natural numbers are normally used, but some allow simple fractional components ( e. g.,, and in roman abacus ), and a decimal point can be imagined for fixed - point arithmetic. any particular abacus design supports multiple methods to perform calculations, including addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, and square and cube roots. the beads are first arranged to represent a number, then are manipulated to perform a mathematical operation with another number, and their final position can be read as the result ( or can be used as the starting number for subsequent operations ). in the ancient world, abacuses were a practical calculating tool. although calculators and computers are commonly used today instead of abacuses, abacuses remain in everyday use in some countries. the abacus has an advantage of not requiring a writing implement and paper ( needed for algorism ) or an electric power source. merchants, traders, and clerks in some parts of eastern europe, russia, china, and africa use abacuses. the abacus remains in common use as a scoring system in non - electronic table games. others may use an abacus due to visual impairment that prevents the use of a calculator. the abacus is still used to teach the fundamentals of mathematics to children in most countries. etymology the word abacus dates to at least ad 1387 when a middle english work borrowed the word from latin that described a sandboard abacus. the latin word is derived from ancient greek ( abax ) which means something without a base, and