will, censorius niger vilified maximus, creating serious embarrassment for one of the heirs, the orator fronto. gavius maximus ' death initiated a change in the ruling team. it has been speculated that it was the legal adviser lucius volusius maecianus who assumed the role of grey eminence. maecianus was briefly praefect of egypt, and subsequently praefectus annonae in rome. if it was maecianus who rose to prominence, he may have risen precisely in order to prepare the incoming — and unprecedented — joint succession. in 160, marcus and lucius were designated joint consuls for the following year. perhaps antoninus was already ill ; in any case, he died before the year was out, probably on 7 march. two days before his death, the biographer reports, antoninus was at his ancestral estate at lorium, in etruria, about from rome. he ate alpine gruyere cheese at dinner quite greedily. in the night he vomited ; he had a fever the next day. the day after that, he summoned the imperial council, and passed the state and his daughter to marcus. the emperor gave the keynote to his life in the last word that he uttered : when the tribune of the night - watch came to ask the password, he responded, " aequanimitas " ( equanimity ). he then turned over, as if going to sleep, and died. his death closed out the longest reign since augustus ( surpassing tiberius by a couple of months ). his record for the second - longest reign would be unbeaten for 168 years, until 329 when it was surpassed by constantine the great. antoninus pius ' funeral ceremonies were, in the words of the biographer, " elaborate ". if his funeral followed the pattern of past funerals, his body would have been incinerated on a pyre at the campus martius, while his spirit would rise to the gods ' home in the heavens. however, it seems that this was not the case : according to his historia augusta biography ( which seems to reproduce an earlier, detailed report ) antoninus ' body ( and not his ashes ) was buried in hadrian ' s mausoleum. after a seven - day interval ( justitium ), marcus and lucius nominated their father for deification. in contrast to their behaviour during antoninus ' campaign to deify hadrian, the senate did not oppose the emperors ' wishes. a flamen, or cultic priest, was appointed to