morphism from an object to itself, which is an automorphism. inverses by definition every isomorphism has an inverse that is also an isomorphism, and since the inverse is also an endomorphism of the same object it is an automorphism. the automorphism group of an object x in a category c is denoted autc ( x ), or simply aut ( x ) if the category is clear from context. examples in set theory, an arbitrary permutation of the elements of a set x is an automorphism. the automorphism group of x is also called the symmetric group on x. in elementary arithmetic, the set of integers, z, considered as a group under addition, has a unique nontrivial automorphism : negation. considered as a ring, however, it has only the trivial automorphism. generally speaking, negation is an automorphism of any abelian group, but not of a ring or field. a group automorphism is a group isomorphism from a group to itself. informally, it is a permutation of the group elements such that the structure remains unchanged. for every group g there is a natural group homomorphism g → aut ( g ) whose image is the group inn ( g ) of inner automorphisms and whose kernel is the center of g. thus, if g has trivial center it can be embedded into its own automorphism group. in linear algebra, an endomorphism of a vector space v is a linear operator v → v. an automorphism is an invertible linear operator on v. when the vector space is finite - dimensional, the automorphism group of v is the same as the general linear group, gl ( v ). ( the algebraic structure of all endomorphisms of v is itself an algebra over the same base field as v, whose invertible elements precisely consist of gl ( v ). ) a field automorphism is a bijective ring homomorphism from a field to itself. in the cases of the rational numbers ( q ) and the real numbers ( r ) there are no nontrivial field automorphisms. some subfields of r have nontrivial field automorphisms, which however do not extend to all of r ( because they cannot preserve the property of a number having a square root in r ). in the case of the complex numbers, c, there is a unique nontrivial automorphism that sends r into r : complex conjugation, but there are infinitely