an affidavit may be taken as proof of the facts stated therein, the courts have no jurisdiction to admit evidence by way of affidavit. affidavit is not treated as " evidence " within the meaning of section 3 of the evidence act. however, it was held by the supreme court that an affidavit can be used as evidence only if the court so orders for sufficient reasons, namely, the right of the opposite party to have the deponent produced for cross - examination. therefore, an affidavit cannot ordinarily be used as evidence in absence of a specific order of the court. sri lanka in sri lanka, under the oaths ordinance, with the exception of a court - martial, a person may submit an affidavit signed in the presence of a commissioner for oaths or a justice of the peace. ireland affidavits are made in a similar way as to england and wales, although " make oath " is sometimes omitted. an affirmed affidavit may be substituted for an sworn affidavit in most cases for those opposed to swearing oaths. the person making the affidavit is known as the deponent and signs the affidavit. the affidavit concludes in the standard format " sworn / affirmed ( declared ) before me, [ name of commissioner for oaths / solicitor ], a commissioner for oaths ( solicitor ), on the [ date ] at [ location ] in the county / city of [ county / city ], and i know the deponent ", and it is signed and stamped by the commissioner for oaths. it is important that the commissioner states his / her name clearly, sometimes documents are rejected when the name cannot be ascertained. in august 2020, a new method of filing affidavits came into force. under section 21 of the civil law and criminal law ( miscellaneous provisions ) act 2020 witnesses are no longer required to swear before god or make an affirmation when filing an affidavit. instead, witnesses will make a non - religious “ statement of truth ” and, if it is breached, will be liable for up to one year in prison if convicted summarily or, upon conviction on indictment, to a maximum fine of €250, 000 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years, or both. this is designed to replace affidavits and statutory declarations in situations where the electronic means of lodgement or filing of documents with the