and arrowheads, and was regarded as the steel of the stone age. traces of over 20, 000 individuals were found on this site. the modern history of abensberg, which is often incorrectly compared with that of the third century roman castra ( military outpost ) of abusina, begins with gebhard, who was the first to mention abensberg as a town, in the middle of the 12th century. the earliest written reference to the town, under the name of habensperch, came from this time, in around 1138. gebhard was from the babonen clan. in 1256, the castrum of abensprech was first mentioned, and on 12 june 1348, margrave ludwig of brandenburg, and his brother, duke stephen of bavaria, raised abensberg to the status of a city, giving it the right to operate lower courts, enclose itself with a wall and hold markets. the wall was built by count ulrich iii of abensberg. some of the thirty - two round towers and eight turrets are still preserved to this day. in the middle ages, the people of abensberg enjoyed a level of autonomy above their lord. they elected a city council, although only a small number of rich families were eligible for election. in around 1390, the carmelite monastery of our lady of abensberg was founded by count john ii and his wife, agnes. although abensberg was an autonomous city, it remained dependent on the powerful dukes of bavaria. the last lord of abensberg, niclas, graf von abensberg, supposedly named after his godfather, nicholas of kues, a catholic cardinal, was murdered in 1485 by christopher, a duke of bavaria - munich. the year before, niclas had unchivalrously taken christopher captive as he bathed before a tournament in munich. although christopher renounced his claim for revenge, he lay in wait for niclas in freising. when the latter arrived, he was killed by seitz von frauenberg. he is buried in the former convent of abensberg. abensberg then lost its independence and became a part of the duchy of bavaria, and from then on was administered by a ducal official, the so - called caretaker. the castle of abensberg was destroyed during the thirty years ' war, although the city had bought a guarantee of protection from the swedish general, carl gustaf wrangel. during the war of the spanish succession emperor leopold i,