departed as if by a kiss from god. the cave closed behind moses as he left ; and he went down the hill with eleazar, with garments rent, and crying : " alas, aaron, my brother! thou, the pillar of supplication of israel! " when the israelites cried in bewilderment, " where is aaron? " angels were seen carrying aaron ' s bier through the air. a voice was then heard saying : " the law of truth was in his mouth, and iniquity was not found on his lips : he walked with me in righteousness, and brought many back from sin. " he died on the first of av. the pillar of cloud which proceeded in front of israel ' s camp disappeared at aaron ' s death. the seeming contradiction between numbers 20 : 22 et seq. and deuteronomy 10 : 6 is solved by the rabbis in the following manner : aaron ' s death on mount hor was marked by the defeat of the people in a war with the king of arad, in consequence of which the israelites fled, marching seven stations backward to mosera, where they performed the rites of mourning for aaron ; wherefore it is said : " there [ at mosera ] died aaron. " the rabbis particularly praise the brotherly sentiment between aaron and moses. when moses was appointed ruler and aaron high priest, neither betrayed any jealousy ; instead they rejoiced in each other ' s greatness. when moses at first declined to go to pharaoh, saying : " o my lord, send, i pray, by the hand of him whom you will send ", he was unwilling to deprive aaron of the high position the latter had held for so many years ; but the lord reassured him, saying : " behold, when he sees you, he will be glad in his heart. " indeed, aaron was to find his reward, says shimon bar yochai ; for that heart which had leaped with joy over his younger brother ' s rise to glory greater than his was decorated with the urim and thummim, which were to " be upon aaron ' s heart when he goeth in before the lord ". moses and aaron met in gladness of heart, kissing each other as true brothers, and of them it is written : " behold how good and how pleasant [ it is ] for brethren to dwell together in unity! " of them it is said : " mercy and truth are met together ; righteousness