russia thousands of jews were slaughtered by cossack haidamaks in the 1768 massacre of uman in the kingdom of poland. in 1772, the empress of russia catherine ii forced the jews into the pale of settlement – which was located primarily in present - day poland, ukraine, and belarus – and to stay in their shtetls and forbade them from returning to the towns that they occupied before the partition of poland. from 1804, jews were banned from their villages and began to stream into the towns. a decree by emperor nicholas i of russia in 1827 conscripted jews under 18 years of age into the cantonist schools for a 25 - year military service in order to promote baptism. policy towards jews was liberalised somewhat under czar alexander ii ( ). however, his assassination in 1881 served as a pretext for further repression such as the may laws of 1882. konstantin pobedonostsev, nicknamed the " black czar " and tutor to the czarevitch, later crowned czar nicholas ii, declared that " one - third of the jews must die, one - third must emigrate, and one third be converted to christianity ". islamic antisemitism in the 19th century historian martin gilbert writes that it was in the 19th century that the position of jews worsened in muslim countries. benny morris writes that one symbol of jewish degradation was the phenomenon of stone - throwing at jews by muslim children. morris quotes a 19th - century traveler : " i have seen a little fellow of six years old, with a troop of fat toddlers of only three and four, teaching [ them ] to throw stones at a jew, and one little urchin would, with the greatest coolness, waddle up to the man and literally spit upon his jewish gaberdine. to all this the jew is obliged to submit ; it would be more than his life was worth to offer to strike a mahommedan. " in the middle of the 19th century, j. j. benjamin wrote about the life of persian jews, describing conditions and beliefs that went back to the 16th century : " … they are obliged to live in a separate part of town … under the pretext of their being unclean, they are treated with the greatest severity and should they enter a street, inhabited by mussulmans, they are pelted by the boys and mobs with stones and dirt …. " in jerusalem at least, conditions for some jews improved. moses montefiore, on his seventh visit in 1875, noted that fine new buildings