- level details of memory management ; the programmer can either use the default storage pool or define new ones ( this is particularly relevant for non - uniform memory access ). it is even possible to declare several different access types that all designate the same type but use different storage pools. also, the language provides for accessibility checks, both at compile time and at run time, that ensures that an access value cannot outlive the type of the object it points to. though the semantics of the language allow automatic garbage collection of inaccessible objects, most implementations do not support it by default, as it would cause unpredictable behaviour in real - time systems. ada does support a limited form of region - based memory management ; also, creative use of storage pools can provide for a limited form of automatic garbage collection, since destroying a storage pool also destroys all the objects in the pool. a double - dash ( " - - " ), resembling an em dash, denotes comment text. comments stop at end of line, to prevent unclosed comments from accidentally voiding whole sections of source code. disabling a whole block of code now requires the prefixing of each line ( or column ) individually with " - - ". while clearly denoting disabled code with a column of repeated " - - " down the page, this renders the experimental dis / re - enablement of large blocks a more drawn out process. the semicolon ( " ; " ) is a statement terminator, and the null or no - operation statement is null ;. a single ; without a statement to terminate is not allowed. unlike most iso standards, the ada language definition ( known as the ada reference manual or arm, or sometimes the language reference manual or lrm ) is free content. thus, it is a common reference for ada programmers, not only programmers implementing ada compilers. apart from the reference manual, there is also an extensive rationale document which explains the language design and the use of various language constructs. this document is also widely used by programmers. when the language was revised, a new rationale document was written. one notable free software tool that is used by many ada programmers to aid them in writing ada source code is the gnat programming studio, and gnat which is part of the gnu compiler collection. history in the 1970s the us department of defense ( dod ) became concerned by the number of different programming languages being used for its embedded computer system projects, many of which were obsolete or hardware - dependent, and none of which supported safe modular programming