the islamic development bank, and the asian development bank. the banking system of azerbaijan consists of the central bank of azerbaijan, commercial banks, and non - banking credit organizations. the national ( now central ) bank was created in 1992 based on the azerbaijan state savings bank, an affiliate of the former state savings bank of the ussr. the central bank serves as azerbaijan ' s central bank, empowered to issue the national currency, the azerbaijani manat, and to supervise all commercial banks. two major commercial banks are unibank and the state - owned international bank of azerbaijan, run by abbas ibrahimov. pushed up by spending and demand growth, the 2007 q1 inflation rate reached 16. 6 %. nominal incomes and monthly wages climbed 29 % and 25 % respectively against this figure, but price increases in the non - oil industry encouraged inflation. azerbaijan shows some signs of the so - called " dutch disease " because of its fast - growing energy sector, which causes inflation and makes non - energy exports more expensive. in the early 2000s, chronically high inflation was brought under control. this led to the launch of a new currency, the new azerbaijani manat, on 1 january 2006, to cement the economic reforms and erase the vestiges of an unstable economy. azerbaijan is also ranked 57th in the global competitiveness report for 2010 – 2011, above other cis countries. by 2012 the gdp of azerbaijan had increased 20 - fold from its 1995 level. energy and natural resources two - thirds of azerbaijan is rich in oil and natural gas. the history of the oil industry of azerbaijan dates back to the ancient period. arabian historian and traveler ahmad al - baladhuri discussed the economy of the absheron peninsula in antiquity, mentioning its oil in particular. there are many pipelines in azerbaijan. the goal of the southern gas corridor, which connects the giant shah deniz gas field in azerbaijan to europe, is to reduce european union ' s dependency on russian gas. the region of the lesser caucasus accounts for most of the country ' s gold, silver, iron, copper, titanium, chromium, manganese, cobalt, molybdenum, complex ore and antimony. in september 1994, a 30 - year contract was signed between the state oil company of azerbaijan republic ( socar ) and 13 oil companies, among them amoco, bp, exxonmobil, lukoil and equinor. as western oil companies are able to tap deepwater oilfields untouched by the soviet exploitation, azerbaijan is considered one of the most important spots in