, or that diceless systems are the wave of the future? i ' ll give a firm “ no ” on both counts... however, i certainly do think that the amber diceless roleplaying game is destined for great popularity and a niche among the most respected of role - playing game designs. " allen varney thought the " attribute auction " to be " brilliant and elegant ", but he wondered if character advancement was perhaps too slow to keep marginal players interested. he also believed that being a gamemaster would be " tough work. proceed with caution. " varney recommended that players need some familiarity with the first five " amber " novels by zelazny. he concluded, " the intensity of the amber game indicates [ game designer erik ] wujcik is on to something. when success in every action depends on the role and not the roll, players develop a sense of both control and urgency, along with creativity that borders on mania. " in issue 65 of challenge, dirk dejong had a good first impression of the game, especially the information provided about the amber family members and their various flaws and strengths. however he found that " the biggest problem with this endeavor, and its downfall, is the nature of the conflict systems. first, they are diceless, really diceless, and don ' t involve any sort of random factors at all, aside from those that you can introduce by roleplaying them out. thus, if you get involved with a character who ' s better than you at sword - fighting, even if only by one point out of 100, you ' re pretty much dead meat, unless you can act your way out. " dejong also disagreed with the suggestion that if the referee and players disagreed with a rule to simply remove it from the game. " i thought the entire idea of using rules and random results was to prevent the type of arguments that i can see arising from this setup. " dejong concluded on an ambivalent note, saying, " if you love zelazny and the amber series, jump on it, as this is the premier sourcebook for running an amber campaign. [... ] personally, i just can ' t get turned on by a system that expects me to either be content with a simple subtraction of numbers to find out who won, or to describe an entire combat blow by blow, just so that i can attempt some trick to win. " loyd blankenship reviewed amber in pyramid # 2 ( july / aug.,