well - being of the city of rome and the roman provinces. octavian ' s aims from this point forward were to return rome to a state of stability, traditional legality, and civility by lifting the overt political pressure imposed on the courts of law and ensuring free elections — in name at least. first settlement on 13 january 27 bc, octavian made a show of returning full power to the roman senate and relinquishing his control of the roman provinces and their armies. under his consulship, however, the senate had little power in initiating legislation by introducing bills for senatorial debate. octavian was no longer in direct control of the provinces and their armies, but he retained the loyalty of active duty soldiers and veterans alike. the careers of many clients and adherents depended on his patronage, as his financial power was unrivaled in the roman republic. historian werner eck states : to a large extent, the public was aware of the vast financial resources that octavian commanded. he failed to encourage enough senators to finance the building and maintenance of networks of roads in italy in 20 bc, but he undertook direct responsibility for them. this was publicized on the roman currency issued in 16 bc, after he donated vast amounts of money to the aerarium saturni, the public treasury. according to historian h. h. scullard, however, octavian ' s power was based on the exercise of " a predominant military power and... the ultimate sanction of his authority was force, however much the fact was disguised. " the senate proposed to octavian, the victor of rome ' s civil wars, that he once again assume command of the provinces. the senate ' s proposal was a ratification of octavian ' s extra - constitutional power. through the senate, octavian was able to continue the appearance of a still - functional constitution. feigning reluctance, he accepted a ten - year responsibility of overseeing provinces that were considered chaotic. the provinces ceded to augustus for that ten - year period comprised much of the conquered roman world, including all of hispania and gaul, syria, cilicia, cyprus, and egypt. moreover, command of these provinces provided octavian with control over the majority of rome ' s legions. while octavian acted as consul in rome, he dispatched senators to the provinces under his command as his representatives to manage provincial affairs and ensure that his orders were carried out. the provinces not under octavian ' s control were overseen by governors chosen by the roman senate. octavian became the most