with 10 of 20 are dominated by asia and pacific region cities and also for the first time a city of a country from asia ( bangkok ) set in the top - ranked with 15. 98 million international visitors. demographics east asia had by far the strongest overall human development index ( hdi ) improvement of any region in the world, nearly doubling average hdi attainment over the past 40 years, according to the report ' s analysis of health, education and income data. china, the second highest achiever in the world in terms of hdi improvement since 1970, is the only country on the " top 10 movers " list due to income rather than health or education achievements. its per capita income increased a stunning 21 - fold over the last four decades, also lifting hundreds of millions out of income poverty. yet it was not among the region ' s top performers in improving school enrollment and life expectancy. nepal, a south asian country, emerges as one of the world ' s fastest movers since 1970 mainly due to health and education achievements. its present life expectancy is 25 years longer than in the 1970s. more than four of every five children of school age in nepal now attend primary school, compared to just one in five 40 years ago. hong kong ranked highest among the countries grouped on the hdi ( number 7 in the world, which is in the " very high human development " category ), followed by singapore ( 9 ), japan ( 19 ) and south korea ( 22 ). afghanistan ( 155 ) ranked lowest amongst asian countries out of the 169 countries assessed. languages asia is home to several language families and many language isolates. most asian countries have more than one language that is natively spoken. for instance, according to ethnologue, more than 700 languages are spoken in indonesia, more than 400 languages spoken in india, and more than 100 are spoken in the philippines. china has many languages and dialects in different provinces. religions many of the world ' s major religions have their origins in asia, including the five most practiced in the world ( excluding irreligion ), which are christianity, islam, hinduism, chinese folk religion ( classified as confucianism and taoism ), and buddhism respectively. asian mythology is complex and diverse. the story of the great flood for example, as presented to jews in the hebrew bible in the narrative of noah — and later to christians in the old testament, and to muslims in the quran — is earliest found in mesopotamian mythology, in the enuma elis and epic