, since doing so would hinder their speed. during the chariot race at the funeral games of king pelias, aphrodite drove his horses mad and they tore him apart. polyphonte was a young woman who chose a virginal life with artemis instead of marriage and children, as favoured by aphrodite. aphrodite cursed her, causing her to have children by a bear. the resulting offspring, agrius and oreius, were wild cannibals who incurred the hatred of zeus. ultimately, he transformed all the members of the family into birds of ill omen. according to apollodorus, a jealous aphrodite cursed eos, the goddess of dawn, to be perpetually in love and have insatiable sexual desire because eos once had lain with aphrodite ' s sweetheart ares, the god of war. according to ovid in his metamorphoses ( book 10. 238 ff. ), propoetides who are the daughters of propoetus from the city of amathus on the island of cyprus denied aphrodite ' s divinity and failed to worship her properly. therefore, aphrodite turned them into the world ' s first prostitutes. according to diodorus siculus, when the rhodian sea nymphe halia ' s six sons by poseidon arrogantly refused to let aphrodite land upon their shore, the goddess cursed them with insanity. in their madness, they raped halia. as punishment, poseidon buried them in the island ' s sea - caverns. xanthius, a descendant of bellerophon, had two children : leucippus and an unnamed daughter. through the wrath of aphrodite ( reasons unknown ), leucippus fell in love with his own sister. they started a secret relationship but the girl was already betrothed to another man and he went on to inform her father xanthius, without telling him the name of the seducer. xanthius went straight to his daughter ' s chamber, where she was together with leucippus right at the moment. on hearing him enter, she tried to escape, but xanthius hit her with a dagger, thinking that he was slaying the seducer, and killed her. leucippus, failing to recognize his father at first, slew him. when the truth was revealed, he had to leave the country and took part in colonization