to the emission of some sort of particles by a luminous source, the speed of light must be finite. " he also provided a wrong explanation of the rainbow phenomenon. carl benjamin boyer described avicenna ' s ( " ibn sina " ) theory on the rainbow as follows : in 1253, a latin text entitled speculum tripartitum stated the following regarding avicenna ' s theory on heat : psychology avicenna ' s legacy in classical psychology is primarily embodied in the kitab al - nafs parts of his kitab al - shifa ( the book of healing ) and kitab al - najat ( the book of deliverance ). these were known in latin under the title de anima ( treatises " on the soul " ). notably, avicenna develops what is called the flying man argument in the psychology of the cure i. 1. 7 as defence of the argument that the soul is without quantitative extension, which has an affinity with descartes ' s cogito argument ( or what phenomenology designates as a form of an " epoche " ). avicenna ' s psychology requires that connection between the body and soul be strong enough to ensure the soul ' s individuation, but weak enough to allow for its immortality. avicenna grounds his psychology on physiology, which means his account of the soul is one that deals almost entirely with the natural science of the body and its abilities of perception. thus, the philosopher ' s connection between the soul and body is explained almost entirely by his understanding of perception ; in this way, bodily perception interrelates with the immaterial human intellect. in sense perception, the perceiver senses the form of the object ; first, by perceiving features of the object by our external senses. this sensory information is supplied to the internal senses, which merge all the pieces into a whole, unified conscious experience. this process of perception and abstraction is the nexus of the soul and body, for the material body may only perceive material objects, while the immaterial soul may only receive the immaterial, universal forms. the way the soul and body interact in the final abstraction of the universal from the concrete particular is the key to their relationship and interaction, which takes place in the physical body. the soul completes the action of intellection by accepting forms that have been abstracted from matter. this process requires a concrete particular ( material ) to be abstracted into the universal intelligible ( immaterial ). the