. it may persist into adulthood and become social anxiety or social phobia. " stranger anxiety " in small children is not considered a phobia. in adults, an excessive fear of other people is not a developmentally common stage ; it is called social anxiety. according to cutting, social phobics do not fear the crowd but the fact that they may be judged negatively. social anxiety varies in degree and severity. for some people, it is characterized by experiencing discomfort or awkwardness during physical social contact ( e. g. embracing, shaking hands, etc. ), while in other cases it can lead to a fear of interacting with unfamiliar people altogether. those with this condition may restrict their lifestyles to accommodate the anxiety, minimizing social interaction whenever possible. social anxiety also forms a core aspect of certain personality disorders, including avoidant personality disorder. to the extent that a person is fearful of social encounters with unfamiliar others, some people may experience anxiety particularly during interactions with outgroup members, or people who share different group memberships ( i. e., by race, ethnicity, class, gender, etc. ). depending on the nature of the antecedent relations, cognitions, and situational factors, intergroup contact may be stressful and lead to feelings of anxiety. this apprehension or fear of contact with outgroup members is often called interracial or intergroup anxiety. as is the case with the more generalized forms of social anxiety, intergroup anxiety has behavioral, cognitive, and affective effects. for instance, increases in schematic processing and simplified information processing can occur when anxiety is high. indeed, such is consistent with related work on attentional bias in implicit memory. additionally recent research has found that implicit racial evaluations ( i. e. automatic prejudiced attitudes ) can be amplified during intergroup interaction. negative experiences have been illustrated in producing not only negative expectations, but also avoidant, or antagonistic, behavior such as hostility. furthermore, when compared to anxiety levels and cognitive effort ( e. g., impression management and self - presentation ) in intragroup contexts, levels and depletion of resources may be exacerbated in the intergroup situation. trait anxiety can be either a short - term " state " or a long - term personality " trait. " trait anxiety reflects a stable tendency across the lifespan of responding with acute, state anxiety in the anticipation of threatening situations ( whether they are actually deemed threatening or not ). a meta - analysis showed that a high level of neuro