; the result has been likened to the coalition ' s loss in the 1993 federal election, with 2019 retrospectively referred to as the " unloseable election ". anthony albanese later led the party into the 2022 australian federal election, in which the party once again won a majority government. in 2023, labor won the 2023 new south wales state election returning to government for the first time since 2011. this victory marked the first time in 15 years that labor were in government in all mainland states. national platform the policy of the australian labor party is contained in its national platform, which is approved by delegates to labor ' s national conference, held every three years. according to the labor party ' s website, " the platform is the result of a rigorous and constructive process of consultation, spanning the nation and including the cooperation and input of state and territory policy committees, local branches, unions, state and territory governments, and individual party members. the platform provides the policy foundation from which we can continue to work towards the election of a federal labor government. " the platform gives a general indication of the policy direction which a future labor government would follow, but does not commit the party to specific policies. it maintains that " labor ' s traditional values will remain a constant on which all australians can rely. " while making it clear that labor is fully committed to a market economy, it says that : " labor believes in a strong role for national government – the one institution all australians truly own and control through our right to vote. " labor " will not allow the benefits of change to be concentrated in fewer and fewer hands, or located only in privileged communities. the benefits must be shared by all australians and all our regions. " the platform and labor " believe that all people are created equal in their entitlement to dignity and respect, and should have an equal chance to achieve their potential. " for labor, " government has a critical role in ensuring fairness by : ensuring equal opportunity ; removing unjustifiable discrimination ; and achieving a more equitable distribution of wealth, income and status. " further sections of the platform stress labor ' s support for equality and human rights, labour rights and democracy. in practice, the platform provides only general policy guidelines to labor ' s federal, state and territory parliamentary leaderships. the policy labor takes into an election campaign is determined by the cabinet ( if the party is in office ) or the shadow cabinet ( if it is in opposition ), in consultation with key interest groups within the party, and is contained in