basin and its embayments, including the adelaide plains sub - basin, and the golden grove, noarlunga and willunga embayments. these basins contain deposits of tertiary marine and non - marine sands and limestones, which form important aquifers. these deposits are overlain by quaternary alluvial fans and piedmont slope deposits, derived from erosion of the uplands, consisting of sands, clays and gravels, interfingering to the west with transgressive pleistocene to holocene marine sands and coastal sediments of the shoreline of gulf st vincent. urban layout adelaide is a planned city, designed by the first surveyor - general of south australia, colonel william light. his plan, sometimes referred to as " light ' s vision " ( also the name of a statue of him on montefiore hill ), arranged adelaide in a grid, with five squares in the adelaide city centre and a ring of parks, known as the adelaide parklands, surrounding it. light ' s selection of the location for the city was initially unpopular with the early settlers, as well as south australia ' s first governor, john hindmarsh, due to its distance from the harbour at port adelaide, and the lack of fresh water there. light successfully persisted with his choice of location against this initial opposition. recent evidence suggests that light worked closely with george kingston as well as a team of men to set out adelaide, using various templates for city plans going back to ancient greece, including italian renaissance designs and the similar layouts of the american cities philadelphia and savannah – which, like adelaide, follow the same layout of a central city square, four complementing city squares surrounding it and a parklands area that surrounds the city centre. the benefits of light ' s design are numerous : adelaide has had wide multi - lane roads from its beginning, an easily navigable cardinal direction grid layout and an expansive green ring around the city centre. there are two sets of ring roads in adelaide that have resulted from the original design. the inner ring route ( a21 ) borders the parklands, and the outer route ( a3 / a13 / a16 / a17 ) completely bypasses the inner city via ( in clockwise order ) grand junction road, hampstead road, ascot avenue, portrush road, cross road and south road. suburban expansion has to some extent outgrown light ' s original plan. numerous former outlying villages and " country towns ", as well as the satellite city of elizabeth, have been enveloped by its suburban sp