the nearest year ( e. g., j2005, j2007 ). most such printed sources have been updated for intervals of only about every fifty years ( e. g., j1900, j1950, j2000 ). computerized sources, on the other hand, are able to calculate the right ascension and declination of the " epoch of date " to the exact instant of observation. goto telescopes goto telescopes have become more popular since the 1980s as technology has improved and prices have been reduced. with these computer - driven telescopes, the user typically enters the name of the item of interest and the mechanics of the telescope point the telescope towards that item automatically. they have several notable advantages for amateur astronomers intent on research. for example, goto telescopes tend to be faster for locating items of interest than star hopping, allowing more time for studying of the object. goto also allows manufacturers to add equatorial tracking to mechanically simpler alt - azimuth telescope mounts, allowing them to produce an overall less expensive product. goto telescopes usually have to be calibrated using alignment stars in order to provide accurate tracking and positioning. however, several telescope manufacturers have recently developed telescope systems that are calibrated with the use of built - in gps, decreasing the time it takes to set up a telescope at the start of an observing session. remote - controlled telescopes with the development of fast internet in the last part of the 20th century along with advances in computer controlled telescope mounts and ccd cameras " remote telescope " astronomy is now a viable means for amateur astronomers not aligned with major telescope facilities to partake in research and deep sky imaging. this enables anyone to control a telescope a great distance away in a dark location. the observer can image through the telescope using ccd cameras. the digital data collected by the telescope is then transmitted and displayed to the user by means of the internet. an example of a digital remote telescope operation for public use via the internet is the bareket observatory, and there are telescope farms in new mexico, australia and atacama in chile. imaging techniques amateur astronomers engage in many imaging techniques including film, dslr, lrgb, and ccd astrophotography. because ccd imagers are linear, image processing may be used to subtract away the effects of light pollution, which has increased the popularity of astrophotography in urban areas. narrowband filters may also be used to minimize light pollution. scientific research scientific research is most often not the main goal for many amateur