his translation of gregory the great ' s pastoral care to his bishops so that they might better train and supervise priests and using those same bishops as royal officials and judges. nor did his piety prevent him from expropriating strategically sited church lands, especially estates along the border with the danelaw, and transferring them to royal thegns and officials who could better defend them against viking attacks. effect of danish raids on education the danish raids had a devastating effect on learning in england. alfred lamented in the preface to his translation of gregory ' s pastoral care that " learning had declined so thoroughly in england that there were very few men on this side of the humber who could understand their divine services in english or even translate a single letter from latin into english : and i suppose that there were not many beyond the humber either ". alfred undoubtedly exaggerated, for dramatic effect, the abysmal state of learning in england during his youth. that latin learning had not been obliterated is evidenced by the presence in his court of learned mercian and west saxon clerics such as plegmund, wæferth, and wulfsige. manuscript production in england dropped off precipitously around the 860s when the viking invasions began in earnest, not to be revived until the end of the century. numerous anglo - saxon manuscripts burnt along with the churches that housed them. a solemn diploma from christ church, canterbury, dated 873, is so poorly constructed and written that historian nicholas brooks posited a scribe who was either so blind he could not read what he wrote or who knew little or no latin. " it is clear ", brooks concludes, " that the metropolitan church [ of canterbury ] must have been quite unable to provide any effective training in the scriptures or in christian worship ". establishment of a court school alfred established a court school for the education of his own children, those of the nobility, and " a good many of lesser birth ". there they studied books in both english and latin and " devoted themselves to writing, to such an extent … they were seen to be devoted and intelligent students of the liberal arts ". he recruited scholars from the continent and from britain to aid in the revival of christian learning in wessex and to provide the king personal instruction. grimbald and john the saxon came from francia ; plegmund ( whom alfred appointed archbishop of canterbury in 890 ), bishop wærferth of worcester, æthelstan, and the royal chaplains werwulf, from