. very quickly questions arose concerning three of the executions that have not been answered. less than four months after the executions, lincoln issued general order 100 that relates more to the minnesota war than the civil war. now a congressman, alexander ramsey told lincoln, in 1864, that he would have gotten more re - election support in minnesota had he executed all 303 of the mdewakanton. lincoln responded, " i could not afford to hang men for votes. " the men whose sentences he commuted were sent to a military prison at davenport, iowa. a few of those he had released due to the efforts of bishop henry whipple. whig theory of a presidency lincoln adhered to the whig theory of a presidency focused on executing laws while deferring to congress ' responsibility for legislating. lincoln vetoed only four bills, including the wade - davis bill with its harsh reconstruction program. the 1862 homestead act made millions of acres of western government - held land available for purchase at low cost. the 1862 morrill land - grant colleges act provided government grants for agricultural colleges in each state. the pacific railway acts of 1862 and 1864 granted federal support for the construction of the united states ' first transcontinental railroad, which was completed in 1869. the passage of the homestead act and the pacific railway acts was enabled by the absence of southern congressmen and senators who had opposed the measures in the 1850s. in the selection and use of his cabinet, lincoln employed the strengths of his opponents in a manner that emboldened his presidency. lincoln commented on his thought process, " we need the strongest men of the party in the cabinet. we needed to hold our own people together. i had looked the party over and concluded that these were the very strongest men. then i had no right to deprive the country of their services. " goodwin described the group in her biography as a team of rivals. there were two measures passed to raise revenues for the federal government : tariffs ( a policy with long precedent ), and a federal income tax. in 1861, lincoln signed the second and third morrill tariffs, following the first enacted by buchanan. he also signed the revenue act of 1861, creating the first u. s. income tax — a flat tax of 3 percent on incomes above $ 800 ( ). the revenue act of 1862 adopted rates that increased with income. the lincoln administration presided over the expansion of the federal government ' s economic influence in other areas. the national banking act created the system of national banks. the us issued paper currency for the first time