ashok is a 1947 indian hindi - language film by k. b. lall. uttar - priyadarshi ( the final beatitude ), a verse - play written by poet agyeya depicting his redemption, was adapted to stage in 1996 by theatre director, ratan thiyam and has since been performed in many parts of the world. in 1973, amar chitra katha released a graphic novel based on the life of ashoka. in piers anthony ' s series of space opera novels, the main character mentions ashoka as a model for administrators to strive for. samrat ashok is a 1992 indian telugu - language film about the emperor by n. t. rama rao with rao also playing the titular role. asoka is a 2001 epic indian historical drama film directed and co - written by santosh sivan. the film stars shah rukh khan as ashoka. in 2002, mason jennings released the song " emperor ashoka " on his living in the moment ep. it is based on the life of ashoka. in 2013, christopher c. doyle released his debut novel, the mahabharata secret, in which he wrote about ashoka hiding a dangerous secret for the well - being of india. 2014 ' s the emperor ' s riddles, a fiction mystery thriller novel by satyarth nayak, traces the evolution of ashoka and his esoteric legend of the nine unknown men. in 2015, chakravartin ashoka samrat, a television serial by ashok banker, based on the life of ashoka, began airing on colors tv where siddharth nigam and mohit raina played the role of ashoka. bharatvarsh is an indian television historical documentary series, hosted by actor - director anupam kher on hindi news channel abp news. the series stars aham sharma as ashoka. see also cave temples in asia list of people known as the great notes references bibliography further reading external links bbc radio 4 : sunil khilnani, incarnations : ashoka. bbc radio 4 : melvyn bragg with richard gombrich et al., in our time, ashoka the great. 3rd - century bc deaths 3rd - century bc indian monarchs 3rd - century buddhism ancient history of afghanistan ancient history of pakistan buddhist pacifists indian buddhist monarchs indian pacifists people from patna ancient india mauryan emperors indian monarchs indian warriors history of buddhism in india indian buddhist missionaries indian buddhists converts to buddhism