and petrone agreed that the next saturn v, as - 503, could be made ready by december 1 ; and von braun was confident the pogo oscillation problems that had afflicted apollo6 had been fixed. almost every senior manager at nasa agreed with this new mission, citing confidence in both the hardware and the personnel, along with the potential for a circumlunar flight providing a significant morale boost. the only person who needed some convincing was james e. webb, the nasa administrator. backed by the full support of his agency, webb authorized the mission. apollo8 was officially changed from a " d " mission to a " c - prime " lunar - orbit mission. with the change in mission for apollo 8, slayton asked mcdivitt if he still wanted to fly it. mcdivitt turned it down ; his crew had spent a great deal of time preparing to test the lm, and that was what he still wanted to do. slayton then decided to swap the prime and backup crews of the dand emissions. this swap also meant a swap of spacecraft, requiring borman ' s crew to use csm - 103, while mcdivitt ' s crew would use csm - 104, since cm - 104 could not be made ready by december. david scott was not happy about giving up cm - 103, the testing of which he had closely supervised, for cm - 104, although the two were almost identical, and anders was less than enthusiastic about being an lmp on a flight with no lm. instead, apollo8 would carry the lm test article, a boilerplate model that would simulate the correct weight and balance of lm - 3. added pressure on the apollo program to make its 1969 landing goal was provided by the soviet union ' s zond5 mission, which flew some living creatures, including russian tortoises, in a cislunar loop around the moon and returned them to earth on september 21. there was speculation within nasa and the press that they might be preparing to launch cosmonauts on a similar circumlunar mission before the end of 1968. compounding these concerns, american reconnaissance satellites observed a mockup n1 being rolled to the pad at baikonur in november 1967, with more activity in 1968. the apollo 8 crew, now living in the crew quarters at kennedy space center, received a visit from charles lindbergh and his wife, anne morrow lindbergh, the night before the launch. they talked about how, before his