return to the family, but he preferred to live alone on a hill. so, ashoka had a hill built for him within pataliputra. the ashoka - vadana states that ashoka ' s brother was mistaken for a nirgrantha, and killed during a massacre of the nirgranthas ordered by ashoka. imperial extent the extent of the territory controlled by ashoka ' s predecessors is not certain, but it is possible that the empire of his grandfather chandragupta extended across northern india from the western coast ( arabian sea ) to the eastern coast ( bay of bengal ), covering nearly two - thirds of the indian subcontinent. bindusara and ashoka seem to have extended the empire southwards. the distribution of ashoka ' s inscriptions suggests that his empire included almost the entire indian subcontinent, except its southernmost parts. the rock edicts 2 and 13 suggest that these southernmost parts were controlled by the cholas, the pandyas, the keralaputras, and the satiyaputras. in the north - west, ashoka ' s kingdom extended up to kandahar, to the east of the seleucid empire ruled by antiochus ii. the capital of ashoka ' s empire was pataliputra in the magadha region. religion and philosophy relationship with buddhism the buddhist legends state that ashoka converted to buddhism, although this has been debated by a section of scholars. the minor rock edict 1 leaves no doubt that ashoka was a follower of buddhism. in this edict, he calls himself an upasaka ( a lay follower of buddhism ) and a sakya ( i. e. buddhist, after gautama buddha ' s title shakya - muni ). this and several other edicts are evidence of his buddhist affiliation : in his minor rock edict 1, ashoka adds that he did not make much progress for a year after becoming an upasaka, but then, he " went to " the sangha, and made more progress. it is not certain what " going to " the sangha means – the buddhist tradition that he lived with monks may be an exaggeration, but it clearly means that ashoka was drawn closer to buddhism. in his minor rock edict 3, he calls himself an upasaka, and records his faith in the buddha and the sangha. in the major rock edict 8, he records his visit to sambodhi ( the sacred bodhi tree at bodh gaya ), ten years after his coronation. in