" cakes ". at chellaston, where the local alabaster is known as " patrick ", it has been worked into ornaments under the name of " derbyshire spar " ― a term more properly applied to fluorspar. black alabaster black alabaster is a rare anhydrite form of the gypsum - based mineral. this black form is found in only three veins in the world, one each in united states, italy, and china. alabaster caverns state park, near freedom, oklahoma, is home to a natural gypsum cave in which much of the gypsum is in the form of alabaster. there are several types of alabaster found at the site, including pink, white, and the rare black alabaster. gallery ancient and classical near east european middle ages modern see also mineralogy – mineral consisting of calcium carbonate ( ) ; archaeologists and stone trade professionals, unlike mineralogists, call one variety of calcite " alabaster " – mineral composed of calcium sulfate dihydrate ( ) ; alabaster is one of its varieties – a mineral closely related to gypsum – the main inorganic compound ( ) of gypsum – translucent sheets of marble or alabaster used during the early middle ages for windows instead of glass window and roof panels chronological list of examples : – 5th century, ravenna – 6th century, ravenna – mainly 13th – 14th century, valencia, spain ; the lantern of the octagonal crossing tower – 14th - century, orvieto, umbria, central italy – 17th century, rome ; alabaster window by bernini ( 1598 – 1680 ) used to create a " spotlight " – 1924, jerusalem, architect : antonio barluzzi. windows fitted with dyed alabaster panels. – 1924, mount tabor, architect : antonio barluzzi. alabaster roofing was attempted. references further reading harrell j. a. ( 1990 ), " misuse of the term ' alabaster ' in egyptology ", gottinger miszellen, 119, pp. 37 – 42. mackintosh - smith t. ( 1999 ), " moonglow from underground ". aramco world may – june 1999. external links more about alabaster and travertine, brief guide explaining the confusing, different use of the same terms by geologists, archaeologists and the stone trade. oxford university museum of natural history, 2012 alabaster craftmanship in volter