$ 1 trillion in august 2018, then at $ 2 trillion in august 2020, and at $ 3 trillion in january 2022. in june 2023, it was valued at just over $ 3 trillion. the company receives criticism regarding the labor practices of its contractors, its environmental practices, and its business ethics, including anti - competitive practices and materials sourcing. nevertheless, the company has a large following and enjoys a high level of brand loyalty. it has also been consistently ranked as one of the world ' s most valuable brands. history 1976 – 1980 : founding and incorporation apple computer company was founded on april 1, 1976, by steve jobs, steve wozniak, and ronald wayne as a partnership. the company ' s first product was the apple i, a computer designed and hand - built entirely by wozniak. to finance its creation, jobs sold his volkswagen bus, and wozniak sold his hp - 65 calculator. wozniak debuted the first prototype apple i at the homebrew computer club in july 1976. the apple i was sold as a motherboard with cpu, ram, and basic textual - video chips — a base kit concept which would not yet be marketed as a complete personal computer. it went on sale soon after debut for. wozniak later said he was unaware of the coincidental mark of the beast in the number 666, and that he came up with the price because he liked " repeating digits ". apple computer, inc. was incorporated on january 3, 1977, without wayne, who had left and sold his share of the company back to jobs and wozniak for $ 800 only twelve days after having co - founded apple. multimillionaire mike markkula provided essential business expertise and funding of to jobs and wozniak during the incorporation of apple. during the first five years of operations, revenues grew exponentially, doubling about every four months. between september 1977 and september 1980, yearly sales grew from $ 775, 000 to $ 118 million, an average annual growth rate of 533 %. the apple ii, also invented by wozniak, was introduced on april 16, 1977, at the first west coast computer faire. it differed from its major rivals, the trs - 80 and commodore pet, because of its character cell - based color graphics and open architecture. while the apple i and early apple ii models used ordinary audio cassette tapes as storage devices, they were superseded by the introduction of a - inch floppy disk drive