of the twelve olympians, athena is a major deity in hellenismos, a neopagan religion which seeks to authentically revive and recreate the religion of ancient greece in the modern world. athena is a natural patron of universities : at bryn mawr college in pennsylvania, a statue of athena ( a replica of the original bronze one in the arts and archaeology library ) resides in the great hall. it is traditional at exam time for students to leave offerings to the goddess with a note asking for good luck, or to repent for accidentally breaking any of the college ' s numerous other traditions. pallas athena is the tutelary goddess of the international social fraternity phi delta theta. her owl is also a symbol of the fraternity. genealogy see also athenaeum ( disambiguation ) ambulia, a spartan epithet used for athena, zeus, and castor and pollux notes references bibliography ancient sources apollodorus, library, 3, 180 augustine, de civitate dei xviii. 8 – 9 cicero, de natura deorum iii. 21. 53, 23. 59 eusebius, chronicon 30. 21 – 26, 42. 11 – 14 homer, the iliad with an english translation by a. t. murray, phd in two volumes. cambridge, massachusetts., harvard university press ; london, william heinemann, ltd. 1924. online version at the perseus digital library. homer ; the odyssey with an english translation by a. t. murray, ph. d. in two volumes. cambridge, massachusetts., harvard university press ; london, william heinemann, ltd. 1919. online version at the perseus digital library. hesiod, theogony, in the homeric hymns and homerica with an english translation by hugh g. evelyn - white, cambridge, massachusetts., harvard university press ; london, william heinemann ltd. 1914. online version at the perseus digital library. lactantius, divinae institutions i. 17. 12 – 13, 18. 22 – 23 livy, ab urbe condita libri vii. 3. 7 lucan, bellum civile ix. 350 modern sources gantz, timothy, early greek myth : a guide to literary and artistic sources, johns hopkins university press, 1996, two volumes : ( vol. 1 ), ( vol. 2 ). harrison, jane ellen, 1903. prolegomena to the study of greek religion. telenius, seppo