that most asteroids with a diameter over 100 meters are rubble piles formed through the accumulation of debris after collisions between asteroids. color asteroids become darker and redder with age due to space weathering. however evidence suggests most of the color change occurs rapidly, in the first hundred thousand years, limiting the usefulness of spectral measurement for determining the age of asteroids. surface features except for the " big four " ( ceres, pallas, vesta, and hygiea ), asteroids are likely to be broadly similar in appearance, if irregular in shape. 253 mathilde is a rubble pile saturated with craters with diameters the size of the asteroid ' s radius. earth - based observations of 511 davida, one of the largest asteroids after the big four, reveal a similarly angular profile, suggesting it is also saturated with radius - size craters. medium - sized asteroids such as mathilde and 243 ida, that have been observed up close, also reveal a deep regolith covering the surface. of the big four, pallas and hygiea are practically unknown. vesta has compression fractures encircling a radius - size crater at its south pole but is otherwise a spheroid. dawn spacecraft revealed that ceres has a heavily cratered surface, but with fewer large craters than expected. models based on the formation of the current asteroid belt had suggested ceres should possess 10 to 15 craters larger than in diameter. the largest confirmed crater on ceres, kerwan basin, is across. the most likely reason for this is viscous relaxation of the crust slowly flattening out larger impacts. composition asteroids are classified by their characteristic emission spectra, with the majority falling into three main groups : c - type, m - type, and s - type. these were named after and are generally identified with carbonaceous ( carbon - rich ), metallic, and silicaceous ( stony ) compositions, respectively. the physical composition of asteroids is varied and in most cases poorly understood. ceres appears to be composed of a rocky core covered by an icy mantle, where vesta is thought to have a nickel - iron core, olivine mantle, and basaltic crust. thought to be the largest undifferentiated asteroid, 10 hygiea seems to have a uniformly primitive composition of carbonaceous chondrite, but it may actually be a differentiated asteroid that was globally disrupted by an impact and then reassembled. other asteroids appear to be the remnant cores or mantles of proto - planets, high in rock