part of ai from the beginning. there are several kinds of machine learning. unsupervised learning analyzes a stream of data and finds patterns and makes predictions without any other guidance. supervised learning requires a human to label the input data first, and comes in two main varieties : classification ( where the program must learn to predict what category the input belongs in ) and regression ( where the program must deduce a numeric function based on numeric input ). in reinforcement learning the agent is rewarded for good responses and punished for bad ones. the agent learns to choose responses that are classified as " good ". transfer learning is when the knowledge gained from one problem is applied to a new problem. deep learning is a type of machine learning that runs inputs through biologically inspired artificial neural networks for all of these types of learning. computational learning theory can assess learners by computational complexity, by sample complexity ( how much data is required ), or by other notions of optimization. natural language processing natural language processing ( nlp ) allows programs to read, write and communicate in human languages such as english. specific problems include speech recognition, speech synthesis, machine translation, information extraction, information retrieval and question answering. early work, based on noam chomsky ' s generative grammar and semantic networks, had difficulty with word - sense disambiguation unless restricted to small domains called " micro - worlds " ( due to the common sense knowledge problem ). modern deep learning techniques for nlp include word embedding ( how often one word appears near another ), transformers ( which finds patterns in text ), and others. in 2019, generative pre - trained transformer ( or " gpt " ) language models began to generate coherent text, and by 2023 these models were able to get human - level scores on the bar exam, sat, gre, and many other real - world applications. perception machine perception is the ability to use input from sensors ( such as cameras, microphones, wireless signals, active lidar, sonar, radar, and tactile sensors ) to deduce aspects of the world. computer vision is the ability to analyze visual input. the field includes speech recognition, image classification, facial recognition, object recognition, and robotic perception. robotics robotics uses ai. social intelligence affective computing is an interdisciplinary umbrella that comprises systems that recognize, interpret, process or simulate human feeling, emotion and mood. for example, some virtual assistants are programmed to speak conversationally or even to banter humorously ; it makes them