the trojans ' descendants. aeneas ' s mother venus ( the roman adaptation of aphrodite ) realized that her son and his company needed a temporary respite to reinforce themselves for the journey to come. however, the messenger god mercury was sent by jupiter and venus to remind aeneas of his journey and his purpose, compelling him to leave secretly. when dido learned of this, she uttered a curse that would forever pit carthage against rome, an enmity that would culminate in the punic wars. she then committed suicide by stabbing herself with the same sword she gave aeneas when they first met. after the sojourn in carthage, the trojans returned to sicily where aeneas organized funeral games to honor his father, who had died a year before. the company traveled on and landed on the western coast of italy. aeneas descended into the underworld where he met dido ( who turned away from him to return to her husband ) and his father, who showed him the future of his descendants and thus the history of rome. latinus, king of the latins, welcomed aeneas ' s army of exiled trojans and let them reorganize their lives in latium. his daughter lavinia had been promised to turnus, king of the rutuli, but latinus received a prophecy that lavinia would be betrothed to one from another land – namely, aeneas. latinus heeded the prophecy, and turnus consequently declared war on aeneas at the urging of juno, who was aligned with king mezentius of the etruscans and queen amata of the latins. aeneas ' s forces prevailed. turnus was killed, and virgil ' s account ends abruptly. other sources the rest of aeneas ' s biography is gleaned from other ancient sources, including livy and ovid ' s metamorphoses. according to livy, aeneas was victorious but latinus died in the war. aeneas founded the city of lavinium, named after his wife. he later welcomed dido ' s sister, anna perenna, who then committed suicide after learning of lavinia ' s jealousy. after aeneas ' s death, venus asked jupiter to make her son immortal. jupiter agreed. the river god numicus cleansed aeneas of all his mortal parts and venus anointed him with ambrosia and nectar, making him a god. aeneas was recognized as the god jupiter indiges. english mythology