ardipithecus is a genus of an extinct hominine that lived during the late miocene and early pliocene epochs in the afar depression, ethiopia. originally described as one of the earliest ancestors of humans after they diverged from the chimpanzees, the relation of this genus to human ancestors and whether it is a hominin is now a matter of debate. two fossil species are described in the literature : a. ramidus, which lived about 4. 4 million years ago during the early pliocene, and a. kadabba, dated to approximately 5. 6 million years ago ( late miocene ). initial behavioral analysis indicated that ardipithecus could be very similar to chimpanzees, however more recent analysis based on canine size and lack of canine sexual dimorphism indicates that ardipithecus was characterised by reduced aggression, and that they more closely resemble bonobos. some analyses describe australopithecus as being sister to ardipithecus ramidus specifically. this means that australopithecus is distinctly closer related to ardipithecus ramidus than ardipithecus kadabba. cladistically, then, australopithecus ( and eventually homo sapiens ) indeed emerged within the ardipithecus lineage, and this lineage is not literally extinct. ardipithecus ramidus a. ramidus was named in september 1994. the first fossil found was dated to 4. 4 million years ago on the basis of its stratigraphic position between two volcanic strata : the basal gaala tuff complex ( g. a. t. c. ) and the daam aatu basaltic tuff ( d. a. b. t. ). the name ardipithecus ramidus stems mostly from the afar language, in which ardi means " ground / floor " and ramid means " root ". the pithecus portion of the name is from the greek word for " ape ". like most hominids, but unlike all previously recognized hominins, it had a grasping hallux or big toe adapted for locomotion in the trees. it is not confirmed how many other features of its skeleton reflect adaptation to bipedalism on the ground as well. like later hominins, ardipithecus had reduced canine teeth and reduced canine sexual dimorphism. in 1992 – 1993 a research team headed by