calhoun. he also had a strong sense of loyalty. he considered threats to his friends as threats to himself, but he demanded unquestioning loyalty in return. jackson was self - confident, without projecting a sense of self - importance. this self - confidence gave him the ability to persevere in the face of adversity. once he decided on a plan of action, he would adhere to it. his reputation for being both quick - tempered and confident worked to his advantage ; it misled opponents to see him as simple and direct, leading them to often understimate his political shrewdness. religious faith in 1838, jackson became an official member of the first presbyterian church in nashville. both his mother and his wife had been devout presbyterians all their lives, but jackson stated that he had postponed officially entering the church until after his retirement to avoid accusations that he had done so for political reasons. legacy jackson ' s legacy is controversial and polarized. jackson ' s contemporary, alexis de tocqueville, depicted jackson as the spokesperson of the majority and their passions. he has been variously described as a frontiersman personifying the independence of the american west, a slave - owning member of the southern gentry, and a populist who promoted faith in the wisdom of the ordinary citizen. he has been represented as a statesman who substantially advanced the spirit of democracy and upheld the foundations of american constitutionalism, as well as an autocratic demagogue who crushed political opposition and trampled the law. in the 1920s, jackson ' s rise to power became associated with the idea of the " common man ". this idea defined the age as a populist rejection of social elites and a vindication of every person ' s value independent of class and status. jackson was seen as its personification, an individual free of societal constraints who can achieve great things. in 1945, arthur m. schlesinger jr. ' s influential age of jackson redefined jackson ' s legacy through the lens of franklin d. roosevelt ' s new deal, describing the common man as a member of the working class struggling against exploitation by business concerns. in the twenty - first century, jackson ' s indian removal act has been described as ethnic cleansing : the use of force, terror and violence to make an area ethnically homogeneous. to achieve the goal of separating native americans from the whites, coercive force such as threats and bribes were used to effect removal and unauthorized military force was used when there was resistance, as in the case of the second