british museum, are some of the best known. gypsum alabaster was widely used for small sculpture for indoor use in the ancient world, especially in ancient egypt and mesopotamia. fine detail could be obtained in a material with an attractive finish without iron or steel tools. alabaster was used for vessels dedicated for use in the cult of the deity bast in the culture of the ancient egyptians, and thousands of gypsum alabaster artifacts dating to the late 4th millennium bc also have been found in tell brak ( present day nagar ), in syria. in mesopotamia, gypsum alabaster was the material of choice for figures of deities and devotees in temples, as in a figure believed to represent the deity abu dating to the first half of the 3rd millennium bc and currently kept in new york. aragon, spain much of the world ' s alabaster extraction is performed in the centre of the ebro valley in aragon, spain, which has the world ' s largest known exploitable deposits. according to a brochure published by the aragon government, alabaster has elsewhere either been depleted, or its extraction is so difficult that it has almost been abandoned or is carried out at a very high cost. there are two separate sites in aragon, both are located in tertiary basins. the most important site is the fuentes - azaila area, in the tertiary ebro basin. the other is the calatayud - teruel basin, which divides the iberian range in two main sectors ( nw and se ). the abundance of aragonese alabaster was crucial for its use in architecture, sculpture and decoration. there is no record of likely use by pre - roman cultures, so perhaps the first ones to use alabaster in aragon were the romans, who produced vessels from alabaster following the greek and egyptian models. it seems that since the reconstruction of the roman wall in zaragoza in the 3rd century ad with alabaster, the use of this material became common in building for centuries. muslim saraqusta ( today, zaragoza ) was also called " medina albaida ", the white city, due to the appearance of its alabaster walls and palaces, which stood out among gardens, groves and orchards by the ebro and huerva rivers. the oldest remains in the aljaferia palace, together with other interesting elements like capitals, reliefs and inscriptions, were made using alabaster, but it was during the artistic and economic blossoming of the renaissance that aragonese alabaster reached