- circularly behind. the women tattoo ( ) their mouths, and sometimes their forearms. the mouth tattoos start at a young age with a small spot on the upper lip, gradually increasing with size. the soot deposited on a pot hung over a fire of birch bark is used for colour. traditional ainu dress consists of a robe spun from the inner bark of the elm tree, called attusi or attush. various styles are made, which consist generally of a simple short robe with straight sleeves, folded around the body and tied with a band about the waist. the sleeves end at the wrist or forearm, and the length generally is to the calves. women also wear an undergarment of japanese cloth. in winter, the skins of animals are worn, with leggings of deerskin and, in sakhalin, boots made from the skin of dogs or salmon. ainu culture considers earrings, traditionally made from grapevines, to be gender neutral. women also wear a beaded necklace called a tamasay. modern craftswomen weave and embroider traditional garments that command very high prices. traditional ainu cuisine consists of the meat of bear, fox, wolf, badger, ox, and horse, as well as fish, fowl, millet, vegetables, herbs, and roots. they traditionally never eat raw fish or meat, always boiling or roasting it. their traditional habitations are reed - thatched huts, the largest about square, without partitions and having a fireplace in the center. there is no chimney, only a hole at the angle of the roof. one window sits on the eastern side, along with two doors. the house of the village head is used as a public meeting place when one is needed. another kind of traditional ainu house is called chise. instead of using furniture, ainu traditionally would sit on the floor, which would be covered with two layers of mats, one of rush, the other of water flag ( iris pseudacorus ), a water plant with long sword - shaped leaves. for beds, planks are spread, and mats are hung around them on poles, employing skins for coverlets. men use chopsticks when eating, and women use wooden spoons. ainu cuisine is not commonly eaten outside ainu communities. only a few restaurants in japan serve traditional ainu dishes, mainly in tokyo and hokkaido. the functions of judgeship were not entrusted to chiefs. rather, an indefinite number of a community ' s members sat