following either the controversy over the babylonians or a subsequent controversy over the knights. it has been inferred from statements in the clouds and peace that aristophanes was prematurely bald. aristophanes was probably victorious at least once at the city dionysia, with babylonians in 427, and at least three times at the lenaia, with the acharnians in 425, knights in 424, and frogs in 405. frogs in fact won the unique distinction of a repeat performance at a subsequent festival. a son of aristophanes, araros, was also a comic poet and he could have been heavily involved in the production of his father ' s play wealth ii in 388. araros is also thought to have been responsible for the posthumous performances of the now lost plays aeolosicon ii and cocalus, and it is possible that the last of these won the prize at the city dionysia in 387. it appears that a second son, philippus, was twice victorious at the lenaia and he could have directed some of eubulus ’ comedies. a third son was called either nicostratus or philetaerus, and a man by the latter name appears in the catalogue of lenaia victors with two victories, the first probably in the late 370s. plato ' s the symposium appears to be a useful source of biographical information about aristophanes, but its reliability is open to doubt. it purports to be a record of conversations at a dinner party at which both aristophanes and socrates are guests, held some seven years after the performance of the clouds, the play in which socrates was cruelly caricatured. one of the guests, alcibiades, even quotes from the play when teasing socrates over his appearance and yet there is no indication of any ill - feeling between socrates and aristophanes. plato ' s aristophanes is in fact a genial character and this has been interpreted as evidence of plato ' s own friendship with him ( their friendship appears to be corroborated by an epitaph for aristophanes, reputedly written by plato, in which the playwright ' s soul is compared to an eternal shrine for the graces ). plato was only a boy when the events in the symposium are supposed to have occurred and it is possible that his aristophanes is in fact based on a reading of the plays. for example, conversation among the guests turns to the subject of love and