grades " cricket has been played in aberdeen since 1884. aberdeenshire were the 2009 and 2014 scottish national premier league and scottish cup champions. ice hockey aberdeen lynx are an ice hockey team that plays in the scottish national league and is based at the linx ice arena. shinty aberdeen university shinty club ( scottish gaelic : club camanachd oilthigh obar dheathain ) is the oldest constituted shinty club in the world, dating back to 1861. other sports the city council operates public tennis courts in various parks including an indoor tennis centre at westburn park. the beach leisure centre is home to a climbing wall, gymnasium and a swimming pool. there are numerous swimming pools dotted around the city notably the largest, the bon accord baths which closed down in 2008. in common with many other major towns and cities in the uk, aberdeen has an active roller derby league, granite city roller derb. american football the aberdeen roughnecks american football club is a new team that started in 2012 and is the first team that aberdeen has witnessed since the granite city oilers that began in 1986 and were wound up in the mid - 1990s. aberdeen oilers floorball club was founded in 2007. the club initially attracted a range of experienced scandinavian and other european players who were studying in aberdeen. since their formation, aberdeen oilers have played in the british floorball northern league and went on to win the league in the 2008 / 09 season. the club played a major role in setting up a ladies league in scotland. the oilers ' ladies team ended up second in the first ladies league season ( 2008 / 09 ). public services the public health service in scotland, nhs scotland provides for the people of aberdeen through the nhs grampian health board. aberdeen royal infirmary is the largest hospital in the city and one of the largest in europe ( the location of the city ' s a & e department ), royal aberdeen children ' s hospital, a paediatric hospital, royal cornhill hospital for mental health, aberdeen maternity hospital, an antenatal hospital, woodend hospital, which specialises in rehabilitation and long - term illnesses and conditions, and city hospital and woolmanhill hospital, which host several out - patient clinics and offices. albyn hospital is a private hospital located in the west end of the city. aberdeen city council is responsible for city - owned infrastructure which is paid for by a mixture of council tax and income from the scottish government. infrastructure and services run by the council include : nursery, primary and secondary education, roads, clearing snow