the copenhagen school description was not complete, and postulated that some yet unknown variable was to be added to the theory so as to allow answering some of the questions it does not answer ( the founding elements of which were discussed as the epr paradox in 1935 ). taking this ideas seriously, john bell derived in 1964 a prediction that would lead to different experimental results ( bell ' s inequalities ) in the copenhagen and the hidden variable case. the experiment was conducted first by alain aspect in the early 1980 ' s, and the result excluded the simple hidden variable approach ( sophisticated hidden variables could still exist but their properties would still be more disturbing than the problems they try to solve ). this does not mean that the conceptual framework of quantum physics can be considered as complete now, since some open questions still exist ( the limit between the quantum and classical realms, what happens during a quantum measurement, what happens in a completely closed quantum system such as the universe itself, etc. ). mathematical logic in the field of mathematical logic, a clear distinction is made between two notions of axioms : logical and non - logical ( somewhat similar to the ancient distinction between " axioms " and " postulates " respectively ). logical axioms these are certain formulas in a formal language that are universally valid, that is, formulas that are satisfied by every assignment of values. usually one takes as logical axioms at least some minimal set of tautologies that is sufficient for proving all tautologies in the language ; in the case of predicate logic more logical axioms than that are required, in order to prove logical truths that are not tautologies in the strict sense. examples propositional logic in propositional logic it is common to take as logical axioms all formulae of the following forms, where,, and can be any formulae of the language and where the included primitive connectives are only " " for negation of the immediately following proposition and " " for implication from antecedent to consequent propositions : each of these patterns is an axiom schema, a rule for generating an infinite number of axioms. for example, if,, and are propositional variables, then and are both instances of axiom schema 1, and hence are axioms. it can be shown that with only these three axiom schemata and modus ponens, one can prove all tautologies of the propositional calculus. it can also be shown that no pair of these schemata is sufficient for proving all tautologies with modus po