##burg, augustus, elector of saxony, julius echter von mespelbrunn, and maurice, landgrave of hesse - kassel all contracted alchemists. john ' s son arthur dee worked as a court physician to michael i of russia and charles i of england but also compiled the alchemical book fasciculus chemicus. although most of these appointments were legitimate, the trend of pseudo - alchemical fraud continued through the renaissance. betruger would use sleight of hand, or claims of secret knowledge to make money or secure patronage. legitimate mystical and medical alchemists such as michael maier and heinrich khunrath wrote about fraudulent transmutations, distinguishing themselves from the con artists. false alchemists were sometimes prosecuted for fraud. the terms " chemia " and " alchemia " were used as synonyms in the early modern period, and the differences between alchemy, chemistry and small - scale assaying and metallurgy were not as neat as in the present day. there were important overlaps between practitioners, and trying to classify them into alchemists, chemists and craftsmen is anachronistic. for example, tycho brahe ( 1546 – 1601 ), an alchemist better known for his astronomical and astrological investigations, had a laboratory built at his uraniborg observatory / research institute. michael sendivogius ( michał sedziwoj, 1566 – 1636 ), a polish alchemist, philosopher, medical doctor and pioneer of chemistry wrote mystical works but is also credited with distilling oxygen in a lab sometime around 1600. sendivogious taught his technique to cornelius drebbel who, in 1621, applied this in a submarine. isaac newton devoted considerably more of his writing to the study of alchemy ( see isaac newton ' s occult studies ) than he did to either optics or physics. other early modern alchemists who were eminent in their other studies include robert boyle, and jan baptist van helmont. their hermeticism complemented rather than precluded their practical achievements in medicine and science. later modern period the decline of european alchemy was brought about by the rise of modern science with its emphasis on rigorous quantitative experimentation and its disdain for " ancient wisdom ". although the seeds of these events were planted as early as the 17th century, alchemy still flourished for some two hundred years, and in fact may have reached its peak in the 18th century. as late as 1781 james