, but had failed. on 28 october they wrote directly to winston churchill explaining their difficulties, with turing as the first named. they emphasised how small their need was compared with the vast expenditure of men and money by the forces and compared with the level of assistance they could offer to the forces. as andrew hodges, biographer of turing, later wrote, " this letter had an electric effect. " churchill wrote a memo to general ismay, which read : " action this day. make sure they have all they want on extreme priority and report to me that this has been done. " on 18 november, the chief of the secret service reported that every possible measure was being taken. the cryptographers at bletchley park did not know of the prime minister ' s response, but as milner - barry recalled, " all that we did notice was that almost from that day the rough ways began miraculously to be made smooth. " more than two hundred bombes were in operation by the end of the war. hut 8 and the naval enigma turing decided to tackle the particularly difficult problem of german naval enigma " because no one else was doing anything about it and i could have it to myself ". in december 1939, turing solved the essential part of the naval indicator system, which was more complex than the indicator systems used by the other services. that same night, he also conceived of the idea of banburismus, a sequential statistical technique ( what abraham wald later called sequential analysis ) to assist in breaking the naval enigma, " though i was not sure that it would work in practice, and was not, in fact, sure until some days had actually broken ". for this, he invented a measure of weight of evidence that he called the ban. banburismus could rule out certain sequences of the enigma rotors, substantially reducing the time needed to test settings on the bombes. later this sequential process of accumulating sufficient weight of evidence using decibans ( one tenth of a ban ) was used in cryptanalysis of the lorenz cipher. turing travelled to the united states in november 1942 and worked with us navy cryptanalysts on the naval enigma and bombe construction in washington. he also visited their computing machine laboratory in dayton, ohio. turing ' s reaction to the american bombe design was far from enthusiastic : during this trip, he also assisted at bell labs with the development of secure speech devices. he returned to bletchley park in march 1943. during his absence, hugh alexander had officially assumed