##3 ), but does not relate to the arrhenius definition of an acid because the reaction does not produce hydronium. nevertheless, ch3cooh is both an arrhenius and a brønsted – lowry acid. brønsted – lowry theory can be used to describe reactions of molecular compounds in nonaqueous solution or the gas phase. hydrogen chloride ( hcl ) and ammonia combine under several different conditions to form ammonium chloride, nh4cl. in aqueous solution hcl behaves as hydrochloric acid and exists as hydronium and chloride ions. the following reactions illustrate the limitations of arrhenius ' s definition : h3o + cl + nh3 → cl + nh ( aq ) + h2o hcl ( benzene ) + nh3 ( benzene ) → nh4cl ( s ) hcl ( g ) + nh3 ( g ) → nh4cl ( s ) as with the acetic acid reactions, both definitions work for the first example, where water is the solvent and hydronium ion is formed by the hcl solute. the next two reactions do not involve the formation of ions but are still proton - transfer reactions. in the second reaction hydrogen chloride and ammonia ( dissolved in benzene ) react to form solid ammonium chloride in a benzene solvent and in the third gaseous hcl and nh3 combine to form the solid. lewis acids a third, only marginally related concept was proposed in 1923 by gilbert n. lewis, which includes reactions with acid – base characteristics that do not involve a proton transfer. a lewis acid is a species that accepts a pair of electrons from another species ; in other words, it is an electron pair acceptor. brønsted acid – base reactions are proton transfer reactions while lewis acid – base reactions are electron pair transfers. many lewis acids are not brønsted – lowry acids. contrast how the following reactions are described in terms of acid – base chemistry : in the first reaction a fluoride ion, f−, gives up an electron pair to boron trifluoride to form the product tetrafluoroborate. fluoride " loses " a pair of valence electrons because the electrons shared in the b — f bond are located in the region of space between the two atomic nuclei and are therefore more distant from the fluoride nucleus than they are in the lone fluoride ion. bf3 is a lewis acid because it accepts the electron pair