the book of amos is the third of the twelve minor prophets in the old testament ( tanakh ) and the second in the greek septuagint tradition. amos, an older contemporary of hosea and isaiah, was active c. 750 bc during the reign of jeroboam ii ( 788 – 747 bc ) of samaria ( aka. northern israel ), making amos the first prophetic book of the bible to be written. amos lived in the kingdom of judah but preached in the northern kingdom of israel. his major themes of social justice, god ' s omnipotence, and divine judgment became staples of prophecy. structure according to michael d. coogan, the structure of amos is as follows : oracles against the nations ( 1 : 3 – 2 : 6 ) oracle concerning prophecy ( 3 : 3 – 8 ) addresses to groups in israel women of samaria ( 4 : 1 – 3 ) rich people in samaria ( 6 : 1 – 7 ) rich people in jerusalem ( 8 : 4 – 8 ) five visions of god ' s judgment on israel, interrupted by a confrontation between amos and his listeners at bethel ( 7 : 10 – 17 ) : locusts ( 7 : 1 – 3 ) fire ( 7 : 4 – 6 ) a plumb line ( 7 : 7 – 9 ) a basket of fruit ( 8 : 1 – 3 ) god besides the altar ( 9 : 1 – 8a ) epilogue ( 9 : 8b – 15 ) summary the book opens with a historical note about the prophet, then a short oracle announcing yahweh ' s judgment ( repeated in the book of joel ). the prophet denounces the crimes committed by the gentile ( non - jewish ) nations, and tells israel that even they have sinned and are guilty of the same crimes, and reports five symbolic visions prophesying the destruction of israel. included in this, with no apparent order, are an oracle on the nature of prophecy, snippets of hymns, oracles of woe, a third - person prose narrative concerning the prophet, and an oracle promising restoration of the house of david, which had not yet fallen in the lifetime of amos. composition amos prophesied during the reign of jeroboam ii of israel, and of uzziah of judah, which places him in the first half of the 8th century bc. according to the book ' s superscription ( amos 1 : 1 ) he was from tekoa, a town in judah south of jerusalem, but his