aloe ( ; also written aloe ) is a genus containing over 650 species of flowering succulent plants. the most widely known species is aloe vera, or " true aloe ". it is called this because it is cultivated as the standard source for assorted pharmaceutical purposes. other species, such as aloe ferox, are also cultivated or harvested from the wild for similar applications. the apg iv system ( 2016 ) places the genus in the family asphodelaceae, subfamily asphodeloideae. within the subfamily it may be placed in the tribe aloeae. in the past, it has been assigned to the family aloaceae ( now included in the asphodeloidae ) or to a broadly circumscribed family liliaceae ( the lily family ). the plant agave americana, which is sometimes called " american aloe ", belongs to the asparagaceae, a different family. the genus is native to tropical and southern africa, madagascar, jordan, the arabian peninsula, and various islands in the indian ocean ( mauritius, reunion, comoros, etc. ). a few species have also become naturalized in other regions ( mediterranean, india, australia, north and south america, hawaiian islands, etc. ). etymology the genus name aloe is derived from the arabic word alloeh, meaning " bitter and shiny substance " or from hebrew ahalim, plural of ahal. description most aloe species have a rosette of large, thick, fleshy leaves. aloe flowers are tubular, frequently yellow, orange, pink, or red, and are borne, densely clustered and pendant, at the apex of simple or branched, leafless stems. many species of aloe appear to be stemless, with the rosette growing directly at ground level ; other varieties may have a branched or unbranched stem from which the fleshy leaves spring. they vary in color from grey to bright - green and are sometimes striped or mottled. some aloes native to south africa are tree - like ( arborescent ). systematics the apg iv system ( 2016 ) places the genus in the family asphodelaceae, subfamily asphodeloideae. in the past it has also been assigned to the families liliaceae and aloeaceae, as well as the family asphodelaceae sensu stricto, before this was merged into the asphodelaceae sensu lato. the circumscription