. according to the constitution, no political association may be formed if it is " based on differences in religion, language, race, gender, profession, or region ". in addition, political campaigns must be exempt from the aforementioned subjects. parliamentary elections were last held in may 2017. in the elections, the fln lost 44 of its seats, but remained the largest party with 164 seats, the military - backed national rally for democracy won 100, and the muslim brotherhood - linked movement of the society for peace won 33. foreign relations algeria is included in the european union ' s european neighbourhood policy ( enp ) which aims at bringing the eu and its neighbours closer. giving incentives and rewarding best performers, as well as offering funds in a faster and more flexible manner, are the two main principles underlying the european neighbourhood instrument ( eni ) that came into force in 2014. it has a budget of €15. 4 billion and provides the bulk of funding through a number of programmes. in 2009, the french government agreed to compensate victims of nuclear tests in algeria. defence minister herve morin stated that " it ' s time for our country to be at peace with itself, at peace thanks to a system of compensation and reparations, " when presenting the draft law on the payouts. algerian officials and activists believe that this is a good first step and hope that this move would encourage broader reparation. tensions between algeria and morocco in relation to the western sahara have been an obstacle to tightening the arab maghreb union, nominally established in 1989, but which has carried little practical weight. on 24 august 2021, algeria announced the break of diplomatic relations with morocco. military the military of algeria consists of the people ' s national army ( anp ), the algerian national navy ( mra ), and the algerian air force ( qjj ), plus the territorial air defence forces. it is the direct successor of the national liberation army ( armee de liberation nationale or aln ), the armed wing of the nationalist national liberation front which fought french colonial occupation during the algerian war of independence ( 1954 – 62 ). total military personnel include 147, 000 active, 150, 000 reserve, and 187, 000 paramilitary staff ( 2008 estimate ). service in the military is compulsory for men aged 19 – 30, for a total of 12 months. the military expenditure was 4. 3 % of the gross domestic product ( gdp ) in 2012. algeria has the second largest military in north africa with the largest defence budget in africa ( $ 10 billion