( operculum ) of the unilocular pixdio releases the urn that contains the seed. seeds are circular form from 1 to 1. 5 millimeters in diameter and range in color with a shiny, smooth seed coat. the panicle is harvested 200 days after cultivation with approximately 1, 000 to 3, 000 seeds harvested per gram. chemistry amaranth grain contains phytochemicals that are not defined as nutrients and may be antinutrient factors, such as polyphenols, saponins, tannins, and oxalates. these compounds are reduced in content and antinutrient effect by cooking. taxonomy amaranthus shows a wide variety of morphological diversity among and even within certain species. amaranthus is part of the amaranthaceae that is part of the larger grouping of the carophyllales. although the family ( amaranthaceae ) is distinctive, the genus has few distinguishing characters among the 75 species present across six continents. this complicates taxonomy and amaranthus has generally been considered among systematists as a " difficult " genus and to hybridize often. in 1955, sauer classified the genus into two subgenera, differentiating only between monoecious and dioecious species : acnida ( l. ) aellen ex k. r. robertson and amaranthus. although this classification was widely accepted, further infrageneric classification was ( and still is ) needed to differentiate this widely diverse group. mosyakin and robertson 1996 later divided into three subgenera : acnida, amaranthus, and albersia. the support for the addition of the subdivision albersia because of its indehiscent fruits coupled with three elliptic to linear tepals to be exclusive characters to members of this subgenus. the classification of these groups are further supported with a combination of floral characters, reproductive strategies, geographic distribution, and molecular evidence. the phylogenies of amaranthus using maximum parsimony and bayesian analysis of nuclear and chloroplast genes suggest five clades within the genus : diecious / pumilus, hybris, galapagos, eurasian / south african, australian ( esa ), esa + south american. amaranthus includes three recognised subgenera and 75 species, although species numbers are questionable due to hybridisation and species concepts. infrageneric classification focuses on inflorescence, flower characters and whether a species is monoecious