an even less favourable use of the word. spurious writings in general use, the word apocrypha came to mean " of doubtful authenticity ". this meaning also appears in origen ' s prologue to his commentary on the song of songs, of which only the latin translation survives : other the gelasian decree ( generally held now as being the work of an anonymous scholar between 519 and 553 ) refers to religious works by church fathers eusebius, tertullian and clement of alexandria as apocrypha. augustine defined the word as meaning simply " obscurity of origin ", implying that any book of unknown authorship or questionable authenticity would be considered apocryphal. jerome in prologus galeatus declared that all books outside the hebrew canon were apocryphal. in practice, jerome treated some books outside the hebrew canon as if they were canonical, and the western church did not accept jerome ' s definition of apocrypha, instead retaining the word ' s prior meaning. as a result, various church authorities labeled different books as apocrypha, treating them with varying levels of regard. origen stated that " the canonical books, as the hebrews have handed them down, are twenty - two ". clement and others cited some apocryphal books as " scripture ", " divine scripture ", " inspired ", and the like. teachers connected with palestine and familiar with the hebrew canon ( the protocanon ) excluded from the canon all of the old testament not found there. this view is reflected in the canon of melito of sardis, and in the prefaces and letters of jerome. a third view was that the books were not as valuable as the canonical scriptures of the hebrew collection, but were of value for moral uses, as introductory texts for new converts from paganism, and to be read in congregations. they were referred to as " ecclesiastical " works by rufinus. in 1546, the catholic council of trent reconfirmed the canon of augustine, dating to the second and third centuries, declaring " he is also to be anathema who does not receive these entire books, with all their parts, as they have been accustomed to be read in the catholic church, and are found in the ancient editions of the latin vulgate, as sacred and canonical. " the whole of the books in question, with the exception of 1 esdras and 2 esdras and the prayer of manasseh, were declared canonical at trent. the