off the trojans. after the burial, each claims achilles ' magical armor, which had been forged on mount olympus by the smith - god hephaestus, for himself as recognition for his heroic efforts. a competition is held to determine who deserves the armor. ajax argues that because of his strength and the fighting he has done for the greeks, including saving the ships from hector, and driving him off with a massive rock, he deserves the armor. however, odysseus proves to be more eloquent, and with the aid of athena, the council gives him the armor. ajax, distraught by this result and " conquered by his own grief ", plunges his sword into his own chest, killing himself. in the little iliad, ajax goes mad with rage at odysseus ' victory and slaughters the cattle of the greeks. after returning to his senses, he kills himself out of shame. the belvedere torso, a marble torso now in the vatican museums, is considered to depict ajax " in the act of contemplating his suicide ". in sophocles ' play ajax, a famous retelling of ajax ' s demise, after the armor is awarded to odysseus, ajax feels so insulted that he wants to kill agamemnon and menelaus. athena intervenes and clouds his mind and vision, and he goes to a flock of sheep and slaughters them, imagining they are the achaean leaders, including odysseus and agamemnon. when he comes to his senses, covered in blood, he realizes that what he has done has diminished his honor, and decides that he prefers to kill himself rather than live in shame. he does so with the same sword which hector gave him when they exchanged presents. from his blood sprang a red flower, as at the death of hyacinthus, which bore on its leaves the initial letters of his name ai, also expressive of lament. his ashes were deposited in a golden urn on the rhoetean promontory at the entrance of the hellespont. ajax ' s half - brother teucer stood trial before his father for not bringing ajax ' s body or famous weapons back. teucer was acquitted for responsibility but found guilty of negligence. he was disowned by his father and was not allowed to return to his home, the island of salamis off the coast of athens. homer is somewhat vague about the precise manner of ajax ' s death but does as