justice. the first letter supplies sufficient information to date it approximately, since the bishop sojourned at the court of louis on his way to rome. it is known from other sources that berengar attended the third lateran council in march 1179. the letters were probably written towards the end of 1178 or in january 1179 at the latest. according to an annalist source for the years 1089 – 1196, the pretender was received with honour and pomp in zaragoza, calatayud, and daroca, which the battler had conquered, but after it was found out that he was false he was executed before the city of barcelona in 1181. modern historian antonio ubieto arteta has hypothesised that the aragonese lords of the tenancies of zaragoza, calatayud, and daroca – pedro de luesia, loferrench de luna, pedro de castillazuelo ( lord of calatayud ), pedro cornel ( lord of murillo de gallego ), and the majordomo jimeno de artusilla, all of whom disappear between 1177 and 1181 in the documentation of their tenancies – supported, at least initially, the pretender. these lords also appear in the later legend of the bell of huesca, which has no historical basis, as the victims of ramiro ii ( 1136 ). since, historically, they were not active in the 1130s, it is possible that the historically based legend of the pseudo - alfonso had some influence on the genesis of the bell of huesca. the earliest chronicle source for the imposture is rodrigo jimenez de rada, writing in the middle of the thirteenth century, who records that there were several legends then current about the death of alfonso the battler : some believed he perished in the battle of fraga, some that his body had never been recovered, others that he was buried in the monastery of montearagon, and still others that he had fled from fraga in shame after his defeat and became a pilgrim as an act of penance. some years later, rodrigo writes, though he does not give a year, an impostor arose and was received by many as the battler, though alfonso ii had him arrested and hanged. this is the earliest reference to the impostor ' s end. the legend was amplified in later years. according to the fourteenth - century cronica de los estados peninsulares, the battler went on a pilgrimage to