. sensory the term sensory ataxia is used to indicate ataxia due to loss of proprioception, the loss of sensitivity to the positions of joint and body parts. this is generally caused by dysfunction of the dorsal columns of the spinal cord, because they carry proprioceptive information up to the brain. in some cases, the cause of sensory ataxia may instead be dysfunction of the various parts of the brain that receive positional information, including the cerebellum, thalamus, and parietal lobes. sensory ataxia presents itself with an unsteady " stomping " gait with heavy heel strikes, as well as a postural instability that is usually worsened when the lack of proprioceptive input cannot be compensated for by visual input, such as in poorly lit environments. physicians can find evidence of sensory ataxia during physical examination by having patients stand with their feet together and eyes shut. in affected patients, this will cause the instability to worsen markedly, producing wide oscillations and possibly a fall ; this is called a positive romberg ' s test. worsening of the finger - pointing test with the eyes closed is another feature of sensory ataxia. also, when patients are standing with arms and hands extended toward the physician, if the eyes are closed, the patients ' fingers tend to " fall down " and then be restored to the horizontal extended position by sudden muscular contractions ( the " ataxic hand " ). vestibular the term vestibular ataxia is used to indicate ataxia due to dysfunction of the vestibular system, which in acute and unilateral cases is associated with prominent vertigo, nausea, and vomiting. in slow - onset, chronic bilateral cases of vestibular dysfunction, these characteristic manifestations may be absent, and dysequilibrium may be the sole presentation. causes the three types of ataxia have overlapping causes, so can either coexist or occur in isolation. cerebellar ataxia can have many causes despite normal neuroimaging. focal lesions any type of focal lesion of the central nervous system ( such as stroke, brain tumor, multiple sclerosis, inflammatory [ such as sarcoidosis ], and " chronic lymphocytyc inflammation with pontine perivascular enhancement responsive to steroids syndrome " [ clippers ] ) will cause the type of ataxia corresponding to the site of the lesion : cerebellar if in the cerebellum ; sensory if in the