germanicus and their relationship only got worse. in ad 19, germanicus ordered piso to leave the province, which piso began to do. on his way back to rome, piso stopped at the island of kos off the coast of syria. around that time germanicus fell ill and he died on 10 october ad 19 at antioch. rumours spread of piso poisoning her husband on the emperor ' s orders. after germanicus ' cremation in the forum of antioch, agrippina personally carried the ashes of her husband to rome. the transportation of the ashes witnessed national mourning. she landed at the port of brundisium in southern italy where she was met with huge crowds of sympathizers ; a praetorian escort was provided by the emperor in light of her rank as the wife of a governor - general. as she passed each town, the people and local magistrates came out to show their respect. drusus the younger ( son of tiberius ), claudius, and the consuls journeyed to join the procession as well. once she made it to rome, her husband ' s ashes were interred at the mausoleum of augustus. tiberius and livia did not make an appearance. life after germanicus her marriage to germanicus had served to unite the imperial family. agrippina may have suspected tiberius ' involvement in the death of her husband and, with germanicus dead, she no longer had any familial ties to the emperor. historian richard alston says it is likely that either tiberius or livia were behind the exile of agrippina ' s half - sister and the death of postumus. he notes the death of agrippina ' s mother, who starved herself to death amidst her exile in ad 14, linking her death to tiberius ' disdain for her. agrippina was vocal about her feelings claiming that germanicus was murdered to promote drusus the younger as tiberius ' heir, and worried that the birth of the younger drusus ' twin sons would displace her own sons in the line of succession. at about this time, tiberius ' praetorian prefect sejanus was becoming powerful in rome and began feuding with drusus the younger. while the exact causes of the feud are unknown, it ended when the younger drusus died of seemingly natural causes on 14 september ad 23. after the death of tiberius ' son, agrippina wanted to advance the careers of her sons, who were all potential heirs for tiberius. it has been suggested