the deceleration is 4 g ( 39 m / s2 ), more than the space shuttle experiences. a top fuel car can be heard over away and can generate a reading from 1. 5 to 3. 9 on the richter scale. drag racing is two cars head - to - head, the winner proceeding to the next round. professional classes are all first to the finish line wins. sportsman racing is handicapped ( slower car getting a head start ) using an index ( a lowest e. t. allowed ), and cars running under ( quicker than ) their index " break out " and lose. the slowest cars, bracket racers, are also handicapped, but rather than an index, they use a dial - in. off - road racing in off - road racing, various classes of specially modified vehicles, including cars, compete in races through off - road environments. in north america these races often take place in the desert, such as the famous baja 1000. another format for off - road racing happens on closed - course short course tracks such as crandon international off - road raceway. in the 1980s and 1990s, the short course was extended to racing inside stadiums in the mickey thompson entertainment group ; this format was revived by robby gordon in 2013 with his stadium super trucks series. in europe, " offroad " refers to events such as autocross or rallycross, while desert races and rally - raids such as the paris - dakar, master rallye or european " bajas " are called " cross - country rallies ". kart racing the modern kart was invented by art ingels, a fabricator at the indianapolis - car manufacturer kurtis - kraft, in southern california in 1956. ingels took a small chainsaw engine and mounted it to a simple tube - frame chassis weighing less than 100 lb. ingels, and everyone else who drove the kart, were startled at its performance capabilities. the sport soon blossomed in southern california, and quickly spread around the world. although often seen as the entry point for serious racers into the sport, kart racing, or karting, can be an economical way for amateurs to try racing and is also a fully - fledged international sport in its own right. a large proportion of professional racing drivers began in karts, often from a very young age, such as michael schumacher and fernando alonso. several former motorcycle champions have also taken up the sport, notably wayne rainey, who was paralysed in a racing accident and now races a hand - controlled kart.