four seasons in 1717 or 1718, vivaldi was offered a prestigious new position as maestro di cappella of the court of prince philip of hesse - darmstadt, governor of mantua, in the northwest of italy he moved there for three years and produced several operas, among them tito manlio ( rv 738 ). in 1721, he was in milan, where he presented the pastoral drama la silvia ( rv 734 ) ; nine arias from it survive. he visited milan again the following year with the oratorio l ' adorazione delli tre re magi al bambino gesu ( rv 645, now lost ). in 1722 he moved to rome, where he introduced his operas ' new style. the new pope benedict xiii invited vivaldi to play for him. in 1725, vivaldi returned to venice, where he produced four operas in the same year. during this period vivaldi wrote the four seasons, four violin concertos that give musical expression to the seasons of the year. the composition was probably one of his most famous. though three of the concerti are wholly original, the first, " spring ", borrows motifs from a sinfonia in the first act of vivaldi ' s contemporaneous opera il giustino. the inspiration for the concertos was probably the countryside around mantua. they were a revolution in musical conception : in them vivaldi represented flowing creeks, singing birds ( of different species, each specifically characterized ), barking dogs, buzzing mosquitoes, crying shepherds, storms, drunken dancers, silent nights, hunting parties from both the hunters ' and the prey ' s point of view, frozen landscapes, ice - skating children, and warming winter fires. each concerto is associated with a sonnet, possibly by vivaldi, describing the scenes depicted in the music. they were published as the first four concertos in a collection of twelve, il cimento dell ' armonia e dell ' inventione, opus 8, published in amsterdam by michel - charles le cene in 1725. during his time in mantua, vivaldi became acquainted with an aspiring young singer anna tessieri giro, who would become his student, protegee, and favorite prima donna. anna, along with her older half - sister paolina, moved in with vivaldi and regularly accompanied him on his many travels. there was speculation as to the nature of vivaldi ' s and giro ' s relationship, but no evidence exists to indicate anything beyond friendship and professional collaboration