adjusting its inclination into the equatorial plane, most probably by a combination of atmospheric drag and tidal forces, although it is not clear whether sufficient time was available for this to occur for deimos. capture also requires dissipation of energy. the current martian atmosphere is too thin to capture a phobos - sized object by atmospheric braking. geoffrey a. landis has pointed out that the capture could have occurred if the original body was a binary asteroid that separated under tidal forces. phobos could be a second - generation solar system object that coalesced in orbit after mars formed, rather than forming concurrently out of the same birth cloud as mars. another hypothesis is that mars was once surrounded by many phobos - and deimos - sized bodies, perhaps ejected into orbit around it by a collision with a large planetesimal. the high porosity of the interior of phobos ( based on the density of 1. 88 g / cm3, voids are estimated to comprise 25 to 35 percent of phobos ' s volume ) is inconsistent with an asteroidal origin. observations of phobos in the thermal infrared suggest a composition containing mainly phyllosilicates, which are well known from the surface of mars. the spectra are distinct from those of all classes of chondrite meteorites, again pointing away from an asteroidal origin. both sets of findings support an origin of phobos from material ejected by an impact on mars that reaccreted in martian orbit, similar to the prevailing theory for the origin of earth ' s moon. characteristics size distribution asteroids vary greatly in size, from almost for the largest down to rocks just 1 meter across, below which an object is classified as a meteoroid. the three largest are very much like miniature planets : they are roughly spherical, have at least partly differentiated interiors, and are thought to be surviving protoplanets. the vast majority, however, are much smaller and are irregularly shaped ; they are thought to be either battered planetesimals or fragments of larger bodies. the dwarf planet ceres is by far the largest asteroid, with a diameter of. the next largest are 4 vesta and 2 pallas, both with diameters of just over. vesta is the brightest of the four main - belt asteroids that can, on occasion, be visible to the naked eye. on some rare occasions, a near - earth asteroid may briefly become visible without technical aid ; see 99942 apophis. the mass of all the objects of the asteroid belt