was considered the seat of thoughts and emotions. after death, the spiritual aspects were released from the body and could move at will, but they required the physical remains ( or a substitute, such as a statue ) as a permanent home. the ultimate goal of the deceased was to rejoin his ka and ba and become one of the " blessed dead ", living on as an akh, or " effective one ". for this to happen, the deceased had to be judged worthy in a trial, in which the heart was weighed against a " feather of truth. " if deemed worthy, the deceased could continue their existence on earth in spiritual form. if they were not deemed worthy, their heart was eaten by ammit the devourer and they were erased from the universe. burial customs the ancient egyptians maintained an elaborate set of burial customs that they believed were necessary to ensure immortality after death. these customs involved preserving the body by mummification, performing burial ceremonies, and interring with the body goods the deceased would use in the afterlife. before the old kingdom, bodies buried in desert pits were naturally preserved by desiccation. the arid, desert conditions were a boon throughout the history of ancient egypt for burials of the poor, who could not afford the elaborate burial preparations available to the elite. wealthier egyptians began to bury their dead in stone tombs and use artificial mummification, which involved removing the internal organs, wrapping the body in linen, and burying it in a rectangular stone sarcophagus or wooden coffin. beginning in the fourth dynasty, some parts were preserved separately in canopic jars. by the new kingdom, the ancient egyptians had perfected the art of mummification ; the best technique took 70 days and involved removing the internal organs, removing the brain through the nose, and desiccating the body in a mixture of salts called natron. the body was then wrapped in linen with protective amulets inserted between layers and placed in a decorated anthropoid coffin. mummies of the late period were also placed in painted cartonnage mummy cases. actual preservation practices declined during the ptolemaic and roman eras, while greater emphasis was placed on the outer appearance of the mummy, which was decorated. wealthy egyptians were buried with larger quantities of luxury items, but all burials, regardless of social status, included goods for the deceased. funerary texts were often included in the grave, and, beginning in the new kingdom, so were shabti statues that were believed to perform manual labor for them in the afterlife.