: the hero goes off in pursuit of a reward, whether it be a skill, prize, treasure, or perhaps the safety of a person. on the way, the hero must overcome various obstacles to obtain their reward. video games in video game culture, an adventure game is a video game in which the player assumes the role of a protagonist in an interactive story driven by exploration and puzzle solving. the genre ' s focus on story allows it to draw heavily from other narrative - based media, literature and film, encompassing a wide variety of literary genres. many adventure games ( text and graphic ) are designed for a single player, since this emphasis on story and character makes multi - player design difficult. nonfiction works from ancient times, travelers and explorers have written about their adventures. journals which became best - sellers in their day were written, such as marco polo ' s journal the travels of marco polo or mark twain ' s roughing it. others were personal journals, only later published, such as the journals of meriwether lewis and william clark or captain james cook ' s journals. there are also books written by those not directly a part of the adventure in question, such as the right stuff by tom wolfe or books written by those participating in the adventure but in a format other than that of a journal, such as conquistadors of the useless by lionel terray. documentaries often use the theme of adventure as well. adventure sports there are many sports classified as adventure sports, due to their inherent danger and excitement. some of these include mountain climbing, skydiving, or other extreme sports. see also adventure film adventure playground adventure travel expedition exploration filibuster ( military ) list of genres novelty seeking overlanding sports tourism travel references external links martin feeney going on a journey : life in year 10 website of the research unit " philology of adventure " : ongoing research project on the literary history of the adventure pattern what is an adventure? a definition of " adventure ", " hero " and " epic " with an illustration of the hero ' s journey. wikivoyage