##seus, heracles, bellerophon, and jason. along with aphrodite and hera, athena was one of the three goddesses whose feud resulted in the beginning of the trojan war. she plays an active role in the iliad, in which she assists the achaeans and, in the odyssey, she is the divine counselor to odysseus. in the later writings of the roman poet ovid, athena was said to have competed against the mortal arachne in a weaving competition, afterward transforming arachne into the first spider ; ovid also describes how she transformed medusa into a gorgon after witnessing her being raped by poseidon in her temple. since the renaissance, athena has become an international symbol of wisdom, the arts, and classical learning. western artists and allegorists have often used athena as a symbol of freedom and democracy. etymology athena is associated with the city of athens. the name of the city in ancient greek is ( ), a plural toponym, designating the place where — according to myth — she presided over the athenai, a sisterhood devoted to her worship. in ancient times, scholars argued whether athena was named after athens or athens after athena. now scholars generally agree that the goddess takes her name from the city ; the ending - ene is common in names of locations, but rare for personal names. testimonies from different cities in ancient greece attest that similar city goddesses were worshipped in other cities and, like athena, took their names from the cities where they were worshipped. for example, in mycenae there was a goddess called mykene, whose sisterhood was known as mykenai, whereas at thebes an analogous deity was called thebe, and the city was known under the plural form thebai ( or thebes, in english, where the ' s ' is the plural formation ). the name athenai is likely of pre - greek origin because it contains the presumably pre - greek morpheme * - an -. in his dialogue cratylus, the ancient greek philosopher plato ( 428 – 347 bc ) gives some rather imaginative etymologies of athena ' s name, based on the theories of the ancient athenians and his etymological speculations : thus, plato believed that athena ' s name was derived from greek, — which the later greeks rationalised as from the deity ' s (, ) mind (, ). the second - century ad orator aelius aristides