in 1573, the port was granted the monopoly of the manila trade. 17th – 19th centuries on january 25, 1614, a delegation led by samurai hasekura tsunenaga, which included over one hundred japanese christians as well as twenty - two samurai under the shogun tokugawa ieyasu, arrived from japan to acapulco as part of a mission to form closer relations with catholic europe. a fight soon broke out in which a japanese samurai stabbed a spanish colonial soldier in acapulco. this was witnessed and recorded by historian chimalpahin, who was the grandson of an aztec nobleman. some of tsunenaga ' s delegation would stay and marry with the locals. the galleon trade made its yearly run from the mid - 16th century until the early 19th. the luxury items it brought to new spain attracted the attention of english and dutch pirates, such as francis drake, henry morgan and thomas cavendish, who called it " the black ship ". a dutch fleet invaded acapulco in 1615, destroying much of the town before being driven off. the fort of san diego was built the following year to protect the port and the cargo of arriving ships. the fort was destroyed by an earthquake in 1776 and was rebuilt between 1778 and 1783. at the beginning of the 19th century, king charles iv declared acapulco a ciudad official and it became an essential part of the spanish crown. however, not long after, the mexican war of independence began. in 1810, jose maria morelos y pavon attacked and burnt down the city, after he defeated royalist commander francisco pares at the battle of tres palos. the independence of mexico in 1821 ended the run of the manila galleon. acapulco ' s importance as a port recovered during the california gold rush in the mid - 19th - century, with ships going to and coming from panama stopping here. this city was besieged on 19 april 1854 by antonio lopez de santa anna after guerrero ' s leadership had rebelled by issuing the plan de ayutla. after an unsuccessful week of fighting, santa anna retreated. 20th century in 1911, revolutionary forces took over the main plaza of acapulco. in 1920, the prince of wales ( the future king edward viii ) visited the area. impressed by what he saw, he recommended the place to his compatriots in europe, making it popular with the elite there. much of the original hotel and trading infrastructure was built by a businessman named albert b. pullen from corrigan,