the diachronic loss of the inherent vowel, e. g. by syncope and apocope in hindi. when not separating syllables containing consonant clusters ( ccv ) into c + cv, these syllables are often written by combining the two consonants. in the indic scripts, the earliest method was simply to arrange them vertically, writing the second consonant of the cluster below the first one. the two consonants may also merge as conjunct consonant letters, where two or more letters are graphically joined in a ligature, or otherwise change their shapes. rarely, one of the consonants may be replaced by a gemination mark, e. g. the gurmukhi addak. when they are arranged vertically, as in burmese or khmer, they are said to be ' stacked '. often there has been a change to writing the two consonants side by side. in the latter case, this combination may be indicated by a diacritic on one of the consonants or a change in the form of one of the consonants, e. g. the half forms of devanagari. generally, the reading order of stacked consonants is top to bottom, or the general reading order of the script, but sometimes the reading order can be reversed. the division of a word into syllables for the purposes of writing does not always accord with the natural phonetics of the language. for example, brahmic scripts commonly handle a phonetic sequence cvc - cv as cv - ccv or cv - c - cv. however, sometimes phonetic cvc syllables are handled as single units, and the final consonant may be represented : in much the same way as the second consonant in ccv, e. g. in the tibetan, khmer and tai tham scripts. the positioning of the components may be slightly different, as in khmer and tai tham. by a special dependent consonant sign, which may be a smaller or differently placed version of the full consonant letter, or may be a distinct sign altogether. not at all. for example, repeated consonants need not be represented, homorganic nasals may be ignored, and in baybayin and makasar script, the syllable - final consonant was traditionally never represented. more complicated unit structures ( e. g. cc or ccvc ) are handled by combining the various techniques above. examples using the devanagari script k = / ka / = ki = / ki / = k * = / k / = ( with a halant under the character ) k * m = / kma