" as queer as a clockwork orange " is good old east london slang and it didn ' t seem to me necessary to explain it. now, obviously, i have to give it an extra meaning. i ' ve implied an extra dimension. i ' ve implied the junction of the organic, the lively, the sweet – in other words, life, the orange – and the mechanical, the cold, the disciplined. i ' ve brought them together in this kind of oxymoron, this sour - sweet word. " no other record of the expression being used before 1962 has ever appeared, with kingsley amis going so far as to note in his memoirs ( 1991 ) that no trace of it appears in eric partridge ' s dictionary of historical slang. however, saying " as queer as... " followed by an improbable object : "... a clockwork orange ", or "... a four - speed walking stick " or "... a left - handed corkscrew " etc. predates burgess ' s novel. an early example, " as queer as dick ' s hatband ", appeared in 1796, and was alluded to in 1757. his second explanation was that it was a pun on the malay word orang, meaning " man ". the novella contains no other malay words or links. in a prefatory note to a clockwork orange : a play with music, he wrote that the title was a metaphor for " an organic entity, full of juice and sweetness and agreeable odour, being turned into a mechanism ". in his essay clockwork oranges, burgess asserts that " this title would be appropriate for a story about the application of pavlovian or mechanical laws to an organism which, like a fruit, was capable of colour and sweetness ". while addressing the reader in a letter before some editions of the book, the author says that when a man ceases to have free will, they are no longer a man. " just a clockwork orange ", a shiny, appealing object, but " just a toy to be wound - up by either god or the devil, or ( what is increasingly replacing both ) the state. " this title alludes to the protagonist ' s negative emotional responses to feelings of evil which prevent the exercise of his free will subsequent to the administration of the ludovico technique. to induce this conditioning, alex is forced to watch scenes of violence on a screen that are systematically paired with negative physical stimulation. the