achaemenid persian period, but the cursive form steadily gained ground over the lapidary, which had largely disappeared by the 3rd century bc. for centuries after the fall of the achaemenid empire in 331 bc, imperial aramaic, or something near enough to it to be recognisable, would remain an influence on the various native iranian languages. the aramaic script would survive as the essential characteristics of the iranian pahlavi writing system. 30 aramaic documents from bactria have been recently discovered, an analysis of which was published in november 2006. the texts, which were rendered on leather, reflect the use of aramaic in the 4th century bc in the persian achaemenid administration of bactria and sogdiana. the widespread usage of achaemenid aramaic in the middle east led to the gradual adoption of the aramaic alphabet for writing hebrew. formerly, hebrew had been written using an alphabet closer in form to that of phoenician, the paleo - hebrew alphabet. aramaic - derived scripts since the evolution of the aramaic alphabet out of the phoenician one was a gradual process, the division of the world ' s alphabets into the ones derived from the phoenician one directly and the ones derived from phoenician via aramaic is somewhat artificial. in general, the alphabets of the mediterranean region ( anatolia, greece, italy ) are classified as phoenician - derived, adapted from around the 8th century bc, and those of the east ( the levant, persia, central asia, and india ) are considered aramaic - derived, adapted from around the 6th century bc from the imperial aramaic script of the achaemenid empire. after the fall of the achaemenid empire, the unity of the imperial aramaic script was lost, diversifying into a number of descendant cursives. the hebrew and nabataean alphabets, as they stood by the roman era, were little changed in style from the imperial aramaic alphabet. ibn khaldun ( 1332 – 1406 ) alleges that not only the old nabataean writing was influenced by the " syrian script " ( i. e. aramaic ), but also the old chaldean script. a cursive hebrew variant developed from the early centuries ad, but it remained restricted to the status of a variant used alongside the noncursive. by contrast, the cursive developed out of the nabataean alphabet in the same period soon became the standard for writing arabic,