##kker ' s lair sites. brain and senses the brain of allosaurus, as interpreted from spiral ct scanning of an endocast, was more consistent with crocodilian brains than those of the other living archosaurs, birds. the structure of the vestibular apparatus indicates that the skull was held nearly horizontal, as opposed to strongly tipped up or down. the structure of the inner ear was like that of a crocodilian, and so allosaurus probably could have heard lower frequencies best, and would have had trouble with subtle sounds. the olfactory bulbs were large and seem to have been well suited for detecting odors, although the area for evaluating smells was relatively small. paleopathology in 2001, bruce rothschild and others published a study examining evidence for stress fractures and tendon avulsions in theropod dinosaurs and the implications for their behavior. since stress fractures are caused by repeated trauma rather than singular events they are more likely to be caused by the behavior of the animal than other kinds of injury. stress fractures and tendon avulsions occurring in the forelimb have special behavioral significance since while injuries to the feet could be caused by running or migration, resistant prey items are the most probable source of injuries to the hand. allosaurus was one of only two theropods examined in the study to exhibit a tendon avulsion, and in both cases the avulsion occurred on the forelimb. when the researchers looked for stress fractures, they found that allosaurus had a significantly greater number of stress fractures than albertosaurus, ornithomimus or archaeornithomimus. of the 47 hand bones the researchers studied, three were found to contain stress fractures. of the feet, 281 bones were studied and 17 were found to have stress fractures. the stress fractures in the foot bones " were distributed to the proximal phalanges " and occurred across all three weight - bearing toes in " statistically indistinguishable " numbers. since the lower end of the third metatarsal would have contacted the ground first while an allosaur was running, it would have borne the most stress. if the allosaurs ' stress fractures were caused by damage accumulating while walking or running this bone should have experience more stress fractures than the others. the lack of such a bias in the examined allosaurus fossils indicates an origin for the stress fractures from a source other than running. the authors conclude that these fractures occurred during interaction with prey, like an allosaur trying to hold