and dentists ( 0. 31 per 1, 000 people ). access to " improved water sources " was around 97. 4 % of the population in urban areas and 98. 7 % of the population in the rural areas. some 99 % of algerians living in urban areas, and around 93. 4 % of those living in rural areas, had access to " improved sanitation ". according to the world bank, algeria is making progress toward its goal of " reducing by half the number of people without sustainable access to improved drinking water and basic sanitation by 2015 ". given algeria ' s young population, policy favours preventive health care and clinics over hospitals. in keeping with this policy, the government maintains an immunisation program. however, poor sanitation and unclean water still cause tuberculosis, hepatitis, measles, typhoid fever, cholera and dysentery. the poor generally receive health care free of charge. health records have been maintained in algeria since 1882 and began adding muslims living in the south to their vital record database in 1905 during french rule. education since the 1970s, in a centralised system that was designed to significantly reduce the rate of illiteracy, the algerian government introduced a decree by which school attendance became compulsory for all children aged between 6 and 15 years who have the ability to track their learning through the 20 facilities built since independence, now the literacy rate is around 92. 6 %. since 1972, arabic is used as the language of instruction during the first nine years of schooling. from the third year, french is taught and it is also the language of instruction for science classes. the students can also learn english, italian, spanish and german. in 2008, new programs at the elementary appeared, therefore the compulsory schooling does not start at the age of six anymore, but at the age of five. apart from the 122 private schools, the universities of the state are free of charge. after nine years of primary school, students can go to the high school or to an educational institution. the school offers two programs : general or technical. at the end of the third year of secondary school, students pass the exam of the baccalaureate, which allows once it is successful to pursue graduate studies in universities and institutes. education is officially compulsory for children between the ages of six and 15. in 2008, the illiteracy rate for people over 10 was 22. 3 %, 15. 6 % for men and 29. 0 % for women. the province with the lowest rate of illiteracy was algiers province at 11