happen only if the photon has an energy corresponding with the exact energy difference between said states. consider two states of the hydrogen atom : state,, and state,, and by quantum theory, state 1 has a fixed energy of, and state 2 has a fixed energy of. now, what would happen if an electron in state 1 were to move to state 2? for this to happen, the electron would need to gain an energy of exactly. if the electron receives energy that is less than or greater than this value, it cannot jump from state 1 to state 2. now, suppose we irradiate the atom with a broad - spectrum of light. photons that reach the atom that have an energy of exactly will be absorbed by the electron in state 1, and that electron will jump to state 2. however, photons that are greater or lower in energy cannot be absorbed by the electron, because the electron can jump only to one of the orbitals, it cannot jump to a state between orbitals. the result is that only photons of a specific frequency will be absorbed by the atom. this creates a line in the spectrum, known as an absorption line, which corresponds to the energy difference between states 1 and 2. the atomic orbital model thus predicts line spectra, which are observed experimentally. this is one of the main validations of the atomic orbital model. the atomic orbital model is nevertheless an approximation to the full quantum theory, which only recognizes many electron states. the predictions of line spectra are qualitatively useful but are not quantitatively accurate for atoms and ions other than those containing only one electron. see also atomic electron configuration table wiswesser ' s rule condensed matter physics electron configuration energy level hund ' s rules molecular orbital quantum chemistry quantum chemistry computer programs solid - state physics wave function collapse references external links 3d representation of hydrogenic orbitals the orbitron, a visualization of all common and uncommon atomic orbitals, from 1s to 7g grand table still images of many orbitals atomic physics chemical bonding electron states quantum chemistry articles containing video clips