, descended from levi but not from aaron — assisted the levitical priests of the family of aaron in the care of the tabernacle ; later of the temple. the gospel of luke records that both zechariah and elizabeth and therefore their son john the baptist were descendants of aaron. family tree historicity in religious traditions jewish rabbinic literature the older prophets and prophetical writers beheld in their priests the representatives of a religious form inferior to the prophetic truth ; men without the spirit of god and lacking the will - power requisite to resist the multitude in its idolatrous proclivities. thus aaron, the first priest, ranks below moses : he is his mouthpiece, and the executor of the will of god revealed through moses, although it is pointed out that it is said fifteen times in the torah that " the lord spoke to moses and aaron. " under the influence of the priesthood that shaped the destinies of the nation under persian rule, a different ideal of the priest was formed, according to malachi 2 : 4 - 7, and the prevailing tendency was to place aaron on a footing equal with moses. " at times aaron, and at other times moses, is mentioned first in scripture — this is to show that they were of equal rank, " says the mekhilta of rabbi ishmael, which strongly implies this when introducing in its record of renowned men the glowing description of aaron ' s ministration. in fulfillment of the promise of peaceful life, symbolized by the pouring of oil upon his head, aaron ' s death, as described in the aggadah, was of a wonderful tranquility. accompanied by moses, his brother, and by eleazar, his son, aaron went to the summit of mount hor, where the rock suddenly opened before him and a beautiful cave lit by a lamp presented itself to his view. moses said, " take off thy priestly raiment and place it upon thy son eleazar! " said moses ; " and then follow me. " aaron did as commanded ; and they entered the cave, where was prepared a bed around which angels stood. " go lie down upon thy bed, my brother, " moses continued ; and aaron obeyed without a murmur. then his soul departed as if by a kiss from god. the cave closed behind moses as he left ; and he went down the hill with eleazar, with garments rent, and crying : " alas, aaron, my brother! thou, the pillar of