alpha ( uppercase, lowercase ;,, or ) is the first letter of the greek alphabet. in the system of greek numerals, it has a value of one. alpha is derived from the phoenician letter aleph, which is the west semitic word for " ox ". letters that arose from alpha include the latin letter a and the cyrillic letter а. uses greek in ancient greek, alpha was pronounced and could be either phonemically long ( [ aː ] ) or short ( [ a ] ). where there is ambiguity, long and short alpha are sometimes written with a macron and breve today :. = " a time " = " tongue " in modern greek, vowel length has been lost, and all instances of alpha simply represent the open front unrounded vowel. in the polytonic orthography of greek, alpha, like other vowel letters, can occur with several diacritic marks : any of three accent symbols ( ), and either of two breathing marks ( ), as well as combinations of these. it can also combine with the iota subscript ( ). greek grammar in the attic – ionic dialect of ancient greek, long alpha fronted to ( eta ). in ionic, the shift took place in all positions. in attic, the shift did not take place after epsilon, iota, and rho ( ; ). in doric and aeolic, long alpha is preserved in all positions. doric, aeolic, attic – ionic, " country " doric, aeolic – attic, ionic, " report " privative a is the ancient greek prefix or, added to words to negate them. it originates from the proto - indo - european * ( syllabic nasal ) and is cognate with english un -. copulative a is the greek prefix or. it comes from proto - indo - european *. mathematics and science the letter alpha represents various concepts in physics and chemistry, including alpha radiation, angular acceleration, alpha particles, alpha carbon and strength of electromagnetic interaction ( as fine - structure constant ). alpha also stands for thermal expansion coefficient of a compound in physical chemistry. it is also commonly used in mathematics in algebraic solutions representing quantities such as angles. furthermore, in mathematics, the letter alpha is used to denote the area underneath a normal curve in statistics to denote significance level when proving null and alternative hypotheses. in ethology, it is used to name the dominant individual in a group of animals. in aerodynamics,