##awi ). hejazi arabic ( 6 million speakers ), spoken in hejaz, western saudi arabia saharan arabic spoken in some parts of algeria, niger and mali baharna arabic ( 800, 000 speakers ), spoken by bahrani shiʻah in bahrain and qatif, the dialect exhibits many big differences from gulf arabic. it is also spoken to a lesser extent in oman. judeo - arabic dialects – these are the dialects spoken by the jews that had lived or continue to live in the arab world. as jewish migration to israel took hold, the language did not thrive and is now considered endangered. so - called qəltu arabic. chadian arabic, spoken in chad, sudan, some parts of south sudan, central african republic, niger, nigeria, cameroon central asian arabic, spoken in uzbekistan, tajikistan and afghanistan by around 8, 000 people. tajiki arabic is highly endangered. shirvani arabic, spoken in azerbaijan and dagestan until the 1930s, now extinct. phonology history of the 29 proto - semitic consonants, only one has been lost :, which merged with, while became ( see semitic languages ). various other consonants have changed their sound too, but have remained distinct. an original lenited to, and – consistently attested in pre - islamic greek transcription of arabic languages – became palatalized to or by the time of the quran and,, or after early muslim conquests and in msa ( see arabic phonology # local variations for more detail ). an original voiceless alveolar lateral fricative became. its emphatic counterpart was considered by arabs to be the most unusual sound in arabic ( hence the classical arabic ' s appellation or " language of the " ). for most modern dialects, it has become an emphatic stop with loss of the laterality or with complete loss of any pharyngealization or velarization,. the classical pronunciation of pharyngealization still occurs in the mehri language, and the similar sound without velarization,, exists in other modern south arabian languages. other changes may also have happened. classical arabic pronunciation is not thoroughly recorded and different reconstructions of the sound system of proto - semitic propose different phonetic values. one example is the emphatic consonants, which are pharyngealized in modern pronunciations but may have been velarized in the eighth century and glottalized in proto - semitic. reduction of and between vowels occurs in a number of circumstances and is