athens ( 1837 ), national and kapodistrian university of athens ( 1837 ), agricultural university of athens ( 1920 ), athens university of economics and business ( 1920 ), panteion university of social and political sciences ( 1927 ), university of piraeus ( 1938 ), harokopio university of athens ( 1990 ), school of pedagogical and technological education ( 2002 ), university of west attica ( 2018 ). there are also several other private colleges, as they called formally in greece, as the establishment of private universities is prohibited by the constitution. many of them are accredited by a foreign state or university such as the american college of greece and the athens campus of the university of indianapolis. culture archaeological hub and museums the city is a world centre of archaeological research. alongside national academic institutions, such as the athens university and the archaeological society, it is home to multiple archaeological museums, taking in the national archaeological museum, the cycladic museum, the epigraphic museum, the byzantine & christian museum, as well as museums at the ancient agora, acropolis, kerameikos, and the kerameikos archaeological museum. the city is also the setting for the demokritos laboratory for archaeometry, alongside regional and national archaeological authorities forming part of the greek department of culture. athens hosts 17 foreign archaeological institutes which promote and facilitate research by scholars from their home countries. as a result, athens has more than a dozen archaeological libraries and three specialized archaeological laboratories, and is the venue of several hundred specialized lectures, conferences and seminars, as well as dozens of archaeological exhibitions each year. at any given time, hundreds of international scholars and researchers in all disciplines of archaeology are to be found in the city. athens ' most important museums include : the national archaeological museum, the largest archaeological museum in the country, and one of the most important internationally, as it contains a vast collection of antiquities. its artefacts cover a period of more than 5, 000 years, from late neolithic age to roman greece ; the benaki museum with its several branches for each of its collections including ancient, byzantine, ottoman - era, chinese art and beyond ; the byzantine and christian museum, one of the most important museums of byzantine art ; the national art gallery, the nation ' s eponymous leading gallery, which reopened in 2021 after renovation ; the national museum of contemporary art, which opened in 2000 in a former brewery building ; the numismatic museum, housing a major collection of ancient and modern coins ; the museum of