as a philosophical specialty or research area. from 2002 to 2012, over 60 colleges and universities accepted grants from the charitable foundation of bb & t corporation that required teaching rand ' s ideas or works ; in some cases, the grants were controversial or even rejected because of the requirement to teach about rand. in a 2010 essay for the cato institute, huemer argued very few people find rand ' s ideas convincing, especially her ethics. he attributed the attention she receives to her being a " compelling writer ", especially as a novelist. in 2012, the pennsylvania state university press agreed to take over publication of the journal of ayn rand studies, and the university of pittsburgh press launched an " ayn rand society philosophical studies " series based on the society ' s proceedings. the fall 2012 update to the entry about rand in the stanford encyclopedia of philosophy said that " only a few professional philosophers have taken her work seriously ". that same year, political scientist alan wolfe dismissed rand as a " nonperson " among academics, an attitude that writer ben murnane later described as " the traditional academic view " of rand. in a 2018 article for aeon, philosopher skye c. cleary wrote : " philosophers love to hate ayn rand. it ' s trendy to scoff at any mention of her. " however, cleary said that because many people take rand ' s ideas seriously, philosophers " need to treat the ayn rand phenomenon seriously " and provide refutations rather than ignoring her. in 2020, media critic eric burns said, " rand is surely the most engaging philosopher of my lifetime ", but " nobody in the academe pays any attention to her, neither as an author nor a philosopher ". that same year, the editor of a collection of critical essays about rand said academics who disapproved of her ideas had long held " a stubborn resolve to ignore or ridicule " her work, but he believed more were engaging with her work in recent years. legacy popular interest with over 37 million copies sold, rand ' s books continue to be read widely. a survey conducted for the library of congress and the book - of - the - month club in 1991 asked club members to name the most influential book in their lives. rand ' s atlas shrugged was the second most popular choice, after the bible. although rand ' s influence has been greatest in the united states, there has been international interest in her work. rand ' s contemporary admirers included fellow novelists, like ira levin, kay nolte smith and l