of the founding fathers with an almost religious reverence. the death of his son willie in february 1862 may have caused him to look toward religion for solace. after willie ' s death, he questioned the divine necessity of the war ' s severity. he wrote at this time that god " could have either saved or destroyed the union without a human contest. yet the contest began. and having begun, he could give the final victory to either side any day. yet the contest proceeds. " lincoln did believe in an all - powerful god that shaped events and by 1865 was expressing that belief in major speeches. by the end of the war, he increasingly appealed to the almighty for solace and to explain events, writing on april 4, 1864, to a newspaper editor in kentucky : this spirituality can best be seen in his second inaugural address, considered by some scholars as the greatest such address in american history, and by lincoln himself as his own greatest speech, or one of them at the very least. lincoln explains therein that the cause, purpose, and result of the war was god ' s will. lincoln ' s frequent use of religious imagery and language toward the end of his life may have reflected his own personal beliefs or might have been a device to reach his audiences, who were mostly evangelical protestants. on the day lincoln was assassinated, he reportedly told his wife he desired to visit the holy land. health lincoln is believed to have had depression, smallpox, and malaria. he took blue mass pills, which contained mercury, to treat constipation. it is unknown to what extent this may have resulted in mercury poisoning. several claims have been made that lincoln ' s health was declining before the assassination. these are often based on photographs of lincoln appearing to show weight loss and muscle wasting. it is also suspected that he might have had a rare genetic disease such as marfan syndrome or multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2b. legacy republican values lincoln ' s redefinition of republican values has been stressed by historians such as john patrick diggins, harry v. jaffa, vernon burton, eric foner, and herman j. belz. lincoln called the declaration of independence — which emphasized freedom and equality for all — the " sheet anchor " of republicanism beginning in the 1850s. he did this at a time when the constitution, which " tolerated slavery ", was the focus of most political discourse. diggins notes, " lincoln presented americans a theory of history that offers a profound contribution to the theory and destiny of republicanism