great family had its abbe. the class did not survive the revolution ; but the courtesy title of abbe, having long lost all connection in people ' s minds with any special ecclesiastical function, remained as a convenient general term applicable to any clergyman. eastern christian in the eastern orthodox and eastern catholic churches, the abbot is referred to as the hegumen. the superior of a monastery of nuns is called the hegumene. the title of archimandrite ( literally the head of the enclosure ) used to mean something similar. in the east, the principle set forth in the corpus juris civilis still applies, whereby most abbots are immediately subject to the local bishop. those monasteries which enjoy the status of being stauropegic will be subject only to a primate or his synod of bishops and not the local bishop. honorary and other uses of the title although currently in the western church the title " abbot " is given only abbots of monasteries, the title archimandrite is given to " monastics " ( i. e., celibate ) priests in the east, even when not attached to a monastery, as an honor for service, similar to the title of monsignor in the latin church of the catholic church. in the eastern orthodox church, only monastics are permitted to be elevated to the rank of archimandrite. married priests are elevated to the parallel rank of archpriest or protopresbyter. normally there are no celibate priests who are not monastics in the orthodox church, with the exception of married priests who have been widowed. since the time of catherine ii the ranks of abbot and archimandrite have been given as honorary titles in the russian church, and may be given to any monastic, even if he does not in fact serve as the superior of a monastery. in greek practice the title or function of abbot corresponds to a person who serves as the head of a monastery, although the title of the archimandrite may be given to any celibate priest who could serve as the head of a monastery. in the german evangelical church, the german title of abt ( abbot ) is sometimes bestowed, like the french abbe, as an honorary distinction, and survives to designate the heads of some monasteries converted at the reformation into collegiate foundations. of these the most noteworthy is loccum abbey in hanover, founded as a cistercian house in 1163 by count wilbrand of hallermund, and reformed in 1593. the abbot of loccum,