who had close blood relations with pompey the great and lucius cornelius sulla. germanicus, agrippina ' s father, was a very popular general and politician. his mother was antonia minor and his father was the general nero claudius drusus. he was antonia minor ' s first child. germanicus had two younger siblings ; a sister, named livilla, and a brother, the future emperor claudius. claudius was agrippina ' s paternal uncle and third husband. antonia minor was a daughter to octavia the younger by her second marriage to triumvir mark antony, and octavia was the second eldest sister and full - blooded sister of augustus. germanicus ' father, drusus the elder, was the second son of the empress livia drusilla by her first marriage to praetor tiberius nero, and was the emperor tiberius ' s younger brother and augustus ' s stepson. in the year 9, augustus ordered and forced tiberius to adopt germanicus, who happened to be tiberius ' s nephew, as his son and heir. germanicus was a favourite of his great - uncle augustus, who hoped that germanicus would succeed his uncle tiberius, who was augustus ' s own adopted son and heir. this in turn meant that tiberius was also agrippina ' s adoptive grandfather in addition to her paternal great - uncle. birth and early life agrippina was born on 6 november in ad 15, or possibly 14, at oppidum ubiorum, a roman outpost on the rhine river located in present - day cologne, germany. a second sister julia drusilla was born on 16 september 16, also in germany. as a small child, agrippina travelled with her parents throughout germany ( 15 – 16 ) until she and her siblings ( apart from caligula ) returned to rome to live with and be raised by their paternal grandmother antonia. her parents departed for syria in 18 to conduct official duties, and, according to tacitus, the third and youngest sister was born en route on the island of lesbos, namely julia livilla, probably on march 18. in october of ad 19, germanicus died suddenly in antioch ( modern antakya, turkey ). germanicus ' death caused much public grief in rome, and gave rise to rumours that he had been murdered by gnaeus calpurnius piso and munatia plancina on the orders of tiberius, as his widow agrippina the elder returned to rome with his ashes. agrippina the younger was thereafter supervised