periodontal disease. despite the flattering physiques portrayed on tomb walls, the overweight mummies of many of the upper class show the effects of a life of overindulgence. adult life expectancy was about 35 for men and 30 for women, but reaching adulthood was difficult as about one - third of the population died in infancy. ancient egyptian physicians were renowned in the ancient near east for their healing skills, and some, such as imhotep, remained famous long after their deaths. herodotus remarked that there was a high degree of specialization among egyptian physicians, with some treating only the head or the stomach, while others were eye - doctors and dentists. training of physicians took place at the per ankh or " house of life " institution, most notably those headquartered in per - bastet during the new kingdom and at abydos and sais in the late period. medical papyri show empirical knowledge of anatomy, injuries, and practical treatments. wounds were treated by bandaging with raw meat, white linen, sutures, nets, pads, and swabs soaked with honey to prevent infection, while opium, thyme, and belladona were used to relieve pain. the earliest records of burn treatment describe burn dressings that use the milk from mothers of male babies. prayers were made to the goddess isis. moldy bread, honey, and copper salts were also used to prevent infection from dirt in burns. garlic and onions were used regularly to promote good health and were thought to relieve asthma symptoms. ancient egyptian surgeons stitched wounds, set broken bones, and amputated diseased limbs, but they recognized that some injuries were so serious that they could only make the patient comfortable until death occurred. maritime technology early egyptians knew how to assemble planks of wood into a ship hull and had mastered advanced forms of shipbuilding as early as 3000bc. the archaeological institute of america reports that the oldest planked ships known are the abydos boats. a group of 14 discovered ships in abydos were constructed of wooden planks " sewn " together. discovered by egyptologist david o ' connor of new york university, woven straps were found to have been used to lash the planks together, and reeds or grass stuffed between the planks helped to seal the seams. because the ships are all buried together and near a mortuary belonging to pharaoh khasekhemwy, originally they were all thought to have belonged to him, but one of the 14 ships dates to 3000bc, and the