converted guthrum was required to leave wessex and return to east anglia. consequently, in 879 the viking army left chippenham and made its way to cirencester. the formal treaty of alfred and guthrum, preserved in old english in corpus christi college, cambridge ( manuscript 383 ), and in a latin compilation known as quadripartitus, was negotiated later, perhaps in 879 or 880, when king ceolwulf ii of mercia was deposed. that treaty divided up the kingdom of mercia. by its terms, the boundary between alfred ' s and guthrum ' s kingdoms was to run up the river thames to the river lea, follow the lea to its source ( near luton ), from there extend in a straight line to bedford, and from bedford follow the river ouse to watling street. alfred succeeded to ceolwulf ' s kingdom consisting of western mercia, and guthrum incorporated the eastern part of mercia into an enlarged kingdom of east anglia ( henceforward known as the danelaw ). by terms of the treaty, moreover, alfred was to have control over the mercian city of london and its mints — at least for the time being. in 825, the anglo - saxon chronicle had recorded that the people of essex, sussex, kent and surrey surrendered to egbert, alfred ' s grandfather. from then until the arrival of the great heathen army, essex had formed part of wessex. after the foundation of danelaw, it appears that some of essex would have been ceded to the danes, but how much is not clear. 880s with the signing of the treaty of alfred and guthrum, an event most commonly held to have taken place around 880 when guthrum ' s people began settling east anglia, guthrum was neutralised as a threat. the viking army, which had stayed at fulham during the winter of 878 – 879, sailed for ghent and was active on the continent from 879 to 892. there were local raids on the coast of wessex throughout the 880s. in 882, alfred fought a small sea battle against four danish ships. two of the ships were destroyed, and the others surrendered. this was one of four sea battles recorded in the anglo - saxon chronicle, three of which involved alfred. similar small skirmishes with independent viking raiders would have occurred for much of the period as they had for decades. in 883, pope marinus exempted the saxon quarter in rome from taxation