the nineteenth century, jews were described as " scurrilous, stupid, and tight - fisted ", but after the jewish emancipation and the rise of jews to the middle - or upper - class in europe were portrayed as " clever, devious, and manipulative financiers out to dominate [ world finances ] ". leon poliakov asserts that economic antisemitism is not a distinct form of antisemitism, but merely a manifestation of theologic antisemitism ( because, without the theological causes of economic antisemitism, there would be no economic antisemitism ). in opposition to this view, derek penslar contends that in the modern era, economic antisemitism is " distinct and nearly constant " but theological antisemitism is " often subdued ". an academic study by francesco d ' acunto, marcel prokopczuk, and michael weber showed that people who live in areas of germany that contain the most brutal history of antisemitic persecution are more likely to be distrustful of finance in general. therefore, they tended to invest less money in the stock market and make poor financial decisions. the study concluded, " that the persecution of minorities reduces not only the long - term wealth of the persecuted but of the persecutors as well. " racial antisemitism racial antisemitism is prejudice against jews as a racial / ethnic group, rather than judaism as a religion. racial antisemitism is the idea that the jews are a distinct and inferior race compared to their host nations. in the late 19th century and early 20th century, it gained mainstream acceptance as part of the eugenics movement, which categorized non - europeans as inferior. it more specifically claimed that northern europeans, or " aryans ", were superior. racial antisemites saw the jews as part of a semitic race and emphasized their non - european origins and culture. they saw jews as beyond redemption even if they converted to the majority religion. racial antisemitism replaced the hatred of judaism with the hatred of jews as a group. in the context of the industrial revolution, following the jewish emancipation, jews rapidly urbanized and experienced a period of greater social mobility. with the decreasing role of religion in public life tempering religious antisemitism, a combination of growing nationalism, the rise of eugenics, and resentment at the socio - economic success of the jews led to the newer, and more virulent, racist antisemitism. according to