and as a result of the expansionist policies of the russian empire in the caucasus, many muslim nations and groups in that region, mainly circassians, tatars, azeris, lezgis, chechens and several turkic groups left their homelands and settled in anatolia. as the ottoman empire further shrank in the balkan regions and then fragmented during the balkan wars, much of the non - christian populations of its former possessions, mainly balkan muslims ( bosniaks, albanians, turks, muslim bulgarians and greek muslims such as the vallahades from greek macedonia ), were resettled in various parts of anatolia, mostly in formerly christian villages throughout anatolia. a continuous reverse migration occurred since the early 19th century, when greeks from anatolia, constantinople and pontus area migrated toward the newly independent kingdom of greece, and also towards the united states, the southern part of the russian empire, latin america, and the rest of europe. following the russo - persian treaty of turkmenchay ( 1828 ) and the incorporation of eastern armenia into the russian empire, another migration involved the large armenian population of anatolia, which recorded significant migration rates from western armenia ( eastern anatolia ) toward the russian empire, especially toward its newly established armenian provinces. anatolia remained multi - ethnic until the early 20th century ( see the rise of nationalism under the ottoman empire ). during world war i, the armenian genocide, the greek genocide ( especially in pontus ), and the assyrian genocide almost entirely removed the ancient indigenous communities of armenian, greek, and assyrian populations in anatolia and surrounding regions. following the greco - turkish war of 1919 – 1922, most remaining ethnic anatolian greeks were forced out during the 1923 population exchange between greece and turkey. of the remainder, most have left turkey since then, leaving fewer than 5, 000 greeks in anatolia today. geology anatolia ' s terrain is structurally complex. a central massif composed of uplifted blocks and downfolded troughs, covered by recent deposits and giving the appearance of a plateau with rough terrain, is wedged between two folded mountain ranges that converge in the east. true lowland is confined to a few narrow coastal strips along the aegean, mediterranean, and the black sea coasts. flat or gently sloping land is rare and largely confined to the deltas of the kızıl river, the coastal plains of cukurova and the valley floors of the gediz river and the buyuk menderes river as well as some interior high plains in anatolia, mainly around lake tuz ( salt lake ) and the ko