" competitive market rationality " to the point where the scope for private enterprise is all - encompassing and " leaves no space for state action whatsoever ". on the state anarcho - capitalists oppose the state and seek to privatize any useful service the government presently provides, such as education, infrastructure, or the enforcement of law. they see capitalism and the " free market " as the basis for a free and prosperous society. murray rothbard stated that the difference between free - market capitalism and state capitalism is the difference between " peaceful, voluntary exchange " and a " collusive partnership " between business and government that " uses coercion to subvert the free market ". rothbard argued that all government services, including defense, are inefficient because they lack a market - based pricing mechanism regulated by " the voluntary decisions of consumers purchasing services that fulfill their highest - priority needs " and by investors seeking the most profitable enterprises to invest in. maverick edwards of the liberty university describes anarcho - capitalism as a political, social, and economic theory that places markets as the central " governing body " and where government no longer " grants " rights to its citizenry. non - aggression principle writer stanisław wojtowicz says that although anarcho - capitalists are against centralized states, they hold that all people would naturally share and agree to a specific moral theory based on the non - aggression principle. while the friedmanian formulation of anarcho - capitalism is robust to the presence of violence and in fact, assumes some degree of violence will occur, anarcho - capitalism as formulated by rothbard and others holds strongly to the central libertarian nonaggression axiom, sometimes non - aggression principle. rothbard wrote : rothbard ' s defense of the self - ownership principle stems from what he believed to be his falsification of all other alternatives, namely that either a group of people can own another group of people, or that no single person has full ownership over one ' s self. rothbard dismisses these two cases on the basis that they cannot result in a universal ethic, i. e. a just natural law that can govern all people, independent of place and time. the only alternative that remains to rothbard is self - ownership which he believes is both axiomatic and universal. in general, the non - aggression axiom is described by rothbard as a prohibition against the initiation of force, or the threat of force, against persons ( in which he includes direct violence, assault and murder )