to the other captives. athena was infuriated by this violation of her protection. although agamemnon attempted to placate her anger with sacrifices, athena sent a storm at cape kaphereos to destroy almost the entire greek fleet and scatter all of the surviving ships across the aegean. glaukopis in homer ' s epic works, athena ' s most common epithet is ( ), which usually is translated as, " bright - eyed " or " with gleaming eyes ". the word is a combination of (, meaning " gleaming, silvery ", and later, " bluish - green " or " gray " ) and (, " eye, face " ). the word (, " little owl " ) is from the same root, presumably according to some, because of the bird ' s own distinctive eyes. athena was associated with the owl from very early on ; in archaic images, she is frequently depicted with an owl perched on her hand. through its association with athena, the owl evolved into the national mascot of the athenians and eventually became a symbol of wisdom. tritogeneia in the iliad ( 4. 514 ), the odyssey ( 3. 378 ), the homeric hymns, and in hesiod ' s theogony, athena is also given the curious epithet tritogeneia ( τριτογενεια ), whose significance remains unclear. it could mean various things, including " triton - born ", perhaps indicating that the homonymous sea - deity was her parent according to some early myths. one myth relates the foster father relationship of this triton towards the half - orphan athena, whom he raised alongside his own daughter pallas. kerenyi suggests that " tritogeneia did not mean that she came into the world on any particular river or lake, but that she was born of the water itself ; for the name triton seems to be associated with water generally. " in ovid ' s metamorphoses, athena is occasionally referred to as " tritonia ". another possible meaning may be " triple - born " or " third - born ", which may refer to a triad or to her status as the third daughter of zeus or the fact she was born from metis, zeus, and herself ; various legends list her as being the first child after artemis and apollo, though other legends identify her as zeus ' first child. several scholars have suggested a connection to the rigvedic god trita, who