##s have gone online in the world wide web to spread their message. anarchists have found it easier to create websites because of distributional and other difficulties, hosting electronic libraries and other portals. anarchists were also involved in developing various software that are available for free. the way these hacktivists work to develop and distribute resembles the anarchist ideals, especially when it comes to preserving users ' privacy from state surveillance. anarchists organize themselves to squat and reclaim public spaces. during important events such as protests and when spaces are being occupied, they are often called temporary autonomous zones ( taz ), spaces where art, poetry, and surrealism are blended to display the anarchist ideal. as seen by anarchists, squatting is a way to regain urban space from the capitalist market, serving pragmatical needs and also being an exemplary direct action. acquiring space enables anarchists to experiment with their ideas and build social bonds. adding up these tactics while having in mind that not all anarchists share the same attitudes towards them, along with various forms of protesting at highly symbolic events, make up a carnivalesque atmosphere that is part of contemporary anarchist vividity. key issues as anarchism is a philosophy that embodies many diverse attitudes, tendencies, and schools of thought ; disagreement over questions of values, ideology, and tactics is common. its diversity has led to widely different uses of identical terms among different anarchist traditions which has created a number of definitional concerns in anarchist theory. the compatibility of capitalism, nationalism, and religion with anarchism is widely disputed, and anarchism enjoys complex relationships with ideologies such as communism, collectivism, marxism, and trade unionism. anarchists may be motivated by humanism, divine authority, enlightened self - interest, veganism, or any number of alternative ethical doctrines. phenomena such as civilisation, technology ( e. g. within anarcho - primitivism ), and the democratic process may be sharply criticised within some anarchist tendencies and simultaneously lauded in others. the state objection to the state and its institutions is a sine qua non of anarchism. anarchists consider the state as a tool of domination and believe it to be illegitimate regardless of its political tendencies. instead of people being able to control the aspects of their life, major decisions are taken by a small elite. authority ultimately rests solely on power, regardless of whether that power is open or transparent, as it still has the ability to coerce people. another anarchist argument against states is that the people constituting