very bad movie ". a year later, hitchcock wrote and directed the ring ; although the screenplay was credited solely to his name, elliot stannard assisted him with the writing. the ring garnered positive reviews ; the bioscope critic called it " the most magnificent british film ever made ". when he returned to england, hitchcock was one of the early members of the london film society, newly formed in 1925. through the society, he became fascinated by the work by soviet filmmakers : dziga vertov, lev kuleshov, sergei eisenstein and vsevolod pudovkin. he would also socialise with fellow english filmmakers ivor montagu, adrian brunel and walter mycroft. hitchcock established himself as a name director with his first thriller, the lodger : a story of the london fog ( 1927 ). the film concerns the hunt for a jack the ripper - style serial killer who, wearing a black cloak and carrying a black bag, is murdering young blonde women in london, and only on tuesdays. a landlady suspects that her lodger is the killer, but he turns out to be innocent. hitchcock had wanted the leading man to be guilty, or for the film at least to end ambiguously, but the star was ivor novello, a matinee idol, and the " star system " meant that novello could not be the villain. hitchcock told truffaut : " you have to clearly spell it out in big letters : ' he is innocent. ' " ( he had the same problem years later with cary grant in suspicion ( 1941 ). ) released in january 1927, the lodger was a commercial and critical success in the uk. upon its release, the trade journal bioscope wrote : " it is possible that this film is the finest british production ever made ". hitchcock told truffaut that the film was the first of his to be influenced by german expressionism : " in truth, you might almost say that the lodger was my first picture. " he made his first cameo appearance in the film, sitting in a newsroom. marriage on 2 december 1926, hitchcock married the english screenwriter alma reville at the brompton oratory in south kensington. the couple honeymooned in paris, lake como and st. moritz, before returning to london to live in a leased flat on the top two floors of 153 cromwell road, kensington. reville, who was born just hours after hitchcock, converted from protestantism to catholicism, apparently at the insistence of