science fiction, remarked : it is generally held that a key factor in the delay was " damnable sfwa politics " reflecting the concerns of damon knight, the founder of the sfwa, who abhorred van vogt ' s style and politics and thoroughly demolished his literary reputation in the 1950s. harlan ellison was more explicit in 1999 introduction to futures past : the best short fiction of a. e. van vogt : in 1996, van vogt received a special award from the world science fiction convention " for six decades of golden age science fiction ". that same year, the science fiction and fantasy hall of fame inducted him in its inaugural class of two deceased and two living persons, along with writer jack williamson ( also living ) and editors hugo gernsback and john w. campbell. the works of van vogt were translated into french by the surrealist boris vian ( the world of null - a as le monde des a in 1958 ), and van vogt ' s works were " viewed as great literature of the surrealist school ". in addition, slan was published in french, translated by jean rosenthal, under the title a la poursuite des slans, as part of the paperback series ' editions j ' ai lu : romans - texte integral ' in 1973. this edition also listing the following works by van vogt as having been published in french as part of this series : le monde des a, la faune de l ' espace, les joueurs du a, l ' empire de l ' atome, le sorcier de linn, les armureries d ' isher, les fabricants d ' armes, and le livre de ptath. works novels and novellas special works published as books planets for sale by e. mayne hull ( 1954 ). a fix - up of five stories by hull, originally published 1942 to 1946. certain later editions ( from 1965 ) credit both authors. the enchanted village ( 1979 ). a 25 - page chapbook of a short story originally published in 1950. slan hunter by kevin j. anderson ( 2007 ). a sequel to slan, based an unfinished draft by van vogt. null - a continuum by john c. wright ( 2008 ). an authorized continuation of the null - a series which ignored the events of null - a three. collections out of the unknown ( 1948 ), with edna mayne hull masters of time ( 1950 ) ( a. k. a. recruiting station ) [ also