acted as a melting pot for philosophies of pythagoreanism, platonism, stoicism and gnosticism which formed the origin of alchemy ' s character. an important example of alchemy ' s roots in greek philosophy, originated by empedocles and developed by aristotle, was that all things in the universe were formed from only four elements : earth, air, water, and fire. according to aristotle, each element had a sphere to which it belonged and to which it would return if left undisturbed. the four elements of the greek were mostly qualitative aspects of matter, not quantitative, as our modern elements are ; "... true alchemy never regarded earth, air, water, and fire as corporeal or chemical substances in the present - day sense of the word. the four elements are simply the primary, and most general, qualities by means of which the amorphous and purely quantitative substance of all bodies first reveals itself in differentiated form. " later alchemists extensively developed the mystical aspects of this concept. alchemy coexisted alongside emerging christianity. lactantius believed hermes trismegistus had prophesied its birth. st augustine later affirmed this in the 4th & 5th centuries, but also condemned trismegistus for idolatry. examples of pagan, christian, and jewish alchemists can be found during this period. most of the greco - roman alchemists preceding zosimos are known only by pseudonyms, such as moses, isis, cleopatra, democritus, and ostanes. others authors such as komarios, and chymes, we only know through fragments of text. after ad 400, greek alchemical writers occupied themselves solely in commenting on the works of these predecessors. by the middle of the 7th century alchemy was almost an entirely mystical discipline. it was at that time that khalid ibn yazid sparked its migration from alexandria to the islamic world, facilitating the translation and preservation of greek alchemical texts in the 8th and 9th centuries. byzantium greek alchemy was preserved in medieval byzantine manuscripts after the fall of egypt, and yet historians have only relatively recently begun to pay attention to the study and development of greek alchemy in the byzantine period. india the 2nd millennium bc text vedas describe a connection between eternal life and gold. a considerable knowledge of metallurgy has been exhibited in a third - century ad text called arthashastra which provides ingredients