" irreversible ", and the work added to the system is not entirely recoverable in the form of work. if the walls of a system are not adiabatic, and energy is transferred in as heat, entropy is transferred into the system with the heat. such a process is neither adiabatic nor isentropic, having, and according to the second law of thermodynamics. naturally occurring adiabatic processes are irreversible ( entropy is produced ). the transfer of energy as work into an adiabatically isolated system can be imagined as being of two idealized extreme kinds. in one such kind, no entropy is produced within the system ( no friction, viscous dissipation, etc. ), and the work is only pressure - volume work ( denoted by ). in nature, this ideal kind occurs only approximately because it demands an infinitely slow process and no sources of dissipation. the other extreme kind of work is isochoric work ( ), for which energy is added as work solely through friction or viscous dissipation within the system. a stirrer that transfers energy to a viscous fluid of an adiabatically isolated system with rigid walls, without phase change, will cause a rise in temperature of the fluid, but that work is not recoverable. isochoric work is irreversible. the second law of thermodynamics observes that a natural process, of transfer of energy as work, always consists at least of isochoric work and often both of these extreme kinds of work. every natural process, adiabatic or not, is irreversible, with, as friction or viscosity are always present to some extent. adiabatic compression and expansion the adiabatic compression of a gas causes a rise in temperature of the gas. adiabatic expansion against pressure, or a spring, causes a drop in temperature. in contrast, free expansion is an isothermal process for an ideal gas. adiabatic compression occurs when the pressure of a gas is increased by work done on it by its surroundings, e. g., a piston compressing a gas contained within a cylinder and raising the temperature where in many practical situations heat conduction through walls can be slow compared with the compression time. this finds practical application in diesel engines which rely on the lack of heat dissipation during the compression stroke to elevate the fuel vapor temperature sufficiently to ignite it. adiabatic compression occurs in the earth