. it must develop these newer formations to support its international requirements and effectively operate in mountainous and other rugged terrain, but it must do this without affecting the mechanised capability that is needed to confront azerbaijan ' s conventional forces. since the fall of the soviet union, armenia has followed a policy of developing its armed forces into a professional, well trained, and mobile military. in 2000, the centre for international studies and research reported that at that time the armenian army had the strongest combat capability of the three south caucasus countries ' armies ( the other two being georgia and azerbaijan ). csto secretary, nikolay bordyuzha, came to a similar conclusion after collective military drills in 2007 when he stated that, " the armenian army is the most efficient one in the post - soviet space ". this was echoed more recently by igor korotchenko, a member of the public council, russian ministry of defense, in a march 2011 interview with voice of russia radio. the army is functionally divided into active and reserve forces. their main functions include deterrence, defense, peace support and crisis management, humanitarian and rescue missions, as well as social functions within armenian society. the active forces mainly have peacekeeping and defensive duties, and are further divided into deployment forces, immediate reaction, and main defense forces. the reserve forces consists of enhancement forces, territorial defense forces, and training grounds. they deal with planning and reservist preparation, armaments and equipment storage, training of formations for active forces rotation or increase in personnel. during peacetime the army maintains permanent combat and mobilization readiness. they become part of multinational military formations in compliance with international treaties armenia is a signatory to, participate in the preparation of the population, the national economy and the maintenance of wartime reserves and the infrastructure of the country for defense. in times of crisis the army ' s main tasks relate to participation in operations countering terrorist activities and defense of strategic facilities ( such as nuclear power plants and major industrial facilities ), assisting the security forces in proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, illegal armaments traffic and international terrorism. in case of low - and medium - intensity military conflict the active forces that are part of the army participate in carrying out the initial tasks for the defense of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the country. in case of a high intensity conflict the land forces, together with the air force, air defense and border guards, form the defense group of the armenian armed forces aiming at countering aggression and protect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the country. experiments in developing small arms have been