their support and encouragement. works filmography warhol attended the 1962 premiere of the static composition by la monte young called trio for strings and subsequently created his famous series of static films. filmmaker jonas mekas, who accompanied warhol to the trio premiere, claims warhol ' s static films were directly inspired by the performance. between 1963 and 1968, he made more than 60 films, plus some 500 short black - and - white " screen test " portraits of factory visitors. one of his most famous films, sleep, monitors poet john giorno sleeping for six hours. the 35 - minute film blow job is one continuous shot of the face of deveren bookwalter supposedly receiving oral sex from filmmaker willard maas, although the camera never tilts down to see this. another, empire ( 1964 ), consists of eight hours of footage of the empire state building in new york city at dusk. the film eat consists of a man eating a mushroom for 45 minutes. batman dracula is a 1964 film that was produced and directed by warhol, without the permission of dc comics. it was screened only at his art exhibits. a fan of the batman series, warhol ' s movie was an " homage " to the series, and is considered the first appearance of a blatantly campy batman. the film was until recently thought to have been lost, until scenes from the picture were shown at some length in the 2006 documentary jack smith and the destruction of atlantis. warhol ' s 1965 film vinyl is an adaptation of anthony burgess ' popular dystopian novel a clockwork orange. others record improvised encounters between factory regulars such as brigid berlin, viva, edie sedgwick, candy darling, holly woodlawn, ondine, nico and jackie curtis. the underground artist jack smith appears in the film camp. his most popular and critically successful film was chelsea girls ( 1966 ). the film was highly innovative in that it consisted of two 16 mm - films being projected simultaneously, with two different stories being shown in tandem. from the projection booth, the sound would be raised for one film to elucidate that " story " while it was lowered for the other. the multiplication of images evoked warhol ' s seminal silk - screen works of the early 1960s. warhol was a fan of filmmaker radley metzger film work and commented that metzger ' s film, the lickerish quartet, was " an outrageously kinky masterpiece ". blue movie — a film in which warhol superstar viva makes love in