, the us postal service issued an 18 - cent stamp commemorating warhol. designed by richard sheaff of scottsdale, arizona, the stamp was unveiled at a ceremony at the andy warhol museum and features warhol ' s painting " self - portrait, 1964 ". in march 2011, a chrome statue of andy warhol and his polaroid camera was revealed at union square in new york city. a crater on mercury was named after warhol in 2012. in 2013, to honor the 85th anniversary of warhol ' s birthday, the andy warhol museum and earthcam launched a collaborative project titled figment, a live feed of warhol ' s gravesite. warhol foundation warhol ' s will dictated that his entire estate — with the exception of a few modest legacies to family members — would go to create a foundation dedicated to the " advancement of the visual arts ". warhol had so many possessions that it took sotheby ' s nine days to auction his estate after his death ; the auction grossed more than us $ 20 million. in 1987, in accordance with warhol ' s will, the andy warhol foundation for the visual arts began. the foundation serves as the estate of andy warhol, but also has a mission " to foster innovative artistic expression and the creative process " and is " focused primarily on supporting work of a challenging and often experimental nature ". the artists rights society is the us copyright representative for the andy warhol foundation for the visual arts for all warhol works with the exception of warhol film stills. the us copyright representative for warhol film stills is the warhol museum in pittsburgh. additionally, the andy warhol foundation for the visual arts has agreements in place for its image archive. all digital images of warhol are exclusively managed by corbis, while all transparency images of warhol are managed by art resource. the andy warhol foundation released its 20th anniversary annual report as a three - volume set in 2007 : vol. i, 1987 – 2007 ; vol. ii, grants & exhibitions ; and vol. iii, legacy program. the foundation is in the process of compiling its catalogue raisonne of paintings and sculptures in volumes covering blocks of years of the artist ' s career. volumes iv and v were released in 2019. the subsequent volumes are still in the process of being compiled. the foundation remains one of the largest grant - giving organizations for the visual arts in the us. many of warhol ' s works and possessions are on display at the andy warhol museum in pittsburgh.