courier was as follows : the contents of the urn are also problematic ; they were variously reported to be the remains of a stump, bail or the outer casing of a ball, but in 1998 darnley ' s 82 - year - old daughter - in - law said they were the remains of her mother - in - law ' s veil, casting a further layer of doubt on the matter. however, during the tour of australia in 2006 / 7, the mcc official accompanying the urn said the veil legend had been discounted, and it was now " 95 % certain " that the urn contains the ashes of a cricket bail. speaking on channel nine tv on 25 november 2006, he said x - rays of the urn had shown the pedestal and handles were cracked, and repair work had to be carried out. the urn is made of terracotta and is about tall and may originally have been a perfume jar. a label containing a six - line verse is pasted on the urn. this is the fourth verse of a song - lyric published in the melbourne punch on 1 february 1883 : when ivo goes back with the urn, the urn ; studds, steel, read and tylecote return, return ; the welkin will ring loud, the great crowd will feel proud, seeing barlow and bates with the urn, the urn ; and the rest coming home with the urn. in february 1883, just before the disputed fourth test, a velvet bag made by mrs ann fletcher, the daughter of joseph hines clarke and marion wright, both of dublin, was given to bligh to contain the urn. during darnley ' s lifetime there was little public knowledge of the urn, and no record of a published photograph exists before 1921. the illustrated london news published this photo in january 1921 ( shown above ). when darnley died in 1927 his widow presented the urn to the marylebone cricket club and that was the key event in establishing the urn as the physical embodiment of the legendary ashes. mcc first displayed the urn in the long room at lord ' s and since 1953 in the mcc cricket museum at the ground. mcc ' s wish for it to be seen by as wide a range of cricket enthusiasts as possible has led to its being mistaken for an official trophy. it is in fact a private memento, and for this reason it is never awarded to either england or australia, but is kept permanently in the mcc cricket museum where it can be seen