pass, the windmill is rebuilt and another windmill is constructed, which makes the farm a good amount of income. however, the ideals that snowball discussed, including stalls with electric lighting, heating, and running water, are forgotten, with napoleon advocating that the happiest animals live simple lives. snowball has been forgotten, alongside boxer, with " the exception of the few who knew him ". many of the animals who participated in the rebellion are dead or old. mr. jones is also now known to be dead, having " died in an inebriates ' home in another part of the country ". the pigs start to resemble humans, as they walk upright, carry whips, drink alcohol, and wear clothes. the seven commandments are abridged to just one phrase : " all animals are equal, but some animals are more equal than others ". the maxim " four legs good, two legs bad " is similarly changed to " four legs good, two legs better ". other changes include the hoof and horn flag being replaced with a plain green banner and old major ' s skull, which was previously put on display, being reburied. napoleon holds a dinner party for the pigs and local farmers, with whom he celebrates a new alliance. he abolishes the practice of the revolutionary traditions and restores the name " the manor farm ". the men and pigs start playing cards, flattering and praising each other while cheating at the game. both napoleon and mr. pilkington, one of the farmers, play the ace of spades at the same time and both sides begin fighting loudly over who cheated first. when the animals outside look at the pigs and men, they can no longer distinguish between the two. characters pigs old major – an aged prize middle white boar provides the inspiration that fuels the rebellion. he is also called willingdon beauty when showing. he is an allegorical combination of karl marx, one of the creators of communism, and vladimir lenin, the communist leader of the russian revolution and the early soviet nation, in that he draws up the principles of the revolution. his skull being put on revered public display recalls lenin, whose embalmed body was left in indefinite repose. by the end of the book, the skull is reburied. napoleon – " a large, rather fierce - looking berkshire boar, the only berkshire on the farm, not much of a talker, but with a reputation for getting his own way ". an allegory of joseph stalin, napoleon is the