##ry copper in the western slopes of the andes has been generated by hydrothermal fluids ( mostly water ) during the cooling of plutons or volcanic systems. the porphyry mineralization further benefited from the dry climate that let them largely out of the disturbing actions of meteoric water. the dry climate in the central western andes has also led to the creation of extensive saltpeter deposits which were extensively mined until the invention of synthetic nitrates. yet another result of the dry climate are the salars of atacama and uyuni, the former being the largest source of lithium today and the latter the world ' s largest reserve of the element. early mesozoic and neogene plutonism in bolivia ' s cordillera central created the bolivian tin belt as well as the famous, now mostly depleted, deposits of cerro rico de potosi. history the andes mountains, initially inhabited by hunter - gatherers, experienced the development of agriculture and the rise of politically centralised civilizations, which culminated in the establishment of the century - long inca empire. this all changed in the 16th century, when the spanish conquistadors colonized the mountains in advance of the mining economy. in the tide of anti - imperialist nationalism, the andes became the scene of a series of independence wars in the 19th century when rebel forces swept through the region to overthrow spanish colonial rule. since then, many former spanish territories have become five independent andean states. climate and hydrology the climate in the andes varies greatly depending on latitude, altitude, and proximity to the sea. temperature, atmospheric pressure and humidity decrease in higher elevations. the southern section is rainy and cool, the central section is dry. the northern andes are typically rainy and warm, with an average temperature of in colombia. the climate is known to change drastically in rather short distances. rainforests exist just kilometres away from the snow - covered peak of cotopaxi. the mountains have a large effect on the temperatures of nearby areas. the snow line depends on the location. it is at between in the tropical ecuadorian, colombian, venezuelan, and northern peruvian andes, rising to in the drier mountains of southern peru south to northern chile south to about 30°s before descending to on aconcagua at 32°s, at 40°s, at 50°s, and only in tierra del fuego at 55°s ; from 50°s, several of the larger glaciers descend to sea level. the andes of chile and argentina can be divided into two climatic and glacio