dealt hood a massive defeat at the battle of nashville, effectively destroying hood ' s army. leaving atlanta, and his base of supplies, sherman ' s army marched, with no destination set, laying waste to about 20 percent of the farms in georgia in his " march to the sea ". he reached the atlantic ocean at savannah, georgia, in december 1864. sherman ' s army was followed by thousands of freed slaves ; there were no major battles along the march. sherman turned north through south carolina and north carolina to approach the confederate virginia lines from the south, increasing the pressure on lee ' s army. the waterloo of the confederacy lee ' s army, thinned by desertion and casualties, was now much smaller than grant ' s. one last confederate attempt to break the union hold on petersburg failed at the decisive battle of five forks ( sometimes called " the waterloo of the confederacy " ) on april 1. this meant that the union now controlled the entire perimeter surrounding richmond - petersburg, completely cutting it off from the confederacy. realizing that the capital was now lost, lee ' s army and the confederate government were forced to evacuate. the confederate capital fell on april 2 – 3, to the union xxv corps, composed of black troops. the remaining confederate units fled west after a defeat at sayler ' s creek on april 6. end of the war initially, lee did not intend to surrender but planned to regroup at appomattox station, where supplies were to be waiting and then continue the war. grant chased lee and got in front of him so that when lee ' s army reached the village of appomattox court house, they were surrounded. after an initial battle, lee decided that the fight was now hopeless, and surrendered his army of northern virginia to grant on april 9, 1865, during a conference at the mclean house in an untraditional gesture and as a sign of grant ' s respect and anticipation of peacefully restoring confederate states to the union, lee was permitted to keep his sword and his horse, traveller. his men were paroled, and a chain of confederate surrenders began. on april 14, 1865, president lincoln was shot by john wilkes booth, a confederate sympathizer. lincoln died early the next morning. lincoln ' s vice president, andrew johnson, was unharmed, because his would - be assassin, george atzerodt, lost his nerve, so johnson was immediately sworn in as president. meanwhile, confederate forces across the south surrendered as news of lee ' s surrender reached them. on april 26