argon is chemically inert under most conditions and forms no confirmed stable compounds at room temperature. although argon is a noble gas, it can form some compounds under various extreme conditions. argon fluorohydride ( harf ), a compound of argon with fluorine and hydrogen that is stable below, has been demonstrated. although the neutral ground - state chemical compounds of argon are presently limited to harf, argon can form clathrates with water when atoms of argon are trapped in a lattice of water molecules. ions, such as, and excited - state complexes, such as arf, have been demonstrated. theoretical calculation predicts several more argon compounds that should be stable but have not yet been synthesized. history argon ( greek, neuter singular form of meaning " lazy " or " inactive " ) is named in reference to its chemical inactivity. this chemical property of this first noble gas to be discovered impressed the namers. an unreactive gas was suspected to be a component of air by henry cavendish in 1785. argon was first isolated from air in 1894 by lord rayleigh and sir william ramsay at university college london by removing oxygen, carbon dioxide, water, and nitrogen from a sample of clean air. they first accomplished this by replicating an experiment of henry cavendish ' s. they trapped a mixture of atmospheric air with additional oxygen in a test - tube ( a ) upside - down over a large quantity of dilute alkali solution ( b ), which in cavendish ' s original experiment was potassium hydroxide, and conveyed a current through wires insulated by u - shaped glass tubes ( cc ) which sealed around the platinum wire electrodes, leaving the ends of the wires ( dd ) exposed to the gas and insulated from the alkali solution. the arc was powered by a battery of five grove cells and a ruhmkorff coil of medium size. the alkali absorbed the oxides of nitrogen produced by the arc and also carbon dioxide. they operated the arc until no more reduction of volume of the gas could be seen for at least an hour or two and the spectral lines of nitrogen disappeared when the gas was examined. the remaining oxygen was reacted with alkaline pyrogallate to leave behind an apparently non - reactive gas which they called argon. before isolating the gas, they had determined that nitrogen produced from chemical compounds was 0. 5 % lighter than nitrogen from the atmosphere. the difference was slight, but it was important enough to attract their attention