##osier ) should turn inwards instead of outwards, indicating that their jurisdiction was limited to their own house. the adoption of certain episcopal insignia ( pontificalia ) by abbots was followed by an encroachment on episcopal functions, which had to be specially but ineffectually guarded against by the lateran council, ad 1123. in the east abbots, if in priests ' orders and with the consent of the bishop, were, as we have seen, permitted by the second nicene council, ad 787, to confer the tonsure and admit to the order of reader ; but gradually abbots, in the west also, advanced higher claims, until we find them in ad 1489 permitted by innocent iv to confer both the subdiaconate and diaconate. of course, they always and everywhere had the power of admitting their own monks and vesting them with the religious habit. the power of the abbot was paternal but absolute, limited, however, by the canon law. one of the main goals of monasticism was the purgation of self and selfishness, and obedience was seen as a path to that perfection. it was sacred duty to execute the abbot ' s orders, and even to act without his orders was sometimes considered a transgression. examples among the egyptian monks of this submission to the commands of the superiors, exalted into a virtue by those who regarded the entire crushing of the individual will as a goal, are detailed by cassian and others, e. g. a monk watering a dry stick, day after day, for months, or endeavoring to remove a huge rock immensely exceeding his powers. appointments when a vacancy occurred, the bishop of the diocese chose the abbot out of the monks of the monastery, but the right of election was transferred by jurisdiction to the monks themselves, reserving to the bishop the confirmation of the election and the benediction of the new abbot. in abbeys exempt from the archbishop ' s diocesan jurisdiction, the confirmation and benediction had to be conferred by the pope in person, the house being taxed with the expenses of the new abbot ' s journey to rome. it was necessary that an abbot should be at least 30 years of age, of legitimate birth, a monk of the house for at least 10 years, unless it furnished no suitable candidate, when a liberty was allowed of electing from another monastery, well instructed himself, and able to instruct others, one also who had learned how to command by having practised obedience. in some