##oc but not without imposing opportunity costs and legal fees on employers. case law there have been some notable cases regarding the ada. for example, a major hotel room marketer ( hotels. com ) with their business presence on the internet was sued because their customers with disabilities could not reserve hotel rooms through their website without substantial extra efforts that persons without disabilities were not required to perform. such lawsuits represent a major potential expansion of the ada in that they ( known as " bricks vs. clicks " ), seek to expand the ada ' s authority to cyberspace, where entities may not have actual physical facilities that are required to comply. green v. state of california green v. state of california, no. s137770 ( cal. august 23, 2007 ) was a case in which the majority of the supreme court in california was faced with deciding whether the employee suing the state is required to prove they are able to perform " essential " job duties, regardless of whether or not there was " reasonable accommodation ", or if the employer must prove the person suing was unable to do so. the court ruled the burden was on the employee, not the employer, and reversed a disputed decision by the courts. plaintiff attorney david greenberg brought forth considerations of the concept that, even in the state of california, employers do not have to employ a worker who is unable to perform " essential job functions " with " reasonable accommodation ". forcing employers to do so " would defy logic and establish a poor public policy in employment matters. " national federation of the blind v. target corporation national federation of the blind v. target corp. was a case where a major retailer, target corp., was sued because their web designers failed to design its website to enable persons with low or no vision to use it. board of trustees of the university of alabama v. garrett board of trustees of the university of alabama v. garrett was a united states supreme court case about congress ' s enforcement powers under the fourteenth amendment to the constitution. it decided that title i of the americans with disabilities act was unconstitutional insofar as it allowed private citizens to sue states for money damages. barden v. the city of sacramento barden v. the city of sacramento, filed in march 1999, claimed that the city of sacramento failed to comply with the ada when, while making public street improvements, it did not bring its sidewalks into compliance with the ada. certain issues were resolved in federal court. one issue, whether sidewalks were covered by the ada, was appealed to the 9th circuit court