undertook preaching and other tasks of the ministry but were not allowed to accept charge parishes. in the liturgy they followed the ambrosian rite. various monasteries were founded on these lines, but without any formal bond between them. in 1441 pope eugene iv merged them into one congregation called " congregatio sancti ambrosii ad nemus ", made the original house the main seat, and laid down a system of government whereby a general chapter met every three years, elected the priors who stayed in office till the next chapter. there was a rector, or superior general, who was assisted by two " visitors ". saint charles borromeo, archbishop of milan, successfully reformed their discipline, grown lax, in 1579. in 1589 pope sixtus v united to the congregation of st ambrose the monasteries of a group known as the " brothers of the apostles of the poor life " ( or " apostolini " or " brothers of st. barnabas " ), whose houses were in the province of genoa and in the march of ancona. this was an order that had been founded by giovanni scarpa at the end of the 15th century. the union was confirmed by pope paul v in 1606, at which time the congregation added the name of st. barnabas to its title, adopted new constitutions, divided its houses into four provinces, two of them, st clement ' s and st pancras ' s, being in rome. published works have survived from the pen of ascanio tasca and michele mulozzani, each of whom was superior - general, and of zaccaria visconti, francesco - maria guazzi and paolo fabulotti. although various ambrosians were given the title of blessed in recognition of their holiness : antonio gonzaga of mantua, filippo of fermo, and gerardo of monza, the order was eventually dissolved by pope innocent x in 1650. nuns the nuns of st ambrose ( ambrosian sisters ) wore a habit of the same colour as the brothers of st ambrose, conformed to their constitutions, and followed the ambrosian rite, but were independent in government. pope sixtus iv gave the nuns canonical status in 1474. their one monastery was on the top of monte varese, near lago maggiore, on the spot where their foundress, the blessed catarina morigia ( or catherine of palanza ), had first led a solitary life. other early nuns were the blessed juliana