1779, so the british initiated their southern strategy, which aimed to mobilize loyalist support in the region and occupy american patriot - controlled territory north to chesapeake bay. the campaign was initially successful, with the british capture of charleston being a major setback for southern patriots ; however, a franco - american force surrounded the british army at yorktown and their surrender in october 1781 effectively ended fighting in america. early engagements on april 14, 1775, sir thomas gage, commander - in - chief, north america since 1763 and also governor of massachusetts from 1774, received orders to take action against the patriots. he decided to destroy militia ordnance stored at concord, massachusetts, and capture john hancock and samuel adams, who were considered the principal instigators of the rebellion. the operation was to begin around midnight on april 19, in the hope of completing it before the american patriots could respond. however, paul revere learned of the plan and notified captain parker, commander of the concord militia, who prepared to resist the attempted seizure. the first action of the war, commonly referred to as the shot heard round the world, was a brief skirmish at lexington, followed by the full - scale battles of lexington and concord. british troops suffered around 300 casualties before withdrawing to boston, which was then besieged by the militia. in may 1775, 4, 500 british reinforcements arrived under generals william howe, john burgoyne, and sir henry clinton. on june 17, they seized the charlestown peninsula at the battle of bunker hill, a frontal assault in which they suffered over 1, 000 casualties. dismayed at the costly attack which had gained them little, gage appealed to london for a larger army to suppress the revolt, but instead was replaced as commander by howe. on june 14, 1775, congress took control of american patriot forces outside boston, and congressional leader john adams nominated george washington as commander - in - chief of the newly formed continental army. washington previously commanded virginia militia regiments in the french and indian war, and on june 16, john hancock officially proclaimed him " general and commander in chief of the army of the united colonies. " he assumed command on july 3, preferring to fortify dorchester heights outside boston rather than assaulting it. in early march 1776, colonel henry knox arrived with heavy artillery acquired in the capture of fort ticonderoga. under cover of darkness, on march 5, washington placed these on dorchester heights, from where they could fire on the town and british ships in boston harbor. fearing another bunker hill, howe evacuated the city on march 17 without