sadikov being removed from power. azerbaijan periodically holds drills to improve interaction and combat coordination between the servicemen during operations, its military personnel ’ s combat readiness, as well as to develop commanders ' military decision - making and unit management skills. land forces the azerbaijani land forces number 85, 000 strong, according to uk advanced research and assessment group estimates. the 2, 500 men of the national guard are also part of the ground forces. in addition, there are 300, 000 former service personnel who have had military service in the last 15 years. other paramilitary agencies consist of interior ministry internal troops of azerbaijan, 12, 000 strong, and the land component of the state border service, 5, 000 strong. azerbaijan has signed numerous contracts to strengthen its armed forces and to train its military with turkey ' s assistance. over the last 15 years, azerbaijan has been preparing its military for possible action against armenian forces in nagorno - karabakh. the land forces consist of five army corps : 1st army corps also known as barda army corps ( concentrated near ganja ) 2nd army corps also known as beylagan army corps ( concentrated against armenian occupied territories and part is deployed on the azerbaijan - iranian border ) 3rd army corps also known as shamkir army corps ( concentrated against armenian occupied territories ) 4th army corps also known as baku army corps ( covers absheron peninsula and the coast ) nakhchivan separate combined arms army ( deployed in nakhchivan ) the land forces include 23 motor rifle brigades, an artillery brigade, a multiple rocket launcher brigade, and an anti - tank regiment. the iiss military balance reported in 2007 that the land forces had an estimated 40 sa - 13 gopher, sa - 4 ganef, and sa - 8 gecko air defence missile systems, with ' 80 – 240 eff. ' to support the army in the battlefield. ( iiss 2007, p. 157 ) the peacekeeping forces of azerbaijan are mostly supplied from the land forces, though the internal troops of azerbaijan do also supply some. as of march 2011, 94 peacekeepers were deployed with the international security assistance force ( isaf ) in afghanistan. in the past, it also actively supported the peacekeeping operation in kosovo and iraq. the azerbaijani peacekeeping unit deployed in iraq consisted of 14 officers, 16 sergeants and 120 privates, a total of 150 troops. the unit secured the hydroelectric power station and reservoir in al haditha from august 2003. in december 2008, azerbaijan withdrew the unit from iraq. reportedly in december 2014 azerbaijan created the separate combined arms