or enclosed. her household later on gave her a modest tomb in misenum. nero would have his mother ' s death on his conscience. he felt so guilty he would sometimes have nightmares about his mother. he even saw his mother ' s ghost and got persian magicians to ask her for forgiveness. years before she died, agrippina had visited astrologers to ask about her son ' s future. the astrologers had rather accurately predicted that her son would become emperor and would kill her. she replied, " let him kill me, provided he becomes emperor, " according to tacitus. agrippina ' s alleged victims 47 passienus crispus : agrippina ' s 2nd husband, poisoned ( suet. ). 48 messalina : because of the competition for the emperor ' s successor 49 lollia paulina : as she was a rival for claudius ' hand in marriage as proposed by the freedman callistus ( tac. & dio ). lucius silanus : betrothed to octavia, claudius ' daughter before his marriage of agrippina. he committed suicide on their wedding day. sosibius : britannicus ' tutor, executed for plotting against nero. calpurnia : banished ( tac. ) and / or executed ( dio ) because claudius had commented on her beauty. 53 statilius taurus : forced to commit suicide because agrippina wanted his gardens ( tac. ). 54 claudius : her husband, poisoned ( tac., sen., juv., suet., dio ). domitia lepida : mother of messalina, executed ( tac. ). marcus junius silanus : a potential rival to nero, poisoned ( pliny, tac., dio ). cadius rufus : executed on the charge of extortion. tiberius claudius narcissus : because of the competition with agrippina. legacy and cultural references memoirs agrippina left memoirs of her life and the misfortunes of her family, which tacitus used when writing his annals, but they have not survived. in music and literature she is remembered in de mulieribus claris, a collection of biographies of historical and mythological women by the florentine author giovanni boccaccio, composed in 136162. it is notable as the first collection devoted exclusively to biographies of women in western literature. octavia, a roman tragedy written during the flavian period ag