##aica. however, the description pliny gives of the salt does not conform to the properties of ammonium chloride. according to herbert hoover ' s commentary in his english translation of georgius agricola ' s de re metallica, it is likely to have been common sea salt. in any case, that salt ultimately gave ammonia and ammonium compounds their name. natural occurrence ammonia is a chemical found in trace quantities on earth, being produced from nitrogenous animal and vegetable matter. ammonia and ammonium salts are also found in small quantities in rainwater, whereas ammonium chloride ( sal ammoniac ), and ammonium sulfate are found in volcanic districts. crystals of ammonium bicarbonate have been found in patagonia guano. ammonia is also found throughout the solar system on mars, jupiter, saturn, uranus, neptune, and pluto, among other places : on smaller, icy bodies such as pluto, ammonia can act as a geologically important antifreeze, as a mixture of water and ammonia can have a melting point as low as if the ammonia concentration is high enough and thus allow such bodies to retain internal oceans and active geology at a far lower temperature than would be possible with water alone. substances containing ammonia, or those that are similar to it, are called ammoniacal. properties ammonia is a colourless gas with a characteristically pungent smell. it is lighter than air, its density being 0. 589 times that of air. it is easily liquefied due to the strong hydrogen bonding between molecules. gaseous ammonia turns to a colourless liquid, which boils at, and freezes to colourless crystals at. little data is available at very high temperatures and pressures, such as supercritical conditions. solid the crystal symmetry is cubic, pearson symbol cp16, space group p213 no. 198, lattice constant 0. 5125 nm. liquid liquid ammonia possesses strong ionising powers reflecting its high ε of 22. liquid ammonia has a very high standard enthalpy change of vapourization ( 23. 35 kj / mol ; for comparison, water ' s is 40. 65 kj / mol, methane 8. 19 kj / mol and phosphine 14. 6 kj / mol ) and can therefore be used in laboratories in uninsulated vessels without additional refrigeration. see liquid ammonia as a solvent. solvent properties ammonia readily dissolves in water. in an aqueous solution, it can be expelled by boiling. the aqueous solution