##° apart, or wider angles up to 90°, from the bow is a strong mooring for facing into strong winds. to set anchors in this way, first one anchor is set in the normal fashion. then, taking in on the first cable as the boat is motored into the wind and letting slack while drifting back, a second anchor is set approximately a half - scope away from the first on a line perpendicular to the wind. after this second anchor is set, the scope on the first is taken up until the vessel is lying between the two anchors and the load is taken equally on each cable. this moor also to some degree limits the range of a vessel ' s swing to a narrower oval. care should be taken that other vessels do not swing down on the boat due to the limited swing range. bow and stern ( not to be mistaken with the bahamian moor, below. ) in the bow and stern technique, an anchor is set off each the bow and the stern, which can severely limit a vessel ' s swing range and also align it to steady wind, current or wave conditions. one method of accomplishing this moor is to set a bow anchor normally, then drop back to the limit of the bow cable ( or to double the desired scope, e. g. 8 : 1 if the eventual scope should be 4 : 1, 10 : 1 if the eventual scope should be 5 : 1, etc. ) to lower a stern anchor. by taking up on the bow cable the stern anchor can be set. after both anchors are set, tension is taken up on both cables to limit the swing or to align the vessel. bahamian moor similar to the above, a bahamian moor is used to sharply limit the swing range of a vessel, but allows it to swing to a current. one of the primary characteristics of this technique is the use of a swivel as follows : the first anchor is set normally, and the vessel drops back to the limit of anchor cable. a second anchor is attached to the end of the anchor cable, and is dropped and set. a swivel is attached to the middle of the anchor cable, and the vessel connected to that. the vessel now swings in the middle of two anchors, which is acceptable in strong reversing currents, but a wind perpendicular to the current may break out the anchors, as they are not aligned for this load. backing an anchor also known as tandem anchoring, in this technique two anchors are deployed in line with each other, on the same rode