" absalom ' s end was beset with terrors. when he was caught in the branches of the oak - tree, he was about to sever his hair with a sword stroke, but suddenly he saw hell yawning beneath him, and he preferred to hang in the tree to throwing himself into the abyss alive. absalom ' s crime was, indeed, of a nature to deserve the supreme torture, for which reason he is one of the few jews who have no portion in the world to come. popular legend states that the eye of absalom was of immense size, signifying his insatiable greed. indeed, " hell itself opened beneath him, and david, his father, cried seven times : ' my son! my son! ' while bewailing his death, praying at the same time for his redemption from the seventh section of gehenna, to which he was consigned ". according to r. meir, " he has no share in the life to come ". and according to the description of gehenna by joshua ben levi, who, like dante, wandered through hell under the guidance of the angel duma, absalom still dwells there, having the rebellious heathen in charge ; and when the angels with their fiery rods run also against absalom to smite him like the rest, a heavenly voice says : " spare absalom, the son of david, my servant. " " that the extreme penalties of hell were thus averted from him, was on account of david ' s eightfold repetition of his son ' s name in his lament over him. besides, david ' s intercession had the effect of re - attaching absalom ' s severed head to his body. at his death absalom was childless, for all his children, his three sons and his daughter, died before him, as a punishment for his having set fire to a field of grain belonging to joab. " art and literature poetry the love of king david and fair bethsabe, with the tragedie of absalon, a play by george peele, written before 1594 and published in 1599. absalom and achitophel ( 1681 ), a satirical poem by john dryden, uses the biblical story as an allegory for contemporary politics. " absalom " by nathaniel parker willis ( 1806 – 1867 ). " absaloms abfall " by rainer maria rilke ( " the fall