, replacing the internet explorer components of the internet browser with cef ( chromium embedded framework ) to give users an improved web browsing experience closer to that of chrome. version 11 of aol desktop, was a total rewrite but maintained a similar user interface to the previous 9. 8. x series of releases. in 2017, a new paid version called aol desktop gold was released, available for $ 4. 99 per month after trial. it replaced the previous free version. after the shutdown of aim in 2017, aol ' s original chat rooms continued to be accessible through aol desktop gold, and some rooms remained active during peak hours. that chat system was shut down on december 15, 2020. in addition to aol desktop, the company also offered a browser toolbar mozilla plug - in, aol toolbar, for several web browsers that provided quick access to aol services. the toolbar was available from 2007 until 2018. criticism in its earlier incarnation as a " walled garden " community and service provider, aol received criticism for its community policies, terms of service, and customer service. prior to 2006, aol was known for its direct mailing of cd - roms and 3. 5 - inch floppy disks containing its software. the disks were distributed in large numbers ; at one point, half of the cds manufactured worldwide had aol logos on them. the marketing tactic was criticized for its environmental cost, and aol cds were recognized as pc worlds most annoying tech product. community leaders aol used a system of volunteers to moderate its chat rooms, forums and user communities. the program dated back to aol ' s early days, when it charged by the hour for access and one of its highest billing services was chat. aol provided free access to community leaders in exchange for moderating the chat rooms, and this effectively made chat very cheap to operate, and more lucrative than aol ' s other services of the era. there were 33, 000 community leaders in 1996. all community leaders received hours of training and underwent a probationary period. while most community leaders moderated chat rooms, some ran aol communities and controlled their layout and design, with as much as 90 % of aol ' s content being created or overseen by community managers until 1996. by 1996, isps were beginning to charge flat rates for unlimited access, which they could do at a profit because they only provided internet access. even though aol would lose money with such a pricing scheme, it was forced by