miss jane marple is a fictional character in agatha christie ' s crime novels and short stories. miss marple lives in the village of st. mary mead and acts as an amateur consulting detective. often characterized as an elderly spinster, she is one of christie ' s best - known characters and has been portrayed numerous times on screen. her first appearance was in a short story published in the royal magazine in december 1927, " the tuesday night club ", which later became the first chapter of the thirteen problems ( 1932 ). her first appearance in a full - length novel was in the murder at the vicarage in 1930, and her last appearance was in sleeping murder in 1976. origins the character of miss marple is based on friends of christie ' s step grandmother / aunt ( margaret miller, nee west ). christie attributed the inspiration for the character to multiple sources, stating that miss marple was " the sort of old lady who would have been rather like some of my step grandmother ' s ealing cronies – old ladies whom i have met in so many villages where i have gone to stay as a girl ". christie also used material from her fictional creation, spinster caroline sheppard, who appeared in the murder of roger ackroyd. when michael morton adapted the novel for the stage, he replaced the character of caroline with a young girl. this change saddened christie and she determined to give old maids a voice : miss marple was born. christie is popularly believed to have taken the name from marple railway station, through which she passed, though a letter she wrote to a fan appears to prove that the name was inspired by a visit to a sale at marple hall in the same town, near her sister margaret watts ' home at abney hall. character the character of jane marple in the first miss marple book, the murder at the vicarage, is quite different from how she appears in later books. this early version of miss marple is a gleeful gossip and not an especially nice woman. the residents of st. mary mead like her but are often tired of her nosy nature and the fact she seems to expect the worst of everyone. in later books, she becomes a kinder person. miss marple solves difficult crimes thanks to her shrewd intelligence, and st. mary mead, over her lifetime, has given her seemingly infinite examples of the negative side of human nature. crimes always remind her of a previous incident, although acquaintances may be bored by analogies that often lead her to a