chains with opposite charges form important electrostatic contacts called salt bridges that maintain structures within a single protein or between interfacing proteins. many proteins bind metal into their structures specifically, and these interactions are commonly mediated by charged side chains such as aspartate, glutamate and histidine. the two negatively charged amino acids at neutral ph are aspartate ( asp, d ) and glutamate ( glu, e ). the anionic carboxylate groups behave as brønsted bases in most circumstances. enzymes in very low ph environments, like the aspartic protease pepsin in mammalian stomachs, may have catalytic aspartate or glutamate residues that act as brønsted acids. there are three amino acids with side chains that are cations at neutral ph : arginine ( arg, r ), lysine ( lys, k ) and histidine ( his, h ). arginine has a charged guanidino group and lysine a charged alkyl amino group, and are fully protonated at ph 7. histidine ' s imidazole group has a pka of 6. 0, and is only around 10 % protonated at neutral ph. because histidine is easily found in its basic and conjugate acid forms it often participates in catalytic proton transfers in enzyme reactions. polar uncharged side chains the polar, uncharged amino acids serine ( ser, s ), threonine ( thr, t ), asparagine ( asn, n ) and glutamine ( gln, q ) readily form hydrogen bonds with water and other amino acids. they do not ionize in normal conditions, a prominent exception being the catalytic serine in serine proteases. this is an example of severe perturbation, and is not characteristic of serine residues in general. threonine has two chiral centers, not only the l ( 2s ) chiral center at the α - carbon shared by all amino acids apart from achiral glycine, but also ( 3r ) at the β - carbon. the full stereochemical specification is ( 2s, 3r ) - l - threonine. hydrophobic side chains nonpolar amino acid interactions are the primary driving force behind the processes that fold proteins into their functional three dimensional structures. none of these amino acids ' side chains ionize easily, and therefore