hydroiodic acid ( hi ), hydrobromic acid ( hbr ), perchloric acid ( hclo4 ), nitric acid ( hno3 ) and sulfuric acid ( h2so4 ). in water each of these essentially ionizes 100 %. the stronger an acid is, the more easily it loses a proton, h +. two key factors that contribute to the ease of deprotonation are the polarity of the h — a bond and the size of atom a, which determines the strength of the h — a bond. acid strengths are also often discussed in terms of the stability of the conjugate base. stronger acids have a larger acid dissociation constant, ka and a lower pka than weaker acids. sulfonic acids, which are organic oxyacids, are a class of strong acids. a common example is toluenesulfonic acid ( tosylic acid ). unlike sulfuric acid itself, sulfonic acids can be solids. in fact, polystyrene functionalized into polystyrene sulfonate is a solid strongly acidic plastic that is filterable. superacids are acids stronger than 100 % sulfuric acid. examples of superacids are fluoroantimonic acid, magic acid and perchloric acid. superacids can permanently protonate water to give ionic, crystalline hydronium " salts ". they can also quantitatively stabilize carbocations. while ka measures the strength of an acid compound, the strength of an aqueous acid solution is measured by ph, which is an indication of the concentration of hydronium in the solution. the ph of a simple solution of an acid compound in water is determined by the dilution of the compound and the compound ' s ka. lewis acid strength in non - aqueous solutions lewis acids have been classified in the ecw model and it has been shown that there is no one order of acid strengths. the relative acceptor strength of lewis acids toward a series of bases, versus other lewis acids, can be illustrated by c - b plots. it has been shown that to define the order of lewis acid strength at least two properties must be considered. for pearson ' s qualitative hsab theory the two properties are hardness and strength while for drago ' s quantitative ecw model the two properties are electrostatic and covalent. chemical characteristics monoprotic acids monoprotic acids, also known as monobasic acids, are those acids that are able to donate one