salt ( 2002 ), starts at the point of divergence with timur turning his army away from europe, and the black death has killed 99 % of europe ' s population, instead of only a third. robinson explores world history from that point in ad 1405 ( 807 ah ) to about ad 2045 ( 1467 ah ). rather than following the great man theory of history, focusing on leaders, wars, and major events, robinson writes more about social history, similar to the annales school of history theory and marxist historiography, focusing on the lives of ordinary people living in their time and place. philip roth ' s novel, the plot against america ( 2004 ), looks at an america where franklin d. roosevelt is defeated in 1940 in his bid for a third term as president of the united states, and charles lindbergh is elected, leading to a us that features increasing fascism and anti - semitism. michael chabon, occasionally an author of speculative fiction, contributed to the genre with his novel the yiddish policemen ' s union ( 2007 ), which explores a world in which the state of israel was destroyed in its infancy and many of the world ' s jews instead live in a small strip of alaska set aside by the us government for jewish settlement. the story follows a jewish detective solving a murder case in the yiddish - speaking semi - autonomous city state of sitka. stylistically, chabon borrows heavily from the noir and detective fiction genres, while exploring social issues related to jewish history and culture. apart from the alternate history of the jews and israel, chabon also plays with other common tropes of alternate history fiction ; in the book, germany actually loses the war even harder than they did in reality, getting hit with a nuclear bomb instead of just simply losing a ground war ( subverting the common " what if germany won wwii? " trope ). contemporary alternate history in popular literature the late 1980s and the 1990s saw a boom in popular - fiction versions of alternate history, fueled by the emergence of the prolific alternate history author harry turtledove, as well as the development of the steampunk genre and two series of anthologies — the what might have been series edited by gregory benford and the alternate... series edited by mike resnick. this period also saw alternate history works by s. m. stirling, kim stanley robinson, harry harrison, howard waldrop, peter tieryas, and others. in 1986, a sixteen - part epic comic book series called captain confederacy began examining a