the trojan ally, the warrior goddess, the native latin, the warmongering celt, the proud sarmatian, the hedonistic and passionate thracian warrior queen, the subdued asian city, and the worthy roman foe. in renaissance europe, artists started to reevaluate and depict amazons based on christian ethics. queen elizabeth of england was associated with amazon warrior qualities ( the foremost ancient examples of feminism ) during her reign and was indeed depicted as such. though, as explained in divina virago by winfried schleiner, celeste t. wright has given a detailed account of the bad reputation amazons had in the renaissance. she notes that she has not found any elizabethans comparing the queen to an amazon and suggests that they might have hesitated to do so because of the association of amazons with enfranchisement of women, which was considered contemptible. elizabeth was present at a tournament celebrating the marriage of the earl of warwick and anne russell at westminster palace on 11 november 1565 involving male riders dressed as amazons. they accompanied the challengers carrying their heraldry. these riders wore crimson gowns, masks with long hair attached, and swords. peter paul rubens and jan brueghel depicted the battle of the amazons around 1598, a most dramatic baroque painting, followed by a painting of the rococo period by johann georg platzer, also titled battle of the amazons. in 19th - century european romanticism german artist anselm feuerbach occupied himself with the amazons as well. his paintings engendered all the aspirations of the romantics : their desire to transcend the boundaries of the ego and of the known world ; their interest in the occult in nature and in the soul ; their search for a national identity, and the ensuing search for the mythic origins of the germanic nation ; finally, their wish to escape the harsh realities of the present through immersion in an idealized past. archaeology speculation that the idea of amazons contains a core of reality is based on archaeological discoveries at kurgan burial sites in the steppes of southern ukraine and russia. the varied war weapons artifacts found in graves of numerous high - ranking scythian and sarmatian warrior women have led scholars to conclude that the amazonian legend has been inspired by the real world : about 20 % of the warrior graves on the lower don and lower volga contained women dressed for battle similar to how men dress. armed women accounted for up to 25 % of sarmatian military burials.