grew busier with research for the defense advanced research projects agency ( darpa ), he ended his musical career. in 1968, he met seymour papert and learned of the programming language logo, a dialect of lisp optimized for educational purposes. this led him to learn of the work of jean piaget, jerome bruner, lev vygotsky, and of constructionist learning, further influencing his professional orientation. in 1969, kay became a visiting researcher at the stanford artificial intelligence laboratory in anticipation of accepting a professorship at carnegie mellon university. instead, in 1970, he joined the xerox parc research staff in palo alto, california. through the decade, he developed prototypes of networked workstations using the programming language smalltalk. along with some colleagues at parc, kay is one of the fathers of the idea of object - oriented programming ( oop ), which he named. some original object - oriented concepts, including the use of the words ' object ' and ' class ', had been developed for simula 67 at the norwegian computing center. kay said : i ' m sorry that i long ago coined the term " objects " for this topic because it gets many people to focus on the lesser idea. the big idea is " messaging ". while at parc, kay conceived the dynabook concept, a key progenitor of laptop and tablet computers and the e - book. he is also the architect of the modern overlapping windowing graphical user interface ( gui ). because the dynabook was conceived as an educational platform, he is considered one of the first researchers into mobile learning ; many features of the dynabook concept have been adopted in the design of the one laptop per child educational platform, with which kay is actively involved. subsequent work from 1981 to 1984, kay was chief scientist at atari. in 1984, he became an apple fellow. after the closure of the apple advanced technology group in 1997, he was recruited by his friend bran ferren, head of research and development at disney, to join walt disney imagineering as a disney fellow. he remained there until ferren left to start applied minds inc with imagineer danny hillis, leading to the cessation of the fellows program. in 2001, kay founded viewpoints research institute, a nonprofit organization dedicated to children, learning, and advanced software development. for their first ten years, kay and his viewpoints group were based at applied minds in glendale, california, where he and ferren worked on various projects. kay served as