##mnospondyli † ( diverse late paleozoic and early mesozoic grade, some of which were large predators ) subclass lissamphibia ( all modern amphibians, including frogs, toads, salamanders, newts and caecilians ) salientia ( frogs, toads and relatives ) : early triassic to present — 7, 360 current species in 53 families. modern ( crown group ) salientians are described via the name anura. caudata ( salamanders, newts and relatives ) : late triassic to present — 764 current species in 9 families. modern ( crown group ) caudatans are described via the name urodela. gymnophiona ( caecilians and relatives ) : late triassic to present — 215 current species in 10 families. the name apoda is also sometimes used for caecilians. allocaudata † ( albanerpetontidae ) middle jurassic – early pleistocene these three subclasses do not include all extinct amphibians. other extinct amphibian groups include embolomeri ( late paleozoic large aquatic predators ), seymouriamorpha ( semiaquatic to terrestrial permian forms related to amniotes ), among others. names such as tetrapoda and stegocephalia encompass the entirety of amphibian - grade tetrapods, while reptiliomorpha or anthracosauria are variably used to describe extinct amphibians more closely related to amniotes than to lissamphibians. the actual number of species in each group depends on the taxonomic classification followed. the two most common systems are the classification adopted by the website amphibiaweb, university of california, berkeley, and the classification by herpetologist darrel frost and the american museum of natural history, available as the online reference database " amphibian species of the world ". the numbers of species cited above follows frost and the total number of known ( living ) amphibian species as of march 31, 2019, is exactly 8, 000, of which nearly 90 % are frogs. with the phylogenetic classification, the taxon labyrinthodontia has been discarded as it is a polyparaphyletic group without unique defining features apart from shared primitive characteristics. classification varies according to the preferred phylogeny of the author and whether they use a stem - based or a node - based classification. traditionally, amphibians as a class are defined as all