happy home ", which was first published in a 1790 book called a collection of sacred ballads : " amazing grace " came to be an emblem of a christian movement and a symbol of the us itself as the country was involved in a great political experiment, attempting to employ democracy as a means of government. shape - note singing communities, with all the members sitting around an open center, each song employing a different song leader, illustrated this in practice. simultaneously, the us began to expand westward into previously unexplored territory that was often wilderness. the " dangers, toils, and snares " of newton ' s lyrics had both literal and figurative meanings for americans. this became poignantly true during the most serious test of american cohesion in the u. s. civil war ( 1861 – 1865 ). " amazing grace ", set to " new britain ", was included in two hymnals distributed to soldiers. with death so real and imminent, religious services in the military became commonplace. the hymn was translated into other languages as well : while on the trail of tears, the cherokee sang christian hymns as a way of coping with the ongoing tragedy, and a version of the song by samuel worcester that had been translated into the cherokee language became very popular. urban revival although " amazing grace " set to " new britain " was popular, other versions existed regionally. primitive baptists in the appalachian region often used " new britain " with other hymns, and sometimes sing the words of " amazing grace " to other folk songs, including titles such as " in the pines ", " pisgah ", " primrose ", and " evan ", as all are able to be sung in common meter, of which the majority of their repertoire consists. in the late 19th century, newton ' s verses were sung to a tune named " arlington " as frequently as to " new britain " for a time. two musical arrangers named dwight moody and ira sankey heralded another religious revival in the cities of the us and europe, giving the song international exposure. moody ' s preaching and sankey ' s musical gifts were significant ; their arrangements were the forerunners of gospel music, and churches all over the us were eager to acquire them. moody and sankey began publishing their compositions in 1875, and " amazing grace " appeared three times with three different melodies, but they were the first to give it its title ; hymns were typically published using the incipits ( first line of the lyrics ), or the name of the tune such