thinks slowly, and they give him time to reflect. " punishment the state, schopenhauer claimed, punishes criminals to prevent future crimes. it places " beside every possible motive for committing a wrong a more powerful motive for leaving it undone, in the inescapable punishment. accordingly, the criminal code is as complete a register as possible of counter - motives to all criminal actions that can possibly be imagined... " he claimed that this doctrine was not original to him but had appeared in the writings of plato, seneca, hobbes, pufendorf, and anselm feuerbach. races and religions schopenhauer attributed civilizational primacy to the northern " white races " due to their sensitivity and creativity ( except for the ancient egyptians and hindus, whom he saw as equal ) : the highest civilization and culture, apart from the ancient hindus and egyptians, are found exclusively among the white races ; and even with many dark peoples, the ruling caste or race is fairer in colour than the rest and has, therefore, evidently immigrated, for example, the brahmans, the incas, and the rulers of the south sea islands. all this is due to the fact that necessity is the mother of invention because those tribes that emigrated early to the north, and there gradually became white, had to develop all their intellectual powers and invent and perfect all the arts in their struggle with need, want and misery, which in their many forms were brought about by the climate. this they had to do in order to make up for the parsimony of nature and out of it all came their high civilization. schopenhauer was fervently opposed to slavery. speaking of the treatment of slaves in the slave - holding states of the united states, he condemned " those devils in human form, those bigoted, church - going, strict sabbath - observing scoundrels, especially the anglican parsons among them " for how they " treat their innocent black brothers who through violence and injustice have fallen into their devil ' s claws ". the slave - holding states of north america, schopenhauer writes, are a " disgrace to the whole of humanity ". in his metaphysics of sexual love, schopenhauer wrote : further, the consideration as to the complexion is very decided. blondes prefer dark persons, or brunettes ; but the latter seldom prefer the former. the reason is, that fair hair and blue eyes are in themselves a variation from the type, almost an abnormity,