the part of other potential claimants, among them his former consular colleague lucius catilius severus, then prefect of the city. nevertheless, antoninus assumed power without opposition. emperor on his accession, antoninus ' name and style became imperator caesar titus aelius hadrianus antoninus augustus pontifex maximus. one of his first acts as emperor was to persuade the senate to grant divine honours to hadrian, which they had at first refused ; his efforts to persuade the senate to grant these honours is the most likely reason given for his title of pius ( dutiful in affection ; compare pietas ). two other reasons for this title are that he would support his aged father - in - law with his hand at senate meetings, and that he had saved those men that hadrian, during his period of ill - health, had condemned to death. immediately after hadrian ' s death, antoninus approached marcus and requested that his marriage arrangements be amended : marcus ' betrothal to ceionia fabia would be annulled, and he would be betrothed to faustina, antoninus ' daughter, instead. faustina ' s betrothal to ceionia ' s brother lucius commodus, marcus ' future co - emperor, would also have to be annulled. marcus consented to antoninus ' proposal. antoninus built temples, theaters, and mausoleums, promoted the arts and sciences, and bestowed honours and financial rewards upon the teachers of rhetoric and philosophy. antoninus made few initial changes when he became emperor, leaving intact as far as possible the arrangements instituted by hadrian. epigraphical and prosopographical research has revealed that antoninus ' imperial ruling team centered around a group of closely knit senatorial families, most of them members of the priestly congregation for the cult of hadrian, the sodales hadrianales. according to the german historian h. g. pflaum, prosopographical research of antoninus ' ruling team allows us to grasp the deeply conservative character of the ruling senatorial caste. he owned palatial villas at lorium ( etruria ) and villa magna ( latium ). lack of warfare there are no records of any military related acts in his time in which he participated. one modern scholar has written " it is almost certain not only that at no time in his life did he ever see, let alone command, a roman army, but that, throughout the twenty - three years of his reign, he