it can be concluded that sikhism does not believe in the existence of heaven and hell ; however, heaven and hell are created to temporarily reward and punish, and one will then take birth again until one merges in god. according to the sikh scriptures, the human form is the closet form to god if the guru is read and understood, and the best opportunity for a human being to attain salvation and merge back with god and fully understand him. sikh gurus said that nothing dies, nothing is born, everything is ever present, and it just changes forms. like standing in front of a wardrobe, you pick up a dress and wear it and then you discard it. you wear another one. thus, in the view of sikhism, your soul is never born and never dies. your soul is a part of god and hence lives forever. others confucianism confucius did not directly discuss the afterlife. nonetheless, chinese folk religion has had a strong influence on confucianism, so adherents believe that their ancestors become deified spirits after death. ancestor veneration in china is widespread. gnosticism in gnostic teachings humans contain a divine spark within them said to have been trapped in their bodies by the creator of the material universe known as the demiurge. it was believed that this spark could be released from the material world and enter into the heavenly spiritual world beyond it if special knowledge or gnosis was attained. the cathars, for example, viewed reincarnation as a trap made by satan, who tricked angels from the heavenly realm into entering the physical bodies of humans. they viewed the purpose of life as a way to escape the constant cycle of spiritual incarnations by letting go of worldly attachments. shinto it is common for families to participate in ceremonies for children at a shrine, yet have a buddhist funeral at the time of death. in old japanese legends, it is often claimed that the dead go to a place called yomi ( ), a gloomy underground realm with a river separating the living from the dead mentioned in the legend of izanami and izanagi. this yomi very closely resembles the greek hades ; however, later myths include notions of resurrection and even elysium - like descriptions such as in the legend of okuninushi and susanoo. shinto tends to hold negative views on death and corpses as a source of pollution called kegare. however, death is also viewed as a path towards apotheosis in shintoism as can be