reducing the person ' s distress. the number of bystanders witnessing pain or suffering affects the likelihood of helping ( the bystander effect ). more significant numbers of bystanders decrease individual feelings of responsibility. however, a witness with a high level of empathic concern is likely to assume personal responsibility entirely regardless of the number of bystanders. many studies have observed the effects of volunteerism ( as a form of altruism ) on happiness and health and have consistently found that those who exhibit volunteerism also have better current and future health and well - being. in a study of older adults, those who volunteered had higher life satisfaction and will to live, and less depression, anxiety, and somatization. volunteerism and helping behavior have not only been shown to improve mental health but physical health and longevity as well, attributable to the activity and social integration it encourages. one study examined the physical health of mothers who volunteered over 30 years and found that 52 % of those who did not belong to a volunteer organization experienced a major illness while only 36 % of those who did volunteer experienced one. a study on adults aged 55 and older found that during the four - year study period, people who volunteered for two or more organizations had a 63 % lower likelihood of dying. after controlling for prior health status, it was determined that volunteerism accounted for a 44 % reduction in mortality. merely being aware of kindness in oneself and others is also associated with greater well - being. a study that asked participants to count each act of kindness they performed for one week significantly enhanced their subjective happiness. while research supports the idea that altruistic acts bring about happiness, it has also been found to work in the opposite direction — that happier people are also kinder. the relationship between altruistic behavior and happiness is bidirectional. studies found that generosity increases linearly from sad to happy affective states. feeling over - taxed by the needs of others has negative effects on health and happiness. for example, one study on volunteerism found that feeling overwhelmed by others ' demands had an even stronger negative effect on mental health than helping had a positive one ( although positive effects were still significant ). pathological altruism pathological altruism is altruism taken to an unhealthy extreme, such that it either harms the altruistic person or the person ' s well - intentioned actions cause more harm than good. the term " pathological altruism " was popularised by the book pathological altru