king of athens, as the judge. according to the account given by pseudo - apollodorus, poseidon struck the ground with his trident and a salt water spring welled up. in an alternative version of the myth from vergil ' s poem georgics, poseidon instead gave the athenians the first horse. in both versions, athena offered the athenians the first domesticated olive tree. cecrops accepted this gift and declared athena the patron goddess of athens. eight different etymologies, now commonly rejected, have been proposed since the 17th century. christian lobeck proposed as the root of the name the word ( athos ) or ( anthos ) meaning " flower ", to denote athens as the " flowering city ". ludwig von doderlein proposed the stem of the verb, stem θη - ( thao, the -, " to suck " ) to denote athens as having fertile soil. athenians were called cicada - wearers ( ) because they used to wear pins of golden cicadas. a symbol of being autochthonous ( earth - born ), because the legendary founder of athens, erechtheus was an autochthon or of being musicians, because the cicada is a " musician " insect. in classical literature, the city was sometimes referred to as the city of the violet crown, first documented in pindar ' s ιοστεφανοι αθαναι ( iostephanoi athanai ), or as ( to kleinon asty, " the glorious city " ). during the medieval period, the name of the city was rendered once again in the singular as. variant names included setines, satine, and astines, all derivations involving false splitting of prepositional phrases. king alphonse x of castile gives the pseudo - etymology ' the one without death / ignorance '. in ottoman turkish, it was called atina, and in modern turkish, it is atina. history antiquity the oldest known human presence in athens is the cave of schist, which has been dated to between the 11th and 7th millennia bc. athens has been continuously inhabited for at least 5, 000 years ( 3000 bc ). by 1400 bc, the settlement had become an important centre of the mycenaean civilization, and the acropolis was the site of a major mycenaean fortress, whose remains can be recognised from sections of the characteristic cyclopean walls. unlike other my