the common usage definition of that word, promoted broadening the definition of atheist and narrowing the definition of agnostic. smith rejects agnosticism as a third alternative to theism and atheism and promotes terms such as agnostic atheism ( the view of those who do not hold a belief in the existence of any deity, but claim that the existence of a deity is unknown or inherently unknowable ) and agnostic theism ( the view of those who believe in the existence of a deity ( s ), but claim that the existence of a deity is unknown or inherently unknowable ). etymology agnostic ( ) was used by thomas henry huxley in a speech at a meeting of the metaphysical society in 1869 to describe his philosophy, which rejects all claims of spiritual or mystical knowledge. early christian church leaders used the greek word gnosis ( knowledge ) to describe " spiritual knowledge ". agnosticism is not to be confused with religious views opposing the ancient religious movement of gnosticism in particular ; huxley used the term in a broader, more abstract sense. huxley identified agnosticism not as a creed but rather as a method of skeptical, evidence - based inquiry. the term agnostic is also cognate with the sanskrit word ajnasi which translates literally to " not knowable ", and relates to the ancient indian philosophical school of ajnana, which proposes that it is impossible to obtain knowledge of metaphysical nature or ascertain the truth value of philosophical propositions ; and even if knowledge was possible, it is useless and disadvantageous for final salvation. in recent years, scientific literature dealing with neuroscience and psychology has used the word to mean " not knowable ". in technical and marketing literature, " agnostic " can also mean independence from some parameters — for example, " platform agnostic " ( referring to cross - platform software ) or " hardware - agnostic ". qualifying agnosticism scottish enlightenment philosopher david hume contended that meaningful statements about the universe are always qualified by some degree of doubt. he asserted that the fallibility of human beings means that they cannot obtain absolute certainty except in trivial cases where a statement is true by definition ( e. g. tautologies such as " all bachelors are unmarried " or " all triangles have three corners " ). types strong agnosticism ( also called " hard ", " closed ", " strict ", or " permanent agnosticism " ) the view that the question of the existence or nonexistence of a deity or deities