the gulf region of the state grow various species of palmetto and palm. in alabama there are more than 150 shrubs, including mountain laurel and rhododendron. among cultivated plants are wisteria and camellia. while in the past the state enjoyed a variety of mammals such as plains bison, eastern elk, north american cougar, bear, and deer, only the white - tailed deer remains abundant. still fairly common are the bobcat, american beaver, muskrat, raccoon, virginia opossum, rabbit, squirrel, red and gray foxes, and long - tailed weasel. coypu and nine - banded armadillo have been introduced to the state and now also common. alabama ' s birds include golden and bald eagles, osprey and other hawks, yellow - shafted flickers, and black - and - white warblers. game birds include bobwhite quail, duck, wild turkey, and goose. freshwater fish such as bream, shad, bass, and sucker are common. along the gulf coast there are seasonal runs of tarpon, pompano, red drum, and bonito. the u. s. fish and wildlife service lists as endangered 99 animals, fish, and birds, and 18 plant species. the endangered animals include the alabama beach mouse, gray bat, alabama red - bellied turtle, fin and humpback whales, bald eagle, and wood stork. american black bear, racking horse, yellow - shafted flicker, wild turkey, atlantic tarpon, largemouth bass, southern longleaf pine, eastern tiger swallowtail, monarch butterfly, alabama red - bellied turtle, red hills salamander, camellia, oak - leaf hydrangea, peach, pecan, and blackberry are alabama ' s state symbols. climate and soil the climate of alabama is humid subtropical. the heat of summer is tempered in the south by the winds from the gulf of mexico, and in the north by the elevation above the sea. the average annual temperature is highest in the southwest along the coast, and lowest in the northeast among the highlands. thus at mobile the annual mean is, the mean for the summer, and for the winter ; and at valley head, in de kalb county, the annual mean is, the mean for the summer, and for the winter. at montgomery, in the central region, the average annual temperature is, with a winter average of, and a summer average of. the average winter minimum for the