has been modified for breathing air again, and in other lineages it have been completely lost. ray - finned fishes have many different types of scales ; but all teleosts have leptoid scales. the outer part of these scales fan out with bony ridges, while the inner part is crossed with fibrous connective tissue. leptoid scales are thinner and more transparent than other types of scales, and lack the hardened enamel or dentine - like layers found in the scales of many other fish. unlike ganoid scales, which are found in non - teleost actinopterygians, new scales are added in concentric layers as the fish grows. teleosts also differ from other ray - finned fishes in having gone through a whole - genome duplication ( paleopolyploidy ). body shapes and fin arrangements ray - finned fish vary in size and shape, in their feeding specializations, and in the number and arrangement of their ray - fins. reproduction in nearly all ray - finned fish, the sexes are separate, and in most species the females spawn eggs that are fertilized externally, typically with the male inseminating the eggs after they are laid. development then proceeds with a free - swimming larval stage. however other patterns of ontogeny exist, with one of the commonest being sequential hermaphroditism. in most cases this involves protogyny, fish starting life as females and converting to males at some stage, triggered by some internal or external factor. protandry, where a fish converts from male to female, is much less common than protogyny. most families use external rather than internal fertilization. of the oviparous teleosts, most ( 79 % ) do not provide parental care. viviparity, ovoviviparity, or some form of parental care for eggs, whether by the male, the female, or both parents is seen in a significant fraction ( 21 % ) of the 422 teleost families ; no care is likely the ancestral condition. the oldest case of viviparity in ray - finned fish is found in middle triassic species of saurichthys. viviparity is relatively rare and is found in about 6 % of living teleost species ; male care is far more common than female care. male territoriality " preadapts " a species for evolving male parental care. there are a few examples of fish that self - fertilise