saturn v experienced pogo oscillation, a problem caused by non - steady engine combustion, which damaged fuel lines in the second and third stages. two s - ii engines shut down prematurely, but the remaining engines were able to compensate. the damage to the third stage engine was more severe, preventing it from restarting for trans - lunar injection. mission controllers were able to use the service module engine to essentially repeat the flight profile of apollo 4. based on the good performance of apollo6 and identification of satisfactory fixes to the apollo6 problems, nasa declared the saturnv ready to fly crew, canceling a third uncrewed test. crewed development missions apollo 7, launched from lc - 34 on october 11, 1968, was the cmission, crewed by schirra, eisele, and cunningham. it was an 11 - day earth - orbital flight which tested the csm systems. apollo 8 was planned to be the d mission in december 1968, crewed by mcdivitt, scott and schweickart, launched on a saturnv instead of two saturn ibs. in the summer it had become clear that the lm would not be ready in time. rather than waste the saturn v on another simple earth - orbiting mission, aspo manager george low suggested the bold step of sending apollo8 to orbit the moon instead, deferring the dmission to the next mission in march 1969, and eliminating the e mission. this would keep the program on track. the soviet union had sent two tortoises, mealworms, wine flies, and other lifeforms around the moon on september 15, 1968, aboard zond 5, and it was believed they might soon repeat the feat with human cosmonauts. the decision was not announced publicly until successful completion of apollo 7. gemini veterans frank borman and jim lovell, and rookie william anders captured the world ' s attention by making ten lunar orbits in 20 hours, transmitting television pictures of the lunar surface on christmas eve, and returning safely to earth. the following march, lm flight, rendezvous and docking were successfully demonstrated in earth orbit on apollo 9, and schweickart tested the full lunar eva suit with its portable life support system ( plss ) outside the lm. the f mission was successfully carried out on apollo 10 in may 1969 by gemini veterans thomas p. stafford, john young and eugene cernan. stafford and cernan took the lm to within of the lunar surface. the g mission was achieved