many reality television shows are filmed in alaska. in 2011, the anchorage daily news found ten set in the state. sports public health and public safety the alaska state troopers are alaska ' s statewide police force. they have a long and storied history, but were not an official organization until 1941. before the force was officially organized, law enforcement in alaska was handled by various federal agencies. larger towns usually have their own local police and some villages rely on " public safety officers " who have police training but do not carry firearms. in much of the state, the troopers serve as the only police force available. in addition to enforcing traffic and criminal law, wildlife troopers enforce hunting and fishing regulations. due to the varied terrain and wide scope of the troopers ' duties, they employ a wide variety of land, air, and water patrol vehicles. many rural communities in alaska are considered " dry ", having outlawed the importation of alcoholic beverages. suicide rates for rural residents are higher than urban. domestic abuse and other violent crimes are also at high levels in the state ; this is in part linked to alcohol abuse. alaska has the highest rate of sexual assault in the nation, especially in rural areas. the average age of sexually assaulted victims is 16 years old. in four out of five cases, the suspects were relatives, friends or acquaintances. health insurance, cvs health and premera account for 47 % and 46 % of private health insurance, respectively. premera and moda health offer insurance on the federally - run affordable care exchange. healthcare facilities providence alaska medical center in anchorage is the largest hospital in the state as of 2021 ; anchorage also hosts alaska regional hospital and alaska native medical center. alaska ' s other major cities such as fairbanks and juneau also have local hospitals. in southeast alaska, southeast alaska regional health consortium, runs healthcare facilities across 27 communities as of 2022, including hospitals in sitka and wrangell ; although it originally served native americans only, it has expanded access and combined with other local facilities over time. education the alaska department of education and early development administers many school districts in alaska. in addition, the state operates a boarding school, mt. edgecumbe high school in sitka, and provides partial funding for other boarding schools, including nenana student living center in nenana and the galena interior learning academy in galena. there are more than a dozen colleges and universities in alaska. accredited universities in alaska include the university of alaska anchorage, university of alaska fairbanks, university of alaska southeast, and alaska pacific