alexander is a male given name of greek origin. the most prominent bearer of the name is alexander the great, the king of the ancient greek kingdom of macedonia who created one of the largest empires in ancient history. variants listed here are aleksandar, aleksander and aleksandr. related names and diminutives include iskandar, alec, alek, alex, alexandre, aleks, aleksa, alasdair, sasha, and sander ; feminine forms include alexandra, alexandria, and sasha. etymology the name alexander originates from the ( ; ' defending men ' or ' protector of men ' ). it is a compound of the verb ( ; ' to ward off, avert, defend ' ) and the noun (, genitive :, ; meaning ' man ' ). it is an example of the widespread motif of greek names expressing " battle - prowess ", in this case the ability to withstand or push back an enemy battle line. the earliest attested form of the name, is the mycenaean greek feminine anthroponym,, ( / alexandra / ), written in the linear b syllabic script. alaksandu, alternatively called alakasandu or alaksandus, was a king of wilusa who sealed a treaty with the hittite king muwatalli ii ca. 1280 bc ; this is generally assumed to have been a greek called alexandros. the name was one of the epithets given to the greek goddess hera and as such is usually taken to mean " one who comes to save warriors ". in the iliad, the character paris is known also as alexander. the name ' s popularity was spread throughout the greek world by the military conquests of king alexander iii, commonly known as " alexander the great ". most later alexanders in various countries were directly or indirectly named after him. people known as alexander alexander has been the name of many rulers, including kings of macedon, of scotland, emperors of russia and popes. rulers of antiquity alexander ( alexandros of ilion ), more often known as paris of troy alexander of corinth, 10th king of corinth ( 816 – 791 bc ) alexander i of macedon alexander ii of macedon alexander iii of macedon, commonly known as alexander the great alexander iv of macedon alexander v of macedon alexander of pherae despot of pherae between 369 and 358 bc alexander i of epirus king of epirus about 34