##umen, and coal using the bergius process, can be refined into petrols such as gasoline, and bitumen may be distilled into tar, not the other way around. composition normal composition the components of bitumen include four main classes of compounds : naphthene aromatics ( naphthalene ), consisting of partially hydrogenated polycyclic aromatic compounds polar aromatics, consisting of high molecular weight phenols and carboxylic acids produced by partial oxidation of the material saturated hydrocarbons ; the percentage of saturated compounds in asphalt correlates with its softening point asphaltenes, consisting of high molecular weight phenols and heterocyclic compounds bitumen typically contains, elementally 80 % by weight of carbon ; 10 % hydrogen ; up to 6 % sulfur ; and molecularly, between 5 and 25 % by weight of asphaltenes dispersed in 90 % to 65 % maltenes. most natural bitumens also contain organosulfur compounds, nickel and vanadium are found at < 10 parts per million, as is typical of some petroleum. the substance is soluble in carbon disulfide. it is commonly modelled as a colloid, with asphaltenes as the dispersed phase and maltenes as the continuous phase. " it is almost impossible to separate and identify all the different molecules of bitumen, because the number of molecules with different chemical structure is extremely large ". asphalt may be confused with coal tar, which is a visually similar black, thermoplastic material produced by the destructive distillation of coal. during the early and mid - 20th century, when town gas was produced, coal tar was a readily available byproduct and extensively used as the binder for road aggregates. the addition of coal tar to macadam roads led to the word " tarmac ", which is now used in common parlance to refer to road - making materials. however, since the 1970s, when natural gas succeeded town gas, bitumen has completely overtaken the use of coal tar in these applications. other examples of this confusion include la brea tar pits and the canadian oil sands, both of which actually contain natural bitumen rather than tar. " pitch " is another term sometimes informally used at times to refer to asphalt, as in pitch lake. additives, mixtures and contaminants for economic and other reasons, bitumen is sometimes sold combined with other materials, often without being labeled as anything other than simply " bitumen ". of particular note is