and future contracts. the confederacy subsequently looked to foreign sources for their enormous military needs and sought out financiers and companies like s. isaac, campbell & company and the london armoury company in britain, who acted as purchasing agents for the confederacy, connecting them with britain ' s many arms manufactures, and ultimately becoming the confederacy ' s main source of arms. to get the arms safely to the confederacy, british investors built small, fast, steam - driven blockade runners that traded arms and supplies brought in from britain through bermuda, cuba, and the bahamas in return for high - priced cotton. many of the ships were lightweight and designed for speed and could only carry a relatively small amount of cotton back to england. when the union navy seized a blockade runner, the ship and cargo were condemned as a prize of war and sold, with the proceeds given to the navy sailors ; the captured crewmen were mostly british, and they were released. economic impact the southern economy nearly collapsed during the war. there were multiple reasons for this : the severe deterioration of food supplies, especially in cities, the failure of southern railroads, the loss of control of the main rivers, foraging by northern armies, and the seizure of animals and crops by confederate armies. most historians agree that the blockade was a major factor in ruining the confederate economy ; however, wise argues that the blockade runners provided just enough of a lifeline to allow lee to continue fighting for additional months, thanks to fresh supplies of 400, 000 rifles, lead, blankets, and boots that the homefront economy could no longer supply. surdam argues that the blockade was a powerful weapon that eventually ruined the southern economy, at the cost of few lives in combat. practically, the entire confederate cotton crop was useless ( although it was sold to union traders ), costing the confederacy its main source of income. critical imports were scarce and the coastal trade was largely ended as well. the measure of the blockade ' s success was not the few ships that slipped through, but the thousands that never tried it. merchant ships owned in europe could not get insurance and were too slow to evade the blockade, so they stopped calling at confederate ports. to fight an offensive war, the confederacy purchased arms in britain and converted british - built ships into commerce raiders. purchasing arms involved the smuggling of 600, 000 arms ( mostly british enfield rifles ) that enabled the confederate army to fight on for two more years and the commerce raiders were used in raiding u. s. merchant marine ships in the atlantic and pacific oceans. insurance rates skyrocketed