of being attacked, the abdali contingent led by durrani rushed either to save the shah or to confirm what happened. upon reaching the shah ' s tent, they were only to see his body and severed head. having served him so loyally, the abdalis wept at having failed their leader, and headed back to kandahar. before the retreat to kandahar, he had " removed " the royal seal from nader shah ' s finger and the koh - i - noor diamond tied " around the arm of his deceased master ". on their way back to kandahar, the abdalis had " unanimously accepted " durrani as their new leader. hence he " assumed the insignia of royalty " as the " sovereign ruler of afghanistan ". one of durrani ' s first acts as chief was to adopt the epithet shah durr - i - durran, " king, pearl of pearls. " forming the last afghan empire although ahmad shah appointed his fellow durrani ( abdali ) clansmen for most senior military posts, his army was otherwise ethnically diverse with soldiers also from various other ethnic and tribal groups, including non - durrani pashtun tribes like the ghilji and yusufzai, and non - pashtun groups such as qizilbash, hazaras, tajiks, uzbeks, and baloch. he began his military conquest by capturing qalati ghilji from its governor ashraf tokhi and installed his own governor in ghazni. he then wrestled kabul and peshawar from mughal - appointed governor nasir khan, and conquered the area up to the indus river. on 15 july 1747, ahmad shah appointed muhammad hashim afridi as chief of the afridi of peshawar. ahmad shah conquered herat in 1750, balkh and badakhshan in 1751, and kashmir in 1752. he also made two campaigns into khorasan ( 1750 – 51 and 1754 – 55 ). during the first campaign he besieged mashhad in july 1750 but retreated after four months and on november 10 moved onto nishapur. his forces suffered heavy casualties and were forced to retreat in early 1751. in 1754 he invaded again. in june 1754 he took tun and on july 23 had besieged mashhad. mashhad fell on december 2 and although shahrokh shah was re - appointed as leader of khorasan in may 1755 he was forced to cede torshiz, bakharz, jam, khaf, and turba