##s, and maraapunisaurus, and the ornithischians camptosaurus, dryosaurus, and stegosaurus. allosaurus is commonly found at the same sites as apatosaurus, camarasaurus, diplodocus, and stegosaurus. the late jurassic formations of portugal where allosaurus is present are interpreted as having been similar to the morrison, but with a stronger marine influence. many of the dinosaurs of the morrison formation are the same genera as those seen in portuguese rocks ( mainly allosaurus, ceratosaurus, torvosaurus, and stegosaurus ), or have a close counterpart ( brachiosaurus and lusotitan, camptosaurus and draconyx ). allosaurus coexisted with fellow large theropods ceratosaurus and torvosaurus in both the united states and portugal. the three appear to have had different ecological niches, based on anatomy and the location of fossils. ceratosaurus and torvosaurus may have preferred to be active around waterways, and had lower, thinner bodies that would have given them an advantage in forest and underbrush terrains, whereas allosaurus was more compact, with longer legs, faster but less maneuverable, and seems to have preferred dry floodplains. ceratosaurus, better known than torvosaurus, differed noticeably from allosaurus in functional anatomy by having a taller, narrower skull with large, broad teeth. allosaurus was itself a potential food item to other carnivores, as illustrated by an allosaurus pubic foot marked by the teeth of another theropod, probably ceratosaurus or torvosaurus. the location of the bone in the body ( along the bottom margin of the torso and partially shielded by the legs ), and the fact that it was among the most massive in the skeleton, indicates that the allosaurus was being scavenged. a bone assemblage in the upper jurassic mygatt - moore quarry preserves an unusually high occurrence of theropod bite marks, most of which can be attributed to allosaurus and ceratosaurus, while others could have been made by saurophaganax or torvosaurus given the size of the striations. while the position of the bite marks on the herbivorous dinosaurs is consistent with predation or early access to remains, bite marks found on allosaurus material suggest scavenging, either from the other theropods or from another allosaurus. the unusually high concentration of theropod bite marks compared to other assemblages