addition of three instructions ( b = 0?, a = 0?, goto ). now " elegant " computes the example - numbers faster ; whether this is always the case for any given a, b, and r, s would require a detailed analysis. algorithmic analysis it is frequently important to know how much of a particular resource ( such as time or storage ) is theoretically required for a given algorithm. methods have been developed for the analysis of algorithms to obtain such quantitative answers ( estimates ) ; for example, an algorithm which adds up the elements of a list of n numbers would have a time requirement of, using big o notation. at all times the algorithm only needs to remember two values : the sum of all the elements so far, and its current position in the input list. therefore, it is said to have a space requirement of, if the space required to store the input numbers is not counted, or if it is counted. different algorithms may complete the same task with a different set of instructions in less or more time, space, or ' effort ' than others. for example, a binary search algorithm ( with cost ) outperforms a sequential search ( cost ) when used for table lookups on sorted lists or arrays. formal versus empirical the analysis, and study of algorithms is a discipline of computer science, and is often practiced abstractly without the use of a specific programming language or implementation. in this sense, algorithm analysis resembles other mathematical disciplines in that it focuses on the underlying properties of the algorithm and not on the specifics of any particular implementation. usually pseudocode is used for analysis as it is the simplest and most general representation. however, ultimately, most algorithms are usually implemented on particular hardware / software platforms and their algorithmic efficiency is eventually put to the test using real code. for the solution of a " one off " problem, the efficiency of a particular algorithm may not have significant consequences ( unless n is extremely large ) but for algorithms designed for fast interactive, commercial or long life scientific usage it may be critical. scaling from small n to large n frequently exposes inefficient algorithms that are otherwise benign. empirical testing is useful because it may uncover unexpected interactions that affect performance. benchmarks may be used to compare before / after potential improvements to an algorithm after program optimization. empirical tests cannot replace formal analysis, though, and are not trivial to perform in a fair manner. execution efficiency to illustrate the potential improvements possible even in well - established algorithms, a recent significant innovation, relating to fft algorithms (