form of an old woman and attempts to persuade her to have sex with paris, reminding her of his physical beauty and athletic prowess. helen immediately recognizes aphrodite by her beautiful neck, perfect breasts, and flashing eyes and chides the goddess, addressing her as her equal. aphrodite sharply rebukes helen, reminding her that, if she vexes her, she will punish her just as much as she has favored her already. helen demurely obeys aphrodite ' s command. in book v, aphrodite charges into battle to rescue her son aeneas from the greek hero diomedes. diomedes recognizes aphrodite as a " weakling " goddess and, thrusting his spear, nicks her wrist through her " ambrosial robe ". aphrodite borrows ares ' s chariot to ride back to mount olympus. zeus chides her for putting herself in danger, reminding her that " her specialty is love, not war. " according to walter burkert, this scene directly parallels a scene from tablet vi of the epic of gilgamesh in which ishtar, aphrodite ' s akkadian precursor, cries to her mother antu after the hero gilgamesh rejects her sexual advances, but is mildly rebuked by her father anu. in book xiv of the iliad, during the dios apate episode, aphrodite lends her kestos himas to hera for the purpose of seducing zeus and distracting him from the combat while poseidon aids the greek forces on the beach. in the theomachia in book xxi, aphrodite again enters the battlefield to carry ares away after he is wounded. offspring sometimes poets and dramatists recounted ancient traditions, which varied, and sometimes they invented new details ; later scholiasts might draw on either or simply guess. thus while aeneas and phobos were regularly described as offspring of aphrodite, others listed here such as priapus and eros were sometimes said to be children of aphrodite but with varying fathers and sometimes given other mothers or none at all. iconography symbols aphrodite ' s most prominent avian symbol was the dove, which was originally an important symbol of her near eastern precursor inanna - ishtar. ( in fact, the ancient greek word for " dove ", peristera, may be derived from a semitic phrase perah istar, meaning " bird