alyattes ( lydian language : ; ; reigned c. 635 - 585 bc ), sometimes described as alyattes i, was the fourth king of the mermnad dynasty in lydia, the son of sadyattes, grandson of ardys, and great - grandson of gyges. he died after a reign of 57 years and was succeeded by his son croesus. alyattes was the first monarch who issued coins, made from electrum ( and his successor croesus was the first to issue gold coins ). alyattes is therefore sometimes mentioned as the originator of coinage, or of currency. name the most likely etymology for the name derives it, via a form with initial digamma ( ), itself originally from a lydian ( lydian alphabet : ). the name meant " lion - ness " ( i. e. the state of being a lion ), and was composed of the lydian term ( ), meaning " lion ", to which was added an abstract suffix ( ). chronology dates for the mermnad kings are uncertain and are based on a computation by j. b. bury and russell meiggs ( 1975 ) who estimated c. 687 – c. 652 bc for the reign of gyges. herodotus 1. 16, 1. 25, 1. 86 gave reign lengths for gyges ' successors, but there is uncertainty about these as the total exceeds the timespan between 652 ( probable death of gyges, fighting the cimmerians ) and 547 / 546 ( fall of sardis to cyrus the great ). bury and meiggs concluded that ardys and sadyattes reigned through an unspecified period in the second half of the 7th century bc, but they did not propose dates for alyattes except their assertion that his son croesus succeeded him in 560 bc. the timespan 560 – 546 bc for the reign of croesus is almost certainly accurate. however, based on an analysis of sources contemporary with gyges, such as neo - assyrian records, anthony spalinger has convincingly deduced dated gyges ' s death to 644 bce, and alexander dale has consequently dated alyattes ' s reign as starting in c. 635 bce and ending in 585 bce. life and reign alyattes was the son of the king sadyattes of lydia and his sister and queen, lyde of lydia, both the children of the king ardys of