as alice is floating on the sea in a bottle. dodo is seen singing, but when alice asks him for help, he does not notice her. on shore, dodo is seen on a rock, organizing a caucus race. this race involves running around until one gets dry, but the attempts are hampered by incoming waves. dodo is later summoned by the white rabbit, when the rabbit believes a monster, actually alice having magically grown to a giant size, is inside his home. dodo brings bill the lizard, and attempts to get him to go down the chimney. bill refuses at first, but dodo is able to convince him otherwise. however, the soot causes alice to sneeze, sending bill high up into the sky. dodo then decides to burn the house down, much to the chagrin of the white rabbit. he begins gathering wood, such as the furniture, for this purpose. however, alice is soon able to return to a smaller size and exit the house. the white rabbit soon leaves, while dodo asks for matches, not realizing that the situation has been resolved. he then asks alice for a match, but when she doesn ' t have any, dodo complains about the lack of cooperation and uses his pipe to light the fire. the dodo later appears briefly at the end of the film, conducting another caucus race while alice is being chased by the queen of hearts and her card soldiers. in alice ' s wonderland bakery, dodo has returned and has a son named jojo. tim burton ' s alice in wonderland version in tim burton ' s adaptation of alice in wonderland, the dodo ' s appearance retains the subtle apparent nature from john tenniel ' s illustration. he bears a down of brilliant blue and wears a navy blue waistcoat and white spats along with glasses and a cane. he is one of alice ' s good - willed advisers, taking first note of her abilities as the true alice. he is also one of the oldest inhabitants. his name is uilleam, and he is portrayed by michael gough. he goes with the white rabbit, tweedledum and tweedledee, and dormouse to take alice to caterpillar to decide whether alice is the real one. he is later captured by the red queen ' s forces. when alice came to the red queen ' s castle, he was seen at the red queen ' s castle yard as a caddy for the queen ' s croquet game. after the red queen orders the release of