australia the south african institute of architects ( saia ) south africa association of consultant architects ( aca ) uk association of licensed architects ( ala ) us the consejo profesional de arquitectura y urbanismo ( cpau ) argentina indian institute of architects ( iia ) & council of architecture ( coa ) india the national organization of minority architects ( noma ) us prizes and awards a wide variety of prizes is awarded by national professional associations and other bodies, recognizing accomplished architects, their buildings, structures, and professional careers. the most lucrative award an architect can receive is the pritzker prize, sometimes termed the " nobel prize for architecture. " the inaugural pritzker prize winner was philip johnson who was cited " for 50 years of imagination and vitality embodied in a myriad of museums, theatres libraries, houses gardens and corporate structure ". the pritzker prize has been awarded for forty - two straight editions without interruption, and there are now 22 countries with at least one winning architect. other prestigious architectural awards are the royal gold medal, the aia gold medal ( us ), aia gold medal ( australia ), and the praemium imperiale. architects in the uk, who have made contributions to the profession through design excellence or architectural education, or have in some other way advanced the profession, might until 1971 be elected fellows of the royal institute of british architects and can write friba after their name if they feel so inclined. those elected to chartered membership of the riba after 1971 may use the initials riba but cannot use the old ariba and friba. an honorary fellow may use the initials, hon. friba. and an international fellow may use the initials int. friba. architects in the us, who have made contributions to the profession through design excellence or architectural education, or have in some other way advanced the profession, are elected fellows of the american institute of architects and can write faia after their name. architects in canada, who have made outstanding contributions to the profession through contribution to research, scholarship, public service, or professional standing to the good of architecture in canada, or elsewhere, may be recognized as a fellow of the royal architectural institute of canada and can write fraic after their name. in hong kong, those elected to chartered membership may use the initial hkia, and those who have made a special contribution after nomination and election by the hong kong institute of architects ( hkia ), may be elected as fellow members of hkia and may use fhkia after their name.