in 1968. the apollo 8 crew, now living in the crew quarters at kennedy space center, received a visit from charles lindbergh and his wife, anne morrow lindbergh, the night before the launch. they talked about how, before his 1927 flight, lindbergh had used a piece of string to measure the distance from new york city to paris on a globe and from that calculated the fuel needed for the flight. the total he had carried was a tenth of the amount that the saturn v would burn every second. the next day, the lindberghs watched the launch of apollo8 from a nearby dune. saturn v redesign the saturn v rocket used by apollo8 was designated as - 503, or the " 03rd " model of the saturnv ( " 5 " ) rocket to be used in the apollo - saturn ( " as " ) program. when it was erected in the vehicle assembly building on december 20, 1967, it was thought that the rocket would be used for an uncrewed earth - orbit test flight carrying a boilerplate command and service module. apollo6 had suffered several major problems during its april 1968 flight, including severe pogo oscillation during its first stage, two second - stage engine failures, and a third stage that failed to reignite in orbit. without assurances that these problems had been rectified, nasa administrators could not justify risking a crewed mission until additional uncrewed test flights proved the saturn v was ready. teams from the msfc went to work on the problems. of primary concern was the pogo oscillation, which would not only hamper engine performance, but could exert significant g - forces on a crew. a task force of contractors, nasa agency representatives, and msfc researchers concluded that the engines vibrated at a frequency similar to the frequency at which the spacecraft itself vibrated, causing a resonance effect that induced oscillations in the rocket. a system that used helium gas to absorb some of these vibrations was installed. of equal importance was the failure of three engines during flight. researchers quickly determined that a leaking hydrogen fuel line ruptured when exposed to vacuum, causing a loss of fuel pressure in engine two. when an automatic shutoff attempted to close the liquid hydrogen valve and shut down engine two, it had accidentally shut down engine three ' s liquid oxygen due to a miswired connection. as a result, engine three failed within one second of engine two ' s shutdown. further investigation revealed the same problem for the third - stage engine — a