" in fact, one byzantine catena even refers to him as ' bishop philo '. this high regard for philo even led to a number of legends of his conversion to christianity, although this assertion stands on very dubious evidence ". ambrose also used josephus, maccabees, and other jewish sources for his writings. he praises some individual jews. ambrose tended to write negatively of all non - nicenes as if they were all one category. this served a rhetorical purpose in his writing and should be considered accordingly. attitude towards pagans modern scholarship indicates paganism was a lesser concern than heresy for christians in the fourth and fifth centuries, which was the case for ambrose, but it was still a concern. writings of this period were commonly hostile and often contemptuous toward a paganism christianity saw as already defeated in heaven. the great christian writers of the third to fifth centuries attempted to discredit continuation in these " defeated practices " by searching pagan writings, " particularly those of varro, for everything that could be regarded by christian standards as repulsive and irreligious. " ambrose ' work reflects this triumphalism. { { efn | these christian sources have had great influence on perceptions of this period by creating an impression of overt and continuous conflict that has been assumed on an empire - wide scale, while archaeological evidence indicates that, outside of violent rhetoric, the decline of paganism away from the imperial court was relatively non - confrontational. { { sfnm | trombley | 2001 | 1loc = vol i | 1pp = 166 - 168 | trombley | 2001 | 2loc = vol ii | 2pp = 335 - 336 } } } } throughout his time in the episcopate, ambrose was active in his opposition to any state sponsorship of pagan cults. when gratian ordered the altar of victory to be removed, it roused the aristocracy of rome to send a delegation to the emperor to appeal the decision, but pope damasus i got the christian senators to petition against it, and ambrose blocked the delegates from getting an audience with the emperor. under valentinian ii, an effort was made to restore the altar of victory to its ancient station in the hall of the roman senate and to again provide support for the seven vestal virgins. the pagan party was led by the refined senator quintus aurelius symmachus, who used all his prodigious skill and artistry to create a marvelous document full of the maiestas