built by the gods fell down dead, the third forced its way into the city through the portion of the wall built by aeacus. apollo immediately prophesied that troy would fall at the hands of aeacus ' s descendants, the aeacidae ( i. e. his son telamon joined heracles when he sieged the city during laomedon ' s rule. later, his great - grandson neoptolemus was present in the wooden horse that leads to the downfall of troy ). however, the king not only refused to give the gods the wages he had promised, but also threatened to bind their feet and hands, and sell them as slaves. angered by the unpaid labour and the insults, apollo infected the city with a pestilence and poseidon sent the sea monster cetus. to deliver the city from it, laomedon had to sacrifice his daughter hesione ( who would later be saved by heracles ). during his stay in troy, apollo had a lover named ourea, who was a nymph and daughter of poseidon. together they had a son named ileus, whom apollo loved dearly. trojan war apollo sided with the trojans during the trojan war waged by the greeks against the trojans. during the war, the greek king agamemnon captured chryseis, the daughter of apollo ' s priest chryses, and refused to return her. angered by this, apollo shot arrows infected with the plague into the greek encampment. he demanded that they return the girl, and the achaeans ( greeks ) complied, indirectly causing the anger of achilles, which is the theme of the iliad. receiving the aegis from zeus, apollo entered the battlefield as per his father ' s command, causing great terror to the enemy with his war cry. he pushed the greeks back and destroyed many of the soldiers. he is described as " the rouser of armies " because he rallied the trojan army when they were falling apart. when zeus allowed the other gods to get involved in the war, apollo was provoked by poseidon to a duel. however, apollo declined to fight him, saying that he would not fight his uncle for the sake of mortals. when the greek hero diomedes injured the trojan hero aeneas, aphrodite tried to rescue him, but diomedes injured her as well. apollo then enveloped aeneas in a cloud to protect him. he repelled the attacks diomedes made on him and gave the