) is 25 ppm ; for exposure of 1 hour is 400 ppm. ammonia vapour has a sharp, irritating, pungent odor that acts as a warning of potentially dangerous exposure. the average odor threshold is 5 ppm, well below any danger or damage. exposure to very high concentrations of gaseous ammonia can result in lung damage and death. ammonia is regulated in the us as a non - flammable gas, but it meets the definition of a material that is toxic by inhalation and requires a hazardous safety permit when transported in quantities greater than. liquid ammonia is dangerous because it is hygroscopic and because it can cause caustic burns. see for more information. toxicity the toxicity of ammonia solutions does not usually cause problems for humans and other mammals, as a specific mechanism exists to prevent its build - up in the bloodstream. ammonia is converted to carbamoyl phosphate by the enzyme carbamoyl phosphate synthetase, and then enters the urea cycle to be either incorporated into amino acids or excreted in the urine. fish and amphibians lack this mechanism, as they can usually eliminate ammonia from their bodies by direct excretion. ammonia even at dilute concentrations is highly toxic to aquatic animals, and for this reason it is classified as dangerous for the environment. atmospheric ammonia plays a key role in the formation of fine particulate matter. ammonia is a constituent of tobacco smoke. coking wastewater ammonia is present in coking wastewater streams, as a liquid by - product of the production of coke from coal. in some cases, the ammonia is discharged to the marine environment where it acts as a pollutant. the whyalla steelworks in south australia is one example of a coke - producing facility that discharges ammonia into marine waters. aquaculture ammonia toxicity is believed to be a cause of otherwise unexplained losses in fish hatcheries. excess ammonia may accumulate and cause alteration of metabolism or increases in the body ph of the exposed organism. tolerance varies among fish species. at lower concentrations, around 0. 05 mg / l, un - ionised ammonia is harmful to fish species and can result in poor growth and feed conversion rates, reduced fecundity and fertility and increase stress and susceptibility to bacterial infections and diseases. exposed to excess ammonia, fish may suffer loss of equilibrium, hyper - excitability, increased respiratory activity and oxygen uptake and increased heart rate. at concentrations exceeding 2. 0 mg / l, ammonia causes gill and tissue damage,