might be on one of those tramways. if that is justice, then i prefer my mother. " camus ' s critics have labelled the response as reactionary and a result of a colonialist attitude. he was sharply critical of the proliferation of nuclear weapons and the bombings of hiroshima and nagasaki. in the 1950s, camus devoted his efforts to human rights. in 1952, he resigned from his work for unesco when the un accepted spain, under the leadership of the caudillo general francisco franco, as a member. camus maintained his pacifism and resisted capital punishment anywhere in the world. he wrote an essay against capital punishment in collaboration with arthur koestler, the writer, intellectual, and founder of the league against capital punishment entitled reflexions sur la peine capitale ( reflections on capital punishment ), published by calmann - levy in 1957. along with albert einstein, camus was one of the sponsors of the peoples ' world convention ( pwc ), also known as peoples ' world constituent assembly ( pwca ), which took place in 1950 - 51 at palais electoral, geneva, switzerland. role in algeria born in algeria to french parents, camus was familiar with the institutional racism of france against arabs and berbers, but he was not part of a rich elite. he lived in very poor conditions as a child but was a citizen of france and as such was entitled to citizens ' rights ; members of the country ' s arab and berber majority were not. camus was a vocal advocate of the " new mediterranean culture ". this was his vision of embracing the multi - ethnicity of the algerian people, in opposition to " latiny ", a popular pro - fascist and antisemitic ideology among other pieds - noirs — or french or europeans born in algeria. for camus, this vision encapsulated the hellenic humanism which survived among ordinary people around the mediterranean sea. his 1938 address on " the new mediterranean culture " represents camus ' s most systematic statement of his views at this time. camus also supported the blum – viollette proposal to grant algerians full french citizenship in a manifesto with arguments defending this assimilative proposal on radical egalitarian grounds. in 1939, camus wrote a stinging series of articles for the alger republicain on the atrocious living conditions of the inhabitants of the kabylie highlands. he advocated for economic, educational and political reforms as a matter of emergency. in 1945, following the setif and guelma massacre after