to the efforts of congressman vito fossella, the u. s. house of representatives on june 11, 2002, stated that meucci ' s " work in the invention of the telephone should be acknowledged ". this did not put an end to the still - contentious issue. some modern scholars do not agree with the claims that bell ' s work on the telephone was influenced by meucci ' s inventions. the value of the bell patent was acknowledged throughout the world, and patent applications were made in most major countries, but when bell delayed the german patent application, the electrical firm of siemens & halske set up a rival manufacturer of bell telephones under their own patent. the siemens company produced near - identical copies of the bell telephone without having to pay royalties. the establishment of the international bell telephone company in brussels, belgium in 1880, as well as a series of agreements in other countries eventually consolidated a global telephone operation. the strain put on bell by his constant appearances in court, necessitated by the legal battles, eventually resulted in his resignation from the company. family life on july 11, 1877, a few days after the bell telephone company was established, bell married mabel hubbard ( 1857 – 1923 ) at the hubbard estate in cambridge, massachusetts. his wedding present to his bride was to turn over 1, 487 of his 1, 497 shares in the newly formed bell telephone company. shortly thereafter, the newlyweds embarked on a year - long honeymoon in europe. during that excursion, bell took a handmade model of his telephone with him, making it a " working holiday ". the courtship had begun years earlier ; however, bell waited until he was more financially secure before marrying. although the telephone appeared to be an " instant " success, it was not initially a profitable venture and bell ' s main sources of income were from lectures until after 1897. one unusual request exacted by his fiancee was that he use " alec " rather than the family ' s earlier familiar name of " aleck ". from 1876, he would sign his name " alec bell ". they had four children : elsie may bell ( 1878 – 1964 ) who married gilbert hovey grosvenor of national geographic fame. marian hubbard bell ( 1880 – 1962 ) who was referred to as " daisy ". married david fairchild. two sons who died in infancy ( edward in 1881 and robert in 1883 ). the bell family home was in cambridge, massachusetts, until 1880 when bell ' s father - in - law bought a house in washington, d. c. ; in