as valdez, bucareli sound, and cordova. later, the russian - american company carried out an expanded colonization program during the early - to - mid - 19th century. sitka, renamed new archangel from 1804 to 1867, on baranof island in the alexander archipelago in what is now southeast alaska, became the capital of russian america. it remained the capital after the colony was transferred to the united states. the russians never fully colonized alaska, and the colony was never very profitable. evidence of russian settlement in names and churches survive throughout southeastern alaska. william h. seward, the 24th united states secretary of state, negotiated the alaska purchase ( referred to pejoratively as seward ' s folly ) with the russians in 1867 for $ 7. 2 million. russia ' s contemporary ruler tsar alexander ii, the emperor of the russian empire, king of poland and grand duke of finland, also planned the sale ; the purchase was made on march 30, 1867. six months later the commissioners arrived in sitka and the formal transfer was arranged ; the formal flag - raising took place at fort sitka on october 18, 1867. in the ceremony 250 uniformed u. s. soldiers marched to the governor ' s house at " castle hill ", where the russian troops lowered the russian flag and the u. s. flag was raised. this event is celebrated as alaska day, a legal holiday on october 18. alaska was loosely governed by the military initially, and was administered as a district starting in 1884, with a governor appointed by the united states president. a federal district court was headquartered in sitka. for most of alaska ' s first decade under the united states flag, sitka was the only community inhabited by american settlers. they organized a " provisional city government ", which was alaska ' s first municipal government, but not in a legal sense. legislation allowing alaskan communities to legally incorporate as cities did not come about until 1900, and home rule for cities was extremely limited or unavailable until statehood took effect in 1959. alaska as an incorporated u. s. territory starting in the 1890s and stretching in some places to the early 1910s, gold rushes in alaska and the nearby yukon territory brought thousands of miners and settlers to alaska. alaska was officially incorporated as an organized territory in 1912. alaska ' s capital, which had been in sitka until 1906, was moved north to juneau. construction of the alaska governor ' s mansion began that same year. european immigrants from norway and sweden also settled in southeast alaska, where they entered the