illinois, and st. louis built new boats or modified steamboats for action. the confederacy experimented with the submarine, which did not work satisfactorily, and with building an ironclad ship,, which was based on rebuilding a sunken union ship,. on its first foray, on march 8, 1862, virginia inflicted significant damage to the union ' s wooden fleet, but the next day the first union ironclad,, arrived to challenge it in the chesapeake bay. the resulting three - hour battle of hampton roads was a draw, but it proved that ironclads were effective warships. not long after the battle, the confederacy was forced to scuttle the virginia to prevent its capture, while the union built many copies of the monitor. lacking the technology and infrastructure to build effective warships, the confederacy attempted to obtain warships from great britain. however, this failed, because great britain had no interest in selling warships to a nation that was at war with a stronger enemy, and doing so could sour relations with the u. s. union blockade by early 1861, general winfield scott had devised the anaconda plan to win the war with as little bloodshed as possible, which called for blockading the confederacy and slowly suffocating the south to surrender. lincoln adopted parts of the plan, but chose to prosecute a more active vision of war. in april 1861, lincoln announced the union blockade of all southern ports ; commercial ships could not get insurance and regular traffic ended. the south blundered in embargoing cotton exports in 1861 before the blockade was effective ; by the time they realized the mistake, it was too late. " king cotton " was dead, as the south could export less than 10 percent of its cotton. the blockade shut down the ten confederate seaports with railheads that moved almost all the cotton, especially new orleans, mobile, and charleston. by june 1861, warships were stationed off the principal southern ports, and a year later nearly 300 ships were in service. blockade runners the confederates began the war short on military supplies and in desperate need of large quantities of arms which the agrarian south could not provide. arms manufactures in the industrial north were restricted by an arms embargo, keeping shipments of arms from going to the south, and ending all existing and future contracts. the confederacy subsequently looked to foreign sources for their enormous military needs and sought out financiers and companies like s. isaac, campbell & company and the london armoury company in britain, who acted as purchasing agents for the confederacy