associated with a trend toward lower risk of cardiovascular events, and lower aspirin doses ( 75 or 81mg / day ) may optimize efficacy and safety for people requiring aspirin for long - term prevention. in children with kawasaki disease, aspirin is taken at dosages based on body weight, initially four times a day for up to two weeks and then at a lower dose once daily for a further six to eight weeks. adverse effects in october 2020, the us food and drug administration ( fda ) required the drug label to be updated for all nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory medications to describe the risk of kidney problems in unborn babies that result in low amniotic fluid. they recommend avoiding nsaids in pregnant women at 20 weeks or later in pregnancy. one exception to the recommendation is the use of low - dose 81mg aspirin at any point in pregnancy under the direction of a health care professional. contraindications aspirin should not be taken by people who are allergic to ibuprofen or naproxen, or who have salicylate intolerance or a more generalized drug intolerance to nsaids, and caution should be exercised in those with asthma or nsaid - precipitated bronchospasm. owing to its effect on the stomach lining, manufacturers recommend people with peptic ulcers, mild diabetes, or gastritis seek medical advice before using aspirin. even if none of these conditions is present, the risk of stomach bleeding is still increased when aspirin is taken with alcohol or warfarin. people with hemophilia or other bleeding tendencies should not take aspirin or other salicylates. aspirin is known to cause hemolytic anemia in people who have the genetic disease glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency, particularly in large doses and depending on the severity of the disease. use of aspirin during dengue fever is not recommended owing to increased bleeding tendency. aspirin taken at doses of ≤325 mg and ≤100 mg per day for ≥2 days can increase the odds of suffering a gout attack by 81 % and 91 % respectively. this effect may potentially be worsened by high purine diets, diuretics, and kidney disease, but is eliminated by the urate lowering drug allopurinol. daily low dose aspirin does not appear to worsen kidney function. aspirin may reduce cardiovascular risk in those without established cardiovascular disease