the entire head is able to pivot its floral stem in the course of the day to track the sun ( like a " smart " solar panel ), thus maximizing the reflectivity of the entire floral unit and further attracting flying pollinators. nearest to the flower stem lie a series of small, usually green, scale - like bracts. these are known as phyllaries ; collectively, they form the involucre, which serves to protect the immature head of florets during its development. the individual florets are arranged atop a dome - like structure called the receptacle. the individual florets in a head consist, developmentally, of five fused petals ( rarely four ) ; instead of sepals, they have threadlike, hairy, or bristly structures, known collectively as a pappus, ( plural pappi ). the pappus surrounds the ovary and can, when mature and attached to a seed, adhere to animal fur or be carried by air currents, aiding in seed dispersal. the whitish, fluffy head of a dandelion, commonly blown on by children, consists of numerous seeds resting on the receptacle, each seed attached to its pappus. the pappi provide a parachute - like structure to help the seed travel from its point of origin to a more hospitable site. a ray flower is a two - or three - lobed, strap - shaped, individual flower, found in the head of most members of the asteraceae. the corolla of the ray flower may have two tiny, vestigial teeth, opposite to the three - lobed strap, or tongue, indicating its evolution by fusion from an ancestral, five - part corolla. in some species, the 3 : 2 arrangement is reversed, with two lobes, and zero or three tiny teeth visible opposite the tongue. a ligulate flower is a five - lobed, strap - shaped, individual flower found in the heads of certain other asteraceous species. a ligule is the strap - shaped tongue of the corolla of either a ray flower or of a ligulate flower. a disk flower ( or disc flower ) is a radially symmetric individual flower in the head, which is ringed by the ray flowers when both are present. in some species, ray flowers may be arranged around the disc in irregular symmetry, or with a weakly bilaterally symmetric arrangement. variations a radiate head has disc flowers surrounded by