alfred was better prepared to confront them with a standing, mobile field army, a network of garrisons and a small fleet of ships navigating the rivers and estuaries. administration and taxation tenants in anglo - saxon england had a threefold obligation based on their landholding : the so - called " common burdens " of military service, fortress work, and bridge repair. this threefold obligation has traditionally been called trinoda necessitas or trimoda necessitas. the old english name for the fine due for neglecting military service was. to maintain the burhs, and to reorganise the fyrd as a standing army, alfred expanded the tax and conscription system based on the productivity of a tenant ' s landholding. the hide was the basic unit of the system on which the tenant ' s public obligations were assessed. a hide is thought to represent the amount of land required to support one family. the hide differed in size according to the value and resources of the land and the landowner would have to provide service based on how many hides he owned. burghal system the foundation of alfred ' s new military defence system was a network of burhs, distributed at tactical points throughout the kingdom. there were thirty - three burhs, about apart, enabling the military to confront attacks anywhere in the kingdom within a day. alfred ' s burhs ( of which 22 developed into boroughs ) ranged from former roman towns, such as winchester, where the stone walls were repaired and ditches added, to massive earthen walls surrounded by wide ditches, probably reinforced with wooden revetments and palisades, such as at burpham in west sussex. the size of the burhs ranged from tiny outposts such as pilton in devon, to large fortifications in established towns, the largest being at winchester. a document now known as the burghal hidage provides an insight into how the system worked. it lists the hidage for each of the fortified towns contained in the document. wallingford had a hidage of 2, 400, which meant that the landowners there were responsible for supplying and feeding 2, 400 men, the number sufficient for maintaining of wall. a total of 27, 071 soldiers were needed, approximately one in four of all the free men in wessex. many of the burhs were twin towns that straddled a river and were connected by a fortified bridge, like those built by charles the bald a generation before. the double - burh blocked passage on