may become a personal assistant in offices and homes in future, or she may become a companion for the young and the elderly. assoc prof gerald seet from the school of mechanical & aerospace engineering and the beingthere centre led a three - year r & d development in tele - presence robotics, creating edgar. a remote user can control edgar with the user ' s face and expressions displayed on the robot ' s face in real time. the robot also mimics their upper body movements. south korea kitech researched and developed ever - 1, an android interpersonal communications model capable of emulating human emotional expression via facial " musculature " and capable of rudimentary conversation, having a vocabulary of around 400 words. she is tall and weighs, matching the average figure of a korean woman in her twenties. ever - 1 ' s name derives from the biblical eve, plus the letter r for robot. ever - 1 ' s advanced computing processing power enables speech recognition and vocal synthesis, at the same time processing lip synchronization and visual recognition by 90 - degree micro - ccd cameras with face recognition technology. an independent microchip inside her artificial brain handles gesture expression, body coordination, and emotion expression. her whole body is made of highly advanced synthetic jelly silicon and with 60 artificial joints in her face, neck, and lower body ; she is able to demonstrate realistic facial expressions and sing while simultaneously dancing. in south korea, the ministry of information and communication had an ambitious plan to put a robot in every household by 2020. several robot cities have been planned for the country : the first will be built in 2016 at a cost of 500 billion won ( us $ 440 million ), of which 50 billion is direct government investment. the new robot city will feature research and development centers for manufacturers and part suppliers, as well as exhibition halls and a stadium for robot competitions. the country ' s new robotics ethics charter will establish ground rules and laws for human interaction with robots in the future, setting standards for robotics users and manufacturers, as well as guidelines on ethical standards to be programmed into robots to prevent human abuse of robots and vice versa. united states walt disney and a staff of imagineers created great moments with mr. lincoln that debuted at the 1964 new york world ' s fair. dr. william barry, an education futurist and former visiting west point professor of philosophy and ethical reasoning at the united states military academy, created an ai android character named " maria bot ". this interface ai android was named after the infamous fictional robot maria