shovel to dig in the mud. however, some linguistic contexts do not provide sufficient information to make a used word clearer. lexical ambiguity can be addressed by algorithmic methods that automatically associate the appropriate meaning with a word in context, a task referred to as word - sense disambiguation. the use of multi - defined words requires the author or speaker to clarify their context, and sometimes elaborate on their specific intended meaning ( in which case, a less ambiguous term should have been used ). the goal of clear concise communication is that the receiver ( s ) have no misunderstanding about what was meant to be conveyed. an exception to this could include a politician whose " weasel words " and obfuscation are necessary to gain support from multiple constituents with mutually exclusive conflicting desires from his or her candidate of choice. ambiguity is a powerful tool of political science. more problematic are words whose multiple meanings express closely related concepts. " good ", for example, can mean " useful " or " functional " ( that ' s a good hammer ), " exemplary " ( she ' s a good student ), " pleasing " ( this is good soup ), " moral " ( a good person versus the lesson to be learned from a story ), " righteous ", etc. " i have a good daughter " is not clear about which sense is intended. the various ways to apply prefixes and suffixes can also create ambiguity ( " unlockable " can mean " capable of being opened " or " impossible to lock " ). semantic and syntactic ambiguity semantic ambiguity occurs when a word, phrase or sentence, taken out of context, has more than one interpretation. in " we saw her duck " ( example due to richard nordquist ), the words " her duck " can refer either to the person ' s bird ( the noun " duck ", modified by the possessive pronoun " her " ), or to a motion she made ( the verb " duck ", the subject of which is the objective pronoun " her ", object of the verb " saw " ). syntactic ambiguity arises when a sentence can have two ( or more ) different meanings because of the structure of the sentence — its syntax. this is often due to a modifying expression, such as a prepositional phrase, the application of which is unclear. " he ate the cookies on the couch ", for example, could mean that he ate those cookies that were on the couch ( as opposed to those that were on the table ), or it could