improving the site appearance in general ( while applets like news tickers or wysiwyg editors are also known ). applets could also play media in formats that are not natively supported by the browser. html pages could embed parameters that were passed to the applet. hence, the same applet could appear differently depending on the parameters that were passed. examples of web - based applets include : quicktime movies flash movies windows media player applets, used to display embedded video files in internet explorer ( and other browsers that supported the plugin ) 3d modeling display applets, used to rotate and zoom a model browser games that were applet - based, though some developed into fully functional applications that required installation. applet vs. subroutine a larger application distinguishes its applets through several features : applets execute only on the " client " platform environment of a system, as contrasted from " servlet ". as such, an applet provides functionality or performance beyond the default capabilities of its container ( the browser ). the container restricts applets ' capabilities. applets are written in a language different from the scripting or html language that invokes it. the applet is written in a compiled language, whereas the scripting language of the container is an interpreted language, hence the greater performance or functionality of the applet. unlike a subroutine, a complete web component can be implemented as an applet. java applets a java applet is a java program that is launched from html and run in a web browser. it takes code from server and run in a web browser. it can provide web applications with interactive features that cannot be provided by html. since java ' s bytecode is platform - independent, java applets can be executed by browsers running under many platforms, including windows, unix, macos, and linux. when a java technology - enabled web browser processes a page that contains an applet, the applet ' s code is transferred to the client ' s system and executed by the browser ' s java virtual machine. an html page references an applet either via the deprecated tag or via its replacement, the tag. security recent developments in the coding of applications, including mobile and embedded systems, have led to the awareness of the security of applets. open platform applets applets in an open platform environment should provide secure interactions between different applications. a compositional approach can be used to provide security for open platform applets. advanced compositional verification methods have