and strength while for drago ' s quantitative ecw model the two properties are electrostatic and covalent. chemical characteristics monoprotic acids monoprotic acids, also known as monobasic acids, are those acids that are able to donate one proton per molecule during the process of dissociation ( sometimes called ionization ) as shown below ( symbolized by ha ) : ka common examples of monoprotic acids in mineral acids include hydrochloric acid ( hcl ) and nitric acid ( hno3 ). on the other hand, for organic acids the term mainly indicates the presence of one carboxylic acid group and sometimes these acids are known as monocarboxylic acid. examples in organic acids include formic acid ( hcooh ), acetic acid ( ch3cooh ) and benzoic acid ( c6h5cooh ). polyprotic acids polyprotic acids, also known as polybasic acids, are able to donate more than one proton per acid molecule, in contrast to monoprotic acids that only donate one proton per molecule. specific types of polyprotic acids have more specific names, such as diprotic ( or dibasic ) acid ( two potential protons to donate ), and triprotic ( or tribasic ) acid ( three potential protons to donate ). some macromolecules such as proteins and nucleic acids can have a very large number of acidic protons. a diprotic acid ( here symbolized by h2a ) can undergo one or two dissociations depending on the ph. each dissociation has its own dissociation constant, ka1 and ka2. ka1 ka2 the first dissociation constant is typically greater than the second ( i. e., ka1 > ka2 ). for example, sulfuric acid ( h2so4 ) can donate one proton to form the bisulfate anion ( hso ), for which ka1 is very large ; then it can donate a second proton to form the sulfate anion ( so ), wherein the ka2 is intermediate strength. the large ka1 for the first dissociation makes sulfuric a strong acid. in a similar manner, the weak unstable carbonic acid can lose one proton to form bicarbonate anion and lose a second to form carbonate anion ( co ). both ka values are small, but ka1 > ka2. a triprotic acid ( h3a )