hard of hearing and those with speech impairments. when title iv took effect in the early 1990s, it led to the installation of public teletypewriter ( tty ) machines and other tdd ( telecommunications devices for the deaf ). title iv also led to the creation, in all 50 states and the district of columbia, of what was then called dual - party relay services and now are known as telecommunications relay services ( trs ), such as sts relay. today, many trs - mediated calls are made over the internet by consumers who use broadband connections. some are video relay service ( vrs ) calls, while others are text calls. in either variation, communication assistants translate between the signed or typed words of a consumer and the spoken words of others. in 2006, according to the federal communications commission ( fcc ), vrs calls averaged two million minutes a month. title v — miscellaneous provisions title v includes technical provisions. it discusses, for example, the fact that nothing in the ada amends, overrides or cancels anything in section 504. additionally, title v includes an anti - retaliation or coercion provision. the technical assistance manual for the ada explains this provision : history the ada has roots in section 504 of the rehabilitation act of 1973. drafting in 1986, the national council on disability ( ncd ), an independent federal agency, issued a report, towards independence, in which the council examined incentives and disincentives in federal laws towards increasing the independence and full integration of people with disabilities into u. s. society. among the disincentives to independence the council identified was the existence of large remaining gaps in civil rights coverage for people with disabilities in the united states. a principal conclusion of the report was to recommend the adoption of comprehensive civil rights legislation, which became the ada. the idea of federal legislation enhancing and extending civil rights legislation to millions of americans with disabilities gained bipartisan support in late 1988 and early 1989. in early 1989 both congress and the newly inaugurated bush white house worked separately, then jointly, to write legislation capable of expanding civil rights without imposing undue harm or costs on those already in compliance with existing rules and laws. lobbying over the years, key activists and advocates played an important role in lobbying members of the u. s. congress to develop and pass the ada, including justin whitlock dart jr., patrisha wright and others. ms. wright is known as " the general " for her work in coordinating the campaign to enact the ada. she is