##urines are early representations of athena. nilsson and others have claimed that, in early times, athena was either an owl herself or a bird goddess in general. in the third book of the odyssey, she takes the form of a sea - eagle. proponents of this view argue that she dropped her prophylactic owl mask before she lost her wings. " athena, by the time she appears in art, " jane ellen harrison remarks, " has completely shed her animal form, has reduced the shapes she once wore of snake and bird to attributes, but occasionally in black - figure vase - paintings she still appears with wings. " it is generally agreed that the cult of athena preserves some aspects of the proto - indo - european transfunctional goddess. the cult of athena may have also been influenced by those of near eastern warrior goddesses such as the east semitic ishtar and the ugaritic anat, both of whom were often portrayed bearing arms. classical scholar charles penglase notes that athena resembles inanna in her role as a " terrifying warrior goddess " and that both goddesses were closely linked with creation. athena ' s birth from the head of zeus may be derived from the earlier sumerian myth of inanna ' s descent into and return from the underworld. plato notes that the citizens of sais in egypt worshipped a goddess known as neith, whom he identifies with athena. neith was the ancient egyptian goddess of war and hunting, who was also associated with weaving ; her worship began during the egyptian pre - dynastic period. in greek mythology, athena was reported to have visited mythological sites in north africa, including libya ' s triton river and the phlegraean plain. based on these similarities, the sinologist martin bernal created the " black athena " hypothesis, which claimed that neith was brought to greece from egypt, along with " an enormous number of features of civilization and culture in the third and second millennia ". the " black athena " hypothesis stirred up widespread controversy near the end of the twentieth century, but it has now been widely rejected by modern scholars. epithets and attributes athena was known as atrytone ( " the unwearying " ), parthenos ( " virgin " ), and promachos ( " she who fights in front " ). the epithet polias ( πολιας " of the city " ), refers to athena ' s role as protectress of the city. the epithet ergane ( εργανη " the industrious