the southeast. in 2000, the u. s. congress authorized $ 6 million to study the feasibility of a rail link between alaska, canada, and the lower 48. as of 2021, the alaska - alberta railway development corporation had been placed into receivership. some private companies provides car float service between whittier and seattle. marine transport many cities, towns and villages in the state do not have road or highway access ; the only modes of access involve travel by air, river, or the sea. alaska ' s well - developed state - owned ferry system ( known as the alaska marine highway ) serves the cities of southeast, the gulf coast and the alaska peninsula. the ferries transport vehicles as well as passengers. the system also operates a ferry service from bellingham, washington and prince rupert, british columbia, in canada through the inside passage to skagway. the inter - island ferry authority also serves as an important marine link for many communities in the prince of wales island region of southeast and works in concert with the alaska marine highway. in recent years, cruise lines have created a summertime tourism market, mainly connecting the pacific northwest to southeast alaska and, to a lesser degree, towns along alaska ' s gulf coast. the population of ketchikan for example fluctuates dramatically on many days — up to four large cruise ships can dock there at the same time. air transport cities not served by road, sea, or river can be reached only by air, foot, dogsled, or snowmachine, accounting for alaska ' s extremely well developed bush air services — an alaskan novelty. anchorage and, to a lesser extent fairbanks, is served by many major airlines. because of limited highway access, air travel remains the most efficient form of transportation in and out of the state. anchorage recently completed extensive remodeling and construction at ted stevens anchorage international airport to help accommodate the upsurge in tourism ( in 2012 – 2013, alaska received almost two million visitors ). making regular flights to most villages and towns within the state commercially viable is difficult, so they are heavily subsidized by the federal government through the essential air service program. alaska airlines is the only major airline offering in - state travel with jet service ( sometimes in combination cargo and passenger boeing 737 - 400s ) from anchorage and fairbanks to regional hubs like bethel, nome, kotzebue, dillingham, kodiak, and other larger communities as well as to major southeast and alaska peninsula communities. the bulk of remaining commercial flight offerings