rising algerian folk singer. other algerian singers of the diaspora include manel filali in germany and kenza farah in france. tergui music is sung in tuareg languages generally, tinariwen had a worldwide success. finally, the staifi music is born in setif and remains a unique style of its kind. modern music is available in several facets, rai music is a style typical of western algeria. rap, a relatively recent style in algeria, is experiencing significant growth. cinema the algerian state ' s interest in film - industry activities can be seen in the annual budget of dzd 200 million ( eur 1. 3 million ) allocated to production, specific measures and an ambitious programme plan implemented by the ministry of culture in order to promote national production, renovate the cinema stock and remedy the weak links in distribution and exploitation. the financial support provided by the state, through the fund for the development of the arts, techniques and the film industry ( fdatic ) and the algerian agency for cultural influence ( aarc ), plays a key role in the promotion of national production. between 2007 and 2013, fdatic subsidised 98 films ( feature films, documentaries and short films ). in mid - 2013, aarc had already supported a total of 78 films, including 42 feature films, 6 short films and 30 documentaries. according to the european audiovisual observatory ' s lumiere database, 41 algerian films were distributed in europe between 1996 and 2013 ; 21 films in this repertoire were algerian - french co - productions. days of glory ( 2006 ) and outside the law ( 2010 ) recorded the highest number of admissions in the european union, 3, 172, 612 and 474, 722, respectively. algeria won the for chronicle of the years of fire ( 1975 ), two oscars for z ( 1969 ), and other awards for the italian - algerian movie the battle of algiers. cuisine algerian cuisine is rich and diverse. the country was considered as the " granary of rome ". it offers a component of dishes and varied dishes, depending on the region and according to the seasons. the cuisine uses cereals as the main products, since they are always produced with abundance in the country. there is not a dish where cereals are not present. algerian cuisine varies from one region to another, according to seasonal vegetables. it can be prepared using meat, fish and vegetables. among the dishes known, couscous, chorba, rechta, chakhchoukha, berkouk