was published in 1941. following lovecraft ' s death, derleth wrote a number of stories based on fragments and notes left by lovecraft. these were published in weird tales and later in book form, under the byline " h. p. lovecraft and august derleth ", with derleth calling himself a " posthumous collaborator. " this practice has raised objections in some quarters that derleth simply used lovecraft ' s name to market what was essentially his own fiction ; s. t. joshi refers to the " posthumous collaborations " as marking the beginning of " perhaps the most disreputable phase of derleth ' s activities ". dirk w. mosig, s. t. joshi, and richard l. tierney were dissatisfied with derleth ' s invention of the term cthulhu mythos ( lovecraft himself used yog - sothothery ) and his presentation of lovecraft ' s fiction as having an overall pattern reflecting derleth ' s own christian world view, which they contrast with lovecraft ' s depiction of an amoral universe. however, robert m. price points out that while derleth ' s tales are distinct from lovecraft ' s in their use of hope and his depiction of a struggle between good and evil, nevertheless the basis of derlerth ' s systemization are found in lovecraft. he also suggests that the differences can be overstated : derleth was more optimistic than lovecraft in his conception of the mythos, but we are dealing with a difference more of degree than kind. there are indeed tales wherein derleth ' s protagonists get off scot - free ( like " the shadow in the attic ", " witches ' hollow ", or " the shuttered room " ), but often the hero is doomed ( e. g., " the house in the valley ", " the peabody heritage ", " something in wood " ), as in lovecraft. and it must be remembered that an occasional lovecraftian hero does manage to overcome the odds, e. g., in " the horror in the museum ", " the shunned house ", and ' the case of charles dexter ward '. derleth also treated lovecraft ' s great old ones as representatives of elemental forces, creating new fictional entities to flesh out this framework. such debates aside, derleth ' s founding of arkham house and his successful effort to rescue lovecraft from literary oblivion are widely acknowledged by practitioners in the horror