range is related to occitan ; the german dialects derive from germanic tribal languages. romansh, spoken by two percent of the population in southeast switzerland, is an ancient rhaeto - romanic language derived from latin, remnants of ancient celtic languages and perhaps etruscan. much of the alpine culture is unchanged since the medieval period when skills that guaranteed survival in the mountain valleys and the highest villages became mainstays, leading to strong traditions of carpentry, woodcarving, baking, pastry - making, and cheesemaking. farming has been a traditional occupation for centuries, although it became less dominant in the 20th century with the advent of tourism. grazing and pasture land are limited because of the steep and rocky topography of the alps. in mid - june, cows are moved to the highest pastures close to the snowline, where they are watched by herdsmen who stay in the high altitudes often living in stone huts or wooden barns during the summers. villagers celebrate the day the cows are herded up to the pastures and again when they return in mid - september. the almabtrieb, alpabzug, alpabfahrt, desalpes ( " coming down from the alps " ) is celebrated by decorating the cows with garlands and enormous cowbells while the farmers dress in traditional costumes. cheesemaking is an ancient tradition in most alpine countries. a wheel of cheese from the emmental in switzerland can weigh up to, and the beaufort in savoy can weigh up to. owners of the cows traditionally receive from the cheesemakers a portion about the proportion of the cows ' milk from the summer months in the high alps. haymaking is an important farming activity in mountain villages that have become somewhat mechanized in recent years, although the slopes are so steep that scythes are usually necessary to cut the grass. hay is normally brought in twice a year, often also on festival days. in the high villages, people live in homes built according to medieval designs that withstand cold winters. the kitchen is separated from the living area ( called the stube, the area of the home heated by a stove ), and second - floor bedrooms benefit from rising heat. the typical swiss chalet originated in the bernese oberland. chalets often face south or downhill and are built of solid wood, with a steeply gabled roof to allow accumulated snow to slide off easily. stairs leading to upper levels are sometimes built on the outside, and balconies are sometimes enclosed. food is passed from the kitchen to the stube,