: north - east atlantic north - east atlantic is schematically limited to the 40°00 ' west longitude ( except around greenland ), south to the 36°00 ' north latitude, and to the 68°30 ' east longitude, with both the west and east longitude limits reaching to the north pole. the atlantic ' s subareas include : barents sea ; norwegian sea, spitzbergen, and bear island ; skagerrak, kattegat, sound, belt sea, and baltic sea ; north sea ; iceland and faroes grounds ; rockall, northwest coast of scotland, and north ireland ; irish sea, west of ireland, porcupine bank, and eastern and western english channel ; bay of biscay ; portuguese waters ; azores grounds and northeast atlantic south ; north of azores ; and east greenland. there are also two defunct subareas. in the north - east atlantic total catches decreased between the mid - 1970s and the 1990s and reached 8. 7 million tons in 2013. blue whiting reached a 2. 4 million tons peak in 2004 but was down to 628, 000 tons in 2013. recovery plans for cod, sole, and plaice have reduced mortality in these species. arctic cod reached its lowest levels in the 1960s – 1980s but is now recovered. arctic saithe and haddock are considered fully fished ; sand eel is overfished as was capelin which has now recovered to fully fished. limited data makes the state of redfishes and deep - water species difficult to assess but most likely they remain vulnerable to overfishing. stocks of northern shrimp and norwegian lobster are in good condition. in the north - east atlantic 21 % of stocks are considered overfished. this zone makes almost three quarters ( 72. 8 % ) of european union fishing catches in 2020. main fishing eu countries are denmark, france, the netherlands and spain. most common species include herring, mackerel and sprats. north - west atlantic in the north - west atlantic landings have decreased from 4. 2 million tons in the early 1970s to 1. 9 million tons in 2013. during the 21st century some species have shown weak signs of recovery, including greenland halibut, yellowtail flounder, atlantic halibut, haddock, spiny dogfish, while other stocks shown no such signs, including cod, witch flounder, and redfish. stocks of invertebrates, in contrast, remain at record levels of abundance. 31 % of stocks are overfished in the north