commonly called alumina. it can be found in nature in the mineral corundum, α - alumina ; there is also a γ - alumina phase. its crystalline form, corundum, is very hard ( mohs hardness 9 ), has a high melting point of, has very low volatility, is chemically inert, and a good electrical insulator, it is often used in abrasives ( such as toothpaste ), as a refractory material, and in ceramics, as well as being the starting material for the electrolytic production of aluminium metal. sapphire and ruby are impure corundum contaminated with trace amounts of other metals. the two main oxide - hydroxides, alo ( oh ), are boehmite and diaspore. there are three main trihydroxides : bayerite, gibbsite, and nordstrandite, which differ in their crystalline structure ( polymorphs ). many other intermediate and related structures are also known. most are produced from ores by a variety of wet processes using acid and base. heating the hydroxides leads to formation of corundum. these materials are of central importance to the production of aluminium and are themselves extremely useful. some mixed oxide phases are also very useful, such as spinel ( mgal2o4 ), na - β - alumina ( naal11o17 ), and tricalcium aluminate ( ca3al2o6, an important mineral phase in portland cement ). the only stable chalcogenides under normal conditions are aluminium sulfide ( al2s3 ), selenide ( al2se3 ), and telluride ( al2te3 ). all three are prepared by direct reaction of their elements at about and quickly hydrolyze completely in water to yield aluminium hydroxide and the respective hydrogen chalcogenide. as aluminium is a small atom relative to these chalcogens, these have four - coordinate tetrahedral aluminium with various polymorphs having structures related to wurtzite, with two - thirds of the possible metal sites occupied either in an orderly ( α ) or random ( β ) fashion ; the sulfide also has a γ form related to γ - alumina, and an unusual high - temperature hexagonal form where half the aluminium atoms have tetrahedral four - coordination and the other half have trigonal bipyramidal five - coordination