left over disagreements with the director. in the film, two men casually meet, one of whom speculates on a foolproof method to murder ; he suggests that two people, each wishing to do away with someone, should each perform the other ' s murder. farley granger ' s role was as the innocent victim of the scheme, while robert walker, previously known for " boy - next - door " roles, played the villain. i confess ( 1953 ) was set in quebec with montgomery clift as a catholic priest. peak years : 1954 – 1964 dial m for murder and rear window i confess was followed by three colour films starring grace kelly : dial m for murder ( 1954 ), rear window ( 1954 ) and to catch a thief ( 1955 ). in dial m for murder, ray milland plays the villain who tries to murder his unfaithful wife ( kelly ) for her money. she kills the hired assassin in self - defence, so milland manipulates the evidence to make it look like murder. her lover, mark halliday ( robert cummings ), and police inspector hubbard ( john williams ) save her from execution. hitchcock experimented with 3d cinematography for dial m for murder. hitchcock moved to paramount pictures and filmed rear window ( 1954 ), starring james stewart and grace kelly, as well as thelma ritter and raymond burr. stewart ' s character is a photographer named jeff ( based on robert capa ) who must temporarily use a wheelchair. out of boredom, he begins observing his neighbours across the courtyard, then becomes convinced that one of them ( raymond burr ) has murdered his wife. jeff eventually manages to convince his policeman buddy ( wendell corey ) and his girlfriend ( kelly ). as with lifeboat and rope, the principal characters are depicted in confined or cramped quarters, in this case stewart ' s studio apartment. hitchcock uses close - ups of stewart ' s face to show his character ' s reactions, " from the comic voyeurism directed at his neighbours to his helpless terror watching kelly and burr in the villain ' s apartment ". alfred hitchcock presents from 1955 to 1965, hitchcock was the host of the television series alfred hitchcock presents. with his droll delivery, gallows humour and iconic image, the series made hitchcock a celebrity. the title - sequence of the show pictured a minimalist caricature of his profile ( he drew it himself ; it is composed of only nine strokes ), which his real silhouette then filled. the series theme tune was funeral march of a marionette by the french composer charles go