##ish his family in greeneville. instead, he remained after word came that general ulysses s. grant had captured the confederate capital of richmond, virginia, presaging the end of the war. lincoln stated, in response to criticism of johnson ' s behavior, that " i have known andy johnson for many years ; he made a bad slip the other day, but you need not be scared ; andy ain ' t a drunkard. " presidency ( 1865 – 1869 ) accession on the afternoon of april 14, 1865, lincoln and johnson met for the first time since the inauguration. trefousse states that johnson wanted to " induce lincoln not to be too lenient with traitors " ; gordon - reed agrees. that night, president lincoln was shot and mortally wounded at ford ' s theatre by john wilkes booth, a confederate sympathizer. the shooting of the president was part of a conspiracy to assassinate lincoln, johnson, and seward the same night. seward barely survived his wounds, while johnson escaped attack as his would - be assassin, george atzerodt, got drunk instead of killing the vice president. leonard j. farwell, a fellow boarder at the kirkwood house, awoke johnson with news of lincoln ' s shooting. johnson rushed to the president ' s deathbed, where he remained a short time, on his return promising, " they shall suffer for this. they shall suffer for this. " lincoln died at 7 : 22 am the next morning ; johnson ' s swearing - in occurred between 10 and 11 am with chief justice salmon p. chase presiding in the presence of most of the cabinet. johnson ' s demeanor was described by the newspapers as " solemn and dignified ". some cabinet members had last seen johnson, apparently drunk, at the inauguration. at noon, johnson conducted his first cabinet meeting in the treasury secretary ' s office, and asked all members to remain in their positions. the events of the assassination resulted in speculation, then and subsequently, concerning johnson and what the conspirators might have intended for him. in the vain hope of having his life spared after his capture, atzerodt spoke much about the conspiracy, but did not say anything to indicate that the plotted assassination of johnson was merely a ruse. conspiracy theorists point to the fact that on the day of the assassination, booth came to the kirkwood house and left one of his cards with johnson ' s private secretary, william a. browning. the message on it was : " don ' t wish to disturb you. are