and cultural practices. ethnoarchaeology is a type of archaeology that studies the practices and material remains of living human groups in order to gain a better understanding of the evidence left behind by past human groups, who are presumed to have lived in similar ways. linguistic linguistic anthropology ( not to be confused with anthropological linguistics ) seeks to understand the processes of human communications, verbal and non - verbal, variation in language across time and space, the social uses of language, and the relationship between language and culture. it is the branch of anthropology that brings linguistic methods to bear on anthropological problems, linking the analysis of linguistic forms and processes to the interpretation of sociocultural processes. linguistic anthropologists often draw on related fields including sociolinguistics, pragmatics, cognitive linguistics, semiotics, discourse analysis, and narrative analysis. ethnography ethnography is a method of analysing social or cultural interaction. it often involves participant observation though an ethnographer may also draw from texts written by participants of in social interactions. ethnography views first - hand experience and social context as important. tim ingold distinguishes ethnography from anthropology arguing that anthropology tries to construct general theories of human experience, applicable in general and novel settings, while ethnography concerns itself with fidelity. he argues that the anthropologist must make his writing consistent with their understanding of literature and other theory, but notes that ethnography may be of use to the anthropologists and the fields inform one another. key topics by field : sociocultural art, media, music, dance and film art one of the central problems in the anthropology of art concerns the universality of ' art ' as a cultural phenomenon. several anthropologists have noted that the western categories of ' painting ', ' sculpture ', or ' literature ', conceived as independent artistic activities, do not exist, or exist in a significantly different form, in most non - western contexts. to surmount this difficulty, anthropologists of art have focused on formal features in objects which, without exclusively being ' artistic ', have certain evident ' aesthetic ' qualities. boas ' primitive art, claude levi - strauss ' the way of the masks ( 1982 ) or geertz ' s ' art as cultural system ' ( 1983 ) are some examples in this trend to transform the anthropology of ' art ' into an anthropology of culturally specific ' aesthetics '. media media anthropology ( also known as the anthropology of media or mass media ) emphasizes ethnographic studies as a means of understanding producers, audiences, and other cultural and