used in laboratories in uninsulated vessels without additional refrigeration. see liquid ammonia as a solvent. solvent properties ammonia readily dissolves in water. in an aqueous solution, it can be expelled by boiling. the aqueous solution of ammonia is basic. the maximum concentration of ammonia in water ( a saturated solution ) has a density of 0. 880 g / cm3 and is often known as '. 880 ammonia '. table of thermal and physical properties of saturated liquid ammonia : table of thermal and physical properties of ammonia ( ) at atmospheric pressure : decomposition at high temperature and in the presence of a suitable catalyst or in a pressurised vessel with constant volume and high temperature ( e. g. ), ammonia is decomposed into its constituent elements. decomposition of ammonia is a slightly endothermic process requiring 23 kj / mol ( 5. 5 kcal / mol ) of ammonia, and yields hydrogen and nitrogen gas. ammonia can also be used as a source of hydrogen for acid fuel cells if the unreacted ammonia can be removed. ruthenium and platinum catalysts were found to be the most active, whereas supported ni catalysts were less active. structure the ammonia molecule has a trigonal pyramidal shape as predicted by the valence shell electron pair repulsion theory ( vsepr theory ) with an experimentally determined bond angle of 106. 7°. the central nitrogen atom has five outer electrons with an additional electron from each hydrogen atom. this gives a total of eight electrons, or four electron pairs that are arranged tetrahedrally. three of these electron pairs are used as bond pairs, which leaves one lone pair of electrons. the lone pair repels more strongly than bond pairs ; therefore, the bond angle is not 109. 5°, as expected for a regular tetrahedral arrangement, but 106. 8°. this shape gives the molecule a dipole moment and makes it polar. the molecule ' s polarity, and especially its ability to form hydrogen bonds, makes ammonia highly miscible with water. the lone pair makes ammonia a base, a proton acceptor. ammonia is moderately basic ; a 1. 0 m aqueous solution has a ph of 11. 6, and if a strong acid is added to such a solution until the solution is neutral ( ), 99. 4 % of the ammonia molecules are protonated. temperature and salinity also affect the proportion of ammonium. the latter has the shape of a regular tetrahedron and is isoele