##llus produce the neurotransmitters gaba and dopamine, respectively. the neurotransmitters signal to the nervous system of the gastrointestinal tract, and those signals will be carried to the brain through the vagus nerve or the spinal system. this is demonstrated by the fact that altering the microbiome has shown anxiety - and depression - reducing effects in mice, but not in subjects without vagus nerves. another key pathway is the hpa axis, as mentioned above. the microbes can control the levels of cytokines in the body, and altering cytokine levels creates direct effects on areas of the brain such as the hypothalamus, the area that triggers hpa axis activity. the hpa axis regulates production of cortisol, a hormone that takes part in the body ' s stress response. when hpa activity spikes, cortisol levels increase, processing and reducing anxiety in stressful situations. these pathways, as well as the specific effects of individual taxa of microbes, are not yet completely clear, but the communication between the gut microbiome and the brain is undeniable, as is the ability of these pathways to alter anxiety levels. with this communication comes the potential to treat. prebiotics and probiotics have been shown to reduce anxiety. for example, experiments in which mice were given fructo - and galacto - oligosaccharide prebiotics and lactobacillus probiotics have both demonstrated a capability to reduce anxiety. in humans, results are not as concrete, but promising. genetics genetics and family history ( e. g. parental anxiety ) may put an individual at increased risk of an anxiety disorder, but generally external stimuli will trigger its onset or exacerbation. estimates of genetic influence on anxiety, based on studies of twins, range from 25 to 40 % depending on the specific type and age - group under study. for example, genetic differences account for about 43 % of variance in panic disorder and 28 % in generalized anxiety disorder. longitudinal twin studies have shown the moderate stability of anxiety from childhood through to adulthood is mainly influenced by stability in genetic influence. when investigating how anxiety is passed on from parents to children, it is important to account for sharing of genes as well as environments, for example using the intergenerational children - of - twins design. many studies in the past used a candidate gene approach to test whether single genes were associated with anxiety. these investigations were based on hypoth