, met with both hamid karzai, the former president of afghanistan, and abdullah abdullah, the former chairman of the high council for national reconciliation and former chief executive, in doha, qatar, with the aim of forming a national unity government. president ashraf ghani, having fled the country during the taliban advance to either tajikistan or uzbekistan, emerged in the united arab emirates and said that he supported such negotiations and was in talks to return to afghanistan. many figures within the taliban generally agreed that continuation of the 2004 constitution of afghanistan may, if correctly applied, be workable as the basis for the new religious state as their objections to the former government were political, and not religious. hours after the final flight of american troops left kabul on 30 august, a taliban official interviewed said that a new government would likely be announced as early as friday 3 september after jumu ' ah. it was added that hibatullah akhundzada would be officially named emir, with cabinet ministers being revealed at the arg in an official ceremony. abdul ghani baradar would be named head of government as prime minister, while other important positions would go to sirajuddin haqqani and mullah yaqoob. beneath the supreme leader, day - to - day governance will be entrusted to the cabinet. in a report by cnn - news18, sources said the new government was going to be governed similarly to iran with haibatullah akhundzada as supreme leader similar to the role of saayid ali khamenei, and would be based out of kandahar. baradar or yaqoob would be head of government as prime minister. the government ' s ministries and agencies will be under a cabinet presided over by the prime minister. the supreme leader would preside over an executive body known supreme council with anywhere from 11 to 72 members. abdul hakim haqqani is likely to be promoted to chief justice. according to the report, the new government will take place within the framework of an amended 1964 constitution of afghanistan. government formation was delayed due to concerns about forming a broad - based government acceptable to the international community. it was later added however that the taliban ' s rahbari shura, the group ' s leadership council was divided between the hardline haqqani network and moderate abdul ghani baradar over appointments needed to form an " inclusive " government. this culminated in a skirmish which led to baradar being injured and treated in pakistan. as of early