huntington, had been serving as president of the continental congress since september 28, 1779. u. s. under the articles the peace treaty left the united states independent and at peace but with an unsettled governmental structure. the articles envisioned a permanent confederation but granted to the congress — the only federal institution — little power to finance itself or to ensure that its resolutions were enforced. there was no president, no executive agencies, no judiciary, and no tax base. the absence of a tax base meant that there was no way to pay off state and national debts from the war years except by requesting money from the states, which seldom arrived. although historians generally agree that the articles were too weak to hold the fast - growing nation together, they do give credit to the settlement of the western issue, as the states voluntarily turned over their lands to national control. by 1783, with the end of the british blockade, the new nation was regaining its prosperity. however, trade opportunities were restricted by the mercantilism of the british and french empires. the ports of the british west indies were closed to all staple products which were not carried in british ships. france and spain established similar policies. simultaneously, new manufacturers faced sharp competition from british products which were suddenly available again. political unrest in several states and efforts by debtors to use popular government to erase their debts increased the anxiety of the political and economic elites which had led the revolution. the apparent inability of the congress to redeem the public obligations ( debts ) incurred during the war, or to become a forum for productive cooperation among the states to encourage commerce and economic development, only aggravated a gloomy situation. in 1786 – 87, shays ' rebellion, an uprising of dissidents in western massachusetts against the state court system, threatened the stability of state government. the continental congress printed paper money which was so depreciated that it ceased to pass as currency, spawning the expression " not worth a continental ". congress could not levy taxes and could only make requisitions upon the states. less than a million and a half dollars came into the treasury between 1781 and 1784, although the governors had been asked for two million in 1783 alone. when john adams went to london in 1785 as the first representative of the united states, he found it impossible to secure a treaty for unrestricted commerce. demands were made for favors and there was no assurance that individual states would agree to a treaty. adams stated it was necessary for the states to confer the power of passing navigation laws to congress, or that the