influence of the earth and orbit another celestial body. they had survived a mission that even the crew themselves had rated as having only a fifty - fifty chance of fully succeeding. the effect of apollo8 was summed up in a telegram from a stranger, received by borman after the mission, that stated simply, " thank you apollo8. you saved 1968. " one of the most famous aspects of the flight was the earthrise picture that the crew took as they came around for their fourth orbit of the moon. this was the first time that humans had taken such a picture while actually behind the camera, and it has been credited as one of the inspirations of the first earth day in 1970. it was selected as the first of life magazine ' s 100 photographs that changed the world. apollo 11 astronaut michael collins said, " eight ' s momentous historic significance was foremost " ; while space historian robert k. poole saw apollo8 as the most historically significant of all the apollo missions. the mission was the most widely covered by the media since the first american orbital flight, mercury - atlas 6 by john glenn, in 1962. there were 1, 200 journalists covering the mission, with the bbc ' s coverage broadcast in 54 countries in 15 different languages. the soviet newspaper pravda featured a quote from boris nikolaevich petrov, chairman of the soviet interkosmos program, who described the flight as an " outstanding achievement of american space sciences and technology ". it is estimated that a quarter of the people alive at the time saw — either live or delayed — the christmas eve transmission during the ninth orbit of the moon. the apollo8 broadcasts won an emmy award, the highest honor given by the academy of television arts & sciences. madalyn murray o ' hair, an atheist, later caused controversy by bringing a lawsuit against nasa over the reading from genesis. o ' hair wanted the courts to ban american astronauts — who were all government employees — from public prayer in space. though the case was rejected by the supreme court of the united states, apparently for lack of jurisdiction in outer space, it caused nasa to be skittish about the issue of religion throughout the rest of the apollo program. buzz aldrin, on apollo11, self - communicated presbyterian communion on the surface of the moon after landing ; he refrained from mentioning this publicly for several years and referred to it only obliquely at the time. in 1969, the united states post office department issued a postage stamp ( scott catalogue # 1371 ) commemorating the apollo8 flight around the moon