azerbaijan is a country in the caucasus region, situated at the juncture of eastern europe and west asia. three physical features dominate azerbaijan : the caspian sea, whose shoreline forms a natural boundary to the east ; the greater caucasus mountain range to the north ; and the extensive flatlands at the country ' s center. about the size of portugal or the us state of maine, azerbaijan has a total land area of approximately 86, 600 square kilometers, less than 1 % of the land area of the former soviet union. of the three transcaucasian states, azerbaijan has the greatest land area. special administrative subdivisions are the nakhchivan autonomous republic, which is separated from the rest of azerbaijan by a strip of armenian territory, and the nagorno - karabakh autonomous region, entirely within azerbaijan. the status of nagorno - karabakh is disputed by armenia, but is internationally recognized as territory of azerbaijan. located in the region of the southern caucasus mountains, azerbaijan borders the caspian sea to the east, georgia and russia to the north, iran to the south, and armenia to the southwest and west. a small part of nakhchivan also borders turkey to the northwest. the capital of azerbaijan is the ancient city of baku, which has the largest and best harbor on the caspian sea and has long been the center of the republic ' s oil industry. topography and drainage the elevation changes over a relatively short distance from lowlands to highlands ; nearly half the country is considered mountainous. notable physical features are the gently undulating hills of the subtropical southeastern coast, which are covered with tea plantations, orange groves, and lemon groves ; numerous mud volcanoes and mineral springs in the ravines of kobustan mountain near baku ; and coastal terrain that lies as much as twenty - eight meters below sea level. except for its eastern caspian shoreline and some areas bordering georgia and iran, azerbaijan is ringed by mountains. to the northeast, bordering russia ' s dagestan autonomous republic, is the greater caucasus range ; to the west, bordering armenia, is the lesser caucasus range. to the extreme southeast, the talysh mountains form part of the border with iran. the highest elevations occur in the greater caucasus, where mount bazarduzu rises 4, 466 meters above sea level. eight large rivers flow down from the caucasus ranges into the central kura - aras lowlands, alluvial flatlands and low delta areas along the seacoast designated by the azerbaijani name for the mtkvari river ( kura ) and its main tributary