to be an impediment to the war economy. the large capital investment was not repaid in military effectiveness. the rockets were built at an underground factory at mittelwerk. labor to build the a4 rockets came from the mittelbau - dora concentration camp. of the 60, 000 people who ended up at the camp 20, 000 died, due to the appalling conditions. on 14 april 1944, speer lost control of organisation todt to his deputy, franz xaver dorsch. he opposed the assassination attempt against hitler on 20 july 1944. he was not involved in the plot, and played a minor role in the regime ' s efforts to regain control over berlin after hitler survived. after the plot speer ' s rivals attacked some of his closest allies and his management system fell out of favor with radicals in the party. he lost yet more authority. defeat of nazi germany losses of territory and a dramatic expansion of the allied strategic bombing campaign caused the collapse of the german economy from late 1944. air attacks on the transport network were particularly effective, as they cut the main centres of production off from essential coal supplies. in january 1945, speer told goebbels that armaments production could be sustained for at least a year. however, he concluded that the war was lost after soviet forces captured the important silesian industrial region later that month. nevertheless, speer believed that germany should continue the war for as long as possible with the goal of winning better conditions from the allies than the unconditional surrender they insisted upon. during january and february, speer claimed that his ministry would deliver " decisive weapons " and a large increase in armaments production which would " bring about a dramatic change on the battlefield ". speer gained control over the railways in february, and asked heinrich himmler to supply concentration camp prisoners to work on their repair. by mid - march, speer had accepted that germany ' s economy would collapse within the next eight weeks. while he sought to frustrate directives to destroy industrial facilities in areas at risk of capture, so that they could be used after the war, he still supported the war ' s continuation. speer provided hitler with a memorandum on 15 march, which detailed germany ' s dire economic situation and sought approval to cease demolitions of infrastructure. three days later, he also proposed to hitler that germany ' s remaining military resources be concentrated along the rhine and vistula rivers in an attempt to prolong the fighting. this ignored military realities, as the german armed forces were unable