, on 28 august 1948, the united states proposed to the claimant countries some form of internationalization of antarctica, and the united kingdom supported this. chile responded by presenting a plan to suspend all antarctic claims for five to ten years while negotiating a final solution, but this did not find acceptance. in 1950, the interest of the united states to keep the soviet union away from antarctica was frustrated, when the soviets informed the claimant states that they would not accept any antarctic agreement in which they were not represented. the fear that the ussr would react by making a territorial claim, bringing the cold war to antarctica, led the united states to make none. international conflicts various international conflicts motivated the creation of an agreement for the antarctic. some incidents had occurred during the second world war, and a new one occurred in hope bay on 1 february 1952, when the argentine military fired warning shots at a group of britons. the response of the united kingdom was to send a warship that landed marines at the scene on 4 february. in 1949, argentina, chile, and the united kingdom signed a tripartite naval declaration committing not to send warships south of the 60th parallel south, which was renewed annually until 1961 when it was deemed unnecessary when the treaty entered into force. this tripartite declaration was signed after the tension generated when argentina sent a fleet of eight warships to antarctica in february 1948. on 17 january 1953, argentina reopened the lieutenant lasala refuge on deception island, leaving a sergeant and a corporal in the argentine navy. on 15 february, in the incident on deception island, 32 royal marines landed from the british frigate hms snipe armed with sten machine guns, rifles, and tear gas capturing the two argentine sailors. the argentine refuge and a nearby uninhabited chilean shelter were destroyed, and the argentine sailors were delivered to a ship from that country on 18 february near south georgia. a british detachment remained three months on the island while the frigate patrolled its waters until april. on 4 may 1955, the united kingdom filed two lawsuits, against argentina and chile respectively, before the international court of justice to declare the invalidity of the claims of the sovereignty of the two countries over antarctic and sub - antarctic areas. on 15 july 1955, the chilean government rejected the jurisdiction of the court in that case, and on 1 august, the argentine government also did so, so on 16 march 1956, the claims were closed. in 1956 and 1958, india tried unsuccessfully to bring the antarctic issue to the united nations general assembly. international geophysical year in 1950, the international council