childhood and came to hate the books that had thrust him into the public eye. christopher ' s marriage to his first cousin, lesley de selincourt, distanced him still further from his parents – lesley ' s father and christopher ' s mother had not spoken to each other for 30 years. death and legacy commemoration a. a. milne died at his home in hartfield, sussex, on 31 january 1956, nearly two weeks after his 74th birthday. a memorial service took place on 10 february at all hallows - by - the - tower church in london. the rights to a. a. milne ' s pooh books were left to four beneficiaries : his family, the royal literary fund, westminster school and the garrick club. after milne ' s death in 1956, thirteen days after his 74th birthday, his widow sold her rights to the pooh characters to stephen slesinger, whose widow sold the rights after slesinger ' s death to the walt disney company, which has made many pooh cartoon movies, a disney channel television show, as well as pooh - related merchandise. in 2001, the other beneficiaries sold their interest in the estate to the disney corporation for $ 350m. previously disney had been paying twice - yearly royalties to these beneficiaries. the estate of e. h. shepard also received a sum in the deal. the uk copyright on the text of the original winnie the pooh books expires on 1 january 2027 ; at the beginning of the year after the 70th anniversary of the author ' s death ( pma - 70 ), and has already expired in those countries with a pma - 50 rule. this applies to all of milne ' s works except those first published posthumously. the illustrations in the pooh books will remain under copyright until the same amount of time has passed, after the illustrator ' s death ; in the uk, this will be on 1 january 2047. in the us, copyright will not expire until 95 years after publication for each of milne ' s books first published before 1978, but this includes the illustrations. in 2008, a collection of original illustrations featuring winnie - the - pooh and his animal friends sold for more than £1. 2 million at auction in sotheby ' s, london. forbes magazine ranked winnie the pooh the most valuable fictional character in 2002 ; winnie the pooh merchandising products alone had annual sales of more than $ 5. 9 billion. in 2005, winnie the pooh