. dating and periodization the akkadian period is generally dated to 2334 – 2154 bc ( according to the middle chronology ). the short - chronology dates of 2270 – 2083 bc are now considered less likely. it was preceded by the early dynastic period of mesopotamia ( ed ) and succeeded by the ur iii period, although both transitions are blurry. for example, it is likely that the rise of sargon of akkad coincided with the late ed period and that the final akkadian kings ruled simultaneously with the gutian kings alongside rulers at the city - states of both uruk and lagash. the akkadian period is contemporary with eb iv ( in israel ), eb iva and ej iv ( in syria ), and eb iiib ( in turkey ). timeline of rulers the relative order of akkadian kings is clear, while noting that the ur iii version of the sumerian king list inverts the order of rimush and manishtushu. the absolute dates of their reigns are approximate ( as with all dates prior to the late bronze age collapse c. 1200 bc ). history and development of the empire pre - sargonic akkad the akkadian empire takes its name from the region and the city of akkad, both of which were localized in the general confluence area of the tigris and euphrates rivers. although the city of akkad has not yet been identified on the ground, it is known from various textual sources. among these is at least one text predating the reign of sargon. together with the fact that the name akkad is of non - akkadian origin, this suggests that the city of akkad may have already been occupied in pre - sargonic times. sargon of akkad the bible refers to akkad in genesis 10 : 10 – 12, which states : " the beginning of his nimrod ' s kingdom was babel, and erech, and accad, and calneh, in the land of shinar. out of that land he went forth into assyria, and built nineveh, and rehoboth - ir, and calah, and resen between nineveh and calah ( the same is the great city ). " nimrod ' s historical identity is unknown or debated, but nimrod has been identified as sargon of akkad by some, and others have compared him with