, making it a central component in the local economy. the biotech industry is well - established in the city, with many small - and medium - sized companies mainly focused on research and development. there are multiple big tech companies with offices in the city, including uber and google. several major companies are headquartered in aarhus, including four of the ten largest in the country. these include arla foods, one of the largest dairy groups in europe, salling group, denmark ' s largest retailer, jysk, a worldwide retailer of household goods, vestas, a global wind turbine manufacturer, terma a / s, a major defence and aerospace manufacturer, per aarsleff, a civil engineering company and several large retail companies. other large employers of note include krifa, systematic a / s, ), and bestseller a / s. since the early 2000s, the city has experienced an influx of larger companies moving from other parts of the jutland peninsula. port of aarhus the port of aarhus is one of the largest industrial ports in northern europe with the largest container terminal in denmark, processing more than 50 % of denmark ' s container traffic and accommodating the largest container vessels in the world. it is a municipal self - governing port with independent finances. the facilities handle some 9. 5 million tonnes of cargo a year ( 2012 ). grain is the principal export, while feedstuffs, stone, cement and coal are among the chief imports. since 2012 the port has faced increasing competition from the port of hamburg and freight volumes have decreased somewhat from the peak in 2008. the ferry terminal presents the only alternative to the great belt link for passenger transport between jutland and zealand. it has served different ferry companies since the first steamship route to copenhagen opened in 1830. currently, mols - linien operates the route and annually transports some two million passengers and a million vehicles. additional roll - on / roll - off cargo ferries serve finland and kalundborg on a weekly basis and smaller outlying danish ports at irregular intervals. since the early 2000s the port has increasingly become a destination for cruise lines operating in the baltic sea. tourism the aros art museum, the old town museum and tivoli friheden are among denmark ' s top tourist attractions. with a combined total of almost 1. 4 million visitors they represent the driving force behind tourism but other venues such as moesgard museum and kvindemuseet are also popular. the city ' s extensive shopping facilities are also said to be a major attraction for tourists,