in the zodiac and starry region, as rulers of the celestial phenomena which influence the earth and its inhabitants. birth and health, wealth and allotment, are considered to be mainly under their control. other sects betray still stronger partiality for astrological conceits. many of these specimens also are improperly ascribed to gnosticism, but the gnostic origin of others is too manifest to allow of contradiction. inscriptions, of which there are three kinds : those destitute of symbols or iconisms, engraved upon stone, iron, lead and silver plates, in greek, latin, coptic or other languages, of amuletic import, and in the form of prayers for health and protection. those with some symbol, as a serpent in an oval form. those with iconisms, at times very small, but often made the prominent object, so that the legend is limited to a single word or name. sometimes the legends are as important as the images. it is remarkable, however, that thus far none of the plates or medals found seem to have any of the forms or prayers reported by origen. it is necessary to distinguish those specimens that belong to the proper gnostic period from such as are indisputably of later origin, especially since there is a strong temptation to place those of more recent date among the older class. gallery anguipede in a great majority of instances the name abrasax is associated with a singular composite figure, having a chimera - like appearance somewhat resembling a basilisk or the greek primordial god chronos ( not to be confused with the greek titan cronus ). according to e. a. wallis budge, " as a pantheus, i. e. all - god, he appears on the amulets with the head of a cock ( phœbus ) or of a lion ( ra or mithras ), the body of a man, and his legs are serpents which terminate in scorpions, types of the agathodaimon. in his right hand he grasps a club, or a flail, and in his left is a round or oval shield. " this form was also referred to as the anguipede. budge surmised that abrasax was " a form of the adam kadmon of the kabbalists and the primal man whom god made in his own image ". some parts at least of the figure mentioned above are solar symbols, and the basilidian abrasax is manifestly connected with