agathias ), the name alamanni ( αλαμανοι ) means " all men ". it indicates that they were a conglomeration drawn from various germanic tribes. the romans and the greeks called them as such ( alamanni, all men, in the sense of a group composed of men of all groups in the region ). this derivation was accepted by edward gibbon, in his decline and fall of the roman empire and by the anonymous contributor of notes assembled from the papers of nicolas freret, published in 1753. this etymology has remained the standard derivation of the name. an alternative suggestion proposes derivation from * alah " sanctuary ". walafrid strabo in the ninth century remarked, in discussing the people of switzerland and the surrounding regions, that only foreigners called them the alemanni, but that they gave themselves the name of suebi. the suebi are given the alternative name of ziuwari ( as cyuuari ) in an old high german gloss, interpreted by jacob grimm as martem colentes ( " worshippers of mars " ). annio da viterbo a scholar and historian of the 15th century claimed the alemanni had their name from the hebrew language, as in hebrew the river rhine was translated into mannum and the people who live at its shores were called alemannus. this was refuted by beatus rhenanus, a humanist of the 16th century. rhenanus argued the term alemanni was meant for the whole germanic people only in late antiquity and before it was only meant to designate the population of an island in the north sea. first appearance in historical record early roman writers did not mention the alemanni, and it is likely that they had not yet come to exist. in his germania tacitus ( ad 90 ) does not mention the alemanni. he uses the term agri decumates to describe the region between the rhine, main and danube rivers. he says that it had once been the home of the helvetians, who had moved westwards into gaul in the time of julius caesar. the people living there in caesar ' s time are not germanic. instead, " reckless adventurers from gaul, emboldened by want, occupied this land of questionable ownership. after a while, our frontier having been advanced, and our military positions pushed forward, it was regarded as a remote nook of our empire and a part of a roman province. " the alemanni were first