, but congress eliminated the seat to prevent the appointment, and to ensure that he did not get to make any appointments eliminated the next vacancy as well, providing that the court would shrink by one justice when one next departed from office. johnson appointed his greeneville crony, samuel milligan, to the united states court of claims, where he served from 1868 until his death in 1874. reforms initiated in june 1866, johnson signed the southern homestead act into law, believing that the legislation would assist poor whites. around 28, 000 land claims were successfully patented, although few former slaves benefitted from the law, fraud was rampant, and much of the best land was off - limits, reserved for grants to veterans or railroads. in june 1868, johnson signed an eight - hour law passed by congress that established an eight - hour workday for laborers and mechanics employed by the federal government. although johnson told members of a workingmen ' s party delegation in baltimore that he could not directly commit himself to an eight - hour day, he nevertheless told the same delegation that he greatly favoured the " shortest number of hours consistent with the interests of all ". according to richard f. selcer, however, the good intentions behind the law were " immediately frustrated " as wages were cut by 20 %. completion of term johnson sought nomination by the 1868 democratic national convention in new york in july 1868. he remained very popular among southern whites, and boosted that popularity by issuing, just before the convention, a pardon ending the possibility of criminal proceedings against any confederate not already indicted, meaning that only davis and a few others still might face trial. on the first ballot, johnson was second to former ohio representative george h. pendleton, who had been his democratic opponent for vice president in 1864. johnson ' s support was mostly from the south, and fell away as the ballots passed. on the 22nd ballot, former new york governor horatio seymour was nominated, and the president received only four votes, all from tennessee. the conflict with congress continued. johnson sent congress proposals for amendments to limit the president to a single six - year term and make the president and the senate directly elected, and for term limits for judges. congress took no action on them. when the president was slow to officially report ratifications of the fourteenth amendment by the new southern legislatures, congress passed a bill, again over his veto, requiring him to do so within ten days of receipt. he still delayed as much as he could, but was required, in july 1868, to report the ratifications making the amendment part