to her in early 1866, he told his parents that he was prepared to give up his rights of succession in order to marry his beloved " dusenka ". on 19 may 1866, alexander ii informed his son that russia had come to an agreement with the parents of princess dagmar of denmark, the fiancee of his late elder brother nicholas. initially, alexander refused to travel to copenhagen because he wanted to marry maria. enraged, alexander ii ordered him to go straight to denmark and propose to princess dagmar. alexander wrote in his diary " farewell, dear dusenka. " despite his initial reluctance, alexander grew fond of dagmar. by the end of his life, they loved each other deeply. a few weeks after their wedding, he wrote in his diary : " god grant that... i may love my darling wife more and more... i often feel that i am not worthy of her, but even if this was true, i will do my best to be. " when she left his side, he missed her bitterly and complained : " my sweet darling minny, for five years we ' ve never been apart and gatchina is empty and sad without you. " in 1885, he commissioned peter carl faberge to produce the first of what were to become a series of jeweled easter eggs ( now called " faberge eggs " ) for her as an easter gift. dagmar was so delighted by the first hen egg that alexander gave her an egg every year as an easter tradition. after alexander died, his heir nicholas continued the tradition and commissioned two eggs, one for his wife, empress alexandra feodorovna, and one for his mother, dagmar, every easter. when she nursed him in his final illness, alexander told dagmar, " even before my death, i have got to known an angel. " he died in dagmar ' s arms, and his daughter olga noted that " my mother still held him in her arms " long after he died. alexander had six children by dagmar, five of whom survived into adulthood : nicholas ( b. 1868 ), george ( b. 1871 ), xenia ( b. 1875 ), michael ( b. 1878 ) and olga ( b. 1882 ). he told dagmar that " only with [ our children ] can i relax mentally, enjoy them and rejoice, looking at them. " he wrote in his diary that he " was crying like a baby " when dagmar gave