", a word attested indirectly through a derivation, a denominal verb in hesychius of alexandria ' s gloss ( " : ' to make war ' in persian " ), where it appears together with the indo - iranian root * kar - " make " ( from which sanskrit karma is also derived ). other scholars claim that the name is derived from the tupi word amassona, meaning " boat destroyer ". history geological history recent geological studies suggest that for millions of years the amazon river used to flow in the opposite direction - from east to west. eventually the andes mountains formed, blocking its flow to the pacific ocean, and causing it to switch directions to its current mouth in the atlantic ocean. pre - columbian era during what many archaeologists called the formative stage, amazonian societies were deeply involved in the emergence of south america ' s highland agrarian systems. the trade with andean civilizations in the terrains of the headwaters in the andes formed an essential contribution to the social and religious development of higher - altitude civilizations like the muisca and incas. early human settlements were typically based on low - lying hills or mounds. shell mounds were the earliest evidence of habitation ; they represent piles of human refuse ( waste ) and are mainly dated between 7500 bc and 4000 bc. they are associated with ceramic age cultures ; no preceramic shell mounds have been documented so far by archaeologists. artificial earth platforms for entire villages are the second type of mounds. they are best represented by the marajoara culture. figurative mounds are the most recent types of occupation. there is ample evidence that the areas surrounding the amazon river were home to complex and large - scale indigenous societies, mainly chiefdoms who developed towns and cities. archaeologists estimate that by the time the spanish conquistador de orellana traveled across the amazon in 1541, more than 3 million indigenous people lived around the amazon. these pre - columbian settlements created highly developed civilizations. for instance, pre - columbian indigenous people on the island of marajo may have developed social stratification and supported a population of 100, 000 people. to achieve this level of development, the indigenous inhabitants of the amazon rainforest altered the forest ' s ecology by selective cultivation and the use of fire. scientists argue that by burning areas of the forest repeatedly, the indigenous people caused the soil to become richer in nutrients. this created dark soil areas known as terra preta de indio ( " indian dark earth " ). because of the terra preta, indigenous communities were able to make land