used to make homes for different animals. pulpwood in indonesia ( mainly in sumatra ) and in malaysia ( mainly in sabah ), plantations of a. mangium are being established to supply pulpwood to the paper industry. acacia wood pulp gives high opacity and below average bulk paper. this is suitable in lightweight offset papers used for bibles and dictionaries. it is also used in paper tissue where it improves softness. land reclamation acacias can be planted for erosion control, especially after mining or construction damage. ecological invasion for the same reasons it is favored as an erosion - control plant, with its easy spreading and resilience, some varieties of acacia are potentially invasive species. at least fourteen acacia species introduced to south africa are categorized as invasive, due to their naturally aggressive propagation. one of the most globally significant invasive acacias is black wattle a. mearnsii, which is taking over grasslands and abandoned agricultural areas worldwide, especially in moderate coastal and island regions where mild climate promotes its spread. australian / new zealand weed risk assessment gives it a " high risk, score of 15 " rating and it is considered one of the world ' s 100 most invasive species. extensive ecological studies should be performed before further introduction of acacia varieties, as this fast - growing genus, once introduced, spreads quickly and is extremely difficult to eradicate. phytochemistry cyanogenic glycosides nineteen different species of acacia in the americas contain cyanogenic glycosides, which, if exposed to an enzyme which specifically splits glycosides, can release hydrogen cyanide ( hcn ) in the " leaves ". this sometimes results in the poisoning death of livestock. if fresh plant material spontaneously produces 200 ppm or more hcn, then it is potentially toxic. this corresponds to about 7. 5 μmol hcn per gram of fresh plant material. it turns out that, if acacia " leaves " lack the specific glycoside - splitting enzyme, then they may be less toxic than otherwise, even those containing significant quantities of cyanic glycosides. some acacia species containing cyanogens include acacia erioloba, a. cunninghamii, a. obtusifolia, a. sieberiana, and a. sieberiana var. woodii famous acacias the arbre du tenere in niger was the most isolated tree in the world, about from any other tree. the tree was knocked down by a truck driver in 1973. in nairobi, kenya, the thorn tree cafe