the national education association, the american federation of teachers, national geographic, the smithsonian institution, the library of congress, pearson, scholastic, ascd, nsba, ncte, discovery networks, turner education services ( cnn newsroom ), npr, the princeton review, stanley kaplan, barron ' s, highlights for kids, the u. s. department of education, and many other education providers. aol offered the first real - time homework help service ( the teacher pager — 1990 ; prior to this, aol provided homework help bulletin boards ), the first service by children, for children ( kids only online, 1991 ), the first online service for parents ( the parents information network, 1991 ), the first online courses ( 1988 ), the first omnibus service for teachers ( the teachers ' information network, 1990 ), the first online exhibit ( library of congress, 1991 ), the first parental controls, and many other online education firsts. aol purchased search engine webcrawler in 1995, but sold it to excite the following year ; the deal made excite the sole search and directory service on aol. after the deal closed in march 1997, aol launched its own branded search engine, based on excite, called netfind. this was renamed to aol search in 1999. aol charged its users an hourly fee until december 1996, when the company changed to a flat monthly rate of $ 19. 95. during this time, aol connections were flooded with users trying to connect, and many canceled their accounts due to constant busy signals. a commercial was made featuring steve case telling people aol was working day and night to fix the problem. within three years, aol ' s user base grew to 10 million people. in 1995, aol was headquartered at 8619 westwood center drive in the tysons corner cdp in unincorporated fairfax county, virginia, near the town of vienna. aol was quickly running out of room in october 1996 for its network at the fairfax county campus. in mid - 1996, aol moved to 22000 aol way in dulles, unincorporated loudoun county, virginia to provide room for future growth. in a five - year landmark agreement with the most popular operating system, aol was bundled with windows software. on march 31, 1996, the short - lived eworld was purchased by aol. in 1997, about half of all u. s. homes with internet access had it through aol. during this time, aol ' s content channels, under