top button of his hat to the end of his moustaches it was two yards " muslim sources show alp arslan as fanatically pious but just. alp arslan was so dedicated to the hanafi madhhab that he always kept a qadi by his side, including in battles. his vizier, nizam al - mulk, described the young sultan : early career alp arslan accompanied his uncle tughril on campaigns in the south against the fatimids while his father chaghri remained in khorasan. upon alp arslan ' s return to khorasan, he began his work in administration at his father ' s suggestion. while there, his father introduced him to nizam al - mulk, one of the most eminent statesmen in early muslim history and alp arslan ' s future vizier. after the death of his father, alp arslan succeeded him as governor of khorasan in 1059. his uncle tughril died in 1063 and designated his successor as suleiman, arslan ' s infant brother. arslan and his uncle kutalmish both contested this succession which was resolved at the battle of damghan in 1063. arslan defeated kutalmish for the throne and succeeded on 27 april 1064 as sultan of the seljuk empire, thus becoming the sole monarch of persia from the river oxus to the tigris. in 1064 he led a campaign in georgia during which he captured the regions between tbilisi and the coruh river, akhalkalaki and alaverdi. bagrat iv submitted to paying jizya to the seljuks but the georgians broke the agreement in 1065. alp arslan invaded georgia again in 1068. he captured tbilisi after a short battle and obtained the submission of bagrat iv ; however, the georgians freed themselves from seljuk rule around 1073 – 1074. in consolidating his empire and subduing contending factions, arslan was ably assisted by nizam al - mulk, and the two are credited with helping to stabilize the empire after the death of tughril. with peace and security established in his dominions, arslan convoked an assembly of the states, and in 1066, he declared his son malik shah i his heir and successor. with the hope of capturing caesarea mazaca, the capital of cappadocia, he placed himself at the head of the turkoman cavalry,