of 106, 205 at the 2000 census. economy ames is home of iowa state university of science and technology, a public land - grant and space - grant research university. at its founding in 1858, iowa state was known as the iowa state college of agriculture and mechanic arts. ames is the home of the closely allied u. s. department of agriculture ' s national animal disease center ( see ames strain ), the u. s. department of energy ' s ames laboratory ( a major materials research and development facility ), and the main offices of the iowa department of transportation. state and federal institutions are the largest employers in ames. other area employers include a 3m manufacturing plant ; danfoss power solutions, a hydraulics manufacturer ; barilla, a pasta manufacturer ; ball, a manufacturer of canning jars and plastic bottles ; workiva, a global cloud computing company ; renewable energy group, america ' s largest producer of biomass - based diesel ; and the national farmers organization. the iowa state university research park is a not - for - profit business development incubator located in ames, and affiliated with iowa state university. in 2015, ames was ranked in the top 15 " cities that have done the best since the recession " by bloomberg businessweek. the bureau of labor statistics ranked ames and boulder, colorado as having the lowest unemployment rate ( 2. 5 % ) of any metropolitan area in the us in 2016. by june 2018, unemployment in ames had fallen even further, to 1. 5 %, though wage increases for workers were not keeping pace with rising rents. top employers as of 2022, the top employers in the city are : arts and culture ames history museum - founded in 1980, the museum also operates a historic schoolhouse. brunnier art museum ( scheman building ) ames public library - located in a carnegie library, it was founded in 1904. it has 1, 386, 273 items in circulations, including 799, 349 books and 586, 924 multimedia items. the octagon center for the arts - the center includes galleries, art classes, art studios, and retail shop. they sponsor the local street fair, the octagon arts festival, and hold an annual national juried exhibition clay, fiber, paper glass metal, wood. sports iowa sports foundation the iowa state cyclones play a variety of sports in the ames area. the iowa state cyclones football team plays at jack trice stadium in ames. also, the cyclones ' men ' s and women ' s basketball teams and volleyball teams play at