abbey on 2 april. moving to the commune with hirsig, shumway, and their children hansi, howard, and poupee, crowley described the scenario as " perfectly happy... my idea of heaven. " they wore robes, and performed rituals to the sun god ra at set times during the day, also occasionally performing the gnostic mass ; the rest of the day they were left to follow their own interests. undertaking widespread correspondences, crowley continued to paint, wrote a commentary on the book of the law, and revised the third part of book 4. he offered a libertine education for the children, allowing them to play all day and witness acts of sex magic. he occasionally travelled to palermo to visit rent boys and buy supplies, including drugs ; his heroin addiction came to dominate his life, and cocaine began to erode his nasal cavity. there was no cleaning rota, and wild dogs and cats wandered throughout the building, which soon became unsanitary. poupee died in october 1920, and ninette gave birth to a daughter, astarte lulu panthea, soon afterwards. new followers continued to arrive at the abbey to be taught by crowley. among them was film star jane wolfe, who arrived in july 1920, where she was initiated into the and became crowley ' s secretary. another was cecil frederick russell, who often argued with crowley, disliking the same - sex sexual magic that he was required to perform, and left after a year. more conducive was the australian thelemite frank bennett, who also spent several months at the abbey. in february 1922, crowley returned to paris for a retreat in an unsuccessful attempt to kick his heroin addiction. he then went to london in search of money, where he published articles in the english review criticising the dangerous drugs act 1920 and wrote a novel, diary of a drug fiend, completed in july. on publication, it received mixed reviews ; he was lambasted by the sunday express, which called for its burning and used its influence to prevent further reprints. subsequently, a young thelemite named raoul loveday moved to the abbey with his wife betty may ; while loveday was devoted to crowley, may detested him and life at the commune. she later said that loveday was made to drink the blood of a sacrificed cat, and that they were required to cut themselves with razors every time they used the pronoun " i ". loveday drank from a local polluted