zaynab. abu bakr recognized that he was unable to force the issue and was unwilling to fight a battle over control of marrakesh, so he decided to voluntarily recognize ibn tashfin ' s leadership in the maghreb. the two men met on neutral ground between aghmat and marrakesh to confirm the arrangement. after a short stay in aghmat, abu bakr returned south to continue his leadership of the almoravids in the sahara. following this, the almoravid empire was divided into two distinct but co - dependent parts : one led by ibn tashfin in the north, and another led by abu bakr in the south. abu bakr continued to be formally acknowledged as the supreme leader of the almoravids until his death in 1087. historical sources give no indication that the two leaders treated each other other as enemies and ibn tashfin continued to mint coins in abu bakr ' s name until the latter ' s death. following abu bakr ' s departure, ibn tashfin was largely responsible for building the almoravid state in the maghreb over the next two decades. one of abu bakr ' s sons, ibrahim, who served as the almoravid leader in sijilmasa between 1071 and 1076 ( according to the coinage minted there ), did develop a rivalry with ibn tashfin and attempted to confront him toward 1076. he marched to aghmat with the intention of reclaiming his father ' s position in the maghreb. another almoravid commander, mazdali ibn tilankan, who was related to both men, diffused the situation and convinced ibrahim to join his father in the south rather than start a civil war. further conquests in the maghreb ibn tashfin had in the meantime helped to bring the large area of what is now morocco, western sahara, and mauritania under almoravid control. he spent at least several years capturing each fort and settlement in the region around fez and in northern morocco. after most of the surrounding region was under his control, he was finally able to conquer fez definitively. however, there is some contradiction and uncertainty among historical sources regarding the exact chronology of these conquests, with some sources dating the main conquests to the 1060s and others dating them to the 1070s. some modern authors cite the date of the final conquest of fez as 1069 ( 461 ah ). historian ronald messier gives the date more