the academy awards, mainly known as the oscars, are awards for artistic and technical merit for the film industry. they are presented annually by the academy of motion picture arts and sciences located in beverly hills, california, united states, in recognition of excellence in cinematic achievements as assessed by the academy ' s voting membership. the academy awards are regarded by many as the most prestigious, significant awards in the entertainment industry in the united states and worldwide. the oscar statuette depicts a knight rendered in the art deco style. the major award categories are presented during a live televised hollywood ceremony that is typically held in february or march. it is the oldest worldwide entertainment awards ceremony. the 1st academy awards were held in 1929, the second ceremony in 1930 was the first one broadcast by radio, and the 1953 ceremony was the first one televised. it is also the oldest of the four major annual american entertainment awards ; its equivalents – the emmy awards for television, the tony awards for theater, and the grammy awards for music – are modeled after the academy awards. history the first academy awards presentation was held on may 16, 1929, at a private dinner function at the hollywood roosevelt hotel with an audience of about 270 people. the post - awards party was held at the mayfair hotel. the cost of guest tickets for that night ' s ceremony was $ 5 ( $ at 2020 prices ). fifteen statuettes were awarded, honoring artists, directors and other participants in the film - making industry of the time, for their works during the 1927 – 28 period. the ceremony ran for 15 minutes. for this first ceremony, winners were announced to the media three months earlier. for the second ceremony in 1930, and the rest of the first decade, the results were given to newspapers for publication at 11 : 00 pm on the night of the awards. in 1940, the los angeles times announced the winners before the ceremony began ; as a result, the following year the academy started using a sealed envelope to reveal the names of the winners. the term " oscar " is a registered trademark of the ampas ; however, in the italian language, it is used generically to refer to any award or award ceremony, regardless of which field. milestones the first best actor awarded was emil jannings, for his performances in the last command and the way of all flesh. he had to return to europe before the ceremony, so the academy agreed to give him the prize earlier ; this made him the first academy award winner in history. at that time, winners were recognized for the entirety of their work