alchemist, the twin goal symbolized their evolution from ignorance to enlightenment, and the stone represented a hidden spiritual truth or power that would lead to that goal. in texts that are held to have been written according to this view, the cryptic alchemical symbols, diagrams, and textual imagery of late alchemical works are supposed to contain multiple layers of meanings, allegories, and references to other equally cryptic works ; which must be laboriously decoded to discover their true meaning. in his 1766 alchemical catechism, theodore henri de tschudi denotes that the usage of the metals was merely symbolic : psychology alchemical symbolism has been important in analytical psychology and was revived and popularized from near extinction by the swiss psychologist carl gustav jung. jung was initially confounded and at odds with alchemy and its images but after being given a copy of the secret of the golden flower, a chinese alchemical text translated by his friend richard wilhelm, he discovered a direct correlation or parallel between the symbolic images in the alchemical drawings and the inner, symbolic images coming up in his patients ' dreams, visions, or fantasies. he observed these alchemical images occurring during the psychic process of transformation, a process that jung called " individuation. " specifically, he regarded the conjuring up of images of gold or lapis as symbolic expressions of the origin and goal of this " process of individuation. " together with his alchemical mystica soror ( mystical sister ) jungian swiss analyst marie - louise von franz, jung began collecting old alchemical texts, compiled a lexicon of key phrases with cross - references, and pored over them. the volumes of work he wrote shed new light onto understanding the art of transubstantiation and renewed alchemy ' s popularity as a symbolic process of coming into wholeness as a human being where opposites are brought into contact and inner and outer, spirit and matter are reunited in the hieros gamos, or divine marriage. his writings are influential in general psychology, but especially to those who have an interest in understanding the importance of dreams, symbols, and the unconscious archetypal forces ( archetypes ) that comprise all psychic life. both von franz and jung have contributed significantly to the subject and work of alchemy and its continued presence in psychology as well as contemporary culture. among the volumes jung wrote on alchemy, his magnum opus is volume 14 of his collected works, mysterium coniunctionis. literature alchemy has had a long -