##m ' s maternal grandfather. not until three years later was absalom fully reinstated in david ' s favour and finally returned to jerusalem. the revolt at hebron while at jerusalem, absalom built support for himself by speaking to those who came to king david for justice, saying, " see, your claims are good and right ; but there is no one deputed by the king to hear you ", perhaps reflecting flaws in the judicial system of the united monarchy. " if only i were the judge of the land! then all who had a suit or cause might come to me, and i would give them justice. " he made gestures of flattery by kissing those who bowed before him instead of accepting supplication. he " stole the hearts of the people of israel ". after four years he declared himself king, raised a revolt at hebron, the former capital, and had sexual relations with his father ' s concubines. all israel and judah flocked to him, and david, attended only by the cherethites and pelethites and his former bodyguard, which had followed him from gath, found it expedient to flee. the priests zadok and abiathar remained in jerusalem, and their sons jonathan and ahimaaz served as david ' s spies. absalom reached the capital and consulted with the renowned ahithophel ( sometimes spelled achitophel ). ( although absalom did avenge his sister ' s defilement, ironically he himself showed himself not to be very much different from amnon ; examples of lifnei iver as amnon had sought the advice of jonadab in order to rape his half sister tamar, absalom had sought the advice of ahitophel who advised absalom to have incestuous relations with his father ' s concubines in order to show all israel how odious he was to his father [ 2 samuel 16 : 20 ]. in regard to ahitophel ' s motives : ".. and great as was his wisdom, it was equalled by his scholarship. therefore david did not hesitate to submit himself to his instruction, even though ahithophel was a very young man, at the time of his death not more than thirty - three years old. the one thing lacking in him was sincere piety, and this it was that proved his undoing in the end, for it induced him to take part in absalom ' s rebellion against david