" and banned the work. it was not released until 1952, the year another kurosawa film,, was also released. ironically, while in production, the film had already been savaged by japanese wartime censors as too western and " democratic " ( they particularly disliked the comic porter played by enoken ), so the movie most probably would not have seen the light of day even if the war had continued beyond its completion. early postwar years to red beard ( 1946 – 1965 ) first postwar works ( 1946 – 1950 ) after the war, kurosawa, influenced by the democratic ideals of the occupation, sought to make films that would establish a new respect towards the individual and the self. the first such film, no regrets for our youth ( 1946 ), inspired by both the 1933 takigawa incident and the hotsumi ozaki wartime spy case, criticized japan ' s prewar regime for its political oppression. atypically for the director, the heroic central character is a woman, yukie ( setsuko hara ), who, born into upper - middle - class privilege, comes to question her values in a time of political crisis. the original script had to be extensively rewritten and, because of its controversial theme and gender of its protagonist, the completed work divided critics. nevertheless, it managed to win the approval of audiences, who turned variations on the film ' s title into a postwar catchphrase. his next film, one wonderful sunday premiered in july 1947 to mixed reviews. it is a relatively uncomplicated and sentimental love story dealing with an impoverished postwar couple trying to enjoy, within the devastation of postwar tokyo, their one weekly day off. the movie bears the influence of frank capra, d. w. griffith and f. w. murnau, each of whom was among kurosawa ' s favorite directors. another film released in 1947 with kurosawa ' s involvement was the action - adventure thriller, snow trail, directed by senkichi taniguchi from kurosawa ' s screenplay. it marked the debut of the intense young actor toshiro mifune. it was kurosawa who, with his mentor yamamoto, had intervened to persuade toho to sign mifune, during an audition in which the young man greatly impressed kurosawa, but managed to alienate most of the other judges. drunken angel is often considered the director ' s first major work. although the script, like all of kurosawa ' s occupation - era works, had to