there exists a subset of the real numbers that is not lebesgue measurable. there exist lebesgue - measurable subsets of the real numbers that are not borel sets. that is, the borel σ - algebra on the real numbers ( which is generated by all real intervals ) is distinct from the lebesgue - measure σ - algebra on the real numbers. the hausdorff paradox. the banach – tarski paradox. algebra every field has an algebraic closure. every field extension has a transcendence basis. every infinite - dimensional vector space contains an infinite linearly independent subset ( this requires dependent choice, but not the full axiom of choice ). stone ' s representation theorem for boolean algebras needs the boolean prime ideal theorem. the nielsen – schreier theorem, that every subgroup of a free group is free. the additive groups of r and c are isomorphic. functional analysis the hahn – banach theorem in functional analysis, allowing the extension of linear functionals the theorem that every hilbert space has an orthonormal basis. the banach – alaoglu theorem about compactness of sets of functionals. the baire category theorem about complete metric spaces, and its consequences, such as the open mapping theorem and the closed graph theorem. on every infinite - dimensional topological vector space there is a discontinuous linear map. general topology a uniform space is compact if and only if it is complete and totally bounded. every tychonoff space has a stone – cech compactification. mathematical logic godel ' s completeness theorem for first - order logic : every consistent set of first - order sentences has a completion. that is, every consistent set of first - order sentences can be extended to a maximal consistent set. the compactness theorem : if is a set of first - order ( or alternatively, zero - order ) sentences such that every finite subset of has a model, then has a model. possibly equivalent implications of ac there are several historically important set - theoretic statements implied by ac whose equivalence to ac is open. the partition principle, which was formulated before ac itself, was cited by zermelo as a justification for believing ac. in 1906, russell declared pp to be equivalent, but whether the partition principle implies ac is still the oldest open problem in set theory, and the equivalences of the other statements are similarly hard old open problems. in every known model of zf where choice fails, these statements fail too, but it is unknown if they can hold