the belgic tribes. ambiorix had killed fifteen cohorts. a belgic attack on cicero, then stationed with a legion in the territory of the nervii, failed due to the timely appearance of caesar. the roman campaigns against the belgae took a few years, but eventually the tribes were slaughtered or driven out and their fields burned. the eburones disappeared from history after this genocidal event. according to the writer florus, ambiorix and his men succeeded in escaping across the rhine. they do not appear in roman records after this point. legacy caesar wrote about ambiorix in his commentary about his battles against the gauls, de bello gallico. in this text he also famously wrote : " of these [ three regions ], the belgae are the bravest. " ( "... horum omnium fortissimi sunt belgae... " ). ambiorix remained a relatively obscure figure until the nineteenth century. the independence of belgium in 1830 spurred a search for national heroes. in caesar ' s de bello gallico, ambiorix and his deeds were rediscovered. in 1841, the belgian poet joannes nolet de brauwere van steeland wrote a lyrical epic about ambiorix. furthermore, on september 5, 1866, a statue of ambiorix was erected on the main market square in tongeren, belgium, referred to by caesar as atuatuca, i. e. atuatuca tungrorum. today, ambiorix is one of the most famous characters in belgian history. many companies, bars and friteries have named themselves after him, and in many belgian comics such as suske en wiske and jommeke he plays a guest role. there was also a short - lived comic called ambionix, which featured a scientist teleporting a belgic chief, loosely based on ambiorix, to modern - day belgium. in the french comic asterix, in the album asterix in belgium, asterix, obelix, dogmatix and vitalstatistix go to belgium because they are angry with caesar about his remark that the belgians are the bravest of all the gauls. in popular culture ambiorix leads the gallic civilization in the new frontier season pass of the 4x video game civilization vi. references bibliography primary sources caesar, de bello gallico v. 26 – 51, vi. 29 – 43,