##omelan, and usually retain a cellular structure in the inner portion of the seed coat. most monocots are unable to thicken their stems once they have formed, since they lack the cylindrical meristem present in other angiosperm groups. asparagales have a method of secondary thickening which is otherwise only found in dioscorea ( in the monocot order disoscoreales ). in a process called ' anomalous secondary growth ', they are able to create new vascular bundles around which thickening growth occurs. agave, yucca, aloe, dracaena, nolina and cordyline can become massive trees, albeit not of the height of the tallest dicots, and with less branching. other genera in the order, such as lomandra and aphyllanthes, have the same type of secondary growth but confined to their underground stems. microsporogenesis ( part of pollen formation ) distinguishes some members of asparagales from liliales. microsporogenesis involves a cell dividing twice ( meiotically ) to form four daughter cells. there are two kinds of microsporogenesis : successive and simultaneous ( although intermediates exist ). in successive microsporogenesis, walls are laid down separating the daughter cells after each division. in simultaneous microsporogenesis, there is no wall formation until all four cell nuclei are present. liliales all have successive microsporogenesis, which is thought to be the primitive condition in monocots. it seems that when the asparagales first diverged they developed simultaneous microsporogenesis, which the ' lower ' asparagales families retain. however, the ' core ' asparagales ( see phylogenetics ) have reverted to successive microsporogenesis. the asparagales appear to be unified by a mutation affecting their telomeres ( a region of repetitive dna at the end of a chromosome ). the typical ' arabidopsis - type ' sequence of bases has been fully or partially replaced by other sequences, with the ' human - type ' predominating. other apomorphic characters of the order according to stevens are : the presence of chelidonic acid, anthers longer than wide, tapetal cells bi - to tetra - nuclear, tegmen not persistent, endosperm helobial, and loss of mitochondrial gene sdh3. taxonomy as circumscribed within the angiosperm phylogeny group system asparagal