an individualistic style that ' s easily identified as ginsbergian. ginsberg stated that whitman ' s long line was a dynamic technique few other poets had ventured to develop further, and whitman is also often compared to ginsberg because their poetry sexualized aspects of the male form. many of ginsberg ' s early long line experiments contain some sort of anaphora, repetition of a " fixed base " ( for example " who " in howl, " america " in america ) and this has become a recognizable feature of ginsberg ' s style. he said later this was a crutch because he lacked confidence ; he did not yet trust " free flight. " in the 1960s, after employing it in some sections of kaddish ( " caw " for example ) he, for the most part, abandoned the anaphoric form. ' latter - day beat ' bob dylan is known for using anaphora, as in ' tangled up in blue ' where the phrase, returned to at the end of every verse, takes the place of a chorus. several of his earlier experiments with methods for formatting poems as a whole became regular aspects of his style in later poems. in the original draft of howl, each line is in a " stepped triadic " format reminiscent of william carlos williams. he abandoned the " stepped triadic " when he developed his long line although the stepped lines showed up later, most significantly in the travelogues of the fall of america. howl and kaddish, arguably his two most important poems, are both organized as an inverted pyramid, with larger sections leading to smaller sections. in america, he also experimented with a mix of longer and shorter lines. ginsberg ' s mature style made use of many specific, highly developed techniques, which he expressed in the " poetic slogans " he used in his naropa teaching. prominent among these was the inclusion of his unedited mental associations so as to reveal the mind at work ( " first thought, best thought. " " mind is shapely, thought is shapely. " ) he preferred expression through carefully observed physical details rather than abstract statements ( " show, don ' t tell. " " no ideas but in things. " ) in these he carried on and developed traditions of modernism in writing that are also found in kerouac and whitman. in howl and in his other poetry, ginsberg drew inspiration from the epic, free verse style of the 19th - century american poet walt whitman. both wrote passionately about the promise ( and betrayal