conflict with iphytus, a prince of oechalia, and murdered him. soon after, he contracted a terrible disease. he consulted the oracle of apollo once again, in the hope of ridding himself of the disease. the pythia, however, denied to give any prophesy. in anger, heracles snatched the sacred tripod and started walking away, intending to start his own oracle. however, apollo did not tolerate this and stopped heracles ; a duel ensued between them. artemis rushed to support apollo, while athena supported heracles. soon, zeus threw his thunderbolt between the fighting brothers and separated them. he reprimanded heracles for this act of violation and asked apollo to give a solution to heracles. apollo then ordered the hero to serve under omphale, queen of lydia for one year in order to purify himself. after their reconciliation, apollo and heracles together founded the city of gythion. plato ' s concept of soulmates a long time ago, there were three kinds of human beings : male, descended from the sun ; female, descended from the earth ; and androgynous, descended from the moon. each human being was completely round, with four arms and four legs, two identical faces on opposite sides of a head with four ears, and all else to match. they were powerful and unruly. otis and ephialtes even dared to scale mount olympus. to check their insolence, zeus devised a plan to humble them and improve their manners instead of completely destroying them. he cut them all in two and asked apollo to make necessary repairs, giving humans the individual shape they still have now. apollo turned their heads and necks around towards their wounds, he pulled together their skin at the abdomen, and sewed the skin together at the middle of it. this is what we call navel today. he smoothened the wrinkles and shaped the chest. but he made sure to leave a few wrinkles on the abdomen and around the navel so that they might be reminded of their punishment. the rock of leukas leukatas was believed to be a white - colored rock jutting out from the island of leukas into the sea. it was present in the sanctuary of apollo leukates. a leap from this rock was believed to have put an end to the longings of love. once, aphrodite fell deeply in love with adonis, a young man of great beauty who