later development that was not present in proto - afro - asiatic, but rather derived from a paa indefinite pronoun * m -. such an etymology is rejected by a. zaborski and gabor takacs, the latter of whom argues for a paa * ma - that unites all or some of the meanings in the modern languages. verbal extensions many aa languages use prefixes or suffixes ( verbal extensions ) to encode various pieces of information about the verb. three derivational prefixes can be reconstructed for proto - afroasiatic : * s - ' causative ', * t - ' middle voice ' or ' reflexive ', and * n - ' passive ' ; the prefixes appear with various related meanings in the individual daughter languages and branches. christopher ehret has proposed that proto - afroasiatic originally had as many as thirty - seven separate verbal extensions, many of which then became fossilized as third consonants. this theory has been criticized by some, such as andrzej zaborski and alan kaye, as being too many extensions to be realistic, though zygmont frajzyngier and erin shay note that some chadic languages have as many as twelve extensions. " nisba " derivation the so - called " nisba " is a suffix used to derive adjectives from nouns and, in egyptian, also from prepositions. it is found in egyptian, semitic, and possibly, in some relic forms, berber. the suffix has the same basic form in egyptian and semitic, taking the form - i ( y ) in semitic and being written - j in egyptian. the semitic and cushitic genitive case in - i / - ii may be related to " nisba " adjective derivation. due to its presence in the oldest attested and best - known aa branches, nisba derivation is often thought of as a " quintessentially afroasiatic feature ". christopher ehret argues for its presence in proto - afroasiatic and for its attestation in some form in all branches, with a shape - * ay in addition to - * iy in some cases. vocabulary comparison pronouns the forms of the pronouns are very stable throughout afroasiatic ( excluding omotic ), and they have been used as one of the chief tools for determining whether a language belongs to the family. however, there is no consensus on what the reconstructed set of afroasiatic pronouns might have looked like. a common characteristic of aa languages is the existence