and ions in the ground. redox transformation of arsenic in natural waters arsenic is unique among the trace metalloids and oxyanion - forming trace metals ( e. g. as, se, sb, mo, v, cr, u, re ). it is sensitive to mobilization at ph values typical of natural waters ( ph 6. 5 – 8. 5 ) under both oxidizing and reducing conditions. arsenic can occur in the environment in several oxidation states ( −3, 0, + 3 and + 5 ), but in natural waters it is mostly found in inorganic forms as oxyanions of trivalent arsenite [ as ( iii ) ] or pentavalent arsenate [ as ( v ) ]. organic forms of arsenic are produced by biological activity, mostly in surface waters, but are rarely quantitatively important. organic arsenic compounds may, however, occur where waters are significantly impacted by industrial pollution. arsenic may be solubilized by various processes. when ph is high, arsenic may be released from surface binding sites that lose their positive charge. when water level drops and sulfide minerals are exposed to air, arsenic trapped in sulfide minerals can be released into water. when organic carbon is present in water, bacteria are fed by directly reducing as ( v ) to as ( iii ) or by reducing the element at the binding site, releasing inorganic arsenic. the aquatic transformations of arsenic are affected by ph, reduction - oxidation potential, organic matter concentration and the concentrations and forms of other elements, especially iron and manganese. the main factors are ph and the redox potential. generally, the main forms of arsenic under oxic conditions are h3aso4, h2aso4−, haso42−, and aso43− at ph 2, 2 – 7, 7 – 11 and 11, respectively. under reducing conditions, h3aso4 is predominant at ph 2 – 9. oxidation and reduction affects the migration of arsenic in subsurface environments. arsenite is the most stable soluble form of arsenic in reducing environments and arsenate, which is less mobile than arsenite, is dominant in oxidizing environments at neutral ph. therefore, arsenic may be more mobile under reducing conditions. the reducing environment is also rich in organic matter which may enhance the solubility of arsenic compounds. as a result, the adsorption of arsenic is reduced and dissolved arsenic accumulates in groundwater. that is why the arsenic content is higher in reducing environments than in oxidizing environments