##khara rivaled baghdad as a cultural capital of the islamic world. there, avicenna had access to the great libraries of balkh, khwarezm, gorgan, rey, isfahan and hamadan. various texts ( such as the ' ahd with bahmanyar ) show that avicenna debated philosophical points with the greatest scholars of the time. aruzi samarqandi describes how before avicenna left khwarezm he had met al - biruni ( a famous scientist and astronomer ), abu nasr iraqi ( a renowned mathematician ), abu sahl masihi ( a respected philosopher ) and abu al - khayr khammar ( a great physician ). the study of the quran and the hadith also thrived, and islamic philosophy, fiqh and theology ( kalaam ) were all further developed by avicenna and his opponents at this time. biography early life and education avicenna was born in in the village of afshana in transoxiana to a family of persian stock. the village was near the samanid capital of bukhara, which was his mother ' s hometown. his father abd allah was a native of the city of balkh in tukharistan. an official of the samanid bureaucracy, he had served as the governor of a village of the royal estate of harmaytan ( near bukhara ) during the reign of nuh ii ( ). avicenna also had a younger brother. a few years later, the family settled in bukhara, a center of learning, which attracted many scholars. it was there that avicenna was educated, which early on was seemingly administered by his father. although both avicenna ' s father and brother had converted to ismailism, he himself did not follow the faith. he was instead an adherent of the sunni hanafi school, which was also followed by the samanids. avicenna was first schooled in the quran and literature, and by the age of 10, he had memorized the entire quran. he was later sent by his father to an indian greengrocer, who taught him arithmetic. afterwards, he was schooled in jurisprudence by the hanafi jurist ismail al - zahid. some time later, avicenna ' s father invited the physician and philosopher abu abdallah al - natili to their house to educate avicenna. together, they studied the isagoge of porphyry ( died