- mongolic - tungusic in one grouping and korean - japanese - ainu in another, joined in what he designated as the " north asiatic " family. the inclusion of ainu was adopted also by james patrie in 1982. the turkic - mongolic - tungusic and korean - japanese - ainu groupings were also posited in 2000 – 2002 by joseph greenberg. however, he treated them as independent members of a larger family, which he termed eurasiatic. the inclusion of ainu is not widely accepted by altaicists. in fact, no convincing genealogical relationship between ainu and any other language family has been demonstrated, and it is generally regarded as a language isolate. early criticism and rejection starting in the late 1950s, some linguists became increasingly critical of even the minimal altaic family hypothesis, disputing the alleged evidence of genetic connection between turkic, mongolic and tungusic languages. among the earlier critics were gerard clauson ( 1956 ), gerhard doerfer ( 1963 ), and alexander shcherbak. they claimed that the words and features shared by turkic, mongolic, and tungusic languages were for the most part borrowings and that the rest could be attributed to chance resemblances. in 1988, doerfer again rejected all the genetic claims over these major groups. modern controversy a major continuing supporter of the altaic hypothesis has been sergei starostin, who published a comparative lexical analysis of the altaic languages in 1991. he concluded that the analysis supported the altaic grouping, although it was " older than most other language families in eurasia, such as indo - european or finno - ugric, and this is the reason why the modern altaic languages preserve few common elements ". in 1991 and again in 1996, roy miller defended the altaic hypothesis and claimed that the criticisms of clauson and doerfer apply exclusively to the lexical correspondences, whereas the most pressing evidence for the theory is the similarities in verbal morphology. in 2003, claus schonig published a critical overview of the history of the altaic hypothesis up to that time, siding with the earlier criticisms of clauson, doerfer, and shcherbak. in 2003, starostin, anna dybo and oleg mudrak published the etymological dictionary of the altaic languages, which expanded the 1991 lexical lists and added other phonological and grammatical arguments. starostin ' s book was criticized by stefan georg in 2004 and 2005, and by