had incorrectly determined the presence of a disability because it relied solely on her inability to perform specific manual work tasks, which was insufficient in proving the presence of a disability. the court of appeals should have taken into account the evidence presented that williams retained the ability to do personal tasks and household chores, such activities being the nature of tasks most people do in their daily lives, and placed too much emphasis on her job disability. since the evidence showed that williams was performing normal daily tasks, it ruled that the court of appeals erred when it found that williams was disabled. this ruling has since been invalidated by the adaaa. in fact, congress explicitly cited toyota v. williams in the text of the adaaa itself as one of its driving influences for passing the adaaa. us airways, inc. v. barnett us airways, inc. v. barnett was decided by the us supreme court in 2002. this case held that even requests for accommodation that might seem reasonable on their face, e. g., a transfer to a different position, can be rendered unreasonable because it would require a violation of the company ' s seniority system. while the court held that, in general, a violation of a seniority system renders an otherwise reasonable accommodation unreasonable, a plaintiff can present evidence that, despite the seniority system, the accommodation is reasonable in the specific case at hand, e. g., the plaintiff could offer evidence that the seniority system is so often disregarded that another exception would not make a difference. importantly, the court held that the defendant need not provide proof that this particular application of the seniority system should prevail, and that, once the defendant showed that the accommodation violated the seniority system, it fell to barnett to show it was nevertheless reasonable. in this case, barnett was a us airways employee who injured his back, rendering him physically unable to perform his cargo - handling job. invoking seniority, he transferred to a less - demanding mailroom job, but this position later became open to seniority - based bidding and was bid on by more senior employees. barnett requested the accommodation of being allowed to stay on in the less - demanding mailroom job. us airways denied his request, and he lost his job. the supreme court decision invalidated both the approach of the district court, which found that the mere presence and importance of the seniority system was enough to warrant a summary judgment in favor of us airways, as well as the circuit court ' s approach that interpreted ' reasonable accommodation ' as ' effective accommodation.