canyon - agassi charter school facilities fund, now known as the turner - agassi charter school facilities fund. the fund is an investment initiative for social change, focusing on the " nationwide effort to move charters from stopgap buildings into permanent campuses. " in september 2013, the andre agassi foundation for education formed a partnership with v20 foods to launch box budd! es, a line of kids ' healthy snacks. all proceeds go to the foundation. in february 2014, agassi remodeled the vacant university of phoenix building in las vegas as a new school, called the doral academy west through the canyon - agassi charter school facilities fund. doral academy opened in august 2014. the fund purchased a 4. 6 - acre plot in henderson, nevada, to house the somerset academy of las vegas, which will relocate from its campus inside a church. on april 2, 2023, agassi participated with michael chang, andy roddick and john mcenroe in the first live airing of pickleball on espn in the million dollar pickleball slam at the hard rock casino in hollywood, fla. career statistics singles performance timeline grand slam finals ( 8 titles, 7 runners - up ) by winning the 1999 french open, agassi completed a men ' s singles career grand slam. he is the 5th of 8 male players in history ( after budge, perry, laver and emerson, and before federer, nadal and djokovic ) to achieve this. open era records these records were attained in the open era of tennis and in atp world tour masters 1000 series since 1990. records in bold indicate peer - less achievements. legacy considered by numerous sources to be one of the greatest tennis players of all time, agassi has also been called one of the greatest service returners ever to play the game, and was described by the bbc upon his retirement as " perhaps the biggest worldwide star in the sport ' s history ". as a result, he is credited for helping to revive the popularity of tennis during the 1990s. professional awards itf world champion : 1999. atp player of the year : 1999. atp most improved player : 1988, 1998 recognition in 1992, agassi was named the bbc overseas sports personality of the year. in 2010, sports illustrated named agassi the 7th greatest male player of all time. on july 9, 2011, agassi was inducted into the international tennis hall of fame at a ceremony in newport, rhode island. video wimbledon 2000 semi - final – ag