the war. in book one, following one of the achaean army ' s raids, chryseis, daughter of chryses, one of apollo ' s priests, is taken as a war prize by agamemnon. chryses pleads with agamemnon to free his daughter but meets with little success. chryses then prays to apollo for the safe return of his daughter. apollo responds by unleashing a plague over the achaean army. the prophet calchas tells that the plague may be dispelled by returning chryseis to her father. after bitterly berating calchas for his painful prophecies, first forcing him to sacrifice his daughter and now to return his concubine, agamemnon reluctantly agrees. however, agamemnon demands a new prize from the army as compensation and seizes achilles ' prize, the beautiful captive briseis. this creates deadly resentment between achilles and agamemnon, causing achilles to withdraw from battle and refuse to fight. agamemnon is then visited in a dream by zeus who tells him to rally his forces and attack the trojans ( in book two ). after several days of fighting, including duels between menelaus and paris, and between ajax and hector, the achaeans are pushed back to the fortifications around their ships. in book nine, agamemnon, having realized achilles ' s importance in winning the war, sends ambassadors begging for achilles to return, offering him riches and the hand of his daughter in marriage. achilles refuses, only being spurred back into action when patroclus is killed in battle by hector, eldest son of king priam and queen hecuba. in book nineteen, agamemnon, reconciled with achilles, gives him the offered rewards for returning to the war. achilles sets out to turn back the trojans and to duel with hector. after hector ' s death, agamemnon assists achilles in performing patroclus ' funeral in book twenty - three. agamemnon volunteers for the javelin throwing contest, one of the games being held in patroclus ' honor, but his skill with the javelin is so well known that achilles awards him the prize without contest. although not the equal of achilles in bravery, agamemnon was a representative of " kingly authority ". as commander - in - chief, he summoned the princes to the council and led the army in battle. his chief fault was his overwhelming haughtiness