arsenic, and bfrs. all apple products now have mercury - free led - backlit lcd displays, arsenic - free glass, and non - pvc cables. all apple products have epeat gold status and beat the latest energy star guidelines in each product ' s respective regulatory category. in november 2011, apple was featured in greenpeace ' s guide to greener electronics, which ranks electronics manufacturers on sustainability, climate and energy policy, and how " green " their products are. the company ranked fourth of fifteen electronics companies ( moving up five places from the previous year ) with a score of 4. 6 / 10. greenpeace praised apple ' s sustainability, noting that the company exceeded its 70 % global recycling goal in 2010. apple continues to score well on product ratings, with all of their products now being free of pvc plastic and bfrs. however, the guide criticized apple on the energy criteria for not seeking external verification of its greenhouse gas emissions data, and for not setting any targets to reduce emissions. in january 2012, apple requested that its cable maker, volex, begin producing halogen - free usb and power cables. green bonds in february 2016, apple issued a us $ 1. 5 billion green bond ( climate bond ), the first ever of its kind by a u. s. tech company. the green bond proceeds are dedicated to the financing of environmental projects. supply chain apple products were made in america in apple - owned factories until the late 1990s ; however, as a result of outsourcing initiatives in the 2000s, almost all of its manufacturing is now handled abroad. according to a report by the new york times, apple insiders " believe the vast scale of overseas factories, as well as the flexibility, diligence and industrial skills of foreign workers, have so outpaced their american counterparts that " made in the usa " is no longer a viable option for most apple products ". the company ' s manufacturing, procurement, and logistics enable it to execute massive product launches without having to maintain large, profit - sapping inventories. in 2011, apple ' s profit margins were 40 percent, compared with between 10 and 20 percent for most other hardware companies. cook ' s catchphrase to describe his focus on the company ' s operational arm is : " nobody wants to buy sour milk. " in may 2017, the company announced a $ 1 billion funding project for " advanced manufacturing " in the united states, and subsequently invested $ 200 million in corning inc., a manufacturer of toughened gorilla