high military aviation school ( former independent institution ) other educational institutions secondary military medical school of azerbaijan military medical faculty of azerbaijan medical university military lyceums jamshid nakhchivanski military lyceum heydar aliyev military lyceum conscription military justice military courts act as courts of first instance deals. the military court is composed of a president and judges. the following military courts exist in azerbaijan : military court of nakhchivan autonomous republic baku military court ( formed in august 1992 ) ganja military court lankaran military court fuzuli - gubadli military court tartar military court agdam military court gazakh military court sumgait military court women and ethnic minorities in the armed forces during the first war, russians, who were a large minority in azerbaijan at the time, served in the units of the azerbaijani army, many of whom formerly served in the soviet army. according to the russian ministry of defence more than 300 officers of the 7th army, based in the capital of baku, refused to leave azerbaijan at the outset of the war. during the second karabakh war, the death of an ethnic russian azerbaijani soldier, dmitry solntsev, was reported. there was also denis aliyev ( born as denis pronin ) from the xətai raion, who was killed in jabrayil. he was later posthumously awarded the medal " for the liberation of jabrayil " in december. cossacks, associated with the association of cossacks of azerbaijan, often join the azerbaijani armed forces. female military personnel in the military are generally involved in education, office work, medical care, and the development of international cooperation. they also serve in the rear, signal troops, and intelligence forces. women are exempt from conscription, which means that female service is purely on a voluntary basis. there are currently 1, 000 female personnel in the azerbaijani military, accounting for 3 % of the armed forces. during the karabakh conflict, 2, 000 of the 74, 000 azerbaijani soldiers were women, and 600 of them directly took part in military operations, with a women ' s battalion being established in 1992. the enrollment of females in azerbaijani higher military schools began in 1999. according to soldier tehrana bahruzi in her book, “ zakir hasanov : the ideal minister ", defence minister zakir hasanov was responsible for launching the first female unit in the special forces of azerbaijan. in october 2020, the first female military casualty was reported, a combat medic who died while taking wounded soldiers from the battlefield