that is likely to be stoichiometrically amcp3. formation of the complexes of the type am ( n - c3h7 - btp ) 3, where btp stands for 2, 6 - di ( 1, 2, 4 - triazin - 3 - yl ) pyridine, in solutions containing n - c3h7 - btp and am3 + ions has been confirmed by exafs. some of these btp - type complexes selectively interact with americium and therefore are useful in its selective separation from lanthanides and another actinides. biological aspects americium is an artificial element of recent origin, and thus does not have a biological requirement. it is harmful to life. it has been proposed to use bacteria for removal of americium and other heavy metals from rivers and streams. thus, enterobacteriaceae of the genus citrobacter precipitate americium ions from aqueous solutions, binding them into a metal - phosphate complex at their cell walls. several studies have been reported on the biosorption and bioaccumulation of americium by bacteria and fungi. fission the isotope 242mam ( half - life 141 years ) has the largest cross sections for absorption of thermal neutrons ( 5, 700 barns ), that results in a small critical mass for a sustained nuclear chain reaction. the critical mass for a bare 242mam sphere is about 9 – 14 kg ( the uncertainty results from insufficient knowledge of its material properties ). it can be lowered to 3 – 5 kg with a metal reflector and should become even smaller with a water reflector. such small critical mass is favorable for portable nuclear weapons, but those based on 242mam are not known yet, probably because of its scarcity and high price. the critical masses of the two readily available isotopes, 241am and 243am, are relatively high – 57. 6 to 75. 6 kg for 241am and 209 kg for 243am. scarcity and high price yet hinder application of americium as a nuclear fuel in nuclear reactors. there are proposals of very compact 10 - kw high - flux reactors using as little as 20 grams of 242mam. such low - power reactors would be relatively safe to use as neutron sources for radiation therapy in hospitals. isotopes about 19 isotopes and 8 nuclear isomers are known for americium. there are two long - lived alpha - emitters ; 243am has a half - life of