tortoise shells and vaulted walls in curving shapes. on the noble floor, there is a spacious landing with direct views to the blue tiling of the building well. on the passeig de gracia side is mr. batllo ' s study, a dining room, and a secluded spot for courting couples, decorated with a mushroom - shaped fireplace. the elaborate and animal - like decor continues throughout the whole noble floor. in 2002, the house opened its doors to the public, and people were allowed to visit the noble floor. the building was opened to the public as part of the celebration of the international year of gaudi. casa batllo met with very much unanticipated success, and visitors became eager to see the rest of the house. two years later, in celebration of the one hundredth anniversary of the beginning of work on casa batllo, the fifth floor was restored and the house extended its visit to the loft and the well. in 2005, casa batllo became a unesco world heritage site. roof the roof terrace is one of the most popular features of the entire house due to its famous dragon back design. gaudi represents an animal ' s spine by using tiles of different colors on one side. the roof is decorated with four chimney stacks, that are designed to prevent backdraughts. exterior facade the facade has three distinct sections which are harmoniously integrated. the lower ground floor with the main floor and two first - floor galleries are contained in a structure of montjuic sandstone with undulating lines. the central part, which reaches the last floor, is a multicolored section with protruding balconies. the top of the building is a crown, like a huge gable, which is at the same level as the roof and helps to conceal the room where there used to be water tanks. this room is currently empty. the top displays a trim with ceramic pieces that has attracted multiple interpretations. roof tiles the roof ' s arched profile recalls the spine of a dragon with ceramic tiles for scales, and a small triangular window towards the right of the structure simulates the eye. legend has it that it was once possible to see the sagrada familia through this window, which was being built simultaneously. as of 2022, the partial view of the sagrada familia is available from this vantage point, with its spires visible over newer buildings. the tiles were given a metallic sheen to simulate the varying scales of the monster, with the color grading from green on the right side