alexios iii angelos ( greek : αλεξιος αγγελος ; 1211 ), latinized as alexius iii angelus, was byzantine emperor from march 1195 to 17 / 18 july 1203. he reigned under the name alexios komnenos ( greek : αλεξιος κομνηνος ), associating himself with the komnenos dynasty ( from which he was descended matrilineally ). a member of the extended imperial family, alexios came to the throne after deposing, blinding and imprisoning his younger brother isaac ii angelos. the most significant event of his reign was the attack of the fourth crusade on constantinople in 1203, on behalf of alexios iv angelos. alexios iii took over the defence of the city, which he mismanaged, and then fled the city at night with one of his three daughters. from adrianople, and then mosynopolis, he attempted unsuccessfully to rally his supporters, only to end up a captive of marquis boniface of montferrat. he was ransomed and sent to asia minor where he plotted against his son - in - law theodore i laskaris, but was eventually captured and spent his last days confined to the monastery of hyakinthos in nicaea, where he died. early life alexios iii was the second son of andronikos doukas angelos and euphrosyne kastamonitissa. andronikos was himself a son of theodora komnene, the youngest daughter of emperor alexios i komnenos and irene doukaina. thus, alexios iii was a member of the extended imperial family. together with his father and brothers, alexios had conspired against emperor andronikos i komnenos ( ), and thus he spent several years in exile in muslim courts, including that of saladin. his younger brother isaac ii was threatened with execution under orders of andronikos i, their first - cousin once - removed, on 11 september 1185. isaac made a desperate attack on the imperial agents and soon killed their leader stephen hagiochristophorites. he then took refuge in the church of hagia sophia and from there appealed to the populace. his actions provoked a riot, which resulted in the deposition of andronikos i and the proclamation of isaac as emperor. alexios was now closer to the imperial throne than ever before