the antigua and barbuda defence force ( abdf ) is the armed forces of antigua and barbuda. the abdf has responsibility for several different roles : internal security, prevention of drug smuggling, the protection and support of fishing rights, prevention of marine pollution, search and rescue, ceremonial duties, assistance to government programs, provision of relief during natural disasters, assistance in the maintenance of essential services, and support of the police in maintaining law and order. the abdf is one of the world ' s smallest militaries, consisting of 245 personnel. it is much better equipped for fulfilling its civil roles, as opposed to providing a deterrence against would - be aggressors or in defending the nation during a war. organisation the abdf consists of five major units : regiment – comprises four line companies and is the infantry unit and fighting arm of the defence force. service and support unit – provides administrative, logistic and engineer support to the rest of the defence force. coast guard – the maritime element of the defence force, and is divided into four units : commanding officer ' s office engineer unit administration unit flotilla – the flotilla is the operational part of the coast guard, and consists of the following water - craft : 1 swiftships shipbuilders 19. 81 - metre commercial cruiser - class patrol boat ( p - 01 liberta ), in service since 1984 1 seaark boats dauntless - class patrol boat ( p - 02 palmetto ), in service since 1995 1 point - class cutter ( p - 03 hermitage ), transferred from the u. s. coast guard in 1998 1 defender 380x - class all - weather interceptor ( d - 8 ), date of acquisition unknown 2 boston whaler 8. 23 - metre launches ( 071 and 072 ), in service since 1988 1 zodiac marine & pool 8. 23 - metre hurricane - type rigid - hulled inflatable boat in service since 1998 air wing cadet corps former deployments in 1983, fourteen men of the antigua and barbuda defence force were deployed to grenada during the operation urgent fury. in 1990, twelve soldiers were sent to trinidad and tobago after a failed coup attempt by a radical group against the constitutionally elected government headed by prime minister a. n. r. robinson. in 1995, members of the antigua and barbuda defence force were deployed in haiti as a part of operation uphold democracy. future deployments in 2024, multinational security support mission in haiti alliances – mercian regiment see also regional security system references external links antigua