, an argon atmosphere is used in graphite electric furnaces to prevent the graphite from burning. for some of these processes, the presence of nitrogen or oxygen gases might cause defects within the material. argon is used in some types of arc welding such as gas metal arc welding and gas tungsten arc welding, as well as in the processing of titanium and other reactive elements. an argon atmosphere is also used for growing crystals of silicon and germanium. argon is used in the poultry industry to asphyxiate birds, either for mass culling following disease outbreaks, or as a means of slaughter more humane than electric stunning. argon is denser than air and displaces oxygen close to the ground during inert gas asphyxiation. its non - reactive nature makes it suitable in a food product, and since it replaces oxygen within the dead bird, argon also enhances shelf life. argon is sometimes used for extinguishing fires where valuable equipment may be damaged by water or foam. scientific research liquid argon is used as the target for neutrino experiments and direct dark matter searches. the interaction between the hypothetical wimps and an argon nucleus produces scintillation light that is detected by photomultiplier tubes. two - phase detectors containing argon gas are used to detect the ionized electrons produced during the wimp – nucleus scattering. as with most other liquefied noble gases, argon has a high scintillation light yield ( about 51 photons / kev ), is transparent to its own scintillation light, and is relatively easy to purify. compared to xenon, argon is cheaper and has a distinct scintillation time profile, which allows the separation of electronic recoils from nuclear recoils. on the other hand, its intrinsic beta - ray background is larger due to contamination, unless one uses argon from underground sources, which has much less contamination. most of the argon in earth ' s atmosphere was produced by electron capture of long - lived ( + e− → + ν ) present in natural potassium within earth. the activity in the atmosphere is maintained by cosmogenic production through the knockout reaction ( n, 2n ) and similar reactions. the half - life of is only 269 years. as a result, the underground ar, shielded by rock and water, has much less contamination. dark - matter detectors currently operating with liquid argon include darkside, warp, ardm, microclean and deap.