), literally " of ismenus ", after ismenus, the son of amphion and niobe, whom he struck with an arrow appearance acersecomes (, akersekomes ), " he who has unshorn hair ", the eternal ephebe. chrysocomes ( ;, khrusokomes ), literally " he who has golden hair. " amazons amazonius ( ), pausanias at the description of greece writes that near pyrrhichus there was a sanctuary of apollo, called amazonius ( ) with an image of the god said to have been dedicated by the amazons. celtic epithets and cult titles apollo was worshipped throughout the roman empire. in the traditionally celtic lands, he was most often seen as a healing and sun god. he was often equated with celtic gods of similar character. apollo atepomarus ( " the great horseman " or " possessing a great horse " ). apollo was worshipped at mauvieres ( indre ). horses were, in the celtic world, closely linked to the sun. apollo belenus ( " bright " or " brilliant " ). this epithet was given to apollo in parts of gaul, northern italy and noricum ( part of modern austria ). apollo belenus was a healing and sun god. apollo cunomaglus ( " hound lord " ). a title given to apollo at a shrine at nettleton shrub, wiltshire. may have been a god of healing. cunomaglus himself may originally have been an independent healing god. apollo grannus. grannus was a healing spring god, later equated with apollo. apollo maponus. a god known from inscriptions in britain. this may be a local fusion of apollo and maponus. apollo moritasgus ( " masses of sea water " ). an epithet for apollo at alesia, where he was worshipped as the god of healing and, possibly, of physicians. apollo vindonnus ( " clear light " ). apollo vindonnus had a temple at essarois, near chatillon - sur - seine in present - day burgundy. he was a god of healing, especially of the eyes. apollo virotutis ( " benefactor of mankind " ). apollo virotutis was worshipped, among other places, at fins d ' annecy ( haute - savoie ) and at jublains ( maine - et - loire ). origins apollo is considered the