his birthplace, phthia podarkes, " swift - footed " ( literally, " defending with the foot, " from the verb αρκεω, " to defend, ward off " ) ; ptolemy hephaestion, alternatively, says that it was due to the wings of arke being attached to his feet. hidden on skyros some post - homeric sources claim that in order to keep achilles safe from the war, thetis ( or, in some versions, peleus ) hid the young man dressed as a princess or at least a girl at the court of lycomedes, king of skyros. there, achilles, properly disguised, lived among lycomedes ' daughters, perhaps under the name " pyrrha " ( the red - haired girl ), cercysera or aissa ( " swift " ). with lycomedes ' daughter deidamia, with whom he had begun a relationship, achilles there fathered two sons, neoptolemus ( also called pyrrhus, after his father ' s possible alias ) and oneiros. according to this story, odysseus learned from the prophet calchas that the achaeans would be unable to capture troy without achilles ' aid. odysseus went to skyros in the guise of a peddler selling women ' s clothes and jewellery and placed a shield and spear among his goods. when achilles instantly took up the spear, odysseus saw through his disguise and convinced him to join the greek campaign. in another version of the story, odysseus arranged for a trumpet alarm to be sounded while he was with lycomedes ' women. while the women fled in panic, achilles prepared to defend the court, thus giving his identity away. in the trojan war according to the iliad, achilles arrived at troy with 50 ships, each carrying 50 myrmidons. he appointed five leaders ( each leader commanding 500 myrmidons ) : menesthius, eudorus, peisander, phoenix and alcimedon. telephus when the greeks left for the trojan war, they accidentally stopped in mysia, ruled by king telephus. in the resulting battle, achilles gave telephus a wound that would not heal ; telephus consulted an oracle, who stated that " he that wounded shall heal ". guided by the oracle, he arrived at argos, where achilles healed him in order that he might become their