government and administrative texts. european union when austria became a member of the european union, 23 food - related terms were listed in its accession agreement as having the same legal status as the equivalent terms used in germany, for example, the words for " potato ", " tomato ", and " brussels sprouts ". ( examples in " vocabulary " ) austrian german is the only variety of a pluricentric language recognized under international law or eu primary law. grammar verbs in austria, as in the german - speaking parts of switzerland and in southern germany, verbs that express a state tend to use as the auxiliary verb in the perfect, as well as verbs of movement. verbs which fall into this category include sitzen ( to sit ), liegen ( to lie ) and, in parts of styria and carinthia, schlafen ( to sleep ). therefore, the perfect of these verbs would be ich bin gesessen, ich bin gelegen and ich bin geschlafen, respectively. in germany, the words stehen ( to stand ) and gestehen ( to confess ) are identical in the present perfect : habe gestanden. the austrian variant avoids that potential ambiguity ( bin gestanden from stehen, " to stand " ; and habe gestanden from gestehen, " to confess " : " der verbrecher ist vor dem richter gestanden und hat gestanden " ). in addition, the preterite ( simple past ) is very rarely used in austria, especially in the spoken language, with the exception of some modal verbs ( ich sollte, ich wollte ). vocabulary there are many official terms that differ in austrian german from their usage in most parts of germany. words used in austria are janner ( january ) rather than januar, feber ( seldom, february ) along with februar, heuer ( this year ) along with dieses jahr, stiege ( stairs ) along with treppen, rauchfang ( chimney ) instead of schornstein, many administrative, legal and political terms, and many food terms, including the following : there are, however, some false friends between the two regional varieties : kasten ( wardrobe ) along with or instead of schrank ( and, similarly, eiskasten along with kuhlschrank, fridge ), as opposed to kiste ( box ) instead of kasten. kiste in germany means both " box " and