backdrop for new york department store bonwit teller ' s window display. this was the same stage his pop art contemporaries jasper johns, james rosenquist and robert rauschenberg had also once graced. it was the gallerist muriel latow who came up with the ideas for both the soup cans and warhol ' s dollar paintings. on november 23, 1961, warhol wrote latow a check for $ 50 which, according to the 2009 warhol biography, pop, the genius of warhol, was payment for coming up with the idea of the soup cans as subject matter. for his first major exhibition, warhol painted his famous cans of campbell ' s soup, which he claimed to have had for lunch for most of his life. it was during the 1960s that warhol began to make paintings of iconic american objects such as dollar bills, mushroom clouds, electric chairs, campbell ' s soup cans, coca - cola bottles, celebrities such as marilyn monroe, elvis presley, and elizabeth taylor, as well as newspaper headlines or photographs of police dogs attacking african - american protesters during the birmingham campaign in the civil rights movement. his work became popular and controversial. warhol had this to say about coca - cola : in 1962, warhol created his famous marilyn series. the flavor marilyns were selected from a group of fourteen canvases in the sub - series, each measuring 20 " x 16 ". some of the canvases were named after various candy life savers flavors, including cherry marilyn, lemon marilyn, and licorice marilyn. the others are identified by their background colors. warhol produced both comic and serious works ; his subject could be a soup can or an electric chair. warhol used the same techniques — silkscreens, reproduced serially, and often painted with bright colors — whether he painted celebrities, everyday objects, or images of suicide, car crashes, and disasters, as in the 1962 – 63 death and disaster series. in 1979, warhol was commissioned to paint a bmw m1 group 4 racing version for the fourth installment of the bmw art car project. he was initially asked to paint a bmw 320i in 1978, but the car model was changed and it didn ' t qualify for the race that year. warhol was the first artist to paint directly onto the automobile himself instead of letting technicians transfer a scale - model design to the car. reportedly, it took him only 23 minutes to paint the entire car. racecar drivers herve poulain, manfred winkelhock and marcel mignot drove