, masc. ) and ( ' you ', fem. ), which become and, respectively. in sana ' a, omani, and bahrani is pronounced. pharyngealization of the emphatic consonants tends to weaken in many of the spoken varieties, and to spread from emphatic consonants to nearby sounds. the " emphatic " allophone automatically triggers pharyngealization of adjacent sounds in many dialects. as a result, it may be difficult or impossible to determine whether a given coronal consonant is phonemically emphatic or not, especially in dialects with long - distance emphasis spreading. a notable exception is the sounds vs. in moroccan arabic, because the former is pronounced as an affricate but the latter is not. grammar literary arabic as in other semitic languages, arabic has a complex and unusual morphology, i. e. method of constructing words from a basic root. arabic has a nonconcatenative " root - and - pattern " morphology : a root consists of a set of bare consonants ( usually three ), which are fitted into a discontinuous pattern to form words. for example, the word for ' i wrote ' is constructed by combining the root ' write ' with the pattern ' i xed ' to form ' i wrote '. other verbs meaning ' i xed ' will typically have the same pattern but with different consonants, e. g. ' i read ', ' i ate ', ' i went ', although other patterns are possible, e. g. ' i drank ', ' i said ', ' i spoke ', where the subpattern used to signal the past tense may change but the suffix is always used. from a single root, numerous words can be formed by applying different patterns : ' i wrote ' ' i had ( something ) written ' ' i corresponded ( with someone ) ' ' i dictated ' ' i subscribed ' ' we corresponded with each other ' ' i write ' ' i have ( something ) written ' ' i correspond ( with someone ) ' ' i dictate ' ' i subscribe ' ' we correspond each other ' ' it was written ' ' it was dictated ' ' written ' ' dictated ' ' book ' ' books ' ' writer ' ' writers ' ' desk, office ' ' library, bookshop ' etc. nouns and adjectives nouns in literary arabic have three grammatical cases ( nominative, accusative, and genitive [ also used when the noun