, 2 ) to reduce the counterproductive polarization between " pro - altaists " and " anti - altaists " ; 3 ) to broaden the applicability of the term because the suffix - ic implies affinity while - an leaves room for an areal hypothesis ; and 4 ) to eliminate the reference to the altai mountains as a potential homeland. in robbeets and savelyev, ed. ( 2020 ) there was a concerted effort to distinguish " altaic " as a subgroup of " transeurasian " consisting only of turkic, mongolic, and tungusic, while retaining " transeurasian " as " altaic " plus japonic and koreanic. arguments for the altaic grouping phonological and grammatical features the original arguments for grouping the " micro - altaic " languages within a uralo - altaic family were based on such shared features as vowel harmony and agglutination. according to roy miller, the most pressing evidence for the theory is the similarities in verbal morphology. the etymological dictionary by starostin and others ( 2003 ) proposes a set of sound change laws that would explain the evolution from proto - altaic to the descendant languages. for example, although most of today ' s altaic languages have vowel harmony, proto - altaic as reconstructed by them lacked it ; instead, various vowel assimilations between the first and second syllables of words occurred in turkic, mongolic, tungusic, korean, and japonic. they also included a number of grammatical correspondences between the languages. shared lexicon starostin claimed in 1991 that the members of the proposed altaic group shared about 15 – 20 % of apparent cognates within a 110 - word swadesh - yakhontov list ; in particular, turkic – mongolic 20 %, turkic – tungusic 18 %, turkic – korean 17 %, mongolic – tungusic 22 %, mongolic – korean 16 %, and tungusic – korean 21 %. the 2003 etymological dictionary includes a list of 2, 800 proposed cognate sets, as well as a few important changes to the reconstruction of proto - altaic. the authors tried hard to distinguish loans between turkic and mongolic and between mongolic and tungusic from cognates ; and suggest words that occur in turkic and tungusic but not in mongolic. all other combinations between the five branches also occur in the book. it lists 144 items of shared basic vocabulary, including words for such