order, but the ionic capital also posed an insoluble problem at the corner of a temple. both orders were abandoned for the corinthian order gradually during the hellenistic age and under rome. the most important temples are : greek temples thebes, greece : the oldest temple probably dedicated to apollo ismenius was built in the 9th century bc. it seems that it was a curvilinear building. the doric temple was built in the early 7th century bc., but only some small parts have been found a festival called daphnephoria was celebrated every ninth year in honour of apollo ismenius ( or galaxius ). the people held laurel branches ( daphnai ), and at the head of the procession walked a youth ( chosen priest of apollo ), who was called " daphnephoros ". eretria : according to the homeric hymn to apollo, the god arrived on the plain, seeking for a location to establish its oracle. the first temple of apollo daphnephoros, " apollo, laurel - bearer ", or " carrying off daphne ", is dated to 800 bc. the temple was curvilinear hecatombedon ( a hundred feet ). in a smaller building were kept the bases of the laurel branches which were used for the first building. another temple probably peripteral was built in the 7th century bc, with an inner row of wooden columns over its geometric predecessor. it was rebuilt peripteral around 510 bc, with the stylobate measuring 21, 00 x 43, 00 m. the number of pteron column was 6 x 14. dreros ( crete ). the temple of apollo delphinios dates from the 7th century bc, or probably from the middle of the 8th century bc. according to the legend, apollo appeared as a dolphin, and carried cretan priests to the port of delphi. the dimensions of the plan are 10, 70 x 24, 00 m and the building was not peripteral. it contains column - bases of the minoan type, which may be considered as the predecessors of the doric columns. gortyn ( crete ). a temple of pythian apollo, was built in the 7th century bc. the plan measured 19, 00 x 16, 70 m and it was not peripteral. the walls were solid, made from limestone, and there was a single door on the east side. thermon ( west greece ) : the do