a move back to ottawa, where he and his wife stayed for the next year and a half. meanwhile, his writing career continued. " discord in scarlet " was van vogt ' s second story to be published, also appearing as the cover story. it was accompanied by interior illustrations created by frank kramer and paul orban. ( van vogt and kramer thus debuted in the issue of astounding that is sometimes identified as the start of the golden age of science fiction. ) among his most famous works of this era, " far centaurus " appeared in the january 1944 edition of astounding. van vogt ' s first completed novel, and one of his most famous, is slan ( arkham house, 1946 ), which campbell serialized in astounding ( september to december 1940 ). using what became one of van vogt ' s recurring themes, it told the story of a nine - year - old superman living in a world in which his kind are slain by homo sapiens. others saw van vogt ' s talent from his first story, and in may 1941 van vogt decided to become a full - time writer, quitting his job at the canadian department of national defence. freed from the necessity of living in ottawa, he and his wife lived for a time in the gatineau region of quebec before moving to toronto in the fall of 1941. prolific throughout this period, van vogt wrote many of his more famous short stories and novels in the years from 1941 through 1944. the novels the book of ptath and the weapon makers both appeared in magazines in serial form during this period ; they were later published in book form after world war ii. as well, several ( though not all ) of the stories that were compiled to make up the novels the weapon shops of isher, the mixed men and the war against the rull were published during this time. california and post - war writing ( 1944 – 1950 ) in november 1944, van vogt and hull moved to hollywood ; van vogt would spend the rest of his life in california. he had been using the name " a. e. van vogt " in his public life for several years, and as part of the process of obtaining american citizenship in 1945 he finally and formally changed his legal name from alfred vogt to alfred elton van vogt. to his friends in the california science fiction community, he was known as " van ". method and themes van vogt systematized his writing method, using scenes of 800 words or so