wars and the coming of the normans. alfred compiles his account from three main sources : from lincoln, the historia anglorum ( ha ) of henry of huntingdon ; from worcester, the genealogies and accounts of the saxon kingdoms contained in the preliminary section of the chronicle of john of worcester, and from durham, the historia regum ( hr ) attributed to symeon of durham. other writings? the liberties of beverley the beverley cartulary ( bl, add. 61901, fol. 60 v - 69 r ) contains a tract entitled the liberties of beverley which names master alfred, the sacrist, as collector and the translator from english into latin of the ancient liberties and privileges of the church of st john of beverley, as granted by king æthelstan ( d. 939 ). [ 7 ] the cartulary is an expensively produced volume commissioned by the chapter of beverley in defence of its rights and privileges at a time of conflict between it and archbishop alexander neville ( c. 1332 – 1392 ). while the liberties tract contains nothing from a time later than alfred, and therefore his authorship is possible, the history offers little to support the view that its author, and that of the liberties, are one and the same. the history contains a miracle story of st john of beverley where beverley ’ s status as a sanctuary - centre under the protection of the saint is described [ 8 ] – a central claim of the liberties tract - but neither king æthelstan, nor the other principal benefactors of beverley described in the tract : archbishop wulfstan i of york ( d. 956 ), archbishop ealdred of york ( d. 1069 ) and king edward the confessor ( d. 1066 ), are linked in any way to beverley in the history. equally, royal privileges granted by king william i to beverley which are reported in the history, are not found in the liberties tract. [ 9 ] what the liberties text attests, however, is the preservation of alfred ’ s memory in later medieval beverley. the liberties text occupies a central place in the cartulary and is elaborately presented, making clear its significance to the compilers. in a matter of importance to the chapter of beverley, it is alfred ’ s name which is attached to the text. he is recalled as both a scholar – able to translate ancient privileges from english into latin – and as a historian, the collector and redactor of oral traditions. historical value the long neglect