##ogy is falling out of use. classifications one definition of algae is that they " have chlorophyll as their primary photosynthetic pigment and lack a sterile covering of cells around their reproductive cells ". on the other hand, the colorless prototheca under chlorophyta are all devoid of any chlorophyll. although cyanobacteria are often referred to as " blue - green algae ", most authorities exclude all prokaryotes, including cyanobacteria, from the definition of algae. the algae contain chloroplasts that are similar in structure to cyanobacteria. chloroplasts contain circular dna like that in cyanobacteria and are interpreted as representing reduced endosymbiotic cyanobacteria. however, the exact origin of the chloroplasts is different among separate lineages of algae, reflecting their acquisition during different endosymbiotic events. the table below describes the composition of the three major groups of algae. their lineage relationships are shown in the figure in the upper right. many of these groups contain some members that are no longer photosynthetic. some retain plastids, but not chloroplasts, while others have lost plastids entirely. phylogeny based on plastid not nucleocytoplasmic genealogy : linnaeus, in species plantarum ( 1753 ), the starting point for modern botanical nomenclature, recognized 14 genera of algae, of which only four are currently considered among algae. in systema naturae, linnaeus described the genera volvox and corallina, and a species of acetabularia ( as madrepora ), among the animals. in 1768, samuel gottlieb gmelin ( 1744 – 1774 ) published the historia fucorum, the first work dedicated to marine algae and the first book on marine biology to use the then new binomial nomenclature of linnaeus. it included elaborate illustrations of seaweed and marine algae on folded leaves. w. h. harvey ( 1811 – 1866 ) and lamouroux ( 1813 ) were the first to divide macroscopic algae into four divisions based on their pigmentation. this is the first use of a biochemical criterion in plant systematics. harvey ' s four divisions are : red algae ( rhodospermae ), brown algae ( melanospermae ), green algae ( chlorospermae ), and diatomaceae. at this time, microscopic