rephaim lands east of jordan, between the jabbok and arnon, dispossessing them and dwelling in their place. their territory originally comprising all from the jordan to the wilderness, and from the river jabbok south to the river arnon. it was accounted a land of giants ; and that giants formerly dwelt in it, whom the ammonites called zamzummim. shortly before the israelite exodus, the amorites west of jordan, under king sihon, invaded and occupied a large portion of the territory of moab and ammon. the ammonites were driven from the rich lands near the jordan and retreated to the mountains and valleys to the east. the invasion of the amorites created a wedge and separated the two kingdoms of ammon and moab. throughout the bible, the ammonites and the israelites are portrayed as mutual antagonists. during the exodus, the israelites were prohibited by the ammonites from passing through their lands. the ammonites soon allied themselves with eglon of moab in attacking israel. the ammonites maintained their claim to part of transjordan, after it was occupied by the israelites who obtained it from sihon. during the days of jephthah, the ammonites occupied the lands east of the river jordan and started to invade israelite lands west of the river. jephthah became the leader in resisting these incursions. the constant harassment of the israelite communities east of the jordan by the ammonites was the impetus behind the unification of the tribes under saul. king nahash of ammon ( 990 bc ) lay siege to jabesh - gilead. nahash appears abruptly as the attacker of jabesh - gilead, which lay outside the territory he laid claim to. having subjected the occupants to a siege, the population sought terms for surrender, and were told by nahash that they had a choice of death ( by the sword ) or having their right eyes gouged out. the population obtained seven days ' grace from nahash, during which they would be allowed to seek help from the israelites, after which they would have to submit to the terms of surrender. the occupants sought help from the people of israel, sending messengers throughout the whole territory, and saul, a herdsman at this time, responded by raising an army which decisively defeated nahash and his cohorts at bezek. the strangely cruel terms given by nahash for surrender were