specimens, most of which were insects including more than 83, 000 beetles, several thousand of the specimens represented species new to science, overall, more than thirty men worked for him at some stage as full - time paid collectors. he also hired guides, porters, cooks and boat crews, so well over 100 individuals worked for him. after collecting expeditions to bukit timah hill in singapore, and to malacca, wallace and allen reached sarawak in october 1854, and were welcomed at kuching by sir james brooke ' s ( then ) heir captain john brooke. wallace hired a malay named ali as a general servant and cook, and spent the early 1855 wet season in a small dyak house at the foot of mount santubong, overlooking a branch outlet of the sarawak river. he read about species distribution, and wrote his " sarawak paper ". in march he moved to the simunjon coal - works, operated by the borneo company under ludvig verner helms, and supplemented collecting by paying workers a cent for each insect. a specimen of the previously unknown gliding tree frog rhacophorus nigropalmatus ( now called wallace ' s flying frog ) came from a chinese workman who told wallace that it glided down. local people also assisted with shooting orangutans. they spent time with sir james, then in february 1856 allen chose to stay on with the missionaries at kuching. on reaching singapore in may 1856, wallace hired a bird - skinner. with ali as cook, they collected for two days on bali, then from 17 june to 30 august on lombok. in december 1856, darwin had written to contacts worldwide to get specimens for his continuing research into variation under domestication. at lombok ' s port city, ampanam, wallace wrote telling his agent, stevens, about specimens shipped, including a domestic duck variety " for mr. darwin & he would perhaps also like the jungle cock, which is often domesticated here & is doubtless one of the originals of the domestic breed of poultry. " in the same letter, wallace said birds from bali and lombok, divided by a narrow strait, " belong to two quite distinct zoological provinces, of which they form the extreme limits ", java, borneo, sumatra and malacca, and australia and the moluccas. stevens arranged publication of relevant paragraphs in the january 1857 issue of the zoologist. after further investigation, the zoogeographical boundary eventually became known as the wallace line. ali became wallace ' s most