world. aspirin ' s popularity grew over the first half of the 20th century, leading to competition between many brands and formulations. the word aspirin was bayer ' s brand name ; however, their rights to the trademark were lost or sold in many countries. the name is ultimately a blend of the prefix a ( cetyl ) + spir spiraea, the meadowsweet plant genus from which the acetylsalicylic acid was originally derived at bayer + - in, the common chemical suffix. chemical properties aspirin decomposes rapidly in solutions of ammonium acetate or the acetates, carbonates, citrates, or hydroxides of the alkali metals. it is stable in dry air, but gradually hydrolyses in contact with moisture to acetic and salicylic acids. in solution with alkalis, the hydrolysis proceeds rapidly and the clear solutions formed may consist entirely of acetate and salicylate. like flour mills, factories producing aspirin tablets must control the amount of the powder that becomes airborne inside the building, because the powder - air mixture can be explosive. the national institute for occupational safety and health ( niosh ) has set a recommended exposure limit in the united states of 5mg / m3 ( time - weighted average ). in 1989, the occupational safety and health administration ( osha ) set a legal permissible exposure limit for aspirin of 5mg / m3, but this was vacated by the afl - cio v. osha decision in 1993. synthesis the synthesis of aspirin is classified as an esterification reaction. salicylic acid is treated with acetic anhydride, an acid derivative, causing a chemical reaction that turns salicylic acid ' s hydroxyl group into an ester group ( r - oh → r - ococh3 ). this process yields aspirin and acetic acid, which is considered a byproduct of this reaction. small amounts of sulfuric acid ( and occasionally phosphoric acid ) are almost always used as a catalyst. this method is commonly demonstrated in undergraduate teaching labs. reaction between acetic acid and salicylic acid can also form aspirin but this esterification reaction is reversible and the presence of water can lead to hydrolysis of the aspirin. so, an anhydrous reagent is preferred. reaction mechanism formulations containing high concentrations of aspirin often smell