much stronger federal government by establishing a chief executive ( the president ), courts, and taxing powers. background and context the political push to increase cooperation among the then - loyal colonies began with the albany congress in 1754 and benjamin franklin ' s proposed albany plan, an inter - colonial collaboration to help solve mutual local problems. over the next two decades, some of the basic concepts it addressed would strengthen ; others would weaken, especially in the degree of loyalty ( or lack thereof ) owed the crown. civil disobedience resulted in coercive and quelling measures, such as the passage of what the colonials referred to as the intolerable acts in the british parliament, and armed skirmishes which resulted in dissidents being proclaimed rebels. these actions eroded the number of crown loyalists ( tories ) among the colonials and, together with the highly effective propaganda campaign of the patriot leaders, caused an increasing number of colonists to begin agitating for independence from the mother country. in 1775, with events outpacing communications, the second continental congress began acting as the provisional government for the united colonies. it was an era of constitution writing — most states were busy at the task — and leaders felt the new nation must have a written constitution ; a " rulebook " for how the new nation should function. during the war, congress exercised an unprecedented level of political, diplomatic, military and economic authority. it adopted trade restrictions, established and maintained an army, issued fiat money, created a military code and negotiated with foreign governments. to transform themselves from outlaws into a legitimate nation, the colonists needed international recognition for their cause and foreign allies to support it. in early 1776, thomas paine argued in the closing pages of the first edition of common sense that the " custom of nations " demanded a formal declaration of american independence if any european power were to mediate a peace between the americans and great britain. the monarchies of france and spain, in particular, could not be expected to aid those they considered rebels against another legitimate monarch. foreign courts needed to have american grievances laid before them persuasively in a " manifesto " which could also reassure them that the americans would be reliable trading partners. without such a declaration, paine concluded, " [ t ] he custom of all courts is against us, and will be so, until, by an independence, we take rank with other nations. " beyond improving their existing association, the records of the second continental congress show that the need for a declaration of independence was intimately linked with the