the akkadian empire ( ) was the first ancient empire of mesopotamia, succeeding the long - lived civilization of sumer. centered on the city of akkad ( ) and its surrounding region, the empire would unite akkadian and sumerian speakers under one rule and exercised significant influence across mesopotamia, the levant, and anatolia, sending military expeditions as far south as dilmun and magan ( modern saudi arabia, bahrain, and oman ) in the arabian peninsula. the akkadian empire reached its political peak between the 24th and 22nd centuries bc, following the conquests by its founder sargon of akkad. under sargon and his successors, the akkadian language was briefly imposed on neighboring conquered states such as elam and gutium. akkad is sometimes regarded as the first empire in history, though the meaning of this term is not precise, and there are earlier sumerian claimants. sources contemporary sources epigraphic sources from the sargonic ( akkadian empire ) period are in relatively short supply, partly because the capital akkad, like the capitals of the later mitanni and sealand, has not yet been located, though there has been much speculation. some cuneiform tablets have been excavated at cities under akkadian empire control like eshnunna and tell agrab. other tablets, lamentably, have become available on the antiquities market and are held in museums and private collections such as those from the akkadian governor in adab. internal evidence allows their dating to the sargonic period and sometimes to the original location. archives are especially important to historians and only a few have become available. the me - sag archive, which commenced publication in 1958, is considered one of the most significant collections. the tablets, about 500 in number with about half published, are held primarily at the babylonian collection of the yale university and baghdad museum with a few others scattered about. the tablets date to the period of late in the reign of naram - sin to early in the reign of shar - kali - shari. they are believed to be from a town between umma and lagash and me - sag to be the governor of umma. an archive of 47 tablets was found at the excavation of tell el - suleimah in the hamrin basin. various royal inscriptions by the akkadian rulers have also been found. most of the original examples are short, or very fragmentary like the victory stele of naram - sin and the sargon