is patronised by ashoka – sends out nine buddhist missions to spread buddhism in the " border areas " in. this tradition does not credit ashoka directly with sending these missions. each mission comprises five monks, and is headed by an elder. to sri lanka, he sent his own son mahinda, accompanied by four other theras – itthiya, uttiya, sambala and bhaddasala. next, with moggaliputta - tissa ' s help, ashoka sent buddhist missionaries to distant regions such as kashmir, gandhara, himalayas, the land of the yonas ( greeks ), maharashtra, suvannabhumi, and sri lanka. the sri lankan tradition dates these missions to ashoka ' s 18th regnal year, naming the following missionaries : mahinda to sri lanka majjhantika to kashmir and gandhara mahadeva to mahisa - mandala ( possibly modern mysore region ) rakkhita to vanavasa dhammarakkhita the greek to aparantaka ( western india ) maha - dhamma - rakkhita to maharashtra maharakkhita to the greek country majjhima to the himalayas sona and uttara to suvannabhumi ( possibly lower burma and thailand ) the tradition adds that during his 19th regnal year, ashoka ' s daughter sanghamitta went to sri lanka to establish an order of nuns, taking a sapling of the sacred bodhi tree with her. the north indian tradition makes no mention of these events. ashoka ' s own inscriptions also appear to omit any mention of these events, recording only one of his activities during this period : in his 19th regnal year, he donated the khalatika cave to ascetics to provide them a shelter during the rainy season. ashoka ' s pillar edicts suggest that during the next year, he made pilgrimage to lumbini – the place of buddha ' s birth, and to the stupa of the buddha kanakamuni. the rock edict xiii states that ashoka ' s won a " dhamma victory " by sending messengers to five kings and several other kingdoms. whether these missions correspond to the buddhist missions recorded in the buddhist chronicles is debated. indologist etienne lamotte argues that the " dhamma " missionaries mentioned in ashoka ' s inscriptions were probably not buddhist monks, as this " dhamma " was not same as " buddhism ". moreover, the lists of destinations of the missions and the dates of