remain until metamorphosis. the granular poison frog ( oophaga granulifera ) is typical of a number of tree frogs in the poison dart frog family dendrobatidae. its eggs are laid on the forest floor and when they hatch, the tadpoles are carried one by one on the back of an adult to a suitable water - filled crevice such as the axil of a leaf or the rosette of a bromeliad. the female visits the nursery sites regularly and deposits unfertilised eggs in the water and these are consumed by the tadpoles. genetics and genomics amphibians are notable among vertebrates for their diversity of chromosomes and genomes. the karyotypes ( chromosomes ) have been determined for at least 1, 193 ( 14. 5 % ) of the ≈8, 200 known ( diploid ) species, including 963 anurans, 209 salamanders, and 21 caecilians. generally, the karyotypes of diploid amphibians are characterized by 20 – 26 bi - armed chromosomes. amphibians have also very large genomes compared to other taxa of vertebrates and corresponding variation in genome size ( c - value : picograms of dna in haploid nuclei ). the genome sizes range from 0. 95 to 11. 5 pg in frogs, from 13. 89 to 120. 56 pg in salamanders, and from 2. 94 to 11. 78 pg in caecilians. the large genome sizes have prevented whole - genome sequencing of amphibians although a number of genomes have been published recently. the 1. 7gb draft genome of xenopus tropicalis was the first to be reported for amphibians in 2010. compared to some salamanders this frog genome is tiny. for instance, the genome of the mexican axolotl turned out to be 32 gb, which is more than 10 times larger than the human genome ( 3gb ). feeding and diet with a few exceptions, adult amphibians are predators, feeding on virtually anything that moves that they can swallow. the diet mostly consists of small prey that do not move too fast such as beetles, caterpillars, earthworms and spiders. the sirens ( siren spp. ) often ingest aquatic plant material with the invertebrates on which they feed and a brazilian tree frog ( xenohyla truncata ) includes a large quantity of fruit in its diet. the mexican burrowing toad