more satisfactory. consequently, in 1907 he published an article on acceleration under special relativity. in that article titled " on the relativity principle and the conclusions drawn from it ", he argued that free fall is really inertial motion, and that for a free - falling observer the rules of special relativity must apply. this argument is called the equivalence principle. in the same article, einstein also predicted the phenomena of gravitational time dilation, gravitational redshift and gravitational lensing. in 1911, einstein published another article " on the influence of gravitation on the propagation of light " expanding on the 1907 article, in which he estimated the amount of deflection of light by massive bodies. thus, the theoretical prediction of general relativity could for the first time be tested experimentally. gravitational waves in 1916, einstein predicted gravitational waves, ripples in the curvature of spacetime which propagate as waves, traveling outward from the source, transporting energy as gravitational radiation. the existence of gravitational waves is possible under general relativity due to its lorentz invariance which brings the concept of a finite speed of propagation of the physical interactions of gravity with it. by contrast, gravitational waves cannot exist in the newtonian theory of gravitation, which postulates that the physical interactions of gravity propagate at infinite speed. the first, indirect, detection of gravitational waves came in the 1970s through observation of a pair of closely orbiting neutron stars, psr b1913 + 16. the explanation for the decay in their orbital period was that they were emitting gravitational waves. einstein ' s prediction was confirmed on 11 february 2016, when researchers at ligo published the first observation of gravitational waves, detected on earth on 14 september 2015, nearly one hundred years after the prediction. hole argument and entwurf theory while developing general relativity, einstein became confused about the gauge invariance in the theory. he formulated an argument that led him to conclude that a general relativistic field theory is impossible. he gave up looking for fully generally covariant tensor equations and searched for equations that would be invariant under general linear transformations only. in june 1913, the entwurf ( ' draft ' ) theory was the result of these investigations. as its name suggests, it was a sketch of a theory, less elegant and more difficult than general relativity, with the equations of motion supplemented by additional gauge fixing conditions. after more than two years of intensive work, einstein realized that the hole argument was mistaken and abandoned the theory in november 1915. physical cosmology