representing a character ' s outlook on the universe : characters with good stuff seeing the multiverse as a cheerful place, while characters with bad stuff see it as hostile. conflict resolution in any given fair conflict between two characters, the character with the higher score in the relevant attribute will eventually win. the key words here are fair and eventually – if characters ' ranks are close, and the weaker character has obtained some advantage, then the weaker character can escape defeat or perhaps prevail. close ranks result in longer contests while greater difference between ranks result in fast resolution. alternatively, if characters ' attribute ranks are close, the weaker character can try to change the relevant attribute by changing the nature of the conflict. for example, if two characters are wrestling the relevant attribute is strength ; a character could reveal a weapon, changing it to warfare ; they could try to overcome the other character ' s mind using a power, changing it to psyche ; or they could concentrate their strength on defense, changing it to endurance. if there is a substantial difference between characters ' ranks, the conflict is generally over before the weaker character can react. the " golden rule " amber drpg advises gamemasters to change rules as they see fit, even to the point of adding or removing powers or attributes. reception in the june 1992 edition of dragon ( issue 182 ), both lester smith and allen varney published reviews of this game. smith admired the professional production qualities of the 256 - page rulebook, noting that because it was smyth sewn in 32 - page signatures, the book would always lie flat when opened. however, he found the typeface difficult to read, and the lack a coherent hierarchy of rules increased the reading difficulty as well. smith admired the attribute auction and point - buy system for skills, and the focus on roleplaying in place of dice - rolling, but he mused that all of the roleplaying would mean " gms have to spend quite a bit of time and creative effort coming up with wide - reaching plots for their players to work through. canned, linear adventures just won ' t serve. " he concluded by stating that the diceless system is not for every gamer : " as impressed as i am with the game, do i think it is the ' end - all ' of role - playing games, or that diceless systems are the wave of the future? i ' ll give a firm “ no ” on both counts... however, i certainly do think that the amber diceless roleplaying game is destined for great popularity and a