tohoku region. this serves as further evidence for ainu - speaking hunters and fishermen migrating down from northern hokkaido into honshu. there is also evidence that ainu speakers lived in the amur region through ainu loanwords found in the uilta and ulch people languages. research suggests that ainu culture originated from a merger of the okhotsk and satsumon cultures. according to researchers lee and hasegawa, ainu - speakers descend from the okhotsk people, who rapidly expanded from northern hokkaido into the kurils and honshu. these early inhabitants did not speak the japanese language ; some were conquered by the japanese early in the 9th century. in 1264, the ainu invaded the land of the nivkh people. the ainu also started an expedition into the amur region, which was then controlled by the yuan dynasty, resulting in reprisals by the mongols who invaded sakhalin. active contact between the wa - jin ( the ethnically japanese, also known as yamato - jin ) and the ainu of ezogashima ( now known as hokkaido ) began in the 13th century. the ainu formed a society of hunter - gatherers, surviving mainly by hunting and fishing. they followed a religion which was based on natural phenomena. during the muromachi period ( 1336 – 1573 ), many ainu were subject to japanese rule. disputes between the japanese and ainu developed into large - scale violence, known as koshamain ' s revolt, in 1456. takeda nobuhiro, the ancestor of the matsumae clan, killed the ainu leader koshamain. in the 15th century, manchuria in northern china came under ming rule. as part of the nurgan regional military commission, the ainu and nivkh peoples of sakhalin were subjugated and became tributaries to the ming dynasty. women in sakhalin intermarried with han chinese ming officials when the ming took tribute from sakhalin and the amur river region. due to ming rule in manchuria, chinese cultural and religious influence such as chinese new year, the " chinese god ", and motifs such as dragons, spirals, and scrolls, spread among the ainu, nivkh, and amur natives such as the udeghes, ulchis, and nanais. these groups also adopted material goods and practices such as agriculture, husbandry, heating, iron cooking pots, silk, and cotton. during the edo period ( 160