alfred elton van vogt ( ; april 26, 1912 – january 26, 2000 ) was a canadian - born american science fiction author. his fragmented, bizarre narrative style influenced later science fiction writers, notably philip k. dick. he was one of the most popular and influential practitioners of science fiction in the mid - twentieth century, the genre ' s so - called golden age, and one of the most complex. the science fiction writers of america named him their 14th grand master in 1995 ( presented 1996 ). early life alfred vogt ( both " elton " and " van " were added much later ) was born on april 26, 1912, on his grandparents ' farm in edenburg, manitoba, a tiny ( and now defunct ) russian mennonite community east of gretna, manitoba, canada, in the mennonite west reserve. he was the third of six children born to heinrich " henry " vogt and aganetha " agnes " vogt ( nee buhr ), both of whom were born in manitoba and grew up in heavily immigrant communities. until he was four, van vogt spoke only plautdietsch at home. for the first dozen or so years of his life, van vogt ' s father, henry vogt, a lawyer, moved his family several times within western canada, moving to neville, saskatchewan ; morden, manitoba ; and finally winnipeg, manitoba. alfred vogt found these moves difficult, later remarking : by the 1920s, living in winnipeg, father henry worked as an agent for a steamship company, but the stock market crash of 1929 proved financially disastrous, and the family could not afford to send alfred to college. during his teen years, alfred worked as a farmhand and a truck driver, and by the age of 19, he was working in ottawa for the canadian census bureau. in " the dark days of ' 31 and ' 32, " van vogt took a correspondence course in writing from the palmer institute of authorship. he sold his first story in fall 1932. his early published works were stories in the true confession style of magazines such as true story. most of these stories were published anonymously, with the first - person narratives allegedly being written by people ( often women ) in extraordinary, emotional, and life - changing circumstances. after a year in ottawa, he moved back to winnipeg, where he sold newspaper advertising space and continued to write. while continuing to pen melodramatic " true confessions " stories through 1937, he also began writing short radio dramas for local radio