egypt with its ebers papyrus ( ), and the roman empire in the time of juvenal ( ). one of the earliest known artistic representations of abortion is in a bas relief at angkor wat ( ). found in a series of friezes that represent judgment after death in hindu and buddhist culture, it depicts the technique of abdominal abortion. in judaism ( ), the fetus is not considered to have a human soul until it is safely outside of the woman, is viable, and has taken its first breath. the fetus is considered valuable property of the woman and not a human life while in the womb ( ). while judaism encourages people to be fruitful and multiply by having children, abortion is allowed and is deemed necessary when a pregnant woman ' s life is in danger. several religions, including judaism, which disagree that human life begins at conception, support the legality of abortion on religious freedom grounds. in islam, abortion is traditionally permitted until a point in time when muslims believe the soul enters the fetus, considered by various theologians to be at conception, 40 days after conception, 120 days after conception, or quickening. abortion is largely heavily restricted or forbidden in areas of high islamic faith such as the middle east and north africa. some medical scholars and abortion opponents have suggested that the hippocratic oath forbade physicians in ancient greece from performing abortions ; other scholars disagree with this interpretation, and state that the medical texts of hippocratic corpus contain descriptions of abortive techniques right alongside the oath. the physician scribonius largus wrote in 43 ce that the hippocratic oath prohibits abortion, as did soranus of ephesus, although apparently not all doctors adhered to it strictly at the time. according to soranus ' 1st or 2nd century ce work gynaecology, one party of medical practitioners banished all abortives as required by the hippocratic oath ; the other party to which he belonged was willing to prescribe abortions only for the sake of the mother ' s health. in politics ( 350 bce ), aristotle condemned infanticide as a means of population control. he preferred abortion in such cases, with the restriction that it " must be practised on it before it has developed sensation and life ; for the line between lawful and unlawful abortion will be marked by the fact of having sensation and being alive. " in the catholic church, opinion was divided on how serious abortion was in comparison with such acts as contraception, oral sex, and sex in marriage for pleasure