york. on june 13, 2006, vincent ferrari documented his account cancellation phone call in a blog post, stating he had switched to broadband years earlier. in the recorded phone call, the aol representative refused to cancel the account unless the 30 - year - old ferrari explained why aol hours were still being recorded on it. ferrari insisted that aol software was not even installed on the computer. when ferrari demanded that the account be canceled regardless, the aol representative asked to speak with ferrari ' s father, for whom the account had been set up. the conversation was aired on cnbc. when cnbc reporters tried to have an account on aol cancelled, they were hung up on immediately and it ultimately took more than 45 minutes to cancel the account. on july 19, 2006, aol ' s entire retention manual was released on the internet. on august 3, 2006, time warner announced that the company would be dissolving aol ' s retention centers due to its profits hinging on $ 1 billion in cost cuts. the company estimated that it would lose more than six million subscribers over the following year. direct marketing of disks prior to 2006, aol often sent unsolicited mass direct mail of 3 " floppy disks and cd - roms containing their software. they were the most frequent user of this marketing tactic, and received criticism for the environmental cost of the campaign. according to pc world, in the 1990s " you couldn ' t open a magazine ( pc world included ) or your mailbox without an aol disk falling out of it ". the mass distribution of these disks was seen as wasteful by the public and led to protest groups. one such was no more aol cds, a web - based effort by two it workers to collect one million disks with the intent to return the disks to aol. the website was started in august 2001, and an estimated 410, 176 cds were collected by august 2007 when the project was shut down. software in 2000, aol was served with an $ 8 billion lawsuit alleging that its aol 5. 0 software caused significant difficulties for users attempting to use third - party internet service providers. the lawsuit sought damages of up to $ 1000 for each user that had downloaded the software cited at the time of the lawsuit. aol later agreed to a settlement of $ 15 million, without admission of wrongdoing. the aol software then was given a feature called aol dialer, or aol connect on. this feature allowed users to connect to the isp without running