personality " trait. " trait anxiety reflects a stable tendency across the lifespan of responding with acute, state anxiety in the anticipation of threatening situations ( whether they are actually deemed threatening or not ). a meta - analysis showed that a high level of neuroticism is a risk factor for development of anxiety symptoms and disorders. such anxiety may be conscious or unconscious. personality can also be a trait leading to anxiety and depression and their persistence. through experience, many find it difficult to collect themselves due to their own personal nature. choice or decision anxiety induced by the need to choose between similar options is increasingly being recognized as a problem for individuals and for organizations. in 2004, capgemini wrote : " today we ' re all faced with greater choice, more competition and less time to consider our options or seek out the right advice. " in a decision context, unpredictability or uncertainty may trigger emotional responses in anxious individuals that systematically alter decision - making. there are primarily two forms of this anxiety type. the first form refers to a choice in which there are multiple potential outcomes with known or calculable probabilities. the second form refers to the uncertainty and ambiguity related to a decision context in which there are multiple possible outcomes with unknown probabilities. panic disorder panic disorder may share symptoms of stress and anxiety, but it is actually very different. panic disorder is an anxiety disorder that occurs without any triggers. according to the u. s. department of health and human services, this disorder can be distinguished by unexpected and repeated episodes of intense fear. someone with panic disorder will eventually develop constant fear of another attack and as this progresses it will begin to affect daily functioning and an individual ' s general quality of life. it is reported by the cleveland clinic that panic disorder affects 2 to 3 percent of adult americans and can begin around the time of the teenage and early adult years. some symptoms include : difficulty breathing, chest pain, dizziness, trembling or shaking, feeling faint, nausea, fear that you are losing control or are about to die. even though they have these symptoms during an attack, the main symptom is the persistent fear of having future panic attacks. anxiety disorders anxiety disorders are a group of mental disorders characterized by exaggerated feelings of anxiety and fear responses. anxiety is a worry about future events and fear is a reaction to current events. these feelings may cause physical symptoms, such as a fast heart rate and shakiness. there are a number of anxiety disorders : including generalized anxiety disorder, specific phobia, social anxiety disorder, separation