##ao and gennady padalka ) perform ultrasound scans under the guidance of remote experts to diagnose and potentially treat hundreds of medical conditions in space. this study ' s techniques are now being applied to cover professional and olympic sports injuries as well as ultrasound performed by non - expert operators in medical and high school students. it is anticipated that remote guided ultrasound will have application on earth in emergency and rural care situations, where access to a trained physician is often rare. a 2006 space shuttle experiment found that salmonella typhimurium, a bacterium that can cause food poisoning, became more virulent when cultivated in space. more recently, in 2017, bacteria were found to be more resistant to antibiotics and to thrive in the near - weightlessness of space. microorganisms have been observed to survive the vacuum of outer space. on 31 december 2012, a nasa - supported study reported that human spaceflight may harm the brain and accelerate the onset of alzheimer ' s disease. in october 2015, the nasa office of inspector general issued a health hazards report related to space exploration, including a human mission to mars. over the last decade, flight surgeons and scientists at nasa have seen a pattern of vision problems in astronauts on long - duration space missions. the syndrome, known as visual impairment intracranial pressure ( viip ), has been reported in nearly two - thirds of space explorers after long periods spent aboard the international space station ( iss ). on 2 november 2017, scientists reported that significant changes in the position and structure of the brain have been found in astronauts who have taken trips in space, based on mri studies. astronauts who took longer space trips were associated with greater brain changes. being in space can be physiologically deconditioning on the body. it can affect the otolith organs and adaptive capabilities of the central nervous system. zero gravity and cosmic rays can cause many implications for astronauts. in october 2018, nasa - funded researchers found that lengthy journeys into outer space, including travel to the planet mars, may substantially damage the gastrointestinal tissues of astronauts. the studies support earlier work that found such journeys could significantly damage the brains of astronauts, and age them prematurely. researchers in 2018 reported, after detecting the presence on the international space station ( iss ) of five enterobacter bugandensis bacterial strains, none pathogenic to humans, that microorganisms on iss should be carefully monitored to continue assuring a medically healthy environment for astronauts. a study by russian scientists published in april 2019 stated that astronauts facing space