agreement with the moderates of the republican party, it was the period following the return of congress. " the president was unhappy about the provocative actions of the southern states, and about the continued control by the antebellum elite there, but made no statement publicly, believing that southerners had a right to act as they did, even if it was unwise to do so. by late january 1866, he was convinced that winning a showdown with the radical republicans was necessary to his political plans – both for the success of reconstruction and for reelection in 1868. he would have preferred that the conflict arise over the legislative efforts to enfranchise african americans in the district of columbia, a proposal that had been defeated overwhelmingly in an all - white referendum. a bill to accomplish this passed the house of representatives, but to johnson ' s disappointment, stalled in the senate before he could veto it. illinois senator lyman trumbull, leader of the moderate republicans and chairman of the judiciary committee, was anxious to reach an understanding with the president. he ushered through congress a bill extending the freedmen ' s bureau beyond its scheduled abolition in 1867, and the first civil rights bill, to grant citizenship to the freedmen. trumbull met several times with johnson and was convinced the president would sign the measures ( johnson rarely contradicted visitors, often fooling those who met with him into thinking he was in accord ). in fact, the president opposed both bills as infringements on state sovereignty. additionally, both of trumbull ' s bills were unpopular among white southerners, whom johnson hoped to include in his new party. johnson vetoed the freedman ' s bureau bill on february 18, 1866, to the delight of white southerners and the puzzled anger of republican legislators. he considered himself vindicated when a move to override his veto failed in the senate the following day. johnson believed that the radicals would now be isolated and defeated and that the moderate republicans would form behind him ; he did not understand that moderates also wanted to see african americans treated fairly. on february 22, 1866, washington ' s birthday, johnson gave an impromptu speech to supporters who had marched to the white house and called for an address in honor of the first president. in his hour - long speech, he instead referred to himself over 200 times. more damagingly, he also spoke of " men... still opposed to the union " to whom he could not extend the hand of friendship he gave to the south. when called upon by the crowd to say who