with a penetration value near to zero and a softening point ( ring and ball ) around 120 °c. the insoluble matter, consisting mainly of silica ore, ranges from 8 % to 17 %. albanian bitumen extraction has a long history and was practiced in an organized way by the romans. after centuries of silence, the first mentions of albanian bitumen appeared only in 1868, when the frenchman coquand published the first geological description of the deposits of albanian bitumen. in 1875, the exploitation rights were granted to the ottoman government and in 1912, they were transferred to the italian company simsa. since 1945, the mine was exploited by the albanian government and from 2001 to date, the management passed to a french company, which organized the mining process for the manufacture of the natural bitumen on an industrial scale. today the mine is predominantly exploited in an open pit quarry but several of the many underground mines ( deep and extending over several km ) still remain viable. selenizza is produced primarily in granular form, after melting the bitumen pieces selected in the mine. selenizza is mainly used as an additive in the road construction sector. it is mixed with traditional bitumen to improve both the viscoelastic properties and the resistance to ageing. it may be blended with the hot bitumen in tanks, but its granular form allows it to be fed in the mixer or in the recycling ring of normal asphalt plants. other typical applications include the production of mastic asphalts for sidewalks, bridges, car - parks and urban roads as well as drilling fluid additives for the oil and gas industry. selenizza is available in powder or in granular material of various particle sizes and is packaged in sacks or in thermal fusible polyethylene bags. a life - cycle assessment study of the natural selenizza compared with petroleum bitumen has shown that the environmental impact of the selenizza is about half the impact of the road asphalt produced in oil refineries in terms of carbon dioxide emission. recycling bitumen is a commonly recycled material in the construction industry. the two most common recycled materials that contain bitumen are reclaimed asphalt pavement ( rap ) and reclaimed asphalt shingles ( ras ). rap is recycled at a greater rate than any other material in the united states, and typically contains approximately 5 – 6 % bitumen binder. asphalt shingles typically contain 20 – 40 % bitumen binder. bitumen naturally becomes stiffer over time due to oxidation, evaporation,