among the sixty - nine items in these three books, twenty - four deal with physics, seventeen with psychology, eleven with logic and metaphysics, and six with questions of fate and providence. it is unlikely that alexander wrote all of the quaestiones, some may be alexander ' s own explanations, while others may be exercises by his students. ethical problems was traditionally counted as the fourth book of the quaestiones. the work is a discussion of ethical issues based on aristotle, and contains responses to questions and problems deriving from alexander ' s school. it is likely that the work was not written by alexander himself, but rather by his pupils on the basis of debates involving alexander. on fate is a treatise in which alexander argues against the stoic doctrine of necessity. in on fate alexander denied three things - necessity ( ), the foreknowledge of fated events that was part of the stoic identification of god and nature, and determinism in the sense of a sequence of causes that was laid down beforehand ( ) or predetermined by antecedents ( ). he defended a view of moral responsibility we would call libertarianism today. on mixture and growth discusses the topic of mixture of physical bodies. it is both an extended discussion ( and polemic ) on stoic physics, and an exposition of aristotelian thought on this theme. on the principles of the universe is preserved in arabic translation. this treatise is not mentioned in surviving greek sources, but it enjoyed great popularity in the muslim world, and a large number of copies have survived. the main purpose of this work is to give a general account of aristotelian cosmology and metaphysics, but it also has a polemical tone, and it may be directed at rival views within the peripatetic school. alexander was concerned with filling the gaps of the aristotelian system and smoothing out its inconsistencies, while also presenting a unified picture of the world, both physical and ethical. the topics dealt with are the nature of the heavenly motions and the relationship between the unchangeable celestial realm and the sublunar world of generation and decay. his principal sources are the physics ( book 7 ), metaphysics ( book 12 ), and the pseudo - aristotelian on the universe. on providence survives in two arabic versions. in this treatise, alexander opposes the stoic view that divine providence extends to all aspects of the world ; he regards this idea as unworthy of the gods. instead, providence