commission of lighthouses ) on the recommendation of arago ( a member of the commission since 1813 ), to review possible improvements in lighthouse illumination. the commission had been established by napoleon in 1811 and placed under the corps des ponts — fresnel ' s employer. by the end of august 1819, unaware of the buffon - condorcet - brewster proposal, fresnel made his first presentation to the commission, recommending what he called lentilles a echelons ( lenses by steps ) to replace the reflectors then in use, which reflected only about half of the incident light. one of the assembled commissioners, jacques charles, recalled buffon ' s suggestion, leaving fresnel embarrassed for having again " broken through an open door ". but, whereas buffon ' s version was biconvex and in one piece, fresnel ' s was plano - convex and made of multiple prisms for easier construction. with an official budget of 500 francs, fresnel approached three manufacturers. the third, francois soleil, produced the prototype. finished in march 1820, it had a square lens panel 55cm on a side, containing 97 polygonal ( not annular ) prisms — and so impressed the commission that fresnel was asked for a full eight - panel version. this model, completed a year later in spite of insufficient funding, had panels 76cm square. in a public spectacle on the evening of 13 april 1821, it was demonstrated by comparison with the most recent reflectors, which it suddenly rendered obsolete. fresnel ' s next lens was a rotating apparatus with eight " bull ' s - eye " panels, made in annular arcs by saint - gobain, giving eight rotating beams — to be seen by mariners as a periodic flash. above and behind each main panel was a smaller, sloping bull ' s - eye panel of trapezoidal outline with trapezoidal elements. this refracted the light to a sloping plane mirror, which then reflected it horizontally, 7 degrees ahead of the main beam, increasing the duration of the flash. below the main panels were 128 small mirrors arranged in four rings, stacked like the slats of a louver or venetian blind. each ring, shaped as a frustum of a cone, reflected the light to the horizon, giving a fainter steady light between the flashes. the official test, conducted on the unfinished arc de triomphe on 20 august 1822, was witnessed by the commission — and by louis and his entourage —