jomon period population was detected along a north to south cline, with a peak among hokkaido jomon. physical description physical differences can be observed between various ainu subgroups and clans. according to anthropologist emiko ohnuki - tierney, … features considered to distinguish the ainu from other populations in the area, especially the japanese, are the tendency to dolichocephaly ( long - headedness ), a well developed glabella, a deeply depressed nose root, widely projecting cheekbones, a comparatively massive mandible ( lower jaw ), and an edge to edge bite, as well as more body and facial hair. many ainu men have abundant wavy hair and often wear long beards. the book ainu life and legends by author kyosuke kindaichi ( published by the japanese tourist board in 1942 ) contains a physical description of ainu : many have wavy hair, but some straight black hair. very few of them have wavy brownish hair. their skins are generally reported to be light brown. but this is due to the fact that they labor on the sea and in briny winds all day. old people who have long desisted from their outdoor work are often found to be as white as western men. the ainu have broad faces, beetling eyebrows, and sometimes large sunken eyes, which are generally horizontal and of the so - called european type. eyes of the mongolian type are rare but occasionally found among them. a comparative study by brace et al. ( 2001 ) argues for a closer morphological relation of the ainu with prehistoric and living european groups, compared with other east asian groups. the authors concluded that some of their ancestors may have descended from a population, dubbed " eurasians " by the authors, that moved into northern eurasia and eastwards in the late pleistocene, significantly predating the expansion of the modern core population of east asia from mainland southeast asia. overall anthropometric characteristics and cranial features group the ainu people most closely together with native americans, especially eskimos, followed by other east asians, rather than with europeans. a study by kura et al. ( 2014 ) based on cranial and genetic characteristics suggests a mostly northern asian ( " arctic " ) origin for ainu people. thus, despite the ainu sharing certain morphological similarities with caucasoid populations, the ainu are essentially of north asiatic origin. genetic evidence support a closer relation to paleo - siberian arctic populations, such as the chukchi people. a study by omoto has