##s can be morphologically highly variable over geographic scales and even within species on local scales and can be difficult to identify in terms of the constituent species. turfs have been defined as short algae, but this has been used to describe height ranges from less than 0. 5 cm to more than 10 cm. in some regions, the descriptions approached heights which might be described as canopies ( 20 to 30 cm ). physiology many algae, particularly species of the characeae, have served as model experimental organisms to understand the mechanisms of the water permeability of membranes, osmoregulation, turgor regulation, salt tolerance, cytoplasmic streaming, and the generation of action potentials. phytohormones are found not only in higher plants, but in algae, too. symbiotic algae some species of algae form symbiotic relationships with other organisms. in these symbioses, the algae supply photosynthates ( organic substances ) to the host organism providing protection to the algal cells. the host organism derives some or all of its energy requirements from the algae. examples are : lichens lichens are defined by the international association for lichenology to be " an association of a fungus and a photosynthetic symbiont resulting in a stable vegetative body having a specific structure ". the fungi, or mycobionts, are mainly from the ascomycota with a few from the basidiomycota. in nature, they do not occur separate from lichens. it is unknown when they began to associate. one mycobiont associates with the same phycobiont species, rarely two, from the green algae, except that alternatively, the mycobiont may associate with a species of cyanobacteria ( hence " photobiont " is the more accurate term ). a photobiont may be associated with many different mycobionts or may live independently ; accordingly, lichens are named and classified as fungal species. the association is termed a morphogenesis because the lichen has a form and capabilities not possessed by the symbiont species alone ( they can be experimentally isolated ). the photobiont possibly triggers otherwise latent genes in the mycobiont. trentepohlia is an example of a common green alga genus worldwide that can grow on its own or be lichenised. lichen thus share some of the habitat and often similar appearance with specialized