battle of adrianople in 378. large numbers of vandals, alans, suebi, and burgundians crossed the rhine and invaded roman gaul on december 31, 406 to escape the huns. the roman empire had been split in half since 395 and was ruled by two distinct governments, one based in ravenna in the west, and the other in constantinople in the east. the roman emperors, both east and west, were generally from the theodosian family in attila ' s lifetime ( despite several power struggles ). the huns dominated a vast territory with nebulous borders determined by the will of a constellation of ethnically varied peoples. some were assimilated to hunnic nationality, whereas many retained their own identities and rulers but acknowledged the suzerainty of the king of the huns. the huns were also the indirect source of many of the romans ' problems, driving various germanic tribes into roman territory, yet relations between the two empires were cordial : the romans used the huns as mercenaries against the germans and even in their civil wars. thus, the usurper joannes was able to recruit thousands of huns for his army against valentinian iii in 424. it was aetius, later patrician of the west, who managed this operation. they exchanged ambassadors and hostages, the alliance lasting from 401 to 450 and permitting the romans numerous military victories. the huns considered the romans to be paying them tribute, whereas the romans preferred to view this as payment for services rendered. the huns had become a great power by the time that attila came of age during the reign of his uncle ruga, to the point that nestorius, the patriarch of constantinople, deplored the situation with these words : " they have become both masters and slaves of the romans ". campaigns against the eastern roman empire the death of rugila ( also known as rua or ruga ) in 434 left the sons of his brother mundzuk, attila and bleda, in control of the united hun tribes. at the time of the two brothers ' accession, the hun tribes were bargaining with eastern roman emperor theodosius ii ' s envoys for the return of several renegades who had taken refuge within the eastern roman empire, possibly hunnic nobles who disagreed with the brothers ' assumption of leadership. the following year, attila and bleda met with the imperial legation at margus ( pozarevac ), all seated on horseback in the