to mount olympus by zeus to act as cup - carrier to the gods. neighboring aquila represents the eagle, under zeus ' command, that snatched the young boy ; some versions of the myth indicate that the eagle was in fact zeus transformed. an alternative version of the tale recounts ganymede ' s kidnapping by the goddess of the dawn, eos, motivated by her affection for young men ; zeus then stole him from eos and employed him as cup - bearer. yet another figure associated with the water bearer is cecrops i, a king of athens who sacrificed water instead of wine to the gods. depictions in the first century, ptolemy ' s almagest established the common western depiction of aquarius. his water jar, an asterism itself, consists of gamma, pi, eta, and zeta aquarii ; it pours water in a stream of more than 20 stars terminating with fomalhaut, now assigned solely to piscis austrinus. the water bearer ' s head is represented by 5th magnitude 25 aquarii while his left shoulder is beta aquarii ; his right shoulder and forearm are represented by alpha and gamma aquarii respectively. in eastern astronomy in chinese astronomy, the stream of water flowing from the water jar was depicted as the " army of yu - lin " ( yu - lim - kiun or yulinjun, hanzi : 林 ). the name " yu - lin " means " feathers and forests ", referring to the numerous light - footed soldiers from the northern reaches of the empire represented by these faint stars. the constellation ' s stars were the most numerous of any chinese constellation, numbering 45, the majority of which were located in modern aquarius. the celestial army was protected by the wall leibizhen ( ), which counted iota, lambda, phi, and sigma aquarii among its 12 stars. 88, 89, and 98 aquarii represent fou - youe, the axes used as weapons and for hostage executions. also in aquarius is loui - pi - tchin, the ramparts that stretch from 29 and 27 piscium and 33 and 30 aquarii through phi, lambda, sigma, and iota aquarii to delta, gamma, kappa, and epsilon capricorni. near the border with cetus, the axe fuyue was represented by three stars ; its position is disputed and may have instead been located in sculptor. tienliecheng also has a disputed