heavens and the earth, and he is never weary of preserving them. he is the sublime, the tremendous. in islamic tradition, there are 99 names of god ( lit. meaning : ' the best names ' or ' the most beautiful names ' ), each of which evoke a distinct characteristic of allah. all these names refer to allah, the supreme and all - comprehensive divine name. among the 99 names of god, the most famous and most frequent of these names are " the merciful " ( ar - rahman ) and " the compassionate " ( ), including the forementioned above al - ahad ( " the one, the indivisible " ) and al - wahid ( " the unique, the single " ). most muslims use the untranslated arabic phrase ( meaning ' if god wills ' ) after references to future events. muslim discursive piety encourages beginning things with the invocation of ( meaning ' in the name of god ' ). there are certain phrases in praise of god that are favored by muslims, including " " ( glory be to god ), " " ( praise be to god ), " " ( there is no deity but god ) or sometimes " la ilaha illa inta / huwa " ( there is no deity but you / him ) and " " ( god is the most great ) as a devotional exercise of remembering god ( dhikr ). in a sufi practice known as dhikr allah ( arabic : ذكر الله, lit. " remembrance of god " ), the sufi repeats and contemplates the name allah or other associated divine names to him while controlling his or her breath. for example, in countless references in the context from the qur ' an forementioned above : allah is referred to in the second person pronoun in arabic as " anta ( arabic : انت ) " like the english " you ", or commonly in the third person pronoun " huwa ( arabic : هو ) " like the english " he " and uniquely in the case pronoun of the oblique form " hu / huw ( arabic : هو / - ه ) " like the english " him " which rhythmically resonates and is chanted as considered a sacred sound or echo referring allah as the " absolute breath or soul of life " — al - nafs al - hayyah ( arabic : النفس الحياة, an - nafsu