. statue of ataturk located at zafer ( victory ) square ( turkish : zafer meydanı ), the marble and bronze statue was crafted by the renowned italian sculptor pietro canonica in 1927 and depicts a standing ataturk who wears a republic era modern military uniform, with the rank field marshal. monument to a secure, confident future this monument, located in guven park near kızılay square, was erected in 1935 and bears ataturk ' s advice to his people : " turk! be proud, work hard, and believe in yourself. " ( there is debate on whether or not ataturk actually said " use your mind " ( turkish : ogun ) instead of " be proud " ( turkish : ovun ) ) the monument was depicted on the reverse of the turkish 5 lira banknote of 1937 – 1952 and of the 1000 lira banknotes of 1939 – 1946. hatti monument erected in 1978 at sıhhiye square, this impressive monument symbolizes the hatti sun disc ( which was later adopted by the hittites ) and commemorates anatolia ' s earliest known civilization. the hatti sun disc has been used in the previous logo of ankara metropolitan municipality. it was also used in the previous logo of the ministry of culture & tourism. inns suluhan suluhan is a historical inn in ankara. it is also called the hasanpasa han. it is about southeast of ulus square and situated in the hacıdogan neighborhood. according to the vakfiye ( inscription ) of the building, the ottoman era han was commissioned by hasan pasha, a regional beylerbey, and was constructed between 1508 and 1511, during the final years of the reign of sultan bayezid ii. there are 102 rooms ( now shops ) which face the two yards. in each room there is a window, a niche and a chimney. cengelhan rahmi m. koc museum cengelhan rahmi m. koc museum is a museum of industrial technology situated in cengel han, an ottoman era inn which was completed in 1523, during the early years of the reign of sultan suleiman the magnificent. the exhibits include industrial / technological artifacts from the 1850s onwards. there are also sections about mustafa kemal ataturk, the founder of modern turkey ; vehbi koc, rahmi koc ' s father and one of the first industrialists of turkey, and ankara city. shopping foreign visitors