former proconsul ( governor ) of macedonia, for waging a war without prior approval of the senate on the odrysian kingdom of thrace, whose king was a roman ally. he was defended by lucius licinius varro murena who told the trial that his client had received specific instructions from augustus ordering him to attack the client state. later, primus testified that the orders came from the recently deceased marcellus. such orders, had they been given, would have been considered a breach of the senate ' s prerogative under the constitutional settlement of 27 bc and its aftermath — i. e., before augustus was granted imperium proconsulare maius — as macedonia was a senatorial province under the senate ' s jurisdiction, not an imperial province under the authority of augustus. such an action would have ripped away the veneer of republican restoration as promoted by augustus, and exposed his fraud of merely being the first citizen, a first among equals. even worse, the involvement of marcellus provided some measure of proof that augustus ' s policy was to have the youth take his place as princeps, instituting a form of monarchy – accusations that had already played out. the situation was so serious that augustus appeared at the trial even though he had not been called as a witness. under oath, augustus declared that he gave no such order. murena disbelieved augustus ' s testimony and resented his attempt to subvert the trial by using his auctoritas. he rudely demanded to know why augustus had turned up to a trial to which he had not been called ; augustus replied that he came in the public interest. although primus was found guilty, some jurors voted to acquit, meaning that not everybody believed augustus ' s testimony, an insult to the ' august one '. the second settlement was completed in part to allay confusion and formalize augustus ' s legal authority to intervene in senatorial provinces. the senate granted augustus a form of general imperium proconsulare, or proconsular imperium ( power ) that applied throughout the empire, not solely to his provinces. moreover, the senate augmented augustus ' s proconsular imperium into imperium proconsulare maius, or proconsular imperium applicable throughout the empire that was more ( maius ) or greater than that held by the other proconsuls. this in effect gave augustus constitutional power superior to all other proconsuls in the