magnetic moments of the individual atoms line up in the presence of a field. the nucleus of an atom will have no spin when it has even numbers of both neutrons and protons, but for other cases of odd numbers, the nucleus may have a spin. normally nuclei with spin are aligned in random directions because of thermal equilibrium, but for certain elements ( such as xenon - 129 ) it is possible to polarize a significant proportion of the nuclear spin states so that they are aligned in the same direction — a condition called hyperpolarization. this has important applications in magnetic resonance imaging. energy levels the potential energy of an electron in an atom is negative relative to when the distance from the nucleus goes to infinity ; its dependence on the electron ' s position reaches the minimum inside the nucleus, roughly in inverse proportion to the distance. in the quantum - mechanical model, a bound electron can occupy only a set of states centered on the nucleus, and each state corresponds to a specific energy level ; see time - independent schrodinger equation for a theoretical explanation. an energy level can be measured by the amount of energy needed to unbind the electron from the atom, and is usually given in units of electronvolts ( ev ). the lowest energy state of a bound electron is called the ground state, i. e. stationary state, while an electron transition to a higher level results in an excited state. the electron ' s energy increases along with n because the ( average ) distance to the nucleus increases. dependence of the energy on is caused not by the electrostatic potential of the nucleus, but by interaction between electrons. for an electron to transition between two different states, e. g. ground state to first excited state, it must absorb or emit a photon at an energy matching the difference in the potential energy of those levels, according to the niels bohr model, what can be precisely calculated by the schrodinger equation. electrons jump between orbitals in a particle - like fashion. for example, if a single photon strikes the electrons, only a single electron changes states in response to the photon ; see electron properties. the energy of an emitted photon is proportional to its frequency, so these specific energy levels appear as distinct bands in the electromagnetic spectrum. each element has a characteristic spectrum that can depend on the nuclear charge, subshells filled by electrons, the electromagnetic interactions between the electrons and other factors. when a continuous spectrum of energy is passed through a gas or plasma, some of the photons are absorbed by