( more than 300 dead ), but the movement constituted a turning point in the political history of modern algeria. in 1989, a new constitution was adopted that put an end to the one - party rule and saw the creation of more than fifty political parties, as well as official freedom of the press. crisis of the 1990s the city became the theatre of many political demonstrations of all descriptions until 1993. in 1991, a political entity dominated by religious conservatives called the islamic salvation front engaged in a political test of wills with the authorities. in the 1992 elections for the algerian national assembly, the islamists garnered a large amount of support in the first round. fearing an eventual win by the islamists, the army canceled the election process, setting off a civil war between the state and armed religious conservatives which would last for a decade. on december 11, 2007, two car bombs exploded in algiers. one bomb targeted two united nations office buildings and the other targeted a government building housing the supreme court. the death toll was at least 62, with over two hundred injured in the attacks. however, only 26 remained hospitalized the following day., it is speculated that the attack was carried out by the al qaida cell within the city. indigenous terrorist groups have been actively operating in algeria since around 2002. geography districts of algiers the casbah ( of al qasbah, " the citadel " ), ier district of algiers : called al - djazair al mahroussa ( " well kept algiers " ), is founded on the ruins of old icosium. it is a small city which, built on a hill, goes down towards the sea, divided in two : the high city and the low city. one finds there masonries and mosques of the 17th century ; ketchaoua mosque ( built in 1794 by the dey baba hassan ) flanked by two minarets, mosque el djedid ( built in 1660, at the time of turkish regency ) with its large finished ovoid cupola points some and its four coupolettes, mosque el kebir ( oldest of the mosques, it was built by almoravid youssef ibn tachfin and rebuilt later in 1794 ), mosque ali betchnin ( rais, 1623 ), dar aziza, palate of jenina. in the kasbah, there are also labyrinths of lanes and houses that are very picturesque, and if one gets lost there, it is enough to go down again towards the sea to reposition oneself. bab el