##i, " secret state police " ). the new order of the german democratic republic in the east brought about a conscious denazification, but also a repudiation of earlier turns of phrase in favour of neologisms such as stasi for staatssicherheit ( " state security ", the secret police ) and vopo for volkspolizei. the phrase politisches buro, which may be rendered literally as " office of politics " or idiomatically as " political party steering committee ", became politburo. syllabic abbreviations are not only used in politics, however. many business names, trademarks, and service marks from across germany are created on the same pattern : for a few examples, there is aldi, from theo albrecht, the name of its founder, followed by discount ; haribo, from hans riegel, the name of its founder, followed by bonn, the town of its head office ; and adidas, from adolf " adi " dassler, the nickname of its founder followed by his surname. russian syllabic abbreviations are very common in russian, belarusian and ukrainian languages. they are often used as names of organizations. historically, popularization of abbreviations was a way to simplify mass - education in 1920s ( see likbez ). leninist organisations such as the comintern ( communist international ) and komsomol ( kommunisticheskii soyuz molodyozhi, or " communist youth union " ) used russian language syllabic abbreviations. in the modern russian language, words like rosselkhozbank ( from rossiysky selskokhozyaystvenny bank — russian agricultural bank, rusag ) and minobrnauki ( from ministerstvo obrazovaniya i nauki — ministry of education and science ) are still commonly used. in nearby belarus, there are beltelecom ( belarus telecommunication ) and belsat ( belarus satellite ). spanish syllabic abbreviations are common in spanish ; examples abound in organization names such as pemex for petroleos mexicanos ( " mexican petroleums " ) or fonafifo for fondo nacional de financimiento forestal ( national forestry financing fund ). malay and indonesian in southeast asian languages, especially in malay languages, syllabic abbreviations are also common ; examples include petronas ( for petroliam nasional, " national petroleum " ), its indonesian equivalent pertamina