as the ethiopian semitic languages such as ge ' ez and amharic. the classification within west semitic remains contested. the only group with an african origin is ethiopian semitic. the oldest written attestations of semitic languages come from mesopotamia, northern syria, and egypt and date as early as c. 3000 bce. other proposed branches there are also other proposed branches, but none has so far convinced a majority of scholars : linguist h. fleming proposed that the near - extinct ongota language is a separate branch of afroasiatic ; however, this is only one of several competing theories. about half of current scholarly hypotheses on ongota ' s origins align it with afroasiatic in some way. robert hetzron proposed that beja is not part of cushitic, but a separate branch. the prevailing opinion, however, is that beja is a branch of cushitic. the extinct meroitic language has been proposed to represent a branch of afroasiatic. although an afroasiatic connection is sometimes viewed as refuted, it continues to be defended by scholars such as edward lipinski. the kujarge language is usually considered part of the chadic languages ; however, roger blench has proposed that it may be a separate branch of afroasiatic. further subdivisions there is no agreement on the relationships between and subgrouping of the different afroasiatic branches. whereas marcel cohen ( 1947 ) claimed he saw no evidence for internal subgroupings, numerous other scholars have made proposals, with carsten peust counting 27 as of 2012. common trends in proposals as of 2019 include using common or lacking grammatical features to argue that omotic was the first language to branch off, often followed by chadic. in contrast to scholars who argue for an early split of chadic from afroasiatic, scholars of the russian school tend to argue that chadic and egyptian are closely related, and scholars who rely on percentage of shared lexicon often group chadic with berber. three scholars who agree on an early split between omotic and the other subbranches, but little else, are harold fleming ( 1983 ), christopher ehret ( 1995 ), and lionel bender ( 1997 ). in contrast, scholars relying on shared lexicon often produce a cushitic - omotic group. additionally, the minority of scholars who favor an asian origin of afroasiatic tend to place semitic as the first branch to split off. disagreement on which features are innovative and which are inherited from proto - afroasiatic produces radically different