in nature. in de anima iii 3, aristotle ascribes the ability to create, to store, and to recall images in the absence of perception to the faculty of imagination, phantasia. one component of aristotle ' s theory of dreams disagrees with previously held beliefs. he claimed that dreams are not foretelling and not sent by a divine being. aristotle reasoned naturalistically that instances in which dreams do resemble future events are simply coincidences. aristotle claimed that a dream is first established by the fact that the person is asleep when they experience it. if a person had an image appear for a moment after waking up or if they see something in the dark it is not considered a dream because they were awake when it occurred. secondly, any sensory experience that is perceived while a person is asleep does not qualify as part of a dream. for example, if, while a person is sleeping, a door shuts and in their dream they hear a door is shut, this sensory experience is not part of the dream. lastly, the images of dreams must be a result of lasting impressions of waking sensory experiences. practical philosophy aristotle ' s practical philosophy covers areas such as ethics, politics, economics, and rhetoric. ethics aristotle considered ethics to be a practical rather than theoretical study, i. e., one aimed at becoming good and doing good rather than knowing for its own sake. he wrote several treatises on ethics, most notably including the nicomachean ethics. aristotle taught that virtue has to do with the proper function ( ergon ) of a thing. an eye is only a good eye in so much as it can see, because the proper function of an eye is sight. aristotle reasoned that humans must have a function specific to humans, and that this function must be an activity of the psuche ( soul ) in accordance with reason ( logos ). aristotle identified such an optimum activity ( the virtuous mean, between the accompanying vices of excess or deficiency ) of the soul as the aim of all human deliberate action, eudaimonia, generally translated as " happiness " or sometimes " well - being ". to have the potential of ever being happy in this way necessarily requires a good character ( ethike arete ), often translated as moral or ethical virtue or excellence. aristotle taught that to achieve a virtuous and potentially happy character requires a first stage of having the fortune to be habituated not deliberately, but by teachers, and experience, leading to a later stage in which one consciously chooses to do