the pythia was apollo ' s high priestess and his mouthpiece through whom he gave prophecies. pythia is arguably the constant favorite of apollo among the mortals. tityos hera once again sent another giant, tityos to rape leto. this time apollo shot him with his arrows and attacked him with his golden sword. according to another version, artemis also aided him in protecting their mother by attacking tityos with her arrows. after the battle zeus finally relented his aid and hurled tityos down to tartarus. there, he was pegged to the rock floor, covering an area of, where a pair of vultures feasted daily on his liver. admetus admetus was the king of pherae, who was known for his hospitality. when apollo was exiled from olympus for killing python, he served as a herdsman under admetus, who was then young and unmarried. apollo is said to have shared a romantic relationship with admetus during his stay. after completing his years of servitude, apollo went back to olympus as a god. because admetus had treated apollo well, the god conferred great benefits on him in return. apollo ' s mere presence is said to have made the cattle give birth to twins. apollo helped admetus win the hand of alcestis, the daughter of king pelias, by taming a lion and a boar to draw admetus ' chariot. he was present during their wedding to give his blessings. when admetus angered the goddess artemis by forgetting to give her the due offerings, apollo came to the rescue and calmed his sister. when apollo learnt of admetus ' untimely death, he convinced or tricked the fates into letting admetus live past his time. according to another version, or perhaps some years later, when zeus struck down apollo ' s son asclepius with a lightning bolt for resurrecting the dead, apollo in revenge killed the cyclopes, who had fashioned the bolt for zeus. apollo would have been banished to tartarus for this, but his mother leto intervened, and reminding zeus of their old love, pleaded with him not to kill their son. zeus obliged and sentenced apollo to one year of hard labor once again under admetus. the love between apollo and admetus was a favored topic of roman poets like ovid and servius. niobe the fate of niobe was prophesied by apollo while he was still