. after living in a series of apartments in london, they bought a house in sunningdale, berkshire, which they renamed styles after the mansion in christie ' s first detective novel. christie ' s mother, clarissa miller, died in april 1926. they had been exceptionally close, and the loss sent christie into a deep depression. in august 1926, reports appeared in the press that christie had gone to a village near biarritz to recuperate from a " breakdown " caused by " overwork ". disappearance : 1926 in august 1926, archie asked agatha for a divorce. he had fallen in love with nancy neele, a friend of major belcher. on 3december 1926, the pair quarrelled after archie announced his plan to spend the weekend with friends, unaccompanied by his wife. late that evening, christie disappeared from their home in sunningdale. the following morning, her car, a morris cowley, was discovered at newlands corner in surrey, parked above a chalk quarry with an expired driving licence and clothes inside. it was feared that she might have drowned herself in the silent pool, a nearby beauty spot. the disappearance quickly became a news story, as the press sought to satisfy their readers ' " hunger for sensation, disaster, and scandal ". home secretary william joynson - hicks pressured police, and a newspaper offered a £100 reward ( ). more than a thousand police officers, 15, 000 volunteers, and several aeroplanes searched the rural landscape. sir arthur conan doyle gave a spirit medium one of christie ' s gloves to find her. christie ' s disappearance made international headlines, including featuring on the front page of the new york times. despite the extensive manhunt, she was not found for another 10 days. on 14 december 1926, she was located at the swan hydropathic hotel in harrogate, yorkshire, north of her home in sunningdale, registered as " mrs tressa neele " ( the surname of her husband ' s lover ) from " s. a. " ( south africa ). the next day, christie left for her sister ' s residence at abney hall, cheadle, where she was sequestered " in guarded hall, gates locked, telephone cut off, and callers turned away ". christie ' s autobiography makes no reference to the disappearance. two doctors diagnosed her with " an unquestionable genuine loss of memory ", yet opinion remains divided over the reason for her disappearance. some, including her biographer morgan, believe she disappeared