for the night, despite the pleas of the nobles accompanying him and one of the burgesses of the town, alexander le saucier. le saucier ( who was either linked to the king ' s kitchen or the master of the local saltpans ) must have been known to the king, since his rather blunt warning to the king lacks the usual deference : " my lord, what are you doing out in such weather and darkness? how many times have i tried to persuade you that midnight travelling will do you no good? " however, alexander ignored the repeated warnings about travelling in a storm, and set off with his retinue and two local guides. the king became separated from his party near kinghorn, and was found dead with a broken neck near the shore the following morning. it is assumed that his horse lost its footing in the dark. while some texts say that he fell off a cliff, there is none at the site where his body was found ; however, there is a very steep rocky embankment, which " would have been fatal in the dark. " after alexander ' s death, his realm was plunged into a period of darkness that would eventually lead to war with england. he was buried in dunfermline abbey. as alexander left no surviving children, the heir to the throne was his unborn child by queen yolande. when yolande ' s pregnancy ended, probably with a miscarriage, alexander ' s three - year - old granddaughter margaret, maid of norway, became the heir. margaret died, still uncrowned, on her way to scotland in 1290. the inauguration of john balliol as king on 30 november 1292 ended the six years of the guardians of scotland governing the land. the death of alexander and the subsequent period of instability in scotland was lamented in an early scots poem recorded by andrew of wyntoun in his orygynale cronykil of scotland. in 1886, a monument to alexander iii was erected at the approximate location of his death in kinghorn. fictional portrayals alexander iii has been depicted in historical novels. they include : the thirsty sword ( 1892 ) by robert leighton. the novel depicts the " norse invasion of scotland " ( 1262 – 1263, part of the scottish – norwegian war ) and the battle of largs. it includes depictions of alexander iii and his opponent haakon iv of norway. alexander the glorious ( 1965 ) by jane oliver. the novel covers the entire reign of alexander iii ( 1249 –