making lace by hand. the people were mostly illiterate and many of them were poor. newton ' s preaching was unique in that he shared many of his own experiences from the pulpit ; many clergy preached from a distance, not admitting any intimacy with temptation or sin. he was involved in his parishioners ' lives and was much loved, although his writing and delivery were sometimes unpolished. but his devotion and conviction were apparent and forceful, and he often said his mission was to " break a hard heart and to heal a broken heart ". he struck a friendship with william cowper, a gifted writer who had failed at a career in law and suffered bouts of insanity, attempting suicide several times. cowper enjoyed olney and newton ' s company ; he was also new to olney and had gone through a spiritual conversion similar to newton ' s. together, their effect on the local congregation was impressive. in 1768, they found it necessary to start a weekly prayer meeting to meet the needs of an increasing number of parishioners. they also began writing lessons for children. partly from cowper ' s literary influence, and partly because learned vicars were expected to write verses, newton began to try his hand at hymns, which had become popular through the language, made plain for common people to understand. several prolific hymn writers were at their most productive in the 18th century, including isaac watts whose hymns newton had grown up hearing and charles wesley, with whom newton was familiar. wesley ' s brother john, the eventual founder of the methodist church, had encouraged newton to go into the clergy. watts was a pioneer in english hymn writing, basing his work after the psalms. the most prevalent hymns by watts and others were written in the common meter in 8. 6. 8. 6 : the first line is eight syllables and the second is six. newton and cowper attempted to present a poem or hymn for each prayer meeting. the lyrics to " amazing grace " were written in late 1772 and probably used in a prayer meeting for the first time on 1 january 1773. a collection of the poems newton and cowper had written for use in services at olney was bound and published anonymously in 1779 under the title olney hymns. newton contributed 280 of the 348 texts in olney hymns ; " 1 chronicles 17 : 16 – 17, faith ' s review and expectation " was the title of the poem with the first line " amazing grace! ( how sweet the sound ) ". critical analysis the general impact of olney hymns was immediate