the middle ages which was religious in nature and has extended into modern times traditional muslim antisemitism which was — at least, in its classical form — nuanced in that jews were a protected class political, social and economic antisemitism of enlightenment and post - enlightenment europe which laid the groundwork for racial antisemitism racial antisemitism that arose in the 19th century and culminated in nazism in the 20th century contemporary antisemitism which has been labeled by some as the new antisemitism chanes suggests that these six stages could be merged into three categories : " ancient antisemitism, which was primarily ethnic in nature ; christian antisemitism, which was religious ; and the racial antisemitism of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. " ancient world the first clear examples of anti - jewish sentiment can be traced to the 3rd century bce to alexandria, the home to the largest jewish diaspora community in the world at the time and where the septuagint, a greek translation of the hebrew bible, was produced. manetho, an egyptian priest and historian of that era, wrote scathingly of the jews. his themes are repeated in the works of chaeremon, lysimachus, poseidonius, apollonius molon, and in apion and tacitus. agatharchides of cnidus ridiculed the practices of the jews and the " absurdity of their law ", making a mocking reference to how ptolemy lagus was able to invade jerusalem in 320 bce because its inhabitants were observing the shabbat. one of the earliest anti - jewish edicts, promulgated by antiochus iv epiphanes in about 170 – 167 bce, sparked a revolt of the maccabees in judea. in view of manetho ' s anti - jewish writings, antisemitism may have originated in egypt and been spread by " the greek retelling of ancient egyptian prejudices ". the ancient jewish philosopher philo of alexandria describes an attack on jews in alexandria in 38 ce in which thousands of jews died. the violence in alexandria may have been caused by the jews being portrayed as misanthropes. tcherikover argues that the reason for hatred of jews in the hellenistic period was their separateness in the greek cities, the poleis. bohak has argued, however, that early animosity against the jews cannot be regarded as being anti - judaic or antisemitic unless it arose from attitudes that