duplicates the route of south road. the north - south motorway ( m2 ), is an ongoing major project that will become the major north – south corridor, replacing most of what is now south road, connecting the southern expressway and the northern expressway via a motorway with no traffic lights. as of 2020 the motorway ' s northern half is complete ( save for a small link under construction at croydon park ), connecting the northern expressway to adelaide ' s inner north - west ; the section running through adelaide ' s inner west and inner south - west is awaiting funding. the port river expressway ( a9 ), connects port adelaide and outer harbor to port wakefield road at the northern " entrance " to the metropolitan area. the northern expressway ( max fatchen expressway ) ( m2 ), is the northern suburbs bypass route connecting the sturt highway ( national highway 20 ) via the gawler bypass to port wakefield road at a point a few kilometres north of the port river expressway connection. the northern connector, completed in 2020, links the north south motorway to the northern expressway. airports the adelaide metropolitan area has two commercial airports, adelaide airport and parafield airport. adelaide airport, in adelaide ' s south - western suburbs, serves in excess of 8 million passengers annually. parafield airport, adelaide ' s second airport north of the city centre, is used for small aircraft, pilot training and recreational aviation purposes. parafield airport served as adelaide ' s main aerodrome until the opening of the adelaide airport in february 1955. adelaide airport serves many international and domestic destinations including all australian state capitals. adelaide is also home to a military airport, known as edinburgh airport, located in the northern suburbs. it was built in 1955 in a joint initiative with the united kingdom for weapon development. health adelaide ' s two largest hospitals are the royal adelaide hospital ( rah ) in adelaide parklands, a teaching hospital affiliated with the university of adelaide ( 800 beds ), and the flinders medical centre ( 580 beds ) at bedford park, affiliated with flinders university. the rah also operates additional campuses for specialist care throughout the suburbs including the hampstead rehabilitation centre ( 150 beds ) at northfield and the glenside campus ( 129 beds ) for acute mental health services. other major public hospitals are the women ' s and children ' s hospital ( 305 beds ), at north adelaide ; the queen elizabeth hospital ( 340 beds ) at woodville ; modbury hospital ( 178 beds ) at modbury ; and the lyell mcewin hospital ( 198 beds ) at elizabeth vale. numerous private hospitals are also