receiving the queen ' s arms in exchange, though, on other accounts she was killed by telamon. they also mention penthesilea ' s role in the trojan war. hyginus another list of amazons ' names is found in hyginus ' fabulae. along with hippolyta, otrera, antiope and penthesilea, it attests the following names : ocyale, dioxippe, iphinome, xanthe, hippothoe, laomache, glauce, agave, theseis, clymene, polydora. perhaps the most important is queen otrera, consort of ares and mother by him of hippolyta and penthesilea. she ' s also known for building a temple to artemis at ephesus. valerius flaccus another different set of names is found in valerius flaccus ' argonautica. he mentions euryale, harpe, lyce, menippe and thoe. of these lyce also appears on a fragment, preserved in the latin anthology where she is said to have killed the hero clonus of moesia, son of doryclus, with her javelin. late antiquity, middle age and renaissance literature stephanus of byzantium ( 7th - century ce ) provides numerous alternative lists of the amazons, including for those who died in combat against heracles, describing them as the most prominent of their people. both stephanus and eustathius connect these amazons with the placename thibais, which they claim to have been derived from the amazon thiba ' s name. several of stephanus ' amazons served as eponyms for cities in asia minor, like cyme and smyrna or amastris, who was believed to lend her name to the city previously known as kromna, although in fact it was named after the historical amastris. the city anaea in caria was named after an amazon. in his work getica ( on the origin and history of the goths, ) jordanes asserts that the goths ' ancestors, descendants of magog, originally lived in scythia, at the sea of azov between the dnieper and don rivers. when the goths were abroad campaigning against pharaoh vesosis, their women, on their own successfully fended off a raid by a neighboring tribe. emboldened, the women established their own army under marpes