which part is animated. final line advection animation is a technique used in 2d animation, to give artists and animators more influence and control over the final product as everything is done within the same department. speaking about using this approach in paperman, john kahrs said that " our animators can change things, actually erase away the cg underlayer if they want, and change the profile of the arm. " 3d 3d animation is digitally modeled and manipulated by an animator. the 3d model maker usually starts by creating a 3d polygon mesh for the animator to manipulate. a mesh typically includes many vertices that are connected by edges and faces, which give the visual appearance of form to a 3d object or 3d environment. sometimes, the mesh is given an internal digital skeletal structure called an armature that can be used to control the mesh by weighting the vertices. this process is called rigging and can be used in conjunction with key frames to create movement. other techniques can be applied, mathematical functions ( e. g., gravity, particle simulations ), simulated fur or hair, and effects, fire and water simulations. these techniques fall under the category of 3d dynamics. terms cel - shaded animation is used to mimic traditional animation using computer software. the shading looks stark, with less blending of colors. examples include skyland ( 2007, france ), the iron giant ( 1999, united states ), futurama ( 1999, united states ) appleseed ex machina ( 2007, japan ), the legend of zelda : the wind waker ( 2002, japan ), the legend of zelda : breath of the wild ( 2017, japan ) machinima – films created by screen capturing in video games and virtual worlds. the term originated from the software introduction in the 1980s demoscene, as well as the 1990s recordings of the first - person shooter video game quake. motion capture is used when live - action actors wear special suits that allow computers to copy their movements into cg characters. examples include polar express ( 2004, us ), beowulf ( 2007, us ), a christmas carol ( 2009, us ), the adventures of tintin ( 2011, us ) kochadiiyan ( 2014, india ) computer animation is used primarily for animation that attempts to resemble real life, using advanced rendering that mimics in detail skin, plants, water, fire, clouds, etc. examples include up ( 2009, us ), how to train your dragon ( 2010, us ) physically based animation is animation using