relations with his new satrapies, alexander turned to the indian subcontinent. he invited the chieftains of the former satrapy of gandhara ( a region presently straddling eastern afghanistan and northern pakistan ), to come to him and submit to his authority. omphis ( indian name ambhi ), the ruler of taxila, whose kingdom extended from the indus to the hydaspes ( jhelum ), complied, but the chieftains of some hill clans, including the aspasioi and assakenoi sections of the kambojas ( known in indian texts also as ashvayanas and ashvakayanas ), refused to submit. ambhi hastened to relieve alexander of his apprehension and met him with valuable presents, placing himself and all his forces at his disposal. alexander not only returned ambhi his title and the gifts but he also presented him with a wardrobe of " persian robes, gold and silver ornaments, 30 horses and 1, 000 talents in gold ". alexander was emboldened to divide his forces, and ambhi assisted hephaestion and perdiccas in constructing a bridge over the indus where it bends at hund, supplied their troops with provisions, and received alexander himself, and his whole army, in his capital city of taxila, with every demonstration of friendship and the most liberal hospitality. on the subsequent advance of the macedonian king, taxiles accompanied him with a force of 5, 000 men and took part in the battle of the hydaspes. after that victory, he was sent by alexander in pursuit of porus, to whom he was charged to offer favourable terms, but narrowly escaped losing his life at the hands of his old enemy. subsequently, however, the two rivals were reconciled by the personal mediation of alexander ; and taxiles, after having contributed zealously to the equipment of the fleet on the hydaspes, was entrusted by the king with the government of the whole territory between that river and the indus. a considerable accession of power was granted him after the death of philip, son of machatas ; and he was allowed to retain his authority at the death of alexander himself ( 323 bc ), as well as in the subsequent partition of the provinces at triparadisus, 321 bc. in the winter of 327 / 326 bc, alexander personally led a campaign against the aspasioi of the kunar valley, the guraeans of the guraeus valley, and the assakenoi