##s and 120 privates, a total of 150 troops. the unit secured the hydroelectric power station and reservoir in al haditha from august 2003. in december 2008, azerbaijan withdrew the unit from iraq. reportedly in december 2014 azerbaijan created the separate combined arms army in nakhchivan. karam mustafayev became commander of the corps. the army was created based on the nakhchivan 5th army corps to strengthen defense capability of nakhchivan autonomous republic, increase of combat capability of military units and formations of the armed forces, improve central control, reports quoting the defence ministry said. air forces the azerbaijani air and air defence force is a single unified service branch. some 8, 000 men serve in the air force and air defence force. the air and air defence force has around 106 aircraft and 35 helicopters. the country has four major airbases. nasosnaya ( air base ) has fighters, kyurdamir air base a bomber regiment, ganja air base transports, and baku kala air base the helicopter unit. there are also four other airbases which do not appear to have aircraft based there. these are dollyar air base, nakhchivan airport, sanqacal air base, and sitalcay air base. the azerbaijani air force using mig - 21, su - 24 and su - 25 aircraft, as well as the mig - 29 purchased from ukraine in 2006 and il - 76 transport aircraft. the mig - 29 have been designated as the standard aircraft for the azaf. azerbaijan is holding talks with either the people ' s republic of china or pakistan to purchase jf - 17 thunder aircraft. mig - 25s previously in service have been retired seemingly in the 2007 – 09 period. azerbaijan ' s helicopter force is concentrated at baku kala air base and according to the iiss consists of a single regiment with around 14 – 15 mi - 24, 12 – 13 mi - 8 and 7 mi - 2. jane ' s information group and the iiss give figures which agree with only a single aircraft ' s difference. recently, end of 2010 russian rosvertol announced that azerbaijan armed forces signed a deal for 24 pieces of mi - 35m ( hind - e ) gunships what would further enhance the azerbaijani ground attack formations. the air force has l - 39 advanced training aircraft in store. the azerbaijan border guard and voluntary society of defense, patriotism and sport have yakovlev light training aircraft. azerbaijan has missile and radar systems intended to defend azerbaijani airspace. there are at least 2 divisions of s