companies, among them amoco, bp, exxonmobil, lukoil and equinor. as western oil companies are able to tap deepwater oilfields untouched by the soviet exploitation, azerbaijan is considered one of the most important spots in the world for oil exploration and development. meanwhile, the state oil fund of azerbaijan was established as an extra - budgetary fund to ensure macroeconomic stability, transparency in the management of oil revenue, and safeguarding of resources for future generations. access to biocapacity in azerbaijan is less than world average. in 2016, azerbaijan had 0. 8 global hectares of biocapacity per person within its territory, half the world average of 1. 6 global hectares per person. in 2016 azerbaijan used 2. 1 global hectares of biocapacity per person – their ecological footprint of consumption. this means they use more biocapacity than azerbaijan contains. as a result, azerbaijan is running a biocapacity deficit. azeriqaz, a sub - company of socar, intends to ensure full gasification of the country by 2021. azerbaijan is one of the sponsors of the east – west and north – south energy transport corridors. baku – tbilisi – kars railway line will connect the caspian region with turkey, which is expected to be completed in july 2017. the trans - anatolian gas pipeline ( tanap ) and trans adriatic pipeline ( tap ) will deliver natural gas from azerbaijan ' s shah deniz gas to turkey and europe. azerbaijan extended the agreement on development of acg until 2050 according to the amended psa signed on 14 september 2017 by socar and co - ventures ( bp, chevron, inpex, equinor, exxonmobil, tp, itochu and ongc videsh ). agriculture azerbaijan has the largest agricultural basin in the region. about 54. 9 percent of azerbaijan is agricultural land. at the beginning of 2007 there were 4, 755, 100 hectares of utilized agricultural area. in the same year the total wood resources counted 136 million m3. azerbaijan ' s agricultural scientific research institutes are focused on meadows and pastures, horticulture and subtropical crops, green vegetables, viticulture and wine - making, cotton growing and medicinal plants. in some areas it is profitable to grow grain, potatoes, sugar beets, cotton and tobacco. livestock, dairy products, and wine and spirits are also important farm products. the caspian fishing industry concentrates on the dwindling stocks of sturgeon and beluga. in 2002