in plural inanimates ). change of a to i in many affixes ( e. g., non - past - tense prefixes ti - yi - ni - ; wi - ' and ' ; il - ' the ' ; feminine - it in the construct state ). loss of third - weak verbs ending in w ( which merge with verbs ending in y ). reformation of geminate verbs, e. g., ' i untied ' →. conversion of separate words li ' to me ', laka ' to you ', etc. into indirect - object clitic suffixes. certain changes in the cardinal number system, e. g., ' five days ' →, where certain words have a special plural with prefixed t. loss of the feminine elative ( comparative ). adjective plurals of the form ' big ' →. change of nisba suffix >. certain lexical items, e. g., ' bring ' < ' come with ' ; ' see ' ; ' what ' ( or similar ) < ' which thing ' ; ( relative pronoun ). merger of and. dialect groups egyptian arabic is spoken by 67 million people in egypt. it is one of the most understood varieties of arabic, due in large part to the widespread distribution of egyptian films and television shows throughout the arabic - speaking world levantine arabic is spoken by about 44 million people in lebanon, syria, jordan, palestine, israel, and turkey. lebanese arabic is a variety of levantine arabic spoken primarily in lebanon. jordanian arabic is a continuum of mutually intelligible varieties of levantine arabic spoken by the population of the kingdom of jordan. palestinian arabic is a name of several dialects of the subgroup of levantine arabic spoken by the palestinians in palestine, by arab citizens of israel and in most palestinian populations around the world. samaritan arabic, spoken by only several hundred in the nablus region cypriot maronite arabic, spoken in cyprus by around 9, 800 people ( 2013 unsd ) maghrebi arabic, also called " darija " spoken by about 70 million people in morocco, algeria, tunisia and libya. it also forms the basis of maltese via the extinct sicilian arabic dialect. maghrebi arabic is very hard to understand for arabic speakers from the mashriq or mesopotamia, the most comprehensible being libyan arabic and the most difficult moroccan arabic. the others such as algerian arabic can be considered in between the two in terms of difficulty. libyan arabic spoken in libya and neighboring countries