by fitting a snubber between the chain and a bollard or cleat on deck. this also reduces shock loads on the deck fittings, and the vessel usually lies more comfortably and quietly. being strong and elastic, nylon rope is the most suitable as an anchor rode. polyester ( terylene ) is stronger but less elastic than nylon. both materials sink, so they avoid fouling other craft in crowded anchorages and do not absorb much water. neither breaks down quickly in sunlight. elasticity helps absorb shock loading, but causes faster abrasive wear when the rope stretches over an abrasive surface, like a coral bottom or a poorly designed chock. polypropylene ( " polyprop " ) is not suited to rodes because it floats and is much weaker than nylon, being barely stronger than natural fibres. some grades of polypropylene break down in sunlight and become hard, weak, and unpleasant to handle. natural fibres such as manila or hemp are still used in developing nations but absorb a lot of water, are relatively weak, and rot, although they do give good handling grip and are often relatively cheap. ropes that have little or no elasticity are not suitable as anchor rodes. elasticity is partly a function of the fibre material and partly of the rope structure. all anchors should have chain at least equal to the boat ' s length. some skippers prefer an all chain warp for greater security on coral or sharp edged rock bottoms. the chain should be shackled to the warp through a steel eye or spliced to the chain using a chain splice. the shackle pin should be securely wired or moused. either galvanized or stainless steel is suitable for eyes and shackles, galvanised steel being the stronger of the two. some skippers prefer to add a swivel to the rode. there is a school of thought that says these should not be connected to the anchor itself, but should be somewhere in the chain. however, most skippers connect the swivel directly to the anchor. scope scope is the ratio of length of the rode to the depth of the water measured from the highest point ( usually the anchor roller or bow chock ) to the seabed, making allowance for the highest expected tide. the function of this ratio is to ensure that the pull on the anchor is unlikely to break it out of the bottom if it is embedded, or lift it off a hard bottom, either of which is likely to result in the