big rivals, had a playing style similar to his. both players preferred to stay at the baseline with chang being more defensive - minded. the outcome was that most of their meetings were built on long and entertaining rallies. the rivalry began late in the 1980s with both players being considered the prodigies of the next great generation of american tennis players and both being of foreign descent. agassi won the first four matches including a straight - set victory in round 16 of the 1988 us open and defeating chang, the defending champion, in the 1990 french open in a four - set quarterfinal. arguably their best match took place in the round of 16 of the 1994 us open. while both players presented high - quality shot - making, the momentum changed from set to set with agassi eventually prevailing in a five - set victory. it turned out to be the toughest contest on his way to his first us open title. their next two grand slam meetings came in 1996, with chang recording easy straight - set victories in the semi - finals of both the australian open and the us open. years after, agassi shockingly admitted in his book that he had lost the first of the matches on purpose as he did not want to face boris becker, who was awaiting the winner in the final. agassi won the last four of their matches, with the last being in 2003 at the miami open with chang being clearly past his prime. agassi vs. becker boris becker and agassi played 14 times with agassi leading 10 – 4. becker won their first three matches in 1988 and 1989 before agassi reversed the rivalry in 1990, and won 10 of their last 11 matches. one contributing factor is that after their third match, agassi picked up a tell regarding becker ' s serve and knew where his serves would be directed. they first played at indian wells in 1988, with becker prevailing. their most notable match was the 1989 davis cup semi - final match, which becker won in five sets after losing the first two in tiebreaks. agassi, considered a baseliner with a playing style not suiting grass, shocked becker, a three - time champion, in a five - set quarterfinal at wimbledon in 1992 on his way to his first grand slam title. the intensity of the rivalry peaked in 1995. becker won that year ' s wimbledon semi - final after being down a set and two breaks, to eventually win in four sets. in a highly anticipated rematch in the us open semi - final, this time it