. arguably most important among his works for younger readers, however, is the steve and sim mystery series, also known as the mill creek irregulars series. the ten - volume series, published between 1958 and 1970, is set in sac prairie of the 1920s and can thus be considered in its own right a part of the sac prairie saga, as well as an extension of derleth ' s body of mystery fiction. robert hood, writing in the new york times said : " steve and sim, the major characters, are twentieth - century cousins of huck finn and tom sawyer ; derleth ' s minor characters, little gems of comic drawing. " the first novel in the series, the moon tenders, does, in fact, involve a rafting adventure down the wisconsin river, which led regional writer jesse stuart to suggest the novel was one that " older people might read to recapture the spirit and dream of youth. " the connection to the sac prairie saga was noted by the chicago tribune : " once again a small midwest community in 1920s is depicted with perception, skill, and dry humor. " arkham house and the " cthulhu mythos " derleth was a correspondent and friend of h. p. lovecraft – when lovecraft wrote about " le comte d ' erlette " in his fiction, it was in homage to derleth. derleth invented the term " cthulhu mythos " to describe the fictional universe depicted in the series of stories shared by lovecraft and other writers in his circle. when lovecraft died in 1937, derleth and donald wandrei assembled a collection of lovecraft ' s stories and tried to get them published. existing publishers showed little interest, so derleth and wandrei founded arkham house in 1939 for that purpose. the name of the company derived from lovecraft ' s fictional town of arkham, massachusetts, which features in many of his stories. in 1939, arkham house published the outsider and others, a huge collection that contained most of lovecraft ' s known short stories. derleth and wandrei soon expanded arkham house and began a regular publishing schedule after its second book, someone in the dark, a collection of some of derleth ' s own horror stories, was published in 1941. following lovecraft ' s death, derleth wrote a number of stories based on fragments and notes left by lovecraft. these were published in weird tales and later in book form, under the byline " h. p