. gameline permitted subscribers to temporarily download games and keep track of high scores, at a cost of $ 1 per game. the telephone disconnected and the downloaded game would remain in gameline ' s master module and playable until the user turned off the console or downloaded another game. in january 1983, steve case was hired as a marketing consultant for control video on the recommendation of his brother, investment banker dan case. in may 1983, jim kimsey became a manufacturing consultant for control video, which was near bankruptcy. kimsey was brought in by his west point friend frank caufield, an investor in the company. in early 1985, von meister left the company. on may 24, 1985, quantum computer services, an online services company, was founded by kimsey from the remnants of control video, with kimsey as chief executive officer, and marc seriff as chief technology officer. the technical team consisted of seriff, tom ralston, ray heinrich, steve trus, ken huntsman, janet hunter, dave brown, craig dykstra, doug coward, and mike ficco. in 1987, case was promoted again to executive vice - president. kimsey soon began to groom case to take over the role of ceo, which he did when kimsey retired in 1991. kimsey changed the company ' s strategy, and in 1985, launched a dedicated online service for commodore 64 and 128 computers, originally called quantum link ( " q - link " for short ). the quantum link software was based on software licensed from playnet, inc, ( founded in 1983 by howard goldberg and dave panzl ). the service was different from other online services as it used the computing power of the commodore 64 and the apple ii rather than just a " dumb " terminal. it passed tokens back and forth and provided a fixed price service tailored for home users. in may 1988, quantum and apple launched applelink personal edition for apple ii and macintosh computers. in august 1988, quantum launched pc link, a service for ibm - compatible pcs developed in a joint venture with the tandy corporation. after the company parted ways with apple in october 1989, quantum changed the service ' s name to america online. case promoted and sold aol as the online service for people unfamiliar with computers, in contrast to compuserve, which was well established in the technical community. from the beginning, aol included online games in its mix of products ; many classic and casual games were included in the original playnet software system. the company introduced many innovative online