##es were ideally beautiful and paris could not decide between them, so they resorted to bribes. hera tried to bribe paris with power over all asia and europe, and athena offered fame and glory in battle, but aphrodite promised paris that, if he were to choose her as the fairest, she would let him marry the most beautiful woman on earth. this woman was helen, who was already married to king menelaus of sparta. paris selected aphrodite and awarded her the apple. the other two goddesses were enraged and, as a direct result, sided with the greeks in the trojan war. in books v – vi of the iliad, athena aids the hero diomedes, who, in the absence of achilles, proves himself to be the most effective greek warrior. several artistic representations from the early sixth century bc may show athena and diomedes, including an early sixth - century bc shield band depicting athena and an unidentified warrior riding on a chariot, a vase painting of a warrior with his charioteer facing athena, and an inscribed clay plaque showing diomedes and athena riding in a chariot. numerous passages in the iliad also mention athena having previously served as the patron of diomedes ' s father tydeus. when the trojan women go to the temple of athena on the acropolis to plead her for protection from diomedes, athena ignores them. athena also gets into a duel with ares, the god of the brutal wars, and her male counterpart ares blames her for encouraging diomedes to tear his beautiful flesh. he curses her and strikes with all his strength. athena deflects his blow with her aegis, a powerful shield that even zeus ' s thunderbolt and lightning cannot blast through. athena picked up a massive boulder and threw it at ares, who immediately crumpled to the ground. aphrodite, who was a lover of ares, came down from olympus to carry ares away but was struck by athena ' s golden spear and fell. athena taunted the gods who supported troy, saying that they will too eventually end up like ares and aphrodite, which scared them, therefore proving her power and reputation among the other gods. in book xxii of the iliad, while achilles is chasing hector around the walls of troy, athena appears to hector disguised as his brother deiphobus and persuades him to hold his ground so that they can fight achilles together. then, hector throws his spear at achilles and misses, expecting deiphobus to hand him