near the city centre ). there are plans to eliminate traffic jams at the aachen road interchange. airport maastricht aachen airport is the main airport of aachen and maastricht. it is located around northwest of aachen. there is a shuttle - service between aachen and the airport. recreational aviation is served by the ( formerly military ) aachen merzbruck airfield. charlemagne prize since 1950, a committee of aachen citizens annually awards the charlemagne prize ( ) to personalities of outstanding service to the unification of europe. it is traditionally awarded on ascension day at the city hall. in 2016, the charlemagne award was awarded to pope francis. the international charlemagne prize of aachen was awarded in the year 2000 to us president bill clinton, for his special personal contribution to co - operation with the states of europe, for the preservation of peace, freedom, democracy and human rights in europe, and for his support of the enlargement of the european union. in 2004, pope john paul ii ' s efforts to unite europe were honoured with an " extraordinary charlemagne medal ", which was awarded for the only time ever. literature aix is the destination in robert browning ' s poem " how they brought the good news from ghent to aix ", which was published in dramatic romances and lyrics, 1845. the poem is a first - person narrative told, in breathless galloping meter, by one of three riders ; an urgent midnight errand to deliver " the news which alone could save aix from her fate ". notable people twin towns – sister cities aachen is twinned with : montebourg, france ( 1960 ) reims, france ( 1967 ) halifax, england ( 1979 ) toledo, spain ( 1985 ) ningbo, china ( 1986 ) naumburg, germany ( 1988 ) arlington county, united states ( 1993 ) kostroma, russia ( 2005, suspended since march 2022 ) sarıyer, istanbul, turkey ( 2013 ) cape town, south africa ( 2017 ) see also aachen ( district ) aachen prison aachen tram aachener aachener chronik aachener bachverein list of mayors of aachen council of aachen treaty of aix - la - chapelle ( disambiguation ) maastricht aachen airport computer museum aachen notes references sources further reading rice, eric, music and ritual at charlemagne ' s marienkirche in aachen. kassel : merseburger, 2009. external links aachen ( district ) belgium – germany border crossings catholic pilgrimage sites cities in north rhine - westphalia 1st century free imperial cities jewish german history matter of france populated places