materiel command, headquartered at redstone arsenal. a great deal of alabama ' s economic growth since the 1990s has been due to the state ' s expanding automotive manufacturing industry. located in the state are honda manufacturing of alabama, hyundai motor manufacturing alabama, mercedes - benz u. s. international, and toyota motor manufacturing alabama, as well as their various suppliers. since 1993, the automobile industry has generated more than 67, 800 new jobs in the state. alabama currently ranks 4th in the nation for vehicle exports. automakers accounted for approximately a third of the industrial expansion in the state in 2012. the eight models produced at the state ' s auto factories totaled combined sales of 74, 335 vehicles for 2012. the strongest model sales during this period were the hyundai elantra compact car, the mercedes - benz gl - class sport utility vehicle and the honda ridgeline sport utility truck. steel producers outokumpu, nucor, ssab, thyssenkrupp, and u. s. steel have facilities in alabama and employ more than 10, 000 people. in may 2007, german steelmaker thyssenkrupp selected calvert in mobile county for a 4. 65billion combined stainless and carbon steel processing facility. thyssenkrupp ' s stainless steel division, inoxum, including the stainless portion of the calvert plant, was sold to finnish stainless steel company outokumpu in 2012. the remaining portion of the thyssenkrupp plant had final bids submitted by arcelormittal and nippon steel for $ 1. 6billion in march 2013. companhia siderurgica nacional submitted a combined bid for the mill at calvert, plus a majority stake in the thyssenkrupp mill in brazil, for $ 3. 8billion. in july 2013, the plant was sold to arcelormittal and nippon steel. the hunt refining company, a subsidiary of hunt consolidated, inc., is based in tuscaloosa and operates a refinery there. the company also operates terminals in mobile, melvin, and moundville. jvc america, inc. operates an optical disc replication and packaging plant in tuscaloosa. the goodyear tire and rubber company operates a large plant in gadsden which employs about 1, 400 people. it has been in operation since 1929. construction of an airbus a320 family aircraft assembly plant in mobile was formally announced by airbus ceo fabrice bregier from the mobile convention center on july 2, 2012. the plans include a $ 600million