divided into ten types of local governments – urban municipalities ( including cities, towns, villages and summer villages ), specialized municipalities, rural municipalities ( including municipal districts ( often named as counties ), improvement districts, and special areas ), metis settlements, and indian reserves. all types of municipalities are governed by local residents and were incorporated under various provincial acts, with the exception of improvement districts ( governed by either the provincial or federal government ), and indian reserves ( governed by local band governments under federal jurisdiction ). law enforcement policing in the province of alberta upon its creation was the responsibility of the royal northwest mounted police. in 1917, due to pressures of the first world war, the alberta provincial police was created. this organization policed the province until it was disbanded as a great depression - era cost - cutting measure in 1932. it was at that time the, now renamed, royal canadian mounted police resumed policing of the province, specifically rcmp " k " division. with the advent of the alberta sheriffs branch, the distribution of duties of law enforcement in alberta has been evolving as certain aspects, such as traffic enforcement, mobile surveillance and the close protection of the premier of alberta have been transferred to the sheriffs. in 2006, alberta formed the alberta law enforcement response teams ( alert ) to combat organized crime and the serious offences that accompany it. alert is made up of members of the rcmp, sheriffs branch, and various major municipal police forces in alberta. military military bases in alberta include canadian forces base ( cfb ) cold lake, cfb edmonton, cfb suffield and cfb wainwright. air force units stationed at cfb cold lake have access to the cold lake air weapons range. cfb edmonton is the headquarters for the 3rd canadian division. cfb suffield hosts british troops and is the largest training facility in canada. taxation according to alberta ' s 2009 budget, government revenue in that year came mainly from royalties on non - renewable natural resources ( 30. 4 % ), personal income taxes ( 22. 3 % ), corporate and other taxes ( 19. 6 % ), and grants from the federal government primarily for infrastructure projects ( 9. 8 % ). in 2014, alberta received $ 6. 1 billion in bitumen royalties. with the drop in the price of oil in 2015 it was down to $ 1. 4 billion. in 2016, alberta received " about $ 837 million in royalty payments from oil sands royalty projects ". according to the 2018 – 2021 fiscal plan, the two top sources of revenue in 2016