- asian culture that is shared across the region. nobel prizes the polymath rabindranath tagore, a bengali poet, dramatist, and writer from santiniketan, now in west bengal, india, became in 1913 the first asian nobel laureate. he won his nobel prize in literature for notable impact his prose works and poetic thought had on english, french, and other national literatures of europe and the americas. he is also the writer of the national anthems of bangladesh and india. other asian writers who won nobel prize for literature include yasunari kawabata ( japan, 1968 ), kenzaburo oe ( japan, 1994 ), gao xingjian ( china, 2000 ), orhan pamuk ( turkey, 2006 ), and mo yan ( china, 2012 ). some may consider the american writer, pearl s. buck, an honorary asian nobel laureate, having spent considerable time in china as the daughter of missionaries, and based many of her novels, namely the good earth ( 1931 ) and the mother ( 1933 ), as well as the biographies of her parents for their time in china, the exile and fighting angel, all of which earned her the literature prize in 1938. also, mother teresa of india and shirin ebadi of iran were awarded the nobel peace prize for their significant and pioneering efforts for democracy and human rights, especially for the rights of women and children. ebadi is the first iranian and the first muslim woman to receive the prize. another nobel peace prize winner is aung san suu kyi from burma for her peaceful and non - violent struggle under a military dictatorship in burma. she is a nonviolent pro - democracy activist and leader of the national league for democracy in burma ( myanmar ) and a noted prisoner of conscience. she is a buddhist and was awarded the nobel peace prize in 1991. chinese dissident liu xiaobo was awarded the nobel peace prize for " his long and non - violent struggle for fundamental human rights in china " on 8 october 2010. he is the first chinese citizen to be awarded a nobel prize of any kind while residing in china. in 2014, kailash satyarthi from india and malala yousafzai from pakistan were awarded the nobel peace prize " for their struggle against the suppression of children and young people and for the right of all children to education ". sir c. v. raman is the first asian to get a nobel prize in sciences. he won the nobel prize in physics " for his work on