very different form of philosophy of language which originated in the works of johann georg hamann and wilhelm von humboldt. ernst gombrich and nelson goodman in his book languages of art : an approach to a theory of symbols came to hold that the conceptual encounter with the work of art predominated exclusively over the perceptual and visual encounter with the work of art during the 1960s and 1970s. he was challenged on the basis of research done by the nobel prize winning psychologist roger sperry who maintained that the human visual encounter was not limited to concepts represented in language alone ( the linguistic turn ) and that other forms of psychological representations of the work of art were equally defensible and demonstrable. sperry ' s view eventually prevailed by the end of the 20th century with aesthetic philosophers such as nick zangwill strongly defending a return to moderate aesthetic formalism among other alternatives. classification disputes disputes as to whether or not to classify something as a work of art are referred to as classificatory disputes about art. classificatory disputes in the 20th century have included cubist and impressionist paintings, duchamp ' s fountain, the movies, j. s. g. boggs ' superlative imitations of banknotes, conceptual art, and video games. philosopher david novitz has argued that disagreement about the definition of art are rarely the heart of the problem. rather, " the passionate concerns and interests that humans vest in their social life " are " so much a part of all classificatory disputes about art. " according to novitz, classificatory disputes are more often disputes about societal values and where society is trying to go than they are about theory proper. for example, when the daily mail criticized hirst ' s and emin ' s work by arguing " for 1, 000 years art has been one of our great civilising forces. today, pickled sheep and soiled beds threaten to make barbarians of us all " they are not advancing a definition or theory about art, but questioning the value of hirst ' s and emin ' s work. in 1998, arthur danto, suggested a thought experiment showing that " the status of an artifact as work of art results from the ideas a culture applies to it, rather than its inherent physical or perceptible qualities. cultural interpretation ( an art theory of some kind ) is therefore constitutive of an object ' s arthood. " anti - art is a label for art that intentionally challenges the established parameters and values of art ; it is a term