the manned spacecraft center ( msc ). a site was chosen in houston, texas, on land donated by rice university, and administrator webb announced the conversion on september 19, 1961. it was also clear nasa would soon outgrow its practice of controlling missions from its cape canaveral air force station launch facilities in florida, so a new mission control center would be included in the msc. in september 1962, by which time two project mercury astronauts had orbited the earth, gilruth had moved his organization to rented space in houston, and construction of the msc facility was under way, kennedy visited rice to reiterate his challenge in a famous speech : the msc was completed in september 1963. it was renamed by the us congress in honor of lyndon johnson soon after his death in 1973. launch operations center it also became clear that apollo would outgrow the canaveral launch facilities in florida. the two newest launch complexes were already being built for the saturn i and ib rockets at the northernmost end : lc - 34 and lc - 37. but an even bigger facility would be needed for the mammoth rocket required for the crewed lunar mission, so land acquisition was started in july 1961 for a launch operations center ( loc ) immediately north of canaveral at merritt island. the design, development and construction of the center was conducted by kurt h. debus, a member of wernher von braun ' s original v - 2 rocket engineering team. debus was named the loc ' s first director. construction began in november 1962. following kennedy ' s death, president johnson issued an executive order on november 29, 1963, to rename the loc and cape canaveral in honor of kennedy. the loc included launch complex 39, a launch control center, and a vertical assembly building ( vab ). in which the space vehicle ( launch vehicle and spacecraft ) would be assembled on a mobile launcher platform and then moved by a crawler - transporter to one of several launch pads. although at least three pads were planned, only two, designated aandb, were completed in october 1965. the loc also included an operations and checkout building ( ocb ) to which gemini and apollo spacecraft were initially received prior to being mated to their launch vehicles. the apollo spacecraft could be tested in two vacuum chambers capable of simulating atmospheric pressure at altitudes up to, which is nearly a vacuum. organization administrator webb realized that in order to keep apollo costs under control, he had to develop greater project management skills in his organization,