order language, a variable and a term that is substitutable for in, the below formula is universally valid. non - logical axioms non - logical axioms are formulas that play the role of theory - specific assumptions. reasoning about two different structures, for example, the natural numbers and the integers, may involve the same logical axioms ; the non - logical axioms aim to capture what is special about a particular structure ( or set of structures, such as groups ). thus non - logical axioms, unlike logical axioms, are not tautologies. another name for a non - logical axiom is postulate. almost every modern mathematical theory starts from a given set of non - logical axioms, and it was thought that, in principle, every theory could be axiomatized in this way and formalized down to the bare language of logical formulas. non - logical axioms are often simply referred to as axioms in mathematical discourse. this does not mean that it is claimed that they are true in some absolute sense. for example, in some groups, the group operation is commutative, and this can be asserted with the introduction of an additional axiom, but without this axiom, we can do quite well developing ( the more general ) group theory, and we can even take its negation as an axiom for the study of non - commutative groups. thus, an axiom is an elementary basis for a formal logic system that together with the rules of inference define a deductive system. examples this section gives examples of mathematical theories that are developed entirely from a set of non - logical axioms ( axioms, henceforth ). a rigorous treatment of any of these topics begins with a specification of these axioms. basic theories, such as arithmetic, real analysis and complex analysis are often introduced non - axiomatically, but implicitly or explicitly there is generally an assumption that the axioms being used are the axioms of zermelo – fraenkel set theory with choice, abbreviated zfc, or some very similar system of axiomatic set theory like von neumann – bernays – godel set theory, a conservative extension of zfc. sometimes slightly stronger theories such as morse – kelley set theory or set theory with a strongly inaccessible cardinal allowing the use of a grothendieck universe is used, but in fact, most mathematicians can actually prove all they need in systems weaker than zfc, such as second - order arithmetic. the study of topology in mathematics extends all over