way to victory of the germanic spirit over the jewish spirit, 1880 ), presents a development of marr ' s ideas further and may present the first published use of the german word, " antisemitism ". the pamphlet became very popular, and in the same year marr founded the antisemiten - liga ( league of antisemites ), apparently named to follow the " anti - kanzler - liga " ( anti - chancellor league ). the league was the first german organization committed specifically to combating the alleged threat to germany and german culture posed by the jews and their influence and advocating their forced removal from the country. so far as can be ascertained, the word was first widely printed in 1881, when marr published zwanglose antisemitische hefte, and wilhelm scherer used the term antisemiten in the january issue of neue freie presse. the jewish encyclopedia reports, " in february 1881, a correspondent of the allgemeine zeitung des judentums speaks of ' anti - semitism ' as a designation which recently came into use ( " allg. zeit. d. jud. " 1881, p. 138 ). on 19 july 1882, the editor says, ' this quite recent anti - semitism is hardly three years old. the word " antisemitism " was borrowed into english from german in 1881. oxford english dictionary editor james murray wrote that it was not included in the first edition because " anti - semite and its family were then probably very new in english use, and not thought likely to be more than passing nonce - words... would that anti - semitism had had no more than a fleeting interest! " the related term " philosemitism " was used by 1881. usage from the outset the term " anti - semitism " bore special racial connotations and meant specifically prejudice against jews. the term is confusing, for in modern usage ' semitic ' designates a language group, not a race. in this sense, the term is a misnomer, since there are many speakers of semitic languages ( e. g., arabs, ethiopians, and arameans ) who are not the objects of antisemitic prejudices, while there are many jews who do not speak hebrew, a semitic language. though ' antisemitism ' could be construed as prejudice against people who speak other semitic languages, this is not how the term is commonly used