1544. algiers was a walled city from the time of the deys until the close of the 19th century. the french, after their occupation of the city ( 1830 ), built a rampart, parapet and ditch, with two terminal forts, bab azoun باب عزون to the south and bab - el - oued اد to the north. the forts and part of the ramparts were demolished at the beginning of the 20th century, when a line of forts occupying the heights of bouzareah بوزريعة ( at an elevation of above the sea ) took their place. notre dame d ' afrique, a church built ( 1858 – 1872 ) in a mixture of the roman and byzantine styles, is conspicuously situated overlooking the sea, on the shoulder of the bouzareah hills, to the north of the city. above the altar is a statue of the virgin depicted as a black woman. the church also contains a solid silver statue of the archangel michael, belonging to the confraternity of neapolitan fishermen. villa abd - el - tif, former residence of the dey, was used during the french period, to accommodate french artists, chiefly painters, and winners of the abd - el - tif prize, among whom maurice boitel, for a while of two years. nowadays, algerian artists are back in the villa ' s studios. monuments notre dame d ' afrique, accessible by one cable car, is one of the city ' s most outstanding monuments : located in the district of z ' will ghara, the basilica was built around 1858. monument des martyrs ( marquand e ' chahid ) : an iconic concrete monument commemorating the algerian war for independence. the monument was opened in 1982 on the 20th anniversary of algeria ' s independence. it is fashioned in the shape of three standing palm leaves which shelter the " eternal flame " beneath. at the edge of each palm leaf stands a statue of a soldier, each representing a stage of algeria ' s struggle. the el jedid mosque at the place des martyrs near the port. place of the emir abdelkader ( formerly bugeaud ) : in memory of the famous emir abd el - kader, resistant during french conquest of algeria. grand post office ( 1910, by voinot and tondoire ) : construction of the neo - moorish type which is in full centre town of algiers. the jardin d ' essai ( garden of test