, provisions for the architect ' s access, and procedures for the control of the works as they proceed. depending on the type of contract utilized, provisions for further sub - contract tenders may be required. the architect may require that some elements are covered by a warranty which specifies the expected life and other aspects of the material, product, or work. in most jurisdictions, prior notification to the relevant authority must be given before commencement of the project, giving the local authority notice to carry out independent inspections. the architect will then review and inspect the progress of the work in coordination with the local authority. the architect will typically review contractor shop drawings and other submittals, prepare and issue site instructions, and provide certificates for payment to the contractor ( see also design - bid - build ) which is based on the work done as well as any materials and other goods purchased or hired in the future. in the united kingdom and other countries, a quantity surveyor is often part of the team to provide cost consulting. with large, complex projects, an independent construction manager is sometimes hired to assist in the design and management of the construction. in many jurisdictions, mandatory certification or assurance of the completed work or part of works, is required. this demand for certification entails a high degree of risk ; therefore, regular inspections of the work as it progresses on site is required to ensure that the design is in compliance itself as well as following all relevant statutes and permissions. alternate practice and specializations recent decades have seen the rise of specializations within the profession. many architects and architectural firms focus on certain project types ( e. g. healthcare, retail, public housing, and event management ), technological expertise, or project delivery methods. some architects specialize in building code, building envelope, sustainable design, technical writing, historic preservation ( us ) or conservation ( uk ), and accessibility. many architects elect to move into real estate ( property ) development, corporate facilities planning, project management, construction management, chief sustainability officers interior design, city planning, user experience design, and design research. professional requirements although there are variations in each location, most of the world ' s architects are required to register with the appropriate jurisdiction. architects are typically required to meet three common requirements : education, experience, and examination. basic educational requirement generally consist of a university degree in architecture. the experience requirement for degree candidates is usually satisfied by a practicum or internship ( usually two to three years ). finally, a registration examination or a series of exams is required prior to licensure.