( cfe ), which establishes comprehensive limits on key categories of conventional military equipment. azerbaijan approved the cfe flank agreement in may 1997. the transfer of the property of the 4th army ( except for part of the property of the 366th motor rifle regiment of the 23rd guards motor rifle division captured by armenian armed formations in 1992 during the regiment ' s withdrawal from stepanakert ) and the 49th arsenal was completed in 1992. thus, by the end of 1992, azerbaijan received arms and military hardware sufficient for approximately four motor rifle divisions with prescribed army units. it also inherited naval ships. there are also reports that 50 combat aircraft from the disbanded 19th army of the soviet air defence forces came under azerbaijani control. the azerbaijani armed forces took a series of devastating defeats by armenian forces during the 1992 – 1994 nagorno - karabakh war, which resulted in the loss of control of nagorno - karabakh proper and seven surrounding rayons, comprising roughly 20 % of the territory of azerbaijan. azerbaijani sources insist that armenian victory was largely due to military help from russia and the wealthy armenian diaspora. armenians partially deny the allegation, claiming that russian side was equally supplying armenian and azerbaijani sides with weapons and mercenaries. during the war, the azerbaijani armed forces were also aided by turkish military advisers, and russian, ukrainian, chechen and afghan mercenaries. 21st century a number of azerbaijani human rights groups have been tracking non - combat deaths and have noted an upward trend in early 2010s. based on defense ministry statistics that had not been released to the public, the group of monitoring compliance with human rights in the army ( gmchra ) has recorded the deaths of 76 soldiers to date in non - combat incidents for 2011, and the injury of 91 others. in comparison, there were 62 non - combat deaths and 71 cases of injury in 2010. the string of non - combat deaths raises questions about the reform progress of the military. factors behind the deaths include bullying, hazing, and the systemic corruption within the azerbaijani military. in 2017, azerbaijani authorities used large scale torture ( the tartar case ) on azerbaijani military personnel accused of treason. generals nacmeddin sadikhov and hikmet hasanov were accused of torturing azerbaijani officers and soldiers and according to the authorities and human rights defenders, more than 400 people were subjected to torture in the course of the case. the azerbaijani authorities claimed one person was killed as a result, while human rights defenders say the number is about 13, and many were wrongfully convicted and given hefty prison