grand duke alexei petrovich of russia ( 28 february 1690 – 26 june 1718 ) was a russian tsarevich. he was born in moscow, the son of tsar peter i and his first wife, eudoxia lopukhina. alexei despised his father and repeatedly thwarted peter ' s plans to raise him as successor to the throne, to continue his policies. his brief defection to austria scandalized the russian government, leading to harsh reprisals against alexei and his associates. alexei died after interrogation under torture, and his younger half brother peter petrovich became the new heir apparent. childhood the young alexei was brought up by his mother, who fostered an atmosphere of disdain towards his father, the tsar. alexei ' s relations with his father suffered from the hatred between his father and his mother, as it was very difficult for him to feel affection for his mother ' s worst persecutor. from the ages of 6 to 9, alexei was educated by his tutor vyazemsky, but after the removal of his mother by peter the great to the suzdal intercession convent, alexei was confined to the care of educated foreigners, who taught him history, geography, mathematics and french. military career in 1703, alexei was ordered to follow the army to the field as a private in an artillery regiment. in 1704, he was present at the capture of narva. at this period, the preceptors of the tsarevich had the highest opinion of his ability. alexei had strong leanings towards archaeology and ecclesiology. however, peter had wished his son and heir to dedicate himself to the service of new russia, and demanded from him unceasing labour in order to maintain russia ' s new wealth and power. painful relations between father and son, quite apart from the prior personal antipathies, were therefore inevitable. it was an additional misfortune for alexei that his father should have been too busy to attend to him just as he was growing up from boyhood to manhood. he was left in the hands of reactionary boyars and priests, who encouraged him to hate his father and wish for the death of the tsar. in 1708, peter sent alexei to smolensk to collect supplies and recruits, and after that to moscow to fortify it against charles xii of sweden. at the end of 1709, alexei went to dresden for one year. there, he finished lessons in french, german, mathematics and fortification. after his education, alexei married princess charlotte of brunswick - wolfenbut