is a program in l2. the interpreter is characterized by the following property : running interpretlanguage on input p returns the result of running p. thus, if p is a program in l2 which is a minimal description of s, then interpretlanguage ( p ) returns the string s. the length of this description of s is the sum of the length of the program interpretlanguage, which we can take to be the constant c. the length of p which by definition is k2 ( s ). this proves the desired upper bound. history and context algorithmic information theory is the area of computer science that studies kolmogorov complexity and other complexity measures on strings ( or other data structures ). the concept and theory of kolmogorov complexity is based on a crucial theorem first discovered by ray solomonoff, who published it in 1960, describing it in " a preliminary report on a general theory of inductive inference " as part of his invention of algorithmic probability. he gave a more complete description in his 1964 publications, " a formal theory of inductive inference, " part 1 and part 2 in information and control. andrey kolmogorov later independently published this theorem in problems inform. transmission in 1965. gregory chaitin also presents this theorem in j. acm – chaitin ' s paper was submitted october 1966 and revised in december 1968, and cites both solomonoff ' s and kolmogorov ' s papers. the theorem says that, among algorithms that decode strings from their descriptions ( codes ), there exists an optimal one. this algorithm, for all strings, allows codes as short as allowed by any other algorithm up to an additive constant that depends on the algorithms, but not on the strings themselves. solomonoff used this algorithm and the code lengths it allows to define a " universal probability " of a string on which inductive inference of the subsequent digits of the string can be based. kolmogorov used this theorem to define several functions of strings, including complexity, randomness, and information. when kolmogorov became aware of solomonoff ' s work, he acknowledged solomonoff ' s priority. for several years, solomonoff ' s work was better known in the soviet union than in the western world. the general consensus in the scientific community, however, was to associate this type of complexity with kolmogorov, who was concerned with randomness of a sequence, while algorithmic probability became associated with solomonoff, who focused on prediction using his