##rf. slower trains stop at these. aachen west has gained in importance with the expansion of rwth aachen university. intercity bus stations there are two stations for intercity bus services in aachen : aachen west station, in the north - west of the city, and aachen wilmersdorfer straße, in the north - east. public transport the first horse tram line in aachen opened in december 1880. after electrification in 1895, it attained a maximum length of in 1915, thus becoming the fourth - longest tram network in germany. many tram lines extended to the surrounding towns of herzogenrath, stolberg, alsdorf as well as the belgian and dutch communes of vaals, kelmis ( then altenberg ) and eupen. the aachen tram system was linked with the belgian national interurban tram system. like many tram systems in western europe, the aachen tram suffered from poorly - maintained infrastructure and was so deemed unnecessary and disrupting for car drivers by local politics. on 28 september 1974, the last line 15 ( vaals – brand ) operated for one last day and was then replaced by buses. a proposal to reinstate a tram / light rail system under the name campusbahn was dropped after a referendum. today, the aseag ( aachener straßenbahn und energieversorgungs - ag, literally " aachen tram and power supply company " ) operates a bus network with 68 bus routes. because of the location at the border, many bus routes extend to belgium and the netherlands. lines 14 to eupen, belgium and 44 to heerlen, netherlands are jointly operated with transport en commun and veolia transport nederland, respectively. aseag is one of the main participants in the aachener verkehrsverbund ( avv ), a tariff association in the region. along with aseag, city bus routes of aachen are served by private contractors such as sadar, taeter, schlomer, or db regio bus. line 350, which runs from maastricht, also enters aachen. roads aachen is connected to the autobahn a4 ( west - east ), a44 ( north - south ) and a544 ( a smaller motorway from the a4 to the europaplatz near the city centre ). there are plans to eliminate traffic jams at the aachen road interchange. airport maastricht aachen airport is the main airport of aachen and maastricht. it is located around northwest of aachen. there is a