norwegian war ) and the battle of largs. it includes depictions of alexander iii and his opponent haakon iv of norway. alexander the glorious ( 1965 ) by jane oliver. the novel covers the entire reign of alexander iii ( 1249 – 1286 ), " almost entirely from alexander ' s viewpoint ". the crown in darkness ( 1988 ) by paul c. doherty. a crime fiction novel where hugh corbett investigates the " mysterious death " of alexander iii ( 1286 ). alexander supposedly suffered a fatal fall from his horse. but there are suspicions of murder. the novel concludes that alexander was indeed murdered " by a fanatical servant " of edward i of england. the killer acting according to " edward ' s secret desire to overwhelm and control scotland ". doherty suggests that the personal relations of the two kings were strained by constant arguments, though this is not confirmed by historical sources. quest for a maid ( 1988 ) by frances mary hendry. the novel depicts the life of meg, her power - hungry older sister inge, lady marjorie, countess of carrick and their part in securing the succession of lady marjorie ' s son robert the bruce to the scottish throne. it includes depictions of alexander iii ' s death as " falling off a cliff " with sorcery as the cause. insurrection ( 2010 ) by robyn young. this novel is the first of a series of novels primarily about the life and times of robert the bruce. however, it covers alexander iii and the circumstances surrounding his death in some detail. raphael holinshed, in his oft - fanciful history of england in his chronicles, stated that at alexander iii ' s wedding, a horrible monster, mostly skeleton but with raw flesh, appeared at the end of the procession and caused the wedding to be hurriedly concluded. this was, in tradition, an omen of death. crusader ( 1991 ) by nigel tranter. this novel follows the minority of alexander iii and his relationship with david de lindsay. tranter, who has written scores of historical novels spanning the range of scotland ' s history, also wrote " envoy extraordinary " ( 1999 ) ( about patrick earl of dunbar ) and " true thomas " ( 1981 ) ( about thomas the rhymer ), both of which take place during the reign of alexander iii, and in which alexander is a featured character. ancestry notes sources anderson, alan orr ( ed. ), early sources of scottish history : ad 500 – 1286, 2 vols, ( edinburgh, 1922 ), republished, marjorie anderson ( ed