##ism sectionalism resulted from the different economies, social structure, customs, and political values of the north and south. regional tensions came to a head during the war of 1812, resulting in the hartford convention, which manifested northern dissatisfaction with a foreign trade embargo that affected the industrial north disproportionately, the three - fifths compromise, dilution of northern power by new states, and a succession of southern presidents. sectionalism increased steadily between 1800 and 1860 as the north, which phased slavery out of existence, industrialized, urbanized, and built prosperous farms, while the deep south concentrated on plantation agriculture based on slave labor, together with subsistence agriculture for poor whites. in the 1840s and 1850s, the issue of accepting slavery ( in the guise of rejecting slave - owning bishops and missionaries ) split the nation ' s largest religious denominations ( the methodist, baptist, and presbyterian churches ) into separate northern and southern denominations. historians have debated whether economic differences between the mainly industrial north and the mainly agricultural south helped cause the war. most historians now disagree with the economic determinism of historian charles a. beard in the 1920s, and emphasize that northern and southern economies were largely complementary. while socially different, the sections economically benefited each other. protectionism owners of slaves preferred low - cost manual labor with no mechanization. northern manufacturing interests supported tariffs and protectionism while southern planters demanded free trade. the democrats in congress, controlled by southerners, wrote the tariff laws in the 1830s, 1840s, and 1850s, and kept reducing rates so that the 1857 rates were the lowest since 1816. the republicans called for an increase in tariffs in the 1860 election. the increases were only enacted in 1861 after southerners resigned their seats in congress. the tariff issue was a northern grievance. however, neo - confederate writers have claimed it as a southern grievance. in 1860 – 61 none of the groups that proposed compromises to head off secession raised the tariff issue. pamphleteers from the north and the south rarely mentioned the tariff. nationalism and honor nationalism was a powerful force in the early 19th century, with famous spokesmen such as andrew jackson and daniel webster. while practically all northerners supported the union, southerners were split between those loyal to the entirety of the united states ( called " southern unionists " ) and those loyal primarily to the southern region and then the confederacy. perceived insults to southern collective honor included the enormous popularity of uncle tom ' s cabin and abolitionist john brown ' s attempt to incite a slave rebellion in 1859