death not more than thirty - three years old. the one thing lacking in him was sincere piety, and this it was that proved his undoing in the end, for it induced him to take part in absalom ' s rebellion against david. thus he forfeited even his share in the world to come. to this dire course of action he was misled by astrologic and other signs, which he interpreted as prophecies of his own kingship, when in reality they pointed to the royal destiny of his granddaughter bath - sheba. possessed by his erroneous belief, he cunningly urged absalom to commit an unheard - of crime. thus absalom would profit nothing by his rebellion, for, though he accomplished his father ' s ruin, he would yet be held to account and condemned to death for his violation of family purity, and the way to the throne would be clear for ahithophel, the great sage in israel. " ) david took refuge from absalom ' s forces beyond the jordan river. however, he took the precaution of instructing a servant, hushai, to infiltrate absalom ' s court and subvert it. once in place, hushai convinced absalom to ignore ahithophel ' s advice to attack his father while he was on the run, and instead to prepare his forces for a major attack. this gave david critical time to prepare his own troops for the battle. when ahithophel saw that his advice was not followed, he committed suicide by hanging himself. battle of ephraim ' s wood a fateful battle was fought in the wood of ephraim ( the name suggests a locality west of the jordan ) and absalom ' s army was completely routed. when absalom fled from david ' s army, his head was caught in the boughs of an oak tree as the mule he was riding ran beneath it. he was discovered there still alive by one of david ' s men, who reported this to joab, the king ' s commander. joab, accustomed to avenging himself, took this opportunity to even the score with absalom. absalom had once set joab ' s field of barley on fire and then made amasa captain of the host instead of joab. killing absalom was against david ' s explicit command, " beware that none touch the young man absalom ". joab injured absalom with three darts through the heart and