amazon to the negro, vast areas of land are submerged at high water, above which only the upper part of the trees of the sombre forests appear. near the mouth of the rio negro to serpa, nearly opposite the river madeira, the banks of the amazon are low, until approaching manaus, they rise to become rolling hills. the lower amazon the lower amazon begins where the darkly colored waters of the rio negro meets the sandy - colored rio solimoes ( the upper amazon ), and for over these waters run side by side without mixing. at obidos, a bluff above the river is backed by low hills. the lower amazon seems to have once been a gulf of the atlantic ocean, the waters of which washed the cliffs near obidos. only about 10 % of the amazon ' s water enters downstream of obidos, very little of which is from the northern slope of the valley. the drainage area of the amazon basin above obidos city is about, and, below, only about ( around 20 % ), exclusive of the of the tocantins basin. the tocantins river enters the southern portion of the amazon delta. in the lower reaches of the river, the north bank consists of a series of steep, table - topped hills extending for about from opposite the mouth of the xingu as far as monte alegre. these hills are cut down to a kind of terrace which lies between them and the river. on the south bank, above the xingu, a line of low bluffs bordering the floodplain extends nearly to santarem in a series of gentle curves before they bend to the southwest, and, abutting upon the lower tapajos, merge into the bluffs which form the terrace margin of the tapajos river valley. mouth belem is the major city and port at the mouth of the river at the atlantic ocean. the definition of where exactly the mouth of the amazon is located, and how wide it is, is a matter of dispute, because of the area ' s peculiar geography. the para and the amazon are connected by a series of river channels called furos near the town of breves ; between them lies marajo, the world ' s largest combined river / sea island. if the para river and the marajo island ocean frontage are included, the amazon estuary is some wide. in this case, the width of the mouth of the river is usually measured from cabo norte, the cape located straight east of pracuuba in