, in very minute traces, by the addition of nessler ' s solution, which gives a distinct yellow colouration in the presence of the slightest trace of ammonia or ammonium salts. the amount of ammonia in ammonium salts can be estimated quantitatively by distillation of the salts with sodium ( naoh ) or potassium hydroxide ( koh ), the ammonia evolved being absorbed in a known volume of standard sulfuric acid and the excess of acid then determined volumetrically ; or the ammonia may be absorbed in hydrochloric acid and the ammonium chloride so formed precipitated as ammonium hexachloroplatinate,. gaseous ammonia sulfur sticks are burnt to detect small leaks in industrial ammonia refrigeration systems. larger quantities can be detected by warming the salts with a caustic alkali or with quicklime, when the characteristic smell of ammonia will be at once apparent. ammonia is an irritant and irritation increases with concentration ; the permissible exposure limit is 25 ppm, and lethal above 500 ppm. higher concentrations are hardly detected by conventional detectors, the type of detector is chosen according to the sensitivity required ( e. g. semiconductor, catalytic, electrochemical ). holographic sensors have been proposed for detecting concentrations up to 12. 5 % in volume. ammoniacal nitrogen ( nh3 – n ) ammoniacal nitrogen ( nh3 – n ) is a measure commonly used for testing the quantity of ammonium ions, derived naturally from ammonia, and returned to ammonia via organic processes, in water or waste liquids. it is a measure used mainly for quantifying values in waste treatment and water purification systems, as well as a measure of the health of natural and man - made water reserves. it is measured in units of mg / l ( milligram per litre ). history the ancient greek historian herodotus mentioned that there were outcrops of salt in an area of libya that was inhabited by a people called the ' ammonians ' ( now the siwa oasis in northwestern egypt, where salt lakes still exist ). the greek geographer strabo also mentioned the salt from this region. however, the ancient authors dioscorides, apicius, arrian, synesius, and aetius of amida described this salt as forming clear crystals that could be used for cooking and that were essentially rock salt. hammoniacus sal appears in the writings of pliny, although it is not known whether the term is identical with the more modern sal ammonia