further improve long term outcomes. these outcomes include balance tasks, gait, and individual activities of daily living. while the improvements are attributed primarily to changes in the brain and not just the hip or ankle joints, it is still unknown whether the improvements are due to adaptations in the cerebellum or compensation by other areas of the brain. decomposition, simplification, or slowing of multijoint movement may also be an effective strategy that therapists may use to improve function in patients with ataxia. training likely needs to be intense and focused — as indicated by one study performed with stroke patients experiencing limb ataxia who underwent intensive upper limb retraining. their therapy consisted of constraint - induced movement therapy which resulted in improvements of their arm function. treatment should likely include strategies to manage difficulties with everyday activities such as walking. gait aids ( such as a cane or walker ) can be provided to decrease the risk of falls associated with impairment of balance or poor coordination. severe ataxia may eventually lead to the need for a wheelchair. to obtain better results, possible coexisting motor deficits need to be addressed in addition to those induced by ataxia. for example, muscle weakness and decreased endurance could lead to increasing fatigue and poorer movement patterns. there are several assessment tools available to therapists and health care professionals working with patients with ataxia. the international cooperative ataxia rating scale ( icars ) is one of the most widely used and has been proven to have very high reliability and validity. other tools that assess motor function, balance and coordination are also highly valuable to help the therapist track the progress of their patient, as well as to quantify the patient ' s functionality. these tests include, but are not limited to : the berg balance scale tandem walking ( to test for tandem gaitability ) scale for the assessment and rating of ataxia ( sara ) tapping tests – the person must quickly and repeatedly tap their arm or leg while the therapist monitors the amount of dysdiadochokinesia. finger - nose testing – this test has several variations including finger - to - therapist ' s finger, finger - to - finger, and alternate nose - to - finger. other uses the term " ataxia " is sometimes used in a broader sense to indicate lack of coordination in some physiological process. examples include optic ataxia ( lack of coordination between visual inputs and hand movements, resulting in inability to reach and grab objects ) and ataxic respiration ( lack of coordination in respiratory movements, usually due to dysfunction of the respiratory centres in