##reader ; she was born in moscow in the dubasov family estate. andrei ' s paternal grandfather aleksandr karlovich tarkovsky ( in ) was a polish nobleman who worked as a bank clerk. his wife maria danilovna rachkovskaya was a romanian language teacher who arrived from iasi. andrei ' s maternal grandmother vera nikolayevna vishnyakova ( nee dubasova ) belonged to an old dubasov family of russian nobility that traces its history back to the 17th century ; among her relatives was admiral fyodor dubasov, a fact she had to conceal during the soviet days. she was married to ivan ivanovich vishnyakov, a native of the kaluga governorate who studied law at the moscow state university and served as a judge in kozelsk. according to the family legend, tarkovsky ' s ancestors on his father ' s side were princes from the shamkhalate of tarki, dagestan, although his sister marina tarkovskaya who did a detailed research on their genealogy called it " a myth, even a prank of sorts, " stressing that none of the documents confirms this version. tarkovsky spent his childhood in yuryevets. he was described by childhood friends as active and popular, having many friends and being typically in the center of action. his father left the family in 1937, subsequently volunteering for the army in 1941. he returned home in 1943, having been awarded a red star after being shot in one of his legs ( which he would eventually need to amputate due to gangrene ). tarkovsky stayed with his mother, moving with her and his sister marina to moscow, where she worked as a proofreader at a printing press. in 1939, tarkovsky enrolled at the moscow school no. 554. during the war, the three evacuated to yuryevets, living with his maternal grandmother. in 1943, the family returned to moscow. tarkovsky continued his studies at his old school, where the poet andrei voznesensky was one of his classmates. he studied piano at a music school and attended classes at an art school. the family lived on shchipok street in the zamoskvorechye district in moscow. from november 1947 to spring 1948 he was in the hospital with tuberculosis. many themes of his childhood — the evacuation, his mother and her two children, the withdrawn father, the time in the hospital — feature prominently in his film mirror. in his school years, tarkovsky was a troublemaker