the 1960s, there has been a sharp decline in the number of professed religious in most parts of the anglican communion, especially in north america, europe, and australia. many once large and international communities have been reduced to a single convent or monastery with memberships of elderly men or women. in the last few decades of the 20th century, novices have for most communities been few and far between. some orders and communities have already become extinct. there are, however, still thousands of anglican religious working today in approximately 200 communities around the world, and religious life in many parts of the communion – especially in developing nations – flourishes. the most significant growth has been in the melanesian countries of the solomon islands, vanuatu, and papua new guinea. the melanesian brotherhood, founded at tabalia, guadalcanal, in 1925 by ini kopuria, is now the largest anglican community in the world, with over 450 brothers in the solomon islands, vanuatu, papua new guinea, the philippines, and the united kingdom. the sisters of the church, started by mother emily ayckbowm in england in 1870, has more sisters in the solomons than all their other communities. the community of the sisters of melanesia, started in 1980 by sister nesta tiboe, is a growing community of women throughout the solomon islands. the society of saint francis, founded as a union of various franciscan orders in the 1920s, has experienced great growth in the solomon islands. other communities of religious have been started by anglicans in papua new guinea and in vanuatu. most melanesian anglican religious are in their early to mid - 20s – vows may be temporary and it is generally assumed that brothers, at least, will leave and marry in due course – making the average age 40 to 50 years younger than their brothers and sisters in other countries. growth of religious orders, especially for women, is marked in certain parts of africa. worldwide distribution anglicanism represents the third largest christian communion in the world, after the roman catholic church and the eastern orthodox church. the number of anglicans in the world is over 85 million. the 11 provinces in africa saw growth in the last two decades. they now include 36. 7 million members, more anglicans than there are in england. england remains the largest single anglican province, with 26 million members. in most industrialised countries, church attendance has decreased since the 19th century. anglicanism ' s presence in the rest of the world is due to large - scale emigration, the establishment of expa