of the philosophers ". also, in his letter to samuel ibn tibbon, maimonides observes that there is no need for samuel to study the writings of philosophers who preceded aristotle because the works of the latter are " sufficient by themselves and [ superior ] to all that were written before them. his intellect, aristotle ' s is the extreme limit of human intellect, apart from him upon whom the divine emanation has flowed forth to such an extent that they reach the level of prophecy, there being no level higher ". early modern scientists in the early modern period, scientists such as william harvey in england and galileo galilei in italy reacted against the theories of aristotle and other classical era thinkers like galen, establishing new theories based to some degree on observation and experiment. harvey demonstrated the circulation of the blood, establishing that the heart functioned as a pump rather than being the seat of the soul and the controller of the body ' s heat, as aristotle thought. galileo used more doubtful arguments to displace aristotle ' s physics, proposing that bodies all fall at the same speed whatever their weight. 18th and 19th - century science the english mathematician george boole fully accepted aristotle ' s logic, but decided " to go under, over, and beyond " it with his system of algebraic logic in his 1854 book the laws of thought. this gives logic a mathematical foundation with equations, enables it to solve equations as well as check validity, and allows it to handle a wider class of problems by expanding propositions of any number of terms, not just two. charles darwin regarded aristotle as the most important contributor to the subject of biology. in an 1882 letter he wrote that " linnaeus and cuvier have been my two gods, though in very different ways, but they were mere schoolboys to old aristotle ". also, in later editions of the book " on the origin of species ', darwin traced evolutionary ideas as far back as aristotle ; the text he cites is a summary by aristotle of the ideas of the earlier greek philosopher empedocles. surviving works corpus aristotelicum the works of aristotle that have survived from antiquity through medieval manuscript transmission are collected in the corpus aristotelicum. these texts, as opposed to aristotle ' s lost works, are technical philosophical treatises from within aristotle ' s school. reference to them is made according to the organization of immanuel bekker ' s royal prussian academy edition ( aristotelis opera edidit academia regia borussica, berlin, 1831 – 1870 ), which in turn is based