international atomic time ( abbreviated tai, from its french name ) is a high - precision atomic coordinate time standard based on the notional passage of proper time on earth ' s geoid. tai is a weighted average of the time kept by over 450 atomic clocks in over 80 national laboratories worldwide. it is a continuous scale of time, without leap seconds, and it is the principal realisation of terrestrial time ( with a fixed offset of epoch ). it is the basis for coordinated universal time ( utc ), which is used for civil timekeeping all over the earth ' s surface and which has leap seconds. utc deviates from tai by a number of whole seconds., when another leap second was put into effect, utc is currently exactly 37 seconds behind tai. the 37 seconds result from the initial difference of 10 seconds at the start of 1972, plus 27 leap seconds in utc since 1972. tai may be reported using traditional means of specifying days, carried over from non - uniform time standards based on the rotation of the earth. specifically, both julian days and the gregorian calendar are used. tai in this form was synchronised with universal time at the beginning of 1958, and the two have drifted apart ever since, due primarily to the slowing rotation of the earth. operation tai is a weighted average of the time kept by over 450 atomic clocks in over 80 national laboratories worldwide. the majority of the clocks involved are caesium clocks ; the international system of units ( si ) definition of the second is based on caesium. the clocks are compared using gps signals and two - way satellite time and frequency transfer. due to the signal averaging tai is an order of magnitude more stable than its best constituent clock. the participating institutions each broadcast, in real time, a frequency signal with timecodes, which is their estimate of tai. time codes are usually published in the form of utc, which differs from tai by a well - known integer number of seconds. these time scales are denoted in the form utc ( npl ) in the utc form, where npl here identifies the national physical laboratory, uk. the tai form may be denoted tai ( npl ). the latter is not to be confused with ta ( npl ), which denotes an independent atomic time scale, not synchronised to tai or to anything else. the clocks at different institutions are regularly compared against each other. the international bureau of weights and measures ( bipm, france ), combines these measurements to retrospectively calculate the weighted average that forms the most stable time scale