most words end in a vowel in omotic and cushitic, making syllable - final consonant clusters rare. diakonoff argues that proto - afroasiatic syllables disallowed consonant clusters or vowels at the end of a syllable. syllable weight plays an important role in aa, especially in chadic ; it can affect the form of affixes attached to a word. consonant systems several afroasiatic languages have large consonant inventories, and it is likely that this is inherited from proto - afroasiatic. all afroasiatic languages contain stops and fricatives ; some branches have additional types of consonants such as affricates and lateral consonants. aa languages tend to have pharyngeal fricative consonants, with egyptian, semitic, berber, and cushitic sharing and. in all aa languages, consonants can be bilabial, alveolar, velar, and glottal, with additional places of articulation found in some branches or languages. additionally, the glottal stop usually exists as a phoneme, and there tends to be no phonemic contrast between and or and. in cushitic, the ethiopian semitic language tigrinya, and some chadic languages, there is no underlying phoneme at all. most, if not all, branches of afroasiatic distinguish between voiceless, voiced, and " emphatic " consonants. the emphatic consonants are typically formed deeper in the throat than the others ; they can be realized variously as glottalized, pharyngealized, uvularized, ejective, and / or implosive consonants in the different branches. it is generally agreed that only the obstruents had a contrast between voiceless and voiced forms in proto - afroasiatic, whereas continuants were voiceless. a form of long - distance consonant assimilation known as consonant harmony is attested in berber, chadic, cushitic, and semitic : it usually affects features such as pharyngealization, palatalization, and labialization. several omotic languages have " sibilant harmony ", meaning that all sibilants ( s, sh, z, ts, etc. ) in a word must match. consonant incompatibility restrictions against the co - occurrence of certain, usually similar, consonants in verbal roots can be found in all afroasiatic branches, though they are only weakly attested in chadic and omotic. the most widespread constraint is against two different labial consonants ( other than w