. in the same year, choctaw leaders signed the treaty of dancing rabbit creek ; the majority did not want the treaty but complied with its terms. in 1832, seminole leaders signed the treaty of payne ' s landing, which stipulated that the seminoles would move west and become part of the muscogee creek confederacy if they found the new land suitable. most seminoles refused to move, leading to the second seminole war in 1835 that lasted six years. members of the muscogee creek confederacy ceded their land to the state of alabama in the treaty of cusseta of 1832. their private ownership of the land was to be protected, but the federal government did not enforce this. the government did encourage voluntary removal until the creek war of 1836, after which almost all creek were removed to oklahoma territory. in 1836, cherokee leaders ceded their land to the government by the treaty of new echota. their removal, known as the trail of tears, was enforced by jackson ' s successor, van buren. jackson also applied the removal policy in the northwest. he was not successful in removing the iroquois confederacy in new york, but when some members of the meskwaki ( fox ) and the sauk triggered the black hawk war by trying to cross back to the east side of the mississippi, the peace treaties ratified after their defeat reduced their lands further. during his administration, he made about 70 treaties with american indian tribes. he had removed almost all the native americans east of the mississippi and south of lake michigan, about 70, 000 people, from the united states ; though it was done at the cost of thousands of native american lives lost because of the unsanitary conditions and epidemics arising from their dislocation, as well as their resistance to expulsion. jackson ' s implementation of the indian removal act contributed to his popularity with his constituency. he added over 170, 000 square miles of land to the public domain, which primarily benefited the united states ' agricultural interests. the act also benefited small farmers, as jackson allowed them to purchase moderate plots at low prices and offered squatters on land formerly belonging to native americans the option to purchase it before it was offered for sale to others. nullification crisis jackson had to confront another challenge that had been building up since the beginning of his first term. the tariff of 1828, which had been passed in the last year of adams ' administration, set a protective tariff at a very high rate to prevent the manufacturing industries in the northern states from having to compete with lower - priced imports from britain. the tariff