or use of right and left head turns using the device ' s camera. additional accessibility features include the use of assistive touch which allows a user to access multi - touch gestures through pre - programmed onscreen buttons. for users with physical disabilities a large variety of switches are available and customizable to the user ' s needs varying in size, shape, or amount of pressure required for activation. switch access may be placed near any area of the body which has consistent and reliable mobility and less subject to fatigue. common sites include the hands, head, and feet. eye gaze and head mouse systems can also be used as an alternative mouse navigation. a user may utilize single or multiple switch sites and the process often involves a scanning through items on a screen and activating the switch once the desired object is highlighted. home automation the form of home automation called assistive domotics focuses on making it possible for elderly and disabled people to live independently. home automation is becoming a viable option for the elderly and disabled who would prefer to stay in their own homes rather than move to a healthcare facility. this field uses much of the same technology and equipment as home automation for security, entertainment, and energy conservation but tailors it towards elderly and disabled users. for example, automated prompts and reminders utilize motion sensors and pre - recorded audio messages ; an automated prompt in the kitchen may remind the resident to turn off the oven, and one by the front door may remind the resident to lock the door. assistive technology and innovation innovation is happening in assistive technology either through improvements to existing devices or the creation of new products. in the wipo published 2021 report on technology trends, assistive products are grouped into either conventional or emerging technologies. conventional assisting technology tracks innovation within well - established assistive products, whereas emerging assistive technology refers to more advanced products. these identified advanced assistive products are distinguished from the conventional ones by the use of one or more enabling technologies ( for instance, artificial intelligence, internet of things, advanced sensors, new material, additive manufacturing, advanced robotics, augmented and virtual reality ) or by the inclusion of implantable products / components. such emerging assistive products are either more sophisticated or more functional versions of conventional assistive products, or completely novel assistive devices. for instance, in conventional self - care assistive technology, technologies involved typically include adaptive clothing, adaptive eating devices, incontinence products, assistive products for manicure, pedicure, hair and facial care, dental care, or assistive products for sexual activities