##in on the western coast of south africa are associated with the middle stone age ( msa ). the msa population was small and dispersed and the rate of their reproduction and exploitation was less intense than those of later generations. while their middens resemble 12 – 11 kya - old late stone age ( lsa ) middens found on every inhabited continent, the 50 – 45 kya - old enkapune ya muto in kenya probably represents the oldest traces of the first modern humans to disperse out of africa. the same development can be seen in europe. in la riera cave ( 23 – 13 kya ) in asturias, spain, only some 26, 600 molluscs were deposited over 10 kya. in contrast, 8 – 7 kya - old shell middens in portugal, denmark, and brazil generated thousands of tons of debris and artefacts. the ertebølle middens in denmark, for example, accumulated of shell deposits representing some 50 million molluscs over only a thousand years. this intensification in the exploitation of marine resources has been described as accompanied by new technologiessuch as boats, harpoons, and fish - hooksbecause many caves found in the mediterranean and on the european atlantic coast have increased quantities of marine shells in their upper levels and reduced quantities in their lower. the earliest exploitation, however, took place on the now submerged shelves, and most settlements now excavated were then located several kilometers from these shelves. the reduced quantities of shells in the lower levels can represent the few shells that were exported inland. new world during the lgm the laurentide ice sheet covered most of northern north america while beringia connected siberia to alaska. in 1973, late american geoscientist paul s. martin proposed a " blitzkrieg " colonization of the americas by which clovis hunters migrated into north america around 13, 000 years ago in a single wave through an ice - free corridor in the ice sheet and " spread southward explosively, briefly attaining a density sufficiently large to overkill much of their prey. " others later proposed a " three - wave " migration over the bering land bridge. these hypotheses remained the long - held view regarding the settlement of the americas, a view challenged by more recent archaeological discoveries : the oldest archaeological sites in the americas have been found in south america ; sites in north - east siberia report virtually no human presence there during the lgm ; and most clovis artefacts have been found in eastern north america along the atlantic