acrophony ; it is present in some modern scripts, such as greek, and many semitic scripts, such as arabic, hebrew, and syriac. it was used in some ancient alphabets, such as in phoenician. however, this system is not present in all languages, such as the latin alphabet, which adds a vowel after a character for each letter. some systems also used to have this system but later on abandoned it for a system similar to latin, such as cyrillic. etymology the english word alphabet came into middle english from the late latin word, which in turn originated in the greek, αλφαβητος ( alphabetos ) ; it was made from the first two letters of the greek alphabet, alpha ( α ) and beta ( β ). the names for the greek letters, in turn, came from the first two letters of the phoenician alphabet : aleph, the word for ox, and bet, the word for house. history ancient near eastern alphabets the ancient egyptian writing system had a set of some 24 hieroglyphs that are called uniliterals, which are glyphs that provide one sound. these glyphs were used as pronunciation guides for logograms, to write grammatical inflections, and, later, to transcribe loan words and foreign names. the script was used a fair amount in the 4th century ce. however, after pagan temples were closed down, it was forgotten in the 5th century until the discovery of the rosetta stone. there was also the cuneiform script. the script was used to write several ancient languages. however, it was primarily used to write sumerian. the last known use of the cuneiform script was in 75 ce, after which the script fell out of use. in the middle bronze age, an apparently " alphabetic " system known as the proto - sinaitic script appeared in egyptian turquoise mines in the sinai peninsula dated 15th century bce, apparently left by canaanite workers. in 1999, john and deborah darnell, american egyptologists, discovered an earlier version of this first alphabet at the wadi el - hol valley in egypt. the script dated to 1800 bce and shows evidence of having been adapted from specific forms of egyptian hieroglyphs that could be dated to 2000 bce, strongly suggesting that the first alphabet had developed about that time. the script was based on letter appearances and names, believed to be based on egyptian hieroglyphs. this script had no characters representing vowels. originally,