##sustainable expansion of bank credit and impeding any subsequent contraction and argued for a gold standard to constrain growth in fiduciary media. friedrich hayek took a different perspective not focusing on gold but focusing on regulation of the banking sector via strong central banking. criticism general mainstream economists generally reject modern - day austrian economics, and argue that modern - day austrian economists are excessively averse to the use of mathematics and statistics in economics. austrian opposition to mathematization extends to economic theorizing only, as they argue that human behavior is too variable for overarching mathematical models to hold true across time and context. austrians do, however, support analyzing revealed preference via mathematization to aid business and finance. economist paul krugman has stated that austrians are unaware of holes in their own thinking because they do not use " explicit models ". economist benjamin klein has criticized the economic methodological work of austrian economist israel m. kirzner. while praising kirzner for highlighting shortcomings in traditional methodology, klein argued that kirzner did not provide a viable alternative for economic methodology. economist tyler cowen has written that kirzner ' s theory of entrepreneurship can ultimately be reduced to a neoclassical search model and is thus not in the radical subjectivist tradition of austrian praxeology. cowen states that kirzner ' s entrepreneurs can be modeled in mainstream terms of search. economist jeffrey sachs argues that among developed countries, those with high rates of taxation and high social welfare spending perform better on most measures of economic performance compared to countries with low rates of taxation and low social outlays. he concludes that friedrich hayek was wrong to argue that high levels of government spending harms an economy and " a generous social - welfare state is not a road to serfdom but rather to fairness, economic equality and international competitiveness ". economist bryan caplan has noted that mises has been criticized for overstating the strength of his case in describing socialism as " impossible " rather than as something that would need to establish non - market institutions to deal with the inefficiency. methodology critics generally argue that austrian economics lacks scientific rigor and rejects scientific methods and the use of empirical data in modelling economic behavior. some economists describe austrian methodology as being a priori or non - empirical. economist mark blaug has criticized over - reliance on methodological individualism, arguing it would rule out all macroeconomic propositions that cannot be reduced to microeconomic ones, and hence reject almost the whole of received macro