volumes are still in the process of being compiled. the foundation remains one of the largest grant - giving organizations for the visual arts in the us. many of warhol ' s works and possessions are on display at the andy warhol museum in pittsburgh. the foundation donated more than 3, 000 works of art to the museum. revelation in brooklyn from november 19, 2021 – june 19, 2022, the brooklyn museum displayed the andy warhol : revelation exhibition. revelation examines themes such as life and death, power and desire, the role and representation of women, renaissance imagery, family and immigrant traditions and rituals, depictions and duplications of christ, and the catholic body and queer desire. among the more than one hundred objects on view were rare source materials and newly discovered items that provide a fresh and intimate look at warhol ' s creative process, as well as major paintings from his epic last supper series ( 1986 ), the experimental film the chelsea girls ( 1966 ), an unfinished film depicting the setting sun commissioned by the de menil family and funded by the roman catholic church, and drawings created by warhol ' s mother, julia warhola, when she lived with her son in new york city. in pop culture warhol founded interview magazine, a stage for celebrities he " endorsed " and a business staffed by his friends. he collaborated with others on all of his books ( some of which were written with pat hackett. ) one might even say that he produced people ( as in the warholian " superstar " and the warholian portrait ). warhol endorsed products, appeared in commercials, and made frequent celebrity guest appearances on television shows and in films ( he appeared in everything from love boat to saturday night live and the richard pryor movie dynamite chicken ). in this respect warhol was a fan of " art business " and " business art " — he, in fact, wrote about his interest in thinking about art as business in the philosophy of andy warhol from a to b and back again. films warhol appeared as himself in the film cocaine cowboys ( 1979 ) and in the film tootsie ( 1982 ). after his death, warhol was portrayed by crispin glover in oliver stone ' s film the doors ( 1991 ), by jared harris in mary harron ' s film i shot andy warhol ( 1996 ), and by david bowie in julian schnabel ' s film basquiat ( 1996 ). bowie recalled how meeting warhol in real life helped him in the role, and recounted