glorify the gods and in the same meters that he used for his ' secular ' lyrics. there are for example fragments in ' sapphic ' meter praising the dioscuri, hermes and the river hebrus ( a river significant in lesbian mythology since it was down its waters that the head of orpheus was believed to have floated singing, eventually crossing the sea to lesbos and ending up in a temple of apollo, as a symbol of lesbian supremacy in song ). according to porphyrion, the hymn to hermes was imitated by horace in one of his own ' sapphic ' odes ( c. 1. 10 : mercuri, facunde nepos atlantis ). love songs : almost all alcaeus ' amorous verses, mentioned with disapproval by quintilian above, have vanished without trace. there is a brief reference to his love poetry in a passage by cicero. horace, who often wrote in imitation of alcaeus, sketches in verse one of the lesbian poet ' s favourite subjects – lycus of the black hair and eyes ( c. 1. 32. 11 – 12 : nigris oculis nigroque / crine decorum ). it is possible that alcaeus wrote amorously about sappho, as indicated in an earlier quote. miscellaneous : alcaeus wrote on such a wide variety of subjects and themes that contradictions in his character emerge. the grammarian athenaeus quoted some verses about perfumed ointments to prove just how unwarlike alcaeus could be and he quoted his description of the armour adorning the walls of his house as proof that he could be unusually warlike for a lyric poet. other examples of his readiness for both warlike and unwarlike subjects are lyrics celebrating his brother ' s heroic exploits as a babylonian mercenary and lyrics sung in a rare meter ( sapphic ionic in minore ) in the voice of a distressed girl, " wretched me, who share in all ills! " – possibly imitated by horace in an ode in the same meter ( c. 3. 12 : miserarum est neque amori dare ludum neque dulci ). he also wrote sapphic stanzas on homeric themes but in un - homeric style, comparing helen of troy unfavourably with thetis, the mother of achilles. a drinking poem ( fr. 346 ) the following verses demonstrate some key characteristics of the alcaic style ( square brackets