now held in the british museum. mythology birth she was the daughter of zeus, produced without a mother, and emerged full - grown from his forehead. there was an alternate story that zeus swallowed metis, the goddess of counsel, while she was pregnant with athena and when she was fully grown she emerged from zeus ' forehead. being the favorite child of zeus, she had great power. in the classical olympian pantheon, athena was regarded as the favorite child of zeus, born fully armed from his forehead. the story of her birth comes in several versions. the earliest mention is in book v of the iliad, when ares accuses zeus of being biased in favor of athena because " autos egeinao " ( literally " you fathered her ", but probably intended as " you gave birth to her " ). she was essentially urban and civilized, the antithesis in many respects of artemis, goddess of the outdoors. athena was probably a pre - hellenic goddess and was later taken over by the greeks. in the version recounted by hesiod in his theogony, zeus married the goddess metis, who is described as the " wisest among gods and mortal men ", and engaged in sexual intercourse with her. after learning that metis was pregnant, however, he became afraid that the unborn offspring would try to overthrow him, because gaia and ouranos had prophesied that metis would bear children wiser than their father. in order to prevent this, zeus tricked metis into letting him swallow her, but it was too late because metis had already conceived. a later account of the story from the bibliotheca of pseudo - apollodorus, written in the second century ad, makes metis zeus ' s unwilling sexual partner, rather than his wife. according to this version of the story, metis transformed into many different shapes in effort to escape zeus, but zeus successfully raped her and swallowed her. after swallowing metis, zeus took six more wives in succession until he married his seventh and present wife, hera. then zeus experienced an enormous headache. he was in such pain that he ordered someone ( either prometheus, hephaestus, hermes, ares, or palaemon, depending on the sources examined ) to cleave his head open with the labrys, the double - headed minoan axe. athena leaped from zeus ' s head, fully grown and armed. the " first homeric hymn to athena " states in lines 9 – 16 that the gods were awestruck by athena ' s appearance