the abundance of these salts, the potential for a biological role for them is of interest, and studies continue. physical characteristics isotopes of aluminium isotopes, only is stable. this situation is common for elements with an odd atomic number. it is the only primordial aluminium isotope, i. e. the only one that has existed on earth in its current form since the formation of the planet. it is therefore a mononuclidic element and its standard atomic weight is virtually the same as that of the isotope. this makes aluminium very useful in nuclear magnetic resonance ( nmr ), as its single stable isotope has a high nmr sensitivity. the standard atomic weight of aluminium is low in comparison with many other metals. all other isotopes of aluminium are radioactive. the most stable of these is 26al : while it was present along with stable 27al in the interstellar medium from which the solar system formed, having been produced by stellar nucleosynthesis as well, its half - life is only 717, 000 years and therefore a detectable amount has not survived since the formation of the planet. however, minute traces of 26al are produced from argon in the atmosphere by spallation caused by cosmic ray protons. the ratio of 26al to 10be has been used for radiodating of geological processes over 105 to 106 year time scales, in particular transport, deposition, sediment storage, burial times, and erosion. most meteorite scientists believe that the energy released by the decay of 26al was responsible for the melting and differentiation of some asteroids after their formation 4. 55 billion years ago. the remaining isotopes of aluminium, with mass numbers ranging from 22 to 43, all have half - lives well under an hour. three metastable states are known, all with half - lives under a minute. electron shell an aluminium atom has 13 electrons, arranged in an electron configuration of, with three electrons beyond a stable noble gas configuration. accordingly, the combined first three ionization energies of aluminium are far lower than the fourth ionization energy alone. such an electron configuration is shared with the other well - characterized members of its group, boron, gallium, indium, and thallium ; it is also expected for nihonium. aluminium can surrender its three outermost electrons in many chemical reactions ( see below ). the electronegativity of aluminium is 1. 61 ( pauling scale ). a free aluminium atom has a radius of 143 pm. with the three outermost electrons removed, the radius shrink