billion. energy revenues totalled $ 111. 7 billion and energy resource exports totalled $ 90. 8 billion. farm cash receipts from agricultural products totalled $ 12. 9 billion. shipments of forest products totalled $ 5. 4 billion while exports were $ 2. 7 billion. manufacturing sales totalled $ 79. 4 billion, and alberta ' s information and communications technology ( ict ) industries generated over $ 13 billion in revenue. in total, alberta ' s 2014 gdp amassed $ 364. 5 billion in 2007 dollars, or $ 414. 3 billion in 2015 dollars. in 2015, alberta ' s gdp grew unstably despite low oil prices, with growth rates as high 4. 4 % and as low as 0. 2 %. agriculture and forestry agriculture has a significant position in the province ' s economy. the province has over three million head of cattle, and alberta beef has a healthy worldwide market. nearly one half of all canadian beef is produced in alberta. alberta is one of the top producers of plains buffalo ( bison ) for the consumer market. sheep for wool and mutton are also raised. wheat and canola are primary farm crops, with alberta leading the provinces in spring wheat production ; other grains are also prominent. much of the farming is dryland farming, often with fallow seasons interspersed with cultivation. continuous cropping ( in which there is no fallow season ) is gradually becoming a more common mode of production because of increased profits and a reduction of soil erosion. across the province, the once common grain elevator is slowly being lost as rail lines are decreasing ; farmers typically truck the grain to central points. alberta is the leading beekeeping province of canada, with some beekeepers wintering hives indoors in specially designed barns in southern alberta, then migrating north during the summer into the peace river valley where the season is short but the working days are long for honeybees to produce honey from clover and fireweed. hybrid canola also requires bee pollination, and some beekeepers service this need. forestry plays a vital role in alberta ' s economy, providing over 15, 000 jobs and contributing billions of dollars annually. uses for harvested timber include pulpwood, hardwood, engineered wood and bioproducts such as chemicals and biofuels. industry alberta is the largest producer of conventional crude oil, synthetic crude, natural gas and gas products in canada. alberta is the world ' s second - largest exporter of natural gas and the fourth - largest producer. two of the largest producers of petrochemicals in north