as magan ( oman ) — a region over which he reigned for purportedly 56 years, though only four " year - names " survive. he consolidated his dominion over his territories by replacing the earlier opposing rulers with noble citizens of akkad, his native city where loyalty would thus be ensured. trade extended from the silver mines of anatolia to the lapis lazuli mines in modern afghanistan, the cedars of lebanon and the copper of magan. this consolidation of the city - states of sumer and akkad reflected the growing economic and political power of mesopotamia. the empire ' s breadbasket was the rain - fed agricultural system and a chain of fortresses was built to control the imperial wheat production. images of sargon were erected on the shores of the mediterranean, in token of his victories, and cities and palaces were built at home with the spoils of the conquered lands. elam and the northern part of mesopotamia were also subjugated, and rebellions in sumer were put down. contract tablets have been found dated in the years of the campaigns against canaan and against sarlak, king of gutium. he also boasted of having subjugated the " four - quarters " — the lands surrounding akkad to the north, the south ( sumer ), the east ( elam ), and the west ( martu ). some of the earliest historiographic texts ( abc 19, 20 ) suggest he rebuilt the city of babylon ( bab - ilu ) in its new location near akkad. sargon, throughout his long life, showed special deference to the sumerian deities, particularly inanna ( ishtar ), his patroness, and zababa, the warrior god of kish. he called himself " the anointed priest of anu " and " the great ensi of enlil " and his daughter, enheduanna, was installed as priestess to nanna at the temple in ur. troubles multiplied toward the end of his reign. a later babylonian text states : it refers to his campaign in " elam ", where he defeated a coalition army led by the king of awan and forced the vanquished to become his vassals. also shortly after, another revolt took place : rimush and manishtushu sargon had crushed opposition even at old age. these difficulties broke out again in the reign of his sons, where revolts broke out during the nine - year reign of rimush ( 2278 – 2270 bc