zero. lord kelvin ' s work after james prescott joule had determined the mechanical equivalent of heat, lord kelvin approached the question from an entirely different point of view, and in 1848 devised a scale of absolute temperature that was independent of the properties of any particular substance and was based on carnot ' s theory of the motive power of heat and data published by henri victor regnault. it followed from the principles on which this scale was constructed that its zero was placed at −273 °c, at almost precisely the same point as the zero of the air thermometer, where the air volume would reach " nothing ". this value was not immediately accepted ; values ranging from to, derived from laboratory measurements and observations of astronomical refraction, remained in use in the early 20th century. the race to absolute zero with a better theoretical understanding of absolute zero, scientists were eager to reach this temperature in the lab. by 1845, michael faraday had managed to liquefy most gases then known to exist, and reached a new record for lowest temperatures by reaching. faraday believed that certain gases, such as oxygen, nitrogen, and hydrogen, were permanent gases and could not be liquefied. decades later, in 1873 dutch theoretical scientist johannes diderik van der waals demonstrated that these gases could be liquefied, but only under conditions of very high pressure and very low temperatures. in 1877, louis paul cailletet in france and raoul pictet in switzerland succeeded in producing the first droplets of liquid air. this was followed in 1883 by the production of liquid oxygen by the polish professors zygmunt wroblewski and karol olszewski. scottish chemist and physicist james dewar and dutch physicist heike kamerlingh onnes took on the challenge to liquefy the remaining gases, hydrogen and helium. in 1898, after 20 years of effort, dewar was the first to liquefy hydrogen, reaching a new low - temperature record of. however, kamerlingh onnes, his rival, was the first to liquefy helium, in 1908, using several precooling stages and the hampson – linde cycle. he lowered the temperature to the boiling point of helium. by reducing the pressure of the liquid helium, he achieved an even lower temperature, near 1. 5 k. these were the coldest temperatures achieved on earth at the time and his achievement earned him the nobel prize in 1913. kamerlingh onnes would continue to study the properties of materials at temperatures near absolute zero,