19th - century theatre. also of note are two remaining city gates, the ponttor ( pont gate ), northwest of the cathedral, and the marschiertor ( marching gate ), close to the central railway station. there are also a few parts of both medieval city walls left, most of them integrated into more recent buildings, but some others still visible. there are even five towers left, some of which are used for housing. st. michael ' s church, aachen was built as a church of the aachen jesuit collegium in 1628. it is attributed to the rhine mannerism, and a sample of a local renaissance architecture. the rich facade remained unfinished until 1891, when the architect peter friedrich peters added to it. the church is a greek orthodox church today, but the building is used also for concerts because of its good acoustics. the synagogue in aachen, which was destroyed on the night of broken glass ( kristallnacht ), 9 november 1938, was reinaugurated on 18 may 1995. one of the contributors to the reconstructions of the synagogue was jurgen linden, the lord mayor of aachen from 1989 to 2009. there are numerous other notable churches and monasteries, a few remarkable 17th - and 18th - century buildings in the particular baroque style typical of the region, a synagogue, a collection of statues and monuments, park areas, cemeteries, among others. among the museums in the town are the suermondt - ludwig museum, which has a fine sculpture collection and the aachen museum of the international press, which is dedicated to newspapers from the 16th century to the present. the area ' s industrial history is reflected in dozens of 19th - and early 20th - century manufacturing sites in the city. economy aachen is the administrative centre for the coal - mining industries in neighbouring places to the northeast. products manufactured in aachen include electrical goods, fine woolen textiles, foodstuffs ( chocolate and candy ), glass, machinery, rubber products, furniture, metal products. also in and around aachen chemicals, plastics, cosmetics, and needles and pins are produced. though once a major player in aachen ' s economy, today glassware and textile production make up only 10 % of total manufacturing jobs in the city. there have been a number of spin - offs from the university ' s it technology department. electric vehicle manufacturing in june 2010, achim kampker, together with gunther schuh, founded a small company to develop electric powered light utility vehicles ; in august 2014, it was renamed streetscooter gmbh. this