emerging assistive technology. patent filings related to conventional assistive technology have also declined in europe, especially in germany, france, the netherlands and norway. patenting activity indicates the amount of interest and the investment made in respect to an invention ' s applicability and its commercialization potential. there is typically a lag between filing a patent application and commercialization, with a product being classified in various stages of readiness levels, research concept, proof of concept, minimum viable product and finally commercial product. according to the 2021 wipo report, the emerging technologies closest to a fully commercial product were for example : myoelectric control of advanced prosthetics and wheelchair control ( mobility ), environment - controlling hearing aids ( hearing ), multifocal intraocular lenses and artificial retina, along with virtual and augmented reality wearables ( vision ) ; smart assistants and navigation aids ( communication ) ; smart home appliances ( environment ) ; medication management and smart diapers ( self - care ). the technology readiness level and the related patenting activity can also be explained through the following factors which contribute to a product ' s entry to market, such as the expected impact on a person ' s participation in different aspects of life, the ease of adoption ( need for training, fitting, additional equipment for interoperability, and so on ), the societal acceptance and potential ethical concerns, and the need for regulatory approval. this is mainly the case for assistive technology that qualifies as medical technology. among these aspects, acceptability and ethical considerations are particularly relevant to those technologies that are extremely invasive ( such as cortical or auditory brainstem implants ), or replace the human caregiver and human interaction, or collect and use data on cloud - based services or interconnected devices ( e. g., companion robots, smart nursing and health - monitoring technologies ), raising privacy issues and requiring connectivity, or raise safety concerns, such as autonomous wheelchairs. beyond the patent landscape, industrial designs have an added importance for the field of assistive technology. assistive technology is often not adopted, or else abandoned entirely, because of issues to do with design ( lack of appeal ) or comfort ( poor ergonomics ). design often plays a role after the patenting activity, as a product needs to be re - designed for mass production. impacts overall, assistive technology aims to allow disabled people to " participate more fully in all aspects of life ( home, school, and community ) " and increases their opportunities for " education,