what has been called the " golden age " of detective fiction. author dilys winn called christie " the doyenne of coziness ", a sub - genre which " featured a small village setting, a hero with faintly aristocratic family connections, a plethora of red herrings and a tendency to commit homicide with sterling silver letter openers and poisons imported from paraguay ". at the end, in a christie hallmark, the detective usually gathers the surviving suspects into one room, explains the course of their deductive reasoning, and reveals the guilty party ; but there are exceptions where it is left to the guilty party to explain all ( such as and then there were none and endless night ). christie did not limit herself to quaint english villagesthe action might take place on a small island ( and then there were none ), an aeroplane ( death in the clouds ), a train ( murder on the orient express ), a steamship ( death on the nile ), a smart london flat ( cards on the table ), a resort in the west indies ( a caribbean mystery ), or an archaeological dig ( murder in mesopotamia ) but the circle of potential suspects is usually closed and intimate : family members, friends, servants, business associates, fellow travellers. stereotyped characters abound ( the, the stolid policeman, the devoted servant, the dull colonel ), but these may be subverted to stymie the reader ; impersonations and secret alliances are always possible. there is always a motivemost often, money : " there are very few killers in christie who enjoy murder for its own sake. " professor of pharmacology michael c. gerald noted that " in over half her novels, one or more victims are poisoned, albeit not always to the full satisfaction of the perpetrator. " guns, knives, garrottes, tripwires, blunt instruments, and even a hatchet were also used, but " christie never resorted to elaborate mechanical or scientific means to explain her ingenuity, " according to john curran, author and literary adviser to the christie estate. many of her clues are mundane objects : a calendar, a coffee cup, wax flowers, a beer bottle, a fireplace used during a heat wave. according to crime writer p. d. james, christie was prone to making the unlikeliest character the guilty party. alert readers could sometimes identify the culprit by identifying the least likely suspect. christie mocked this insight in her foreword to cards on the table : " spot the