aquarius is an equatorial constellation of the zodiac, between capricornus and pisces. its name is latin for " water - carrier " or " cup - carrier ", and its old astronomical symbol is ( ), a representation of water. aquarius is one of the oldest of the recognized constellations along the zodiac ( the sun ' s apparent path ). it was one of the 48 constellations listed by the 2nd century astronomer ptolemy, and it remains one of the 88 modern constellations. it is found in a region often called the sea due to its profusion of constellations with watery associations such as cetus the whale, pisces the fish, and eridanus the river. at apparent magnitude 2. 9, beta aquarii is the brightest star in the constellation. history and mythology aquarius is identified as " the great one " in the babylonian star catalogues and represents the god ea himself, who is commonly depicted holding an overflowing vase. the babylonian star - figure appears on entitlement stones and cylinder seals from the second millennium. it contained the winter solstice in the early bronze age. in old babylonian astronomy, ea was the ruler of the southernmost quarter of the sun ' s path, the " way of ea ", corresponding to the period of 45 days on either side of winter solstice. aquarius was also associated with the destructive floods that the babylonians regularly experienced, and thus was negatively connoted. in ancient egypt astronomy, aquarius was associated with the annual flood of the nile ; the banks were said to flood when aquarius put his jar into the river, beginning spring. in the greek tradition, the constellation came to be represented simply as a single vase from which a stream poured down to piscis austrinus. the name in the hindu zodiac is likewise kumbha " water - pitcher ". in greek mythology, aquarius is sometimes associated with deucalion, the son of prometheus who built a ship with his wife pyrrha to survive an imminent flood. they sailed for nine days before washing ashore on mount parnassus. aquarius is also sometimes identified with beautiful ganymede, a youth in greek mythology and the son of trojan king tros, who was taken to mount olympus by zeus to act as cup - carrier to the gods. neighboring aquila represents the eagle, under zeus ' command, that snatched the young boy ; some versions of the myth indicate that the eagle was in fact zeus transformed. an