, two subfamilies were recognised : asteroideae ( or tubuliflorae ) and cichorioideae ( or liguliflorae ). the latter has been shown to be extensively paraphyletic, and has now been divided into 12 subfamilies, but the former still stands. the study of this family is known as synantherology. phylogeny the phylogenetic tree of subfamilies presented below is based on panero & funk ( 2002 ) updated in 2014, and now also includes the monotypic famatinanthoideae. the diamond ( ♦ ) denotes a very poorly supported node ( < 50 % bootstrap support ), the dot ( • ) a poorly supported node ( < 80 % ). the family includes over 32, 000 currently accepted species, in over 1, 900 genera ( list ) in 13 subfamilies. the number of species in the family asteraceae is rivaled only by orchidaceae. which is the larger family is unclear, because of the uncertainty about how many extant species each family includes. the four subfamilies asteroideae, cichorioideae, carduoideae and mutisioideae contain 99 % of the species diversity of the whole family ( approximately 70 %, 14 %, 11 % and 3 % respectively ). because of the morphological complexity exhibited by this family, agreeing on generic circumscriptions has often been difficult for taxonomists. as a result, several of these genera have required multiple revisions. paleontology and evolutionary processes the oldest known fossils of members of asteraceae are pollen grains from the late cretaceous of antarctica, dated to ~ 76 – 66 mya ( campanian to maastrichtian ) and assigned to the extant genus dasyphyllum. barreda, et al. ( 2015 ) estimated that the crown group of asteraceae evolved at least 85. 9 mya ( late cretaceous, santonian ) with a stem node age of 88 – 89 mya ( late cretaceous, coniacian ). it is not known whether the precise cause of their great success was the development of the highly specialised capitulum, their ability to store energy as fructans ( mainly inulin ), which is an advantage in relatively dry zones, or some combination of these and possibly other factors. heterocarpy, or the ability to produce different fruit morphs, has evolved and is common in asteraceae. it allows seeds to be dispersed