, as a rule, were laymen, nor at the outset was the abbot any exception. for the reception of the sacraments, and for other religious offices, the abbot and his monks were commanded to attend the nearest church. this rule proved inconvenient when a monastery was situated in a desert or at a distance from a city, and necessity compelled the ordination of some monks. this innovation was not introduced without a struggle, ecclesiastical dignity being regarded as inconsistent with the higher spiritual life, but, before the close of the 5th century, at least in the east, abbots seem almost universally to have become deacons, if not priests. the change spread more slowly in the west, where the office of abbot was commonly filled by laymen till the end of the 7th century. the ecclesiastical leadership exercised by abbots despite their frequent lay status is proved by their attendance and votes at ecclesiastical councils. thus at the first council of constantinople, ad 448, 23 archimandrites or abbots sign, with 30 bishops. the second council of nicaea, ad 787, recognized the right of abbots to ordain their monks to the inferior orders below the diaconate, a power usually reserved to bishops. abbots used to be subject to episcopal jurisdiction, and continued generally so, in fact, in the west till the 11th century. the code of justinian ( lib. i. tit. iii. de ep. leg. xl. ) expressly subordinates the abbot to episcopal oversight. the first case recorded of the partial exemption of an abbot from episcopal control is that of faustus, abbot of lerins, at the council of arles, ad 456 ; but the exorbitant claims and exactions of bishops, to which this repugnance to episcopal control is to be traced, far more than to the arrogance of abbots, rendered it increasingly frequent, and, in the 6th century, the practice of exempting religious houses partly or altogether from episcopal control, and making them responsible to the pope alone, received an impulse from pope gregory the great. these exceptions, introduced with a good object, had grown into a widespread evil by the 12th century, virtually creating an imperium in imperio, and depriving the bishop of all authority over the chief centres of influence in his diocese. later middle ages in the 12th century, the abbots of fulda claimed precedence of the archbishop of cologne. abbots more and more assumed almost episcopal state, and in defiance of