" i suppose it was a matter of carelessness. " cary grant, janet leigh and others attended a luncheon afterwards. his last public appearance was on 16 march 1980, when he introduced the next year ' s winner of the american film institute award. he died of kidney failure the following month, on 29 april, in his bel air home. donald spoto, one of hitchcock ' s biographers, wrote that hitchcock had declined to see a priest, but according to jesuit priest mark henninger, he and another priest, tom sullivan, celebrated mass at the filmmaker ' s home, and sullivan heard his confession. hitchcock was survived by his wife and daughter. his funeral was held at good shepherd catholic church in beverly hills on 30 april, after which his body was cremated. his remains were scattered over the pacific ocean on 10 may 1980. filmmaking style and themes the " hitchcockian " style includes the use of editing and camera movement to mimic a person ' s gaze, thereby turning viewers into voyeurs, and framing shots to maximise anxiety and fear. the film critic robin wood wrote that the meaning of a hitchcock film " is there in the method, in the progression from shot to shot. a hitchcock film is an organism, with the whole implied in every detail and every detail related to the whole. " hitchcock ' s film production career evolved from small - scale silent films to financially significant sound films. hitchcock remarked that he was influenced by early filmmakers george melies, d. w. griffith and alice guy - blache. his silent films between 1925 and 1929 were in the crime and suspense genres, but also included melodramas and comedies. whilst visual storytelling was pertinent during the silent era, even after the arrival of sound, hitchcock still relied on visuals in cinema ; he referred to this emphasis on visual storytelling as " pure cinema ". in britain, he honed his craft so that by the time he moved to hollywood, the director had perfected his style and camera techniques. hitchcock later said that his british work was the " sensation of cinema ", whereas the american phase was when his " ideas were fertilised ". scholar robin wood writes that the director ' s first two films, the pleasure garden and the mountain eagle, were influenced by german expressionism. afterward, he discovered soviet cinema, and sergei eisenstein ' s and vsevolod pudovkin ' s theories of montage. 1926 ' s the lodger was inspired by both german and soviet aesthetics, styles which solid