festival in macedonia, the second american poet to be so awarded since w. h. auden. at struga, ginsberg met with the other golden wreath winners, bulat okudzhava and andrei voznesensky. in 1989, ginsberg appeared in rosa von praunheim ' s award - winning film silence = death about the fight of gay artists in new york city for aids - education and the rights of hiv infected people. in 1993, the french minister of culture appointed ginsberg a chevalier des arts et des lettres. ginsberg continued to help his friends as much as he could : he gave money to herbert huncke out of his own pocket, regularly supplied neighbor arthur russell with an extension cord to power his home recording setup, and housed a broke, drug - addicted harry smith. with the exception of a special guest appearance at the nyu poetry slam on february 20, 1997, ginsberg gave what is thought to be his last reading at the booksmith in san francisco on december 16, 1996. after returning home from the hospital for the last time, where he had been unsuccessfully treated for congestive heart failure, ginsberg continued making phone calls to say goodbye to nearly everyone in his address book. some of the phone calls were sad and interrupted by crying, and others were joyous and optimistic. ginsberg continued to write through his final illness, with his last poem, " things i ' ll not do ( nostalgias ) ", written on march 30. he died on april 5, 1997, surrounded by family and friends in his east village loft in manhattan, succumbing to liver cancer via complications of hepatitis at the age of 70. gregory corso, roy lichtenstein, patti smith and others came by to pay their respects. he was cremated, and his ashes were buried in his family plot in gomel chesed cemetery in newark. he was survived by orlovsky. in 1998, various writers, including catfish mcdaris read at a gathering at ginsberg ' s farm to honor allen and the beats. good will hunting ( released in december 1997 ) was dedicated to ginsberg, as well as burroughs, who died four months later. social and political activism free speech ginsberg ' s willingness to talk about taboo subjects made him a controversial figure during the conservative 1950s, and a significant figure in the 1960s. in the mid - 1950s, no reputable publishing company would even consider publishing howl. at the time, such " sex talk " employed in howl was considered by some