annotated using < abbr title = " meaning of the abbreviation. " > abbreviation < / abbr > to reveal its meaning by hovering the cursor. style conventions in english in modern english, there are several conventions for abbreviations, and the choice may be confusing. the only rule universally accepted is that one should be consistent, and to make this easier, publishers express their preferences in a style guide. some questions which arise are shown below. lowercase letters if the original word was capitalized then the first letter of its abbreviation should retain the capital, for example lev. for leviticus. when a word is abbreviated to more than a single letter and was originally spelled with lower case letters then there is no need for capitalization. however, when abbreviating a phrase where only the first letter of each word is taken, then all letters should be capitalized, as in ytd for year - to - date, pcb for printed circuit board and fyi for for your information. however, see the following section regarding abbreviations that have become common vocabulary : these are no longer written with capital letters. periods ( full stops ) and spaces a period ( full stop ) is often used to signify an abbreviation, but opinion is divided as to when and if this should happen. according to hart ' s rules, the traditional rule is that abbreviations ( in the narrow sense that includes only words with the ending, and not the middle, dropped ) terminate with a full stop, whereas contractions ( in the sense of words missing a middle part ) do not, but there are exceptions. fowler ' s modern english usage says full stops are used to mark both abbreviations and contractions, but recommends against this practice : advising them only for abbreviations and lower - case initialisms and not for upper - case initialisms and contractions. some british style guides, such as those for the guardian and the economist, require that full stops be entirely omitted from all abbreviations. in american english, the period is usually included regardless of whether or not it is a contraction, e. g. dr. or mrs.. in some cases, periods are optional, as in either us or u. s. for united states, eu or e. u. for european union, and un or u. n. for united nations. there are some house styles, however — american ones included — that remove the periods from almost all abbreviations. for example : the u. s. manual on uniform traffic control devices advises that periods