divisions of the supreme courts of each state and territory and the federal court are the final courts of appeal. new zealand the court of appeal of new zealand, located in wellington, is new zealand ' s principal intermediate appellate court. in practice, most appeals are resolved at this intermediate appellate level, rather than in the supreme court. philippines the court of appeals of the philippines is the principal intermediate appellate court of that country. the court of appeals is primarily found in manila, with three divisions each in cebu city and cagayan de oro. other appellate courts include the sandiganbayan for cases involving graft and corruption, and the court of tax appeals for cases involving tax. appeals from all three appellate courts are to the supreme court. sri lanka the court of appeal of sri lanka, located in colombo, is the second senior court in the sri lankan legal system. united kingdom united states in the united states, both state and federal appellate courts are usually restricted to examining whether the lower court made the correct legal determinations, rather than hearing direct evidence and determining what the facts of the case were. furthermore, u. s. appellate courts are usually restricted to hearing appeals based on matters that were originally brought up before the trial court. hence, such an appellate court will not consider an appellant ' s argument if it is based on a theory that is raised for the first time in the appeal. in most u. s. states, and in u. s. federal courts, parties before the court are allowed one appeal as of right. this means that a party who is unsatisfied with the outcome of a trial may bring an appeal to contest that outcome. however, appeals may be costly, and the appellate court must find an error on the part of the court below that justifies upsetting the verdict. therefore, only a small proportion of trial court decisions result in appeals. some appellate courts, particularly supreme courts, have the power of discretionary review, meaning that they can decide whether they will hear an appeal brought in a particular case. institutional titles many u. s. jurisdictions title their appellate court a court of appeal or court of appeals. both terms are used in the united states, but the plural form is more common in american english, while in contrast, british english uses only the singular form. the correct form is whichever is the statutorily prescribed or customary form for a particular court and particular jurisdiction ; in other words, one should never write " court of appeal " when the court at issue clearly prefers to be called a " court