in 1862, the british government considered mediating between the union and confederacy, though even such an offer would have risked war with the united states. british prime minister lord palmerston reportedly read uncle tom ' s cabin three times when deciding on what his decision would be. the union victory in the battle of antietam caused the british to delay this decision. the emancipation proclamation over time would reinforce the political liability of supporting the confederacy. realizing that washington could not intervene in mexico as long as the confederacy controlled texas, france invaded mexico in 1861. washington repeatedly protested france ' s violation of the monroe doctrine. despite sympathy for the confederacy, france ' s seizure of mexico ultimately deterred it from war with the union. confederate offers late in the war to end slavery in return for diplomatic recognition were not seriously considered by london or paris. after 1863, the polish revolt against russia further distracted the european powers and ensured that they would remain neutral. russia supported the union, largely because it believed that the u. s. served as a counterbalance to its geopolitical rival, the united kingdom. in 1863, the russian navy ' s baltic and pacific fleets wintered in the american ports of new york and san francisco, respectively. eastern theater the eastern theater refers to the military operations east of the appalachian mountains, including the states of virginia, west virginia, maryland, and pennsylvania, the district of columbia, and the coastal fortifications and seaports of north carolina. background army of the potomac maj. gen. george b. mcclellan took command of the union army of the potomac on july 26, 1861 ( he was briefly general - in - chief of all the union armies but was subsequently relieved of that post in favor of maj. gen. henry w. halleck ), and the war began in earnest in 1862. the 1862 union strategy called for simultaneous advances along four axes : mcclellan would lead the main thrust in virginia towards richmond. ohio forces would advance through kentucky into tennessee. the missouri department would drive south along the mississippi river. the westernmost attack would originate from kansas. army of northern virginia the primary confederate force in the eastern theater was the army of northern virginia. the army originated as the ( confederate ) army of the potomac, which was organized on june 20, 1861, from all operational forces in northern virginia. on july 20 and 21, the army of the shenandoah and forces from the district of harpers ferry were added. units from the army of the northwest were merged into the army of the potomac between march 14 and may 17, 1862