latter - day saints joseph f. smith of the church of jesus christ of latter - day saints presents an elaborate vision of the afterlife. it is revealed as the scene of an extensive missionary effort by righteous spirits in paradise to redeem those still in darkness — a spirit prison or " hell " where the spirits of the dead remain until judgment. it is divided into two parts : spirit prison and paradise. together these are also known as the spirit world ( also abraham ' s bosom ; see luke 16 : 19 – 25 ). they believe that christ visited spirit prison ( 1 peter 3 : 18 – 20 ) and opened the gate for those who repent to cross over to paradise. this is similar to the harrowing of hell doctrine of some mainstream christian faiths. both spirit prison and paradise are temporary according to latter - day saint beliefs. after the resurrection, spirits are assigned " permanently " to three degrees of heavenly glory, determined by how they lived – celestial, terrestrial, and telestial. ( 1 cor 15 : 44 – 42 ; doctrine and covenants, section 76 ) sons of perdition, or those who have known and seen god and deny it, will be sent to the realm of satan, which is called outer darkness, where they shall live in misery and agony forever. however, according to the beliefs of the church of jesus christ of latter day saints, most persons lack the amount of knowledge to commit the eternal sin and are therefore incapable of becoming sons of perdition. the celestial kingdom is believed to be a place where the righteous can live eternally with their families. progression does not end once one has entered the celestial kingdom, but extends eternally. according to " true to the faith " ( a handbook on doctrines in the lds faith ), " the celestial kingdom is the place prepared for those who have " received the testimony of jesus " and been " made perfect through jesus the mediator of the new covenant, who wrought out this perfect atonement through the shedding of his own blood " ( doctrine and covenants, 76 : 51, 69 ). to inherit this gift, we must receive the ordinances of salvation, keep the commandments, and repent of our sins. " jehovah ' s witnesses jehovah ' s witnesses occasionally use terms such as " afterlife " to refer to any hope for the dead, but they understand ecclesiastes 9 : 5 to preclude belief in an immortal soul. individuals judged by god to be wicked, such as in the great flood or