and use of structured programming constructs was often not necessary, since an operation could be performed on a full array in one statement. for example, the iota function ( ι ) can replace for - loop iteration : ιn when applied to a scalar positive integer yields a one - dimensional array ( vector ), 1 2 3... n. more recent implementations of apl generally include comprehensive control structures, so that data structure and program control flow can be clearly and cleanly separated. the apl environment is called a workspace. in a workspace the user can define programs and data, i. e., the data values exist also outside the programs, and the user can also manipulate the data without having to define a program. in the examples below, the apl interpreter first types six spaces before awaiting the user ' s input. its own output starts in column one. the user can save the workspace with all values, programs, and execution status. apl uses a set of non - ascii symbols, which are an extension of traditional arithmetic and algebraic notation. having single character names for single instruction, multiple data ( simd ) vector functions is one way that apl enables compact formulation of algorithms for data transformation such as computing conway ' s game of life in one line of code. in nearly all versions of apl, it is theoretically possible to express any computable function in one expression, that is, in one line of code. because of the unusual character set, many programmers use special keyboards with apl keytops to write apl code. although there are various ways to write apl code using only ascii characters, in practice it is almost never done. ( this may be thought to support iverson ' s thesis about notation as a tool of thought. ) most if not all modern implementations use standard keyboard layouts, with special mappings or input method editors to access non - ascii characters. historically, the apl font has been distinctive, with uppercase italic alphabetic characters and upright numerals and symbols. most vendors continue to display the apl character set in a custom font. advocates of apl claim that the examples of so - called write - only code ( badly written and almost incomprehensible code ) are almost invariably examples of poor programming practice or novice mistakes, which can occur in any language. advocates also claim that they are far more productive with apl than with more conventional computer languages, and that working software can be implemented in far less