resolution, not only is the receiver unharmed, but so is the attacker. in addition to the effect on his spiritual growth, the connection with deguchi gave ueshiba entry to elite political and military circles as a martial artist. as a result of this exposure, he was able to attract not only financial backing but also gifted students. several of these students would found their own styles of aikido. international dissemination aikido was first introduced to the rest of the world in 1951 by minoru mochizuki with a visit to france, where he demonstrated aikido techniques to judo students. he was followed by tadashi abe in 1952, who came as the official aikikai hombu representative, remaining in france for seven years. kenji tomiki toured with a delegation of various martial arts through 15 continental states of the united states in 1953. later that year, koichi tohei was sent by aikikai hombu to hawaii for a full year, where he set up several dojo. this trip was followed by several subsequent visits and is considered the formal introduction of aikido to the united states. the united kingdom followed in 1955 ; italy in 1964 by hiroshi tada ; and germany in 1965 by katsuaki asai. designated the " official delegate for europe and africa " by morihei ueshiba, masamichi noro arrived in france in september 1961. seiichi sugano was appointed to introduce aikido to australia in 1965. today there are aikido dojo throughout the world. proliferation of independent organizations the largest aikido organization is the aikikai foundation, which remains under the control of the ueshiba family. however, aikido has developed into many styles, most of which were formed by morihei ueshiba ' s major students. the earliest independent styles to emerge were yoseikan aikido, begun by minoru mochizuki in 1931, yoshinkan aikido, founded by gozo shioda in 1955, and shodokan aikido, founded by kenji tomiki in 1967. the emergence of these styles pre - dated ueshiba ' s death and did not cause any major upheavals when they were formalized. shodokan aikido, however, was controversial, since it introduced a unique rule - based competition that some felt was contrary to the spirit of aikido. after ueshiba ' s death in 1969, two more major styles emerged. significant controversy arose with the departure of the ai