a letter to her, and he still grieves for his loss. grand is a neighbor of cottard, and it is he who calls rieux for help, when cottard tries to commit suicide. when the plague takes a grip on the town, grand joins the team of volunteers, acting as general secretary, recording all the statistics. rieux regards him as " the true embodiment of the quiet courage that inspired the sanitary groups. " grand catches the plague himself and asks rieux to burn his manuscript, but then makes an unexpected recovery. at the end of the novel, grand says he is much happier ; he has written to jeanne and made a fresh start on his book. cottard : cottard lives in the same building as grand. he does not appear to have a job and is described as having private means although he describes himself as " a traveling salesman in wines and spirits. " cottard is an eccentric figure, silent and secretive, who tries to hang himself in his room. he is anxious for rieux not to report the incident, as he is under investigation by the authorities for an unstated crime. in an offhand reference to the plot of the outsider, cottard reacts by a sudden exit from the tobacconist shop when she mentions an arrest in algiers of a man for killing an arab on a beach. cottard ' s personality changes after the outbreak of plague. whereas he was aloof and mistrustful before, he now becomes agreeable and tries hard to make friends. he appears to relish the coming of the plague, and tarrou thinks it is because he finds it easier to live with his own fears now that everyone else is in a state of fear, too. cottard also avoids arrest by the police during the chaos caused by the plague. cottard takes advantage of the crisis to make money by selling contraband cigarettes and inferior liquor. as the quarantine of the city comes to an end, cottard anticipates being arrested after life returns to normal. he experiences severe mood swings ; sometimes he is sociable, but at other times, he shuts himself up in his room. on the day the city gates are reopened, he shoots at random at people on the street, wounding some and killing a dog. the police arrest him. father paneloux : father paneloux is a learned, well - respected jesuit priest. he is well known for having given a series of lectures in which he championed a pure