. 3 ). he was assassinated by two of his servants, one of whom was the son of an ammonite woman and the other the offspring of a moabite ( ) ; for god said : " let the descendants of the two ungrateful families chastise the ungrateful joash " ( yalk., ex. 262 ). moab and ammon were the two offspring of lot ' s incest with his two daughters as described in. baalis, king of the ammonites, envious of the jewish colony ' s prosperity, or jealous of the might of the babylonian king, instigated ishmael, son of nathaniel, " of the royal seed, " to make an end of the judean rule in palestine, ishmael, being an unscrupulous character, permitted himself to become the tool of the ammonite king in order to realize his own ambition to become the ruler of the deserted land. information of this conspiracy reached gedaliah through johanan, son of kareah, and johanan undertook to slay ishmael before he had had time to carry out his evil design ; but the governor disbelieved the report, and forbade johanan to lay hands upon the conspirator. ishmael and his ten companions were royally entertained at gedaliah ' s table. in the midst of the festivities ishmael slew the unsuspecting gedaliah, the chaldean garrison stationed in mizpah, and all the jews that were with him, casting their bodies into the pit of asa ( josephus, " ant. " x. 9, § 4 ). the rabbis condemn the overconfidence of gedaliah, holding him responsible for the death of his followers ( niddah 61a ; comp. jer. xli. 9 ). ishmael captured many of the inhabitants of mizpah, as well as " the daughters of the king " entrusted to gedaliah ' s care by the babylonian general, and fled to ammon. johanan and his followers, however, on receiving the sad tidings, immediately pursued the murderers, overtaking them at the lake of gibeon. the captives were rescued, but ishmael and eight of his men escaped to the land of ammon. the plan of baalis thus succeeded, for the jewish refugees, fearing lest the babylonian king should hold them responsible for the murder, never returned to