illiterate will not be the man who can ' t read ; he will be the man who has not learned how to learn. " early in his career, after traveling to other countries, he became aware of the new and myriad inputs that visitors received from these other cultures. he explained during an interview that some visitors would become " truly disoriented and upset " by the strange environment, which he described as a reaction to culture shock. from that issue, he foresaw another problem for the future, when a culturally " new environment comes to you... and comes to you rapidly. " that kind of sudden cultural change within one ' s own country, which he felt many would not understand, would lead to a similar reaction, one of " future shock ", which he wrote about in his book by that title. toffler writes : in the third wave, toffler describes three types of societies, based on the concept of " waves " — each wave pushes the older societies and cultures aside. he describes the " first wave " as the society after agrarian revolution and replaced the first hunter - gatherer cultures. the " second wave, " he labels society during the industrial revolution ( ca. late 17th century through the mid - 20th century ). that period saw the increase of urban industrial populations which had undermined the traditional nuclear family, and initiated a factory - like education system, and the growth of the corporation. toffler said : the " third wave " was a term he coined to describe the post - industrial society, which began in the late 1950s. his description of this period dovetails with other futurist writers, who also wrote about the information age, space age, electronic era, global village, terms which highlighted a scientific - technological revolution. the tofflers claimed to have predicted a number of geopolitical events, such as the collapse of the soviet union, the fall of the berlin wall and the future economic growth in the asia - pacific region. influences and popular culture toffler often visited with dignitaries in asia, including china ' s zhao ziyang, singapore ' s lee kuan yew and south korea ' s kim dae jung, all of whom were influenced by his views as asia ' s emerging markets increased in global significance during the 1980s and 1990s. although they had originally censored some of his books and ideas, china ' s government cited him along with franklin roosevelt and bill gates as being among the westerners who had most influenced their country. the third wave