of contenting himself with passive resistance to saul ' s command to murder the priests ( yalk., sam. 131 ), abner ought to have tried to restrain the king. others maintain that abner did make such an attempt, but in vain, and that his one sin consisted in that he delayed the beginning of david ' s reign over israel by fighting him after saul ' s death for two years and a half ( sanh. l. c. ). others, again, while excusing him for this — in view of a tradition founded on gen. xlix. 27, according to which there were to be two kings of the house of benjamin — blame abner for having prevented a reconciliation between saul and david on the occasion when the latter, in holding up the skirt of saul ' s robe ( i sam. xxiv. 11 ), showed how unfounded was the king ' s mistrust of him. saul was inclined to be pacified ; but abner, representing to him that david might have found the piece of the garment anywhere — possibly caught on a thorn — prevented the reconciliation ( yer. peah, l. c., lev. r. l. c., and elsewhere ). moreover, it was wrong in abner to permit israelitish youths to kill one another for sport ( ii sam. ii. 14 – 16 ). no reproach, however, attaches to him for the death of asahel, since abner killed him in self - defense ( sanh. 49a ). it is characteristic of the rabbinical view of the bible narratives that abner, the warrior pure and simple, is styled " lion of the law " ( yer. peah, l. c. ), and that even a specimen is given of a halakic discussion between him and doeg as to whether the law in deut. xxiii. 3 excluded ammonite and moabite women from the jewish community as well as men. doeg was of the opinion that david, being descended from the moabitess ruth, was not fit to wear the crown, nor even to be considered a true israelite ; while abner maintained that the law affected only the male line of descent. when doeg ' s dialectics proved more than a match for those of abner, the latter went to the prophet samuel, who not only supported abner in his view, but utterly refuted doeg ' s assertions ( midr. sam. xxii