o., thelemite groups were established in britain, australia and north america. crowley spent the first world war in the united states, where he took up painting and campaigned for the german war effort against britain, later revealing that he had infiltrated the pro - german movement to assist the british intelligence services. in 1920, he established the abbey of thelema, a religious commune in cefalu, sicily where he lived with various followers. his libertine lifestyle led to denunciations in the british press, and the italian government evicted him in 1923. he divided the following two decades between france, germany and england, and continued to promote thelema until his death. crowley gained widespread notoriety during his lifetime, being a drug user, bisexual and an individualist social critic. crowley has remained a highly influential figure over western esotericism and the counterculture of the 1960s and continues to be considered a prophet in thelema. he is the subject of various biographies and academic studies. early life youth crowley was born edward alexander crowley at 30 clarendon square in royal leamington spa, warwickshire, on 12 october 1875. his father, edward crowley ( 1829 – 1887 ), was trained as an engineer, but his share in a lucrative family brewing business, crowley ' s alton ales, had allowed him to retire before his son was born. his mother, emily bertha bishop ( 1848 – 1917 ), came from a devonshire - somerset family and had a strained relationship with her son ; she described him as " the beast ", a name that he revelled in. the couple had been married at london ' s kensington registry office in november 1874, and were evangelical christians. crowley ' s father had been born a quaker, but had converted to the exclusive brethren, a faction of a christian fundamentalist group known as the plymouth brethren ; emily likewise converted upon marriage. crowley ' s father was particularly devout, spending his time as a travelling preacher for the sect and reading a chapter from the bible to his wife and son after breakfast every day. following the death of their baby daughter in 1880, in 1881 the crowleys moved to redhill, surrey. at the age of 8, crowley was sent to h. t. habershon ' s evangelical christian boarding school in hastings, and then to ebor preparatory school in cambridge, run by the reverend henry d ' arcy champney, whom crowley considered a sadist. in march 1887, when crowley was 11, his father died of tongue cancer. crowley described this as a