different within a given are degenerate in the schrodinger approximation, and have the same energy. this approximation is broken slightly in the solution to the dirac equation ( where energy depends on and another quantum number ), and by the effect of the magnetic field of the nucleus and quantum electrodynamics effects. the latter induce tiny binding energy differences especially for s electrons that go nearer the nucleus, since these feel a very slightly different nuclear charge, even in one - electron atoms ; see lamb shift. in atoms with multiple electrons, the energy of an electron depends not only on its orbital, but also on its interactions with other electrons. these interactions depend on the detail of its spatial probability distribution, and so the energy levels of orbitals depend not only on but also on. higher values of are associated with higher values of energy ; for instance, the 2p state is higher than the 2s state. when, the increase in energy of the orbital becomes so large as to push the energy of orbital above the energy of the s orbital in the next higher shell ; when the energy is pushed into the shell two steps higher. the filling of the 3d orbitals does not occur until the 4s orbitals have been filled. the increase in energy for subshells of increasing angular momentum in larger atoms is due to electron – electron interaction effects, and it is specifically related to the ability of low angular momentum electrons to penetrate more effectively toward the nucleus, where they are subject to less screening from the charge of intervening electrons. thus, in atoms with higher atomic number, the of electrons becomes more and more of a determining factor in their energy, and the principal quantum numbers of electrons becomes less and less important in their energy placement. the energy sequence of the first 35 subshells ( e. g., 1s, 2p, 3d, etc. ) is given in the following table. each cell represents a subshell with and given by its row and column indices, respectively. the number in the cell is the subshell ' s position in the sequence. for a linear listing of the subshells in terms of increasing energies in multielectron atoms, see the section below. note : empty cells indicate non - existent sublevels, while numbers in italics indicate sublevels that could ( potentially ) exist, but which do not hold electrons in any element currently known. electron placement and the periodic table several rules govern the placement of electrons in orbitals ( electron configuration ). the first dictates