of negligence. he was disowned by his father and was not allowed to return to his home, the island of salamis off the coast of athens. homer is somewhat vague about the precise manner of ajax ' s death but does ascribe it to his loss in the dispute over achilles ' armor ; when odysseus visits hades, he begs the soul of ajax to speak to him, but ajax, still resentful over the old quarrel, refuses and descends silently back into erebus. like achilles, he is represented ( although not by homer ) as living after his death on the island of leuke at the mouth of the danube. ajax, who in the post - homeric legend is described as the grandson of aeacus and the great - grandson of zeus, was the tutelary hero of the island of salamis, where he had a temple and an image, and where a festival called aianteia was celebrated in his honour. at this festival a couch was set up, on which the panoply of the hero was placed, a practice which recalls the roman lectisternium. the identification of ajax with the family of aeacus was chiefly a matter which concerned the athenians, after salamis had come into their possession, on which occasion solon is said to have inserted a line in the iliad ( 2. 557 – 558 ), for the purpose of supporting the athenian claim to the island. ajax then became an attic hero ; he was worshipped at athens, where he had a statue in the market - place, and the tribe aiantis was named after him. pausanias also relates that a gigantic skeleton, its kneecap in diameter, appeared on the beach near sigeion, on the trojan coast ; these bones were identified as those of ajax. gallery palace in 2001, yannos lolos began excavating a mycenaean palace near the village of kanakia on the island of salamis which he theorized to be the home of the mythological aiacid dynasty. the multi - story structure covers and had perhaps 30 rooms. the palace appears to have been abandoned at the height of the mycenaean civilization, roughly the same time the trojan war may have occurred. see also corpus vasorum antiquorum list of suicides in fiction troy vii notes notes references homer. iliad, 7. 181 – 312. homer, odyssey 11. 543 – 67. bibliotheca. ep