. abraxas, in the gnostic role of great archon, is the antagonist of the 2021 video game cruelty squad. in the 2021 tv - adaptation of isaac asimov ' s foundation series, the abraxas conjecture is the name of the mathematical proof that gaal dornick solves using kalle ' s ninth proof of folding. in sarah j. maas ' throne of glass series ( 2014 – 2018 ), the similarly - named abraxos is the wyvern mount of manon blackbeak. in the 1992 discworld novel small gods by terry pratchett, abraxas was an ephebian philosopher who wrote about the nature of gods in his scroll on religion, theorising that gods died if belief in them is diverted towards a rigid, hierarchical church structure, as had nearly happened with the great god om due to fear of the omnian quisition. having survived being struck by lightning fifteen times as a result, he earned the nickname ' charcoal '. in the shin megami tensei video game franchise ( first release : 1987 ), abraxas is a demon. in the 1997 animated series revolutionary girl utena by animation studio be - papas, abraxas is referenced in the series soundtrack. the title being ; " the god ' s name is abraxas ". in the 1999 movie adolescence of utena by animation studio be - papas, abraxas is referenced in the film ' s soundtrack. the title of the song being ; " abraxas ~ sunny garden ". in 2019, electronic music producers seven lions and dimibo formed a psytrance trio called “ abraxis. ” the project consists of a back story in which reginald abraxis formed the abraxis institute, in order to help people explore their full potential and achieve self - actualization. in the 2022 song ' nihilistic violence ' by american technical death metal band revocation, third track on the album ' netherheaven ', the lyric " hear the bellowing horn of abraxas, it calls to the beast that lives in the heart of every man " appears at 1 : 10. this is most likely a reference to the horn of abraxas that features in the movie mandy. in architecture les espaces d ' abraxas is a high - density housing complex in noisy - le - grand near paris, france designed by spanish architect ricardo bofi