wine was spiked with veratrum album, and that this would produce poisoning symptoms that match the course of events described in the alexander romance. veratrum album poisoning can have a prolonged course and it was suggested that if alexander was poisoned, veratrum album offers the most plausible cause. another poisoning explanation put forward in 2010 proposed that the circumstances of his death were compatible with poisoning by water of the river styx ( modern - day mavroneri in arcadia, greece ) that contained calicheamicin, a dangerous compound produced by bacteria. several natural causes ( diseases ) have been suggested, including malaria and typhoid fever. a 1998 article in the new england journal of medicine attributed his death to typhoid fever complicated by bowel perforation and ascending paralysis. another recent analysis suggested pyogenic ( infectious ) spondylitis or meningitis. other illnesses fit the symptoms, including acute pancreatitis, west nile virus, and guillain - barre syndrome. natural - cause theories also tend to emphasize that alexander ' s health may have been in general decline after years of heavy drinking and severe wounds. the anguish that alexander felt after hephaestion ' s death may also have contributed to his declining health. post - death events alexander ' s body was laid in a gold anthropoid sarcophagus that was filled with honey, which was in turn placed in a gold casket. according to aelian, a seer called aristander foretold that the land where alexander was laid to rest " would be happy and unvanquishable forever ". perhaps more likely, the successors may have seen possession of the body as a symbol of legitimacy, since burying the prior king was a royal prerogative. while alexander ' s funeral cortege was on its way to macedon, ptolemy seized it and took it temporarily to memphis. his successor, ptolemy ii philadelphus, transferred the sarcophagus to alexandria, where it remained until at least late antiquity. ptolemy ix lathyros, one of ptolemy ' s final successors, replaced alexander ' s sarcophagus with a glass one so he could convert the original to coinage. the recent discovery of an enormous tomb in northern greece, at amphipolis, dating from the time of alexander the great has given rise to speculation that its original intent was to be the burial place of alexander. this would fit with the intended destination of alexander ' s funeral cortege. however, the memorial was found to be dedicated to the dearest friend