##s from all over the world come to anchorage each march to compete for cash, prizes, and prestige. the " serum run " is another sled dog race that more accurately follows the route of the famous 1925 relay, leaving from the community of nenana ( southwest of fairbanks ) to nome. in areas not served by road or rail, primary transportation in summer is by all - terrain vehicle and in winter by snowmobile or " snow machine ", as it is commonly referred to in alaska. data transport alaska ' s internet and other data transport systems are provided largely through the two major telecommunications companies : gci and alaska communications. gci owns and operates what it calls the alaska united fiber optic system and, as of late 2011, alaska communications advertised that it has " two fiber optic paths to the lower 48 and two more across alaska. in january 2011, it was reported that a $ 1 billion project to connect asia and rural alaska was being planned, aided in part by $ 350 million in stimulus from the federal government. law and government state government like all other u. s. states, alaska is governed as a republic, with three branches of government : an executive branch consisting of the governor of alaska and their appointees which head executive departments ; a legislative branch consisting of the alaska house of representatives and alaska senate ; and a judicial branch consisting of the alaska supreme court and lower courts. the state of alaska employs approximately 16, 000 people statewide. the alaska legislature consists of a 40 - member house of representatives and a 20 - member senate. senators serve four - year terms and house members two. the governor of alaska serves four - year terms. the lieutenant governor runs separately from the governor in the primaries, but during the general election, the nominee for governor and nominee for lieutenant governor run together on the same ticket. alaska ' s court system has four levels : the alaska supreme court, the alaska court of appeals, the superior courts and the district courts. the superior and district courts are trial courts. superior courts are courts of general jurisdiction, while district courts hear only certain types of cases, including misdemeanor criminal cases and civil cases valued up to $ 100, 000. the supreme court and the court of appeals are appellate courts. the court of appeals is required to hear appeals from certain lower - court decisions, including those regarding criminal prosecutions, juvenile delinquency, and habeas corpus. the supreme court hears civil appeals and may in its discretion hear criminal appeals. state politics although in its early years of statehood alaska was