and gomorrah for their detestable sins that were so great, it moved god to action. because abraham ' s nephew was living in sodom, god revealed plans to confirm and judge these cities. at this point, the two other visitors left for sodom. then abraham turned to god and pleaded decrementally with him ( from fifty persons to less ) that " if there were at least ten righteous men found in the city, would not god spare the city? " for the sake of ten righteous people, god declared that he would not destroy the city. when the two visitors arrived in sodom to conduct their report, they planned on staying in the city square. however, abraham ' s nephew, lot, met with them and strongly insisted that these two " men " stay at his house for the night. a rally of men stood outside of lot ' s home and demanded that lot bring out his guests so that they may " know " ( 5 ) them. however, lot objected and offered his virgin daughters who had not " known " ( v. 8 ) man to the rally of men instead. they rejected that notion and sought to break down lot ' s door to get to his male guests, thus confirming the wickedness of the city and portending their imminent destruction. early the next morning, abraham went to the place where he stood before god. he " looked out toward sodom and gomorrah " and saw what became of the cities of the plain, where not even " ten righteous " ( v. 18 : 32 ) had been found, as " the smoke of the land went up as the smoke of a furnace. " abimelech abraham settled between kadesh and shur in what the bible anachronistically calls " the land of the philistines ". while he was living in gerar, abraham openly claimed that sarah was his sister. upon discovering this news, king abimelech had her brought to him. god then came to abimelech in a dream and declared that taking her would result in death because she was a man ' s wife. abimelech had not laid hands on her, so he inquired if he would also slay a righteous nation, especially since abraham had claimed that he and sarah were siblings. in response, god told abimelech that he did indeed have a blameless heart and that is why he continued to exist. however, should he not return the wife of abraham back to him, god would surely destroy