( historia francorum book i. 32 – 34 ). thus sixth - century gallo - romans of gregory ' s class, surrounded by the ruins of roman temples and public buildings, attributed the destruction they saw to the plundering raids of the alemanni. in the early summer of 268, the emperor gallienus halted their advance into italy, but then had to deal with the goths. when the gothic campaign ended in roman victory at the battle of naissus in september, gallienus ' successor claudius gothicus turned north to deal with the alemanni, who were swarming over all italy north of the po river. after efforts to secure a peaceful withdrawal failed, claudius forced the alemanni to battle at the battle of lake benacus in november. the alemanni were routed, forced back into germany, and did not threaten roman territory for many years afterwards. their most famous battle against rome took place in argentoratum ( strasbourg ), in 357, where they were defeated by julian, later emperor of rome, and their king chnodomarius was taken prisoner to rome. on january 2, 366, the alemanni yet again crossed the frozen rhine in large numbers, to invade the gallic provinces, this time being defeated by valentinian ( see battle of solicinium ). in the great mixed invasion of 406, the alemanni appear to have crossed the rhine river a final time, conquering and then settling what is today alsace and a large part of the swiss plateau. the crossing is described in wallace breem ' s historical novel eagle in the snow. the chronicle of fredegar gives the account. at alba augusta ( alba - la - romaine ) the devastation was so complete, that the christian bishop retired to viviers, but in gregory ' s account at mende in lozere, also deep in the heart of gaul, bishop privatus was forced to sacrifice to idols in the very cave where he was later venerated. it is thought this detail may be a generic literary ploy to epitomize the horrors of barbarian violence. list of battles between romans and alemanni 259, battle of mediolanumemperor gallienus defeats the alemanni to rescue rome 268, battle of lake benacusromans under emperor claudius ii defeat the alemanni. 271 battle of placentiaemperor aurelian is defeated by the alemanni forces invading italy battle of fanoaurelian defeats the