would be tarkovsky ' s final film was dedicated to him. the sacrifice was presented at the cannes film festival and received the grand prix special du jury, the fipresci prize and the prize of the ecumenical jury. as tarkovsky was unable to attend due to his illness, the prizes were collected by his son. death in tarkovsky ' s last diary entry ( 15 december 1986 ), he wrote : " but now i have no strength left — that is the problem ". the diaries are sometimes also known as martyrology and were published posthumously in 1989 and in english in 1991. tarkovsky died in paris on 29 december 1986. his funeral ceremony was held at the alexander nevsky cathedral. he was buried on 3 january 1987 in the russian cemetery in sainte - genevieve - des - bois in france. the inscription on his gravestone, which was erected in 1994, was conceived by tarkovsky ' s wife, larisa, reads : to the man who saw the angel. larisa died in 1998 and is buried beside her husband. a conspiracy theory emerged in russia in the early 1990s when it was alleged that tarkovsky did not die of natural causes, but was assassinated by the kgb. evidence for this hypothesis includes testimonies by former kgb agents who claim that viktor chebrikov gave the order to eradicate tarkovsky to curtail what the soviet government and the kgb saw as anti - soviet propaganda by tarkovsky. other evidence includes several memoranda that surfaced after the 1991 coup and the claim by one of tarkovsky ' s doctors that his cancer could not have developed from a natural cause. as with tarkovsky, his wife larisa and actor anatoly solonitsyn all died from the very same type of lung cancer. vladimir sharun, sound designer on stalker, is convinced that they were all poisoned by the chemical plant where they were shooting the film. influences and thoughts on film tarkovsky became a film director during the mid and late 1950s, a period referred to as the khrushchev thaw, during which soviet society opened to foreign films, literature and music, among other things. this allowed tarkovsky to see films of european, american and japanese directors, an experience that influenced his own film making. his teacher and mentor at the film school, mikhail romm, allowed his students considerable freedom and emphasized the independence of the film director. tarkovsky was, according to fellow student shavkat abdusalmov, fascinated by japanese films. he was amazed by how every character on the screen