: 1909 – 1911 in november 1909, crowley and neuburg travelled to algeria, touring the desert from el arba to aumale, bou saada, and then da ' leh addin, with crowley reciting the quran on a daily basis. during the trip he invoked the thirty aethyrs of enochian magic, with neuburg recording the results, later published in the equinox as the vision and the voice. following a mountaintop sex magic ritual, crowley also performed an evocation to the demon choronzon involving blood sacrifice, and considered the results to be a watershed in his magical career. returning to london in january 1910, crowley found that mathers was suing him for publishing golden dawn secrets in the equinox ; the court found in favour of crowley. the case was widely reported in the press, with crowley gaining wider fame. crowley enjoyed this, and played up to the sensationalist stereotype of being a satanist and advocate of human sacrifice, despite being neither. the publicity attracted new members to the, among them frank bennett, james bayley, herbert close, and james windram. the australian violinist leila waddell soon became crowley ' s lover. deciding to expand his teachings to a wider audience, crowley developed the rites of artemis, a public performance of magic and symbolism featuring members personifying various deities. it was first performed at the headquarters, with attendees given a fruit punch containing peyote to enhance their experience. various members of the press attended, and reported largely positively on it. in october and november 1910, crowley decided to stage something similar, the rites of eleusis, at caxton hall, westminster ; this time press reviews were mixed. crowley came under particular criticism from west de wend fenton, editor of the looking glass newspaper, who called him " one of the most blasphemous and cold - blooded villains of modern times ". fenton ' s articles suggested that crowley and jones were involved in homosexual activity ; crowley did not mind, but jones unsuccessfully sued for libel. fuller broke off his friendship and involvement with crowley over the scandal, and crowley and neuburg returned to algeria for further magical workings. the equinox continued publishing, and various books of literature and poetry were also published under its imprint, like crowley ' s ambergris, the winged beetle, and the scented garden, as well as neuburg ' s the triumph of pan and ethel archer ' s the whirlpool. in 1911,