departments against each other in inflatable boats in a challenge to win the gyldne bækken ( golden chamber pot ) trophy. the annual lighting of the christmas lights on the salling department store in søndergade has also become an attraction in recent times, packing the pedestrianised city centre with thousands of revellers. significant dates such as saint lucy ' s day, sankt hans ( saint john ' s eve ) and fastelavn are traditionally celebrated with numerous events across the city. parks, nature, and recreation the beech forests of riis skov and marselisborg occupy the hills along the coast to the north and south, and apart from the city centre, sandy beaches form the coastline of the entire municipality. there are two public sea baths, the northern den permanente below riis skov and close to the harbour area, and the southern ballehage beach in the marselisborg forests. as in most of denmark, there are no private beaches in the municipality, but access to den permanente requires a membership, except in the summer. the relatively mild, temperate marine climate, allows for outdoor recreation year round, including walking, hiking, cycling, and outdoor team sports. mountain biking is usually restricted to marked routes. watersports like sailing, kayaking, motor boating, etc. are also popular, and since the bay rarely freezes up in winter, they can also be practised most of the year. recreational and transportational pathways for pedestrians and cyclists, radiate from the city centre to the countryside, providing safety from motorised vehicles and a more tranquil experience. this includes the 19 kilometre long pathway of brabrandstien, encircling the brabrand lake. the long - range hiking route aarhus - silkeborg, starts off from brabrandstien. aarhus has an unusually high number of parks and green spaces, 134 of them, covering a total area of around. the central botanical gardens ( botanisk have ) from 1875 are a popular destination, as they include the old town open - air museum and host a number of events throughout the year. originally used to cultivate fruit trees and other useful plants for the local citizens, there are now a significant collection of trees and bushes from different habitats and regions of the world, including a section devoted to native danish plants. recently renovated tropical and subtropical greenhouses, exhibit exotic plants from throughout the world. also in the city centre is the undulating university park, recognised for its unique landscaped design with large old oak trees