new britain ". this was an amalgamation of two melodies ( " gallaher " and " st. mary " ), first published in the columbian harmony by charles h. spilman and benjamin shaw ( cincinnati, 1829 ). spilman and shaw, both students at kentucky ' s centre college, compiled their tunebook both for public worship and revivals, to satisfy " the wants of the church in her triumphal march ". most of the tunes had been previously published, but " gallaher " and " st. mary " had not. as neither tune is attributed and both show elements of oral transmission, scholars can only speculate that they are possibly of british origin. a manuscript from 1828 by lucius chapin, a famous hymn writer of that time, contains a tune very close to " st. mary ", but that does not mean that he wrote it. " amazing grace ", with the words written by newton and joined with " new britain ", the melody most currently associated with it, appeared for the first time in walker ' s shape note tunebook southern harmony in 1847. it was, according to author steve turner, a " marriage made in heaven... the music behind ' amazing ' had a sense of awe to it. the music behind ' grace ' sounded graceful. there was a rise at the point of confession, as though the author was stepping out into the open and making a bold declaration, but a corresponding fall when admitting his blindness. " walker ' s collection was enormously popular, selling about 600, 000 copies all over the us when the total population was just over 20 million. another shape note tunebook named the sacred harp ( 1844 ) by georgia residents benjamin franklin white and elisha j. king became widely influential and continues to be used. another verse was first recorded in harriet beecher stowe ' s immensely influential 1852 anti - slavery novel uncle tom ' s cabin. three verses were emblematically sung by tom in his hour of deepest crisis. he sings the sixth and fifth verses in that order, and stowe included another verse, not written by newton, that had been passed down orally in african - american communities for at least 50 years. it was one of between 50 and 70 verses of a song titled " jerusalem, my happy home ", which was first published in a 1790 book called a collection of sacred ballads : " amazing grace " came to be an emblem of a christian movement and a symbol of the us itself as the country was involved in a great political experiment,