acropolis was the earliest place of settlement, probably dating back to the third millennium bce. during excavations that took place in 1989, ceramic items, terracotta figurines, coins, bone and stone objects were found that date to the fourth century bce. the fortification wall and bastion that are built at this acropolis uses a style of masonry, commonly known as the greek word ( meaning " woven " ). this style of masonry was likely used for weight - bearing purposes. the acropolis at halieis dates back to the neolithic and classical periods. it included a fortified wall, sanctuary of apollo ( two temples, an altar, a race course ), and necropolis ( cemetery ). this acropolis was the highest point of fortification on the south edge at halieis. there was a small open - air cult space, including an altar and monuments. the ankara acropolis, which was set in modern - day turkey, is a historically prominent space that has changed over time through the urban development of the country from the phrygian period. this acropolis was well known as a spot for holy worshipping, and was symbolic of the time. it has also been a place that has historically recognized the legislative changes that turkey has faced. the acropolis of la blanca was created in guatemala as a small ancient maya settlement and archaeological site that is located adjacent to the salsipuedes river. this acropolis developed as a place of residence for the city of la blanca ' s rulers. its main period of usage was during the classical period of 600 ad to 850 ad, as the city developed as a commercial place of trade among a number of nearby settlements. the mayan acropolis site in guatemala included a burial site and vaulted tombs of the highest status royal. this funerary structure was integrated into this sacred landscape, and illustrated the prosperity of power between the royal figures of pedras negras in guatemala. modern - day uses tourism acropolises today have become the epicenters of tourism and attraction sites in many modern - day greek cities. the athenian acropolis, in particular, is the most famous, and has the best vantage point in athens, greece. today, tourists can purchase tickets to visit the athenian acropolis, including walking, sightseeing, and bus tours, as well as a classic greek dinner. cultural ties because of its classical hellenistic and greco - roman style, the ruins of mission san juan capistrano ' s great stone church in california, united states has been called an american acropolis