used early sound recording as a special element of the film, stressing the word " knife " in a conversation with the woman suspected of murder. during this period, hitchcock directed segments for a bip revue, elstree calling ( 1930 ), and directed a short film, an elastic affair ( 1930 ), featuring two film weekly scholarship winners. an elastic affair is one of the lost films. in 1933, hitchcock signed a multi - film contract with gaumont - british, once again working for michael balcon. his first film for the company, the man who knew too much ( 1934 ), was a success ; his second, the 39 steps ( 1935 ), was acclaimed in the uk, and gained him recognition in the united states. it also established the quintessential english " hitchcock blonde " ( madeleine carroll ) as the template for his succession of ice - cold, elegant leading ladies. screenwriter robert towne remarked : " it ' s not much of an exaggeration to say that all contemporary escapist entertainment begins with the 39 steps ". john buchan, author of the thirty - nine steps on which the film is loosely based, met with hitchcock on set, and attended the high - profile premiere at the new gallery cinema in london. upon viewing the film, the author said it had improved on the book. this film was one of the first to introduce the " macguffin " plot device, a term coined by the english screenwriter angus macphail. the macguffin is an item or goal the protagonist is pursuing, one that otherwise has no narrative value ; in the 39 steps, the macguffin is a stolen set of design plans. hitchcock released two spy thrillers in 1936. sabotage was loosely based on joseph conrad ' s novel, the secret agent ( 1907 ), about a woman who discovers that her husband is a terrorist, and secret agent, based on two stories in ashenden : or the british agent ( 1928 ) by w. somerset maugham. at this time, hitchcock also became notorious for pranks against the cast and crew. these jokes ranged from simple and innocent to crazy and maniacal. for instance, he hosted a dinner party where he dyed all the food blue because he claimed there weren ' t enough blue foods. he also had a horse delivered to the dressing room of his friend, actor gerald du maurier. hitchcock followed up with young and innocent in 1937, a crime thriller based on the 1936 novel a shilling for candles by josephine tey. starring