community social structure to find cleavages that were magnified into colonial cleavages. the ideological approach that centers on republicanism in the united states. republicanism dictated there would be no royalty, aristocracy or national church but allowed for continuation of the british common law, which american lawyers and jurists understood and approved and used in their everyday practice. historians have examined how the rising american legal profession adopted british common law to incorporate republicanism by selective revision of legal customs and by introducing more choices for courts. revolutionary war commemoration stamps after the first u. s. postage stamp was issued in 1849, the u. s. postal service frequently issued commemorative stamps celebrating the various people and events of the revolutionary war. the first such stamp was the liberty bell issue of 1926 on the 150th anniversary of american independence. see also 1776 in the united states : events, births, deaths, and other years timeline of the american revolution topics of the revolution committee of safety ( american revolution ) diplomacy in the american revolutionary war financial costs of the american revolutionary war flags of the american revolution naval operations in the american revolutionary war social history of the revolution black patriot christianity in the united states # american revolution the colored patriots of the american revolution history of poles in the united states # american revolution list of clergy in the american revolution list of patriots ( american revolution ) quakers in the american revolution scotch - irish americans # american revolution others in the american revolution nova scotia in the american revolution watauga association lists of revolutionary military list of american revolutionary war battles list of british forces in the american revolutionary war list of continental forces in the american revolutionary war list of infantry weapons in the american revolution list of united states militia units in the american revolutionary war thirteen colony economy economic history of the us : colonial economy to 1780 shipbuilding in the american colonies slavery in the united states legacy and related american revolution statuary commemoration of the american revolution founders online independence day ( united states ) the last men of the revolution list of plays and films about the american revolution museum of the american revolution tomb of the unknown soldier of the american revolution united states bicentennial united states semiquincentennial list of wars of independence bibliographies bibliography of the american revolutionary war bibliography of thomas jefferson bibliography of george washington notes citations year dates enclosed in [ brackets ] denote year of original printing bibliography britannica. com dictionary of american biography encyclopædia britannica, p. 73 – highly regarded examination of british strategy and leadership. an introduction by john w. shy with his biographical sketch of mackesy. robinson library ( see also