methyl groups. cobalt may be substituted by its heavier congener rhodium to give rhodocene, an even stronger reducing agent. iridocene ( involving iridium ) would presumably be still more potent, but is not very well - studied due to its instability. thallium thallium is the heaviest stable element in group 13 of the periodic table. at the bottom of the periodic table, the inert - pair effect is quite strong, because of the relativistic stabilisation of the 6s orbital and the decreasing bond energy as the atoms increase in size so that the amount of energy released in forming two more bonds is not worth the high ionisation energies of the 6s electrons. it displays the + 1 oxidation state that all the known alkali metals display, and thallium compounds with thallium in its + 1 oxidation state closely resemble the corresponding potassium or silver compounds stoichiometrically due to the similar ionic radii of the tl + ( 164 pm ), k + ( 152 pm ) and ag + ( 129 pm ) ions. it was sometimes considered an alkali metal in continental europe ( but not in england ) in the years immediately following its discovery, and was placed just after caesium as the sixth alkali metal in dmitri mendeleev ' s 1869 periodic table and julius lothar meyer ' s 1868 periodic table. ( mendeleev ' s 1871 periodic table and meyer ' s 1870 periodic table put thallium in its current position in the boron group and left the space below caesium blank. ) however, thallium also displays the oxidation state + 3, which no known alkali metal displays ( although ununennium, the undiscovered seventh alkali metal, is predicted to possibly display the + 3 oxidation state ). the sixth alkali metal is now considered to be francium. while tl + is stabilised by the inert - pair effect, this inert pair of 6s electrons is still able to participate chemically, so that these electrons are stereochemically active in aqueous solution. additionally, the thallium halides ( except tlf ) are quite insoluble in water, and tli has an unusual structure because of the presence of the stereochemically active inert pair in thallium. copper, silver, and gold the group 11 metals ( or coinage metals ), copper, silver, and gold, are typically categorised as transition metals given