up to vindicate the name and fame of those in rebellion. some claims revolve around the insignificance of slavery as a cause of the war ; some appeals highlight cultural differences between north and south ; the military conflict by confederate actors is idealized ; in any case, secession was said to be lawful. nolan argues that the adoption of the lost cause perspective facilitated the reunification of the north and the south while excusing the " virulent racism " of the 19th century, sacrificing black american progress to white man ' s reunification. he also deems the lost cause " a caricature of the truth. this caricature wholly misrepresents and distorts the facts of the matter " in every instance. the lost cause myth was formalized by charles a. beard and mary r. beard, whose the rise of american civilization ( 1927 ) spawned " beardian historiography ". the beards downplayed slavery, abolitionism, and issues of morality. though this interpretation was abandoned by the beards in the 1940s, and by historians generally by the 1950s, beardian themes still echo among lost cause writers. battlefield preservation the first efforts at civil war battlefield preservation and memorialization came during the war itself with the establishment of national cemeteries at gettysburg, mill springs and chattanooga. soldiers began erecting markers on battlefields beginning with the first battle of bull run in july 1861, but the oldest surviving monument is the hazen brigade monument near murfreesboro, tennessee, built in the summer of 1863 by soldiers in union col. william b. hazen ' s brigade to mark the spot where they buried their dead following the battle of stones river. in the 1890s, the united states government established five civil war battlefield parks under the jurisdiction of the war department, beginning with the creation of the chickamauga and chattanooga national military park in tennessee and the antietam national battlefield in maryland in 1890. the shiloh national military park was established in 1894, followed by the gettysburg national military park in 1895 and vicksburg national military park in 1899. in 1933, these five parks and other national monuments were transferred to the jurisdiction of the national park service. chief among modern efforts to preserve civil war sites has been the american battlefield trust, with more than 130 battlefields in 24 states. the five major civil war battlefield parks operated by the national park service ( gettysburg, antietam, shiloh, chickamauga / chattanooga and vicksburg ) had a combined 3. 1 million visitors in 2018