actual preaching of the indulgence. later, martin luther addressed a letter of protest to albert concerning the conduct of tetzel. largely in reaction to tetzel ' s actions, luther wrote his famous ninety - five theses, which led to the reformation. luther sent these to albert on 31 october 1517, and according to a disputable tradition, nailed a copy to the door of castle church in wittenberg. albert forwarded the theses to rome, suspecting luther of heresy. as archbishop of mainz, he tried unsuccessfully in 1515 and 1516 to expel the jews living in mainz. in 1518, at the age of 28, he was made a cardinal. when the imperial election of 1519 drew near, partisans of the two leading candidates ( kings charles i of spain and francis i of france ) eagerly solicited the vote of the prince - archbishop of mainz, and albert appears to have received a large amount of money for his vote. the electors eventually chose charles, who became the emperor charles v. like other high - ranking clergymen of his time, archbishop albert lived in concubinage, gave his lovers gifts and favored his children as far as possible without causing much offense. recent research assumes that he lived in a marriage - like relationship at first with elisabeth " leys " schutz from mainz and then with the frankfurt widow agnes pless, nee strauss. with leys schutz he had a daughter named anna, whom he married to his secretary joachim kirchner. albert ' s large and liberal ideas, his correspondence with leading humanists, his friendship with ulrich von hutten whom he drew to his court, and his political ambitions, appear to have raised hopes that he could be won over to protestantism ; but after the german peasants ' war of 1525 he ranged himself definitely among the supporters of catholicism, and was among the princes who joined the league of dessau in july 1525. from 1514 until his flight on 21 february 1541, albert ruled mostly from his residence moritzburg in halle. in 1531, he had a spacious new residential palace built there. albert also needed a prestigious church that met his expectations at a central location in his residenz town. he feared for his peace of mind in heaven, and collected more than 8, 100 relics and 42 holy skeletons which needed to be stored. from 1529, he had two parish churches standing next to each other demolished and only their four towers from with pointed helmets stood. between these towers he had