occasionally assisted augustin with negotiations. fulgence died in bagdad in 1855 having led a mission to explore babylon. leonor apparently was the only one of the four who married. their mother ' s younger brother, jean francois " leonor " merimee ( 1757 – 1836 ), father of the writer prosper merimee ( 1803 – 1870 ), was a paint artist who turned his attention to the chemistry of painting. he became the permanent secretary of the ecole des beaux - arts and ( until 1814 ) a professor at the ecole polytechnique, and was the initial point of contact between augustin and the leading optical physicists of the day. education the fresnel brothers were initially home - schooled by their mother. the sickly augustin was considered the slow one, not inclined to memorization ; but the popular story that he hardly began to read until the age of eight is disputed. at the age of nine or ten he was undistinguished except for his ability to turn tree - branches into toy bows and guns that worked far too well, earning himself the title l ' homme de genie ( the man of genius ) from his accomplices, and a united crackdown from their elders. in 1801, augustin was sent to the ecole centrale at caen, as company for louis. but augustin lifted his performance : in late 1804 he was accepted into the ecole polytechnique, being placed 17th in the entrance examination. as the detailed records of the ecole polytechnique begin in 1808, we know little of augustin ' s time there, except that he made few if any friends and — in spite of continuing poor health — excelled in drawing and geometry : in his first year he took a prize for his solution to a geometry problem posed by adrien - marie legendre. graduating in 1806, he then enrolled at the ecole nationale des ponts et chaussees ( national school of bridges and roads, also known as " enpc " or " ecole des ponts " ), from which he graduated in 1809, entering the service of the corps des ponts et chaussees as an ingenieur ordinaire aspirant ( ordinary engineer in training ). directly or indirectly, he was to remain in the employment of the " corps des ponts " for the rest of his life. religious formation fresnel ' s parents were roman catholics of the jansenist sect, characterized by an extreme augustinian view of original sin. religion took first place