transform the anthropology of ' art ' into an anthropology of culturally specific ' aesthetics '. media media anthropology ( also known as the anthropology of media or mass media ) emphasizes ethnographic studies as a means of understanding producers, audiences, and other cultural and social aspects of mass media. the types of ethnographic contexts explored range from contexts of media production ( e. g., ethnographies of newsrooms in newspapers, journalists in the field, film production ) to contexts of media reception, following audiences in their everyday responses to media. other types include cyber anthropology, a relatively new area of internet research, as well as ethnographies of other areas of research which happen to involve media, such as development work, social movements, or health education. this is in addition to many classic ethnographic contexts, where media such as radio, the press, new media, and television have started to make their presences felt since the early 1990s. music ethnomusicology is an academic field encompassing various approaches to the study of music ( broadly defined ), that emphasize its cultural, social, material, cognitive, biological, and other dimensions or contexts instead of or in addition to its isolated sound component or any particular repertoire. ethnomusicology can be used in a wide variety of fields, such as teaching, politics, cultural anthropology etc. while the origins of ethnomusicology date back to the 18th and 19th centuries, it was formally termed " ethnomusicology " by dutch scholar jaap kunst. later, the influence of study in this area spawned the creation of the periodical ethnomusicology and the society of ethnomusicology. visual visual anthropology is concerned, in part, with the study and production of ethnographic photography, film and, since the mid - 1990s, new media. while the term is sometimes used interchangeably with ethnographic film, visual anthropology also encompasses the anthropological study of visual representation, including areas such as performance, museums, art, and the production and reception of mass media. visual representations from all cultures, such as sandpaintings, tattoos, sculptures and reliefs, cave paintings, scrimshaw, jewelry, hieroglyphs, paintings, and photographs are included in the focus of visual anthropology. economic, political economic, applied and development economic economic anthropology attempts to explain human economic behavior in its widest historic, geographic and cultural scope. it has a complex relationship with the discipline of economics, of which it is