used for preparation of nitroglycerin exploded at the factory in heleneborg, stockholm, sweden, killing five people, including nobel ' s younger brother emil. fazed by the accident, nobel founded the company nitroglycerin aktiebolaget ab in vinterviken so that he could continue to work in a more isolated area. nobel invented dynamite in 1867, a substance easier and safer to handle than the more unstable nitroglycerin. dynamite was patented in the us and the uk and was used extensively in mining and the building of transport networks internationally. in 1875, nobel invented gelignite, more stable and powerful than dynamite, and in 1887, patented ballistite, a predecessor of cordite. nobel was elected a member of the royal swedish academy of sciences in 1884, the same institution that would later select laureates for two of the nobel prizes, and he received an honorary doctorate from uppsala university in 1893. nobel ' s brothers ludvig and robert founded the oil company branobel and became hugely rich in their own right. nobel invested in these and amassed great wealth through the development of these new oil regions. it operated mainly in baku, azerbaijan, but also in cheleken, turkmenistan. during his life, nobel was issued 355 patents internationally, and by his death, his business had established more than 90 armaments factories, despite his apparently pacifist character. inventions nobel found that when nitroglycerin was incorporated in an absorbent inert substance like kieselguhr ( diatomaceous earth ) it became safer and more convenient to handle, and this mixture he patented in 1867 as " dynamite ". nobel demonstrated his explosive for the first time that year, at a quarry in redhill, surrey, england. in order to help reestablish his name and improve the image of his business from the earlier controversies associated with dangerous explosives, nobel had also considered naming the highly powerful substance " nobel ' s safety powder ", but settled with dynamite instead, referring to the greek word for " power " ( ). nobel later combined nitroglycerin with various nitrocellulose compounds, similar to collodion, but settled on a more efficient recipe combining another nitrate explosive, and obtained a transparent, jelly - like substance, which was a more powerful explosive than dynamite. gelignite, or blasting gelatin, as it was named, was patented in 1876 ; and was followed by a host of similar combinations, modified by the addition of potassium nitrate