growth of the american railways, particularly to new york city. the chinese exclusion act allowed merchants to enter the country, and in 1915, restaurant owners became eligible for merchant visas. this fueled the opening of chinese restaurants as an immigration vehicle. pekin noodle parlor, established in 1911, is the oldest operating chinese restaurant in the country., the united states had 46, 700 chinese restaurants. along the way, cooks adapted southern chinese dishes and developed a style of chinese food not found in china, such as chop suey. restaurants ( along with chinese laundries ) provided an ethnic niche for small businesses at a time when chinese people were excluded from most jobs in the wage economy by ethnic discrimination or lack of language fluency. by the 1920s, this cuisine, particularly chop suey, became popular among middle - class americans. however, after world war ii it began to be dismissed for not being " authentic ", though it continued to be popular. in 1955, the republic of china ( having itself retreated to taiwan ) evacuated the dachen islands in the face of the encroaching communists. many who evacuated to taiwan later moved to the united states as they lacked strong social networks and access to opportunity in taiwan. chefs from the dachen islands had a strong influence on american chinese food. beginning in the 1950s, taiwanese immigrants replaced cantonese immigrants as the primary labor force in american chinese restaurants. these immigrants expanded american - chinese cuisine beyond cantonese cuisine to encompass dishes from many different regions of china as well as japanese - inspired dishes. chinese - american restaurants played a key role in ushering in the era of take - out and delivery food in the united states. in new york city, delivery was pioneered in the 1970s by empire szechuan gourmet franchise, which hired taiwanese students studying at columbia university to do the work. chinese american restaurants were among the first restaurants to use picture menus in the us. taiwanese immigration largely ended in the 1990s due to an economic boom and democratization in taiwan. from the 1990s onward, immigrants from china once again made up the majority of cooks in american chinese restaurants. there has been a consequential component of chinese emigration of illegal origin, most notably fuzhou people from fujian province and wenzhounese from zhejiang province in mainland china, specifically destined to work in chinese restaurants in new york city, beginning in the 1980s. adapting chinese cooking techniques to local produce and tastes has led to the development of american chinese cuisine. many of the chinese restaurant menus in the us are printed in chinatown, manhattan,