attention by the writer, but their names tend to correspond to anglo - saxons known from other sources. henginst ' s supposed son octa is apparently octa of kent, a 6th - century ruler variously connected to hengist as a son or descendant. the other son, ebissa, is more difficult to identify. he might correspond to kinsmen of hengist variously identified as " ossa ", " oisc ", and " aesc ". a minor saxon character called " cherdic " is probably cerdic of wessex, though elsewhere geoffrey calls the same king " cheldric ". he actually may appear under three different names in the narrative, since geoffrey elsewhere calls the interpreter of hengist " ceretic ", a variant of the same name. geoffrey, in the last chapters featuring vortigern, has the king served by magicians. this detail derives from nennius, though nennius was talking about vortigern ' s " wise men ". they may not have been magic users but advisers. vortigern ' s encounter with emrys / merlin takes place in this part of the narrative. merlin warns vortigern that ambrosius and uther have already sailed for britain and are soon to arrive, apparently to claim his throne. ambrosius soon arrives at the head of the army and is crowned king. he besieges vortigern at the castle of " genoreu ", which is identified with nennius ' cair guorthigirn ( " fort vortigern " ) and the hillfort at little doward. ambrosius burns the castle down and vortigern dies with it. having killed vortigern, ambrosius next turns his attention to hengist. despite the fact that no earlier military actions of ambrosius are recorded, the saxons have already heard of his bravery and battle prowess. they immediately retreat beyond the humber. hengist soon amasses a massive army to face ambrosius. his army counts 200, 000 men and ambrosius ' only 10, 000 men. he marches south and the first battle between the two armies takes place in maisbeli, where ambrosius emerges the victor. it is unclear what location geoffrey had in mind. maisbeli translates to " the field of beli ", and could be related to the beli mawr of welsh legend and / or the celtic god belenus. alternatively it could be