##cture is regulated by the chinese medicine council that was formed in 1999 by the legislative council. it includes a licensing exam and registration, as well as degree courses approved by the board. canada has acupuncture licensing programs in the provinces of british columbia, ontario, alberta and quebec ; standards set by the chinese medicine and acupuncture association of canada are used in provinces without government regulation. regulation in the us began in the 1970s in california, which was eventually followed by every state but wyoming and idaho. licensing requirements vary greatly from state to state. the needles used in acupuncture are regulated in the us by the food and drug administration. in some states acupuncture is regulated by a board of medical examiners, while in others by the board of licensing, health or education. in japan, acupuncturists are licensed by the minister of health, labour and welfare after passing an examination and graduating from a technical school or university. in australia, the chinese medicine board of australia regulates acupuncture, among other chinese medical traditions, and restricts the use of titles like ' acupuncturist ' to registered practitioners only. the practice of acupuncture in new zealand in 1990 acupuncture was included into the governmental accident compensation corporation ( acc ) act. this inclusion granted qualified and professionally registered acupuncturists to provide subsidised care and treatment to citizens, residents, and temporary visitors for work or sports related injuries that occurred within the country of new zealand. the two bodies for the regulation of acupuncture and attainment of acc treatment provider status in new zealand are acupuncture nz, and the new zealand acupuncture standards authority. at least 28 countries in europe have professional associations for acupuncturists. in france, the academie nationale de medecine ( national academy of medicine ) has regulated acupuncture since 1955. see also notes references bibliography further reading external links alternative medicine chinese inventions energy therapies pain management pseudoscience traditional chinese medicine