, sultan alp arslan pledged : " i shall consume with the sword all those people who venerate the cross, and all the lands of the christians shall be enslaved. " alp arslan and his successor malik shah urged turkish tribes to invade and settle anatolia where they would not only cease to be a problem for the seljuk sultanate but also extend its territory further. alp arslan commanded the turks as follows : alp arslan ' s victories changed the balance in western asia completely in favor of the seljuq turks and sunni muslims. while the byzantine empire was to continue for nearly four more centuries, the victory at manzikert signalled the beginning of turkic ascendancy in anatolia. the victory at manzikert became so popular among the turks that later every noble family in anatolia claimed to have had an ancestor who had fought on that day. state organization alp arslan ' s strength lay in the military realm. domestic affairs were handled by his able vizier, nizam al - mulk, the founder of the administrative organization that characterized and strengthened the sultanate during the reigns of alp arslan and his son, malik shah. military iqtas, governed by seljuq princes, were established to provide support for the soldiery and to accommodate the nomadic turks to the established anatolian agricultural scene. this type of military fiefdom enabled the nomadic turks to draw on the resources of the sedentary persians, turks, and other established cultures within the seljuq realm, and allowed alp arslan to field a huge standing army without depending on tribute from conquest to pay his soldiers. he not only had enough food from his subjects to maintain his military, but the taxes collected from traders and merchants added to his coffers sufficiently to fund his continuous wars. suleiman ibn qutalmish was the son of the contender for arslan ' s throne ; he was appointed governor of the north - western provinces and assigned to complete the invasion of anatolia. an explanation for this choice can only be conjectured from ibn al - athir ' s account of the battle between alp - arslan and kutalmish, in which he writes that alp - arslan wept for the latter ' s death and greatly mourned the loss of his kinsman. death after manzikert, the dominion of alp arslan extended over much of western asia. he soon prepared to march for the conquest of turkestan, the original seat of his ancestors