" led to the acceptance of roman usage elsewhere in england and brought the english church into close contact with the continent ". as a result of assuming roman usages, the celtic church surrendered its independence, and, from this point on, the church in england " was no longer purely celtic, but became anglo - roman - celtic ". the theologian christopher l. webber writes that, although " the roman form of christianity became the dominant influence in britain as in all of western europe, anglican christianity has continued to have a distinctive quality because of its celtic heritage. " the church in england remained united with rome until the english parliament, through the act of supremacy ( 1534 ), declared king henry viii to be the supreme head of the church of england to fulfill the " english desire to be independent from continental europe religiously and politically. " as the change was mostly political, done in order to allow for the annulment of henry viii ' s marriage, the english church under henry viii continued to maintain roman catholic doctrines and the sacraments despite the separation from rome. with little exception, henry viii allowed no changes during his lifetime. under king edward vi ( 1547 – 1553 ), however, the church in england underwent what is known as the english reformation, in the course of which it acquired a number of characteristics that would subsequently become recognised as constituting its distinctive " anglican " identity. development with the elizabethan settlement of 1559, the protestant identity of the english and irish churches was affirmed by means of parliamentary legislation which mandated allegiance and loyalty to the english crown in all their members. the elizabethan church began to develop distinct religious traditions, assimilating some of the theology of reformed churches with the services in the book of common prayer ( which drew extensively on the sarum rite native to england ), under the leadership and organisation of a continuing episcopate. over the years, these traditions themselves came to command adherence and loyalty. the elizabethan settlement stopped the radical protestant tendencies under edward vi by combining the more radical elements of the 1552 prayer book with the conservative " catholic " 1549 prayer book into the 1559 book of common prayer. from then on, protestantism was in a " state of arrested development ", regardless of the attempts to detach the church of england from its " idiosyncratic anchorage in the medieval past " by various groups which tried to push it towards a more reformed theology and governance in the years 1560 – 1660. although two important constitutive elements of what later would emerge as anglicanism were