playing a leading role in getting the house of representatives to vote for the thirteenth amendment to the united states constitution, which mandated the ending of chattel slavery. reconstruction the war had utterly devastated the south and posed serious questions of how the south would be re - integrated to the union. the war destroyed much of the wealth that had existed in the south. all accumulated investment in confederate bonds was forfeited ; most banks and railroads were bankrupt. the income per person in the south dropped to less than 40 percent of that of the north, a condition that lasted until well into the 20th century. southern influence in the federal government, previously considerable, was greatly diminished until the latter half of the 20th century. reconstruction began during the war, with the emancipation proclamation of january 1, 1863, and it continued until 1877. it comprised multiple complex methods to resolve the outstanding issues of the war ' s aftermath, the most important of which were the three " reconstruction amendments " to the constitution : the 13th outlawing slavery ( 1865 ), the 14th guaranteeing citizenship to slaves ( 1868 ), and the 15th ensuring voting rights to slaves ( 1870 ). from the union perspective, the goals of reconstruction were to consolidate the union victory on the battlefield by reuniting the union, to guarantee a " republican form of government " for the ex - confederate states, and to permanently end slavery — and prevent semi - slavery status. president johnson took a lenient approach and saw the achievement of the main war goals as realized in 1865 when each ex - rebel state repudiated secession and ratified the thirteenth amendment. radical republicans demanded proof that confederate nationalism was dead and that the slaves were truly free. they overrode johnson ' s vetoes of civil rights legislation, and the house impeached him, although the senate did not convict him. in 1868 and 1872, the republican candidate ulysses s. grant won the presidency. in 1872, the " liberal republicans " argued that the war goals had been achieved and that reconstruction should end. they chose horace greeley to head a presidential ticket in 1872 but were decisively defeated. in 1874, democrats, primarily southern, took control of congress and opposed further reconstruction. the compromise of 1877 closed with a national consensus, except perhaps on the part of former slaves, that the civil war had finally ended. with the withdrawal of federal troops, however, whites retook control of every southern legislature, and the jim crow era of disenfranchisement and legal segregation was ushered in. the civil war would have a huge impact on