method for observing venus transits was devised by james gregory and published in his optica promata ( 1663 ). it was strongly advocated by edmond halley and was applied to the transits of venus observed in 1761 and 1769, and then again in 1874 and 1882. transits of venus occur in pairs, but less than one pair every century, and observing the transits in 1761 and 1769 was an unprecedented international scientific operation including observations by james cook and charles green from tahiti. despite the seven years ' war, dozens of astronomers were dispatched to observing points around the world at great expense and personal danger : several of them died in the endeavour. the various results were collated by jerome lalande to give a figure for the solar parallax of. karl rudolph powalky had made an estimate of in 1864. another method involved determining the constant of aberration. simon newcomb gave great weight to this method when deriving his widely accepted value of for the solar parallax ( close to the modern value of ), although newcomb also used data from the transits of venus. newcomb also collaborated with a. a. michelson to measure the speed of light with earth - based equipment ; combined with the constant of aberration ( which is related to the light time per unit distance ), this gave the first direct measurement of the earth – sun distance in kilometres. newcomb ' s value for the solar parallax ( and for the constant of aberration and the gaussian gravitational constant ) were incorporated into the first international system of astronomical constants in 1896, which remained in place for the calculation of ephemerides until 1964. the name " astronomical unit " appears first to have been used in 1903. the discovery of the near - earth asteroid 433 eros and its passage near earth in 1900 – 1901 allowed a considerable improvement in parallax measurement. another international project to measure the parallax of 433 eros was undertaken in 1930 – 1931. direct radar measurements of the distances to venus and mars became available in the early 1960s. along with improved measurements of the speed of light, these showed that newcomb ' s values for the solar parallax and the constant of aberration were inconsistent with one another. developments the unit distance ( the value of the astronomical unit in metres ) can be expressed in terms of other astronomical constants : where is the newtonian constant of gravitation, is the solar mass, is the numerical value of gaussian gravitational constant and is