##s. the potassium cyanide was used to dissolve the gold. turing had such an apparatus set up in his tiny spare room. copeland noted that the autopsy findings were more consistent with inhalation than with ingestion of the poison. turing also habitually ate an apple before going to bed, and it was not unusual for the apple to be discarded half - eaten. furthermore, turing had reportedly borne his legal setbacks and hormone treatment ( which had been discontinued a year previously ) " with good humour " and had shown no sign of despondency before his death. he even set down a list of tasks that he intended to complete upon returning to his office after the holiday weekend. turing ' s mother believed that the ingestion was accidental, resulting from her son ' s careless storage of laboratory chemicals. biographer andrew hodges theorised that turing deliberately left the nature of his death ambiguous in order to shield his mother from the knowledge that he had killed himself. it has been suggested that turing ' s belief in fortune - telling may have caused his depressed mood. as a youth, turing had been told by a fortune - teller that he would be a genius. in mid - may 1954, shortly before his death, turing again decided to consult a fortune - teller during a day - trip to st annes - on - sea with the greenbaum family. according to the greenbaums ' daughter, barbara : government apology and pardon in august 2009, british programmer john graham - cumming started a petition urging the british government to apologise for turing ' s prosecution as a homosexual. the petition received more than 30, 000 signatures. the prime minister, gordon brown, acknowledged the petition, releasing a statement on 10 september 2009 apologising and describing the treatment of turing as " appalling " : in december 2011, william jones and his member of parliament, john leech, created an e - petition requesting that the british government pardon turing for his conviction of " gross indecency " : the petition gathered over 37, 000 signatures, and was submitted to parliament by the manchester mp john leech but the request was discouraged by justice minister lord mcnally, who said : john leech, the mp for manchester withington ( 2005 – 15 ), submitted several bills to parliament and led a high - profile campaign to secure the pardon. leech made the case in the house of commons that turing ' s contribution to the war made him a national hero and that it was " ultimately just embarrassing " that the conviction still