robert harris, is set in europe following the nazi victory. the novel dominion by c. j. sansom ( 2012 ) is similar in concept but is set in england, with churchill the leader of an anti - german resistance and other historic persons in various fictional roles. in the mecha samurai empire series ( 2016 ), peter tieryas focuses on the asian - american side of the alternate history, exploring an america ruled by the japanese empire while integrating elements of asian pop culture like mechas and videogames. several writers have posited points of departure for such a world but then have injected time splitters from the future. for instance james p. hogan ' s the proteus operation. norman spinrad wrote the iron dream in 1972, which is intended to be a science fiction novel written by adolf hitler after fleeing from europe to north america in the 1920s. in jo walton ' s " small change " series, the united kingdom made peace with hitler before the involvement of the united states in world war ii, and slowly collapses due to severe economic depression. former house speaker newt gingrich and william r. forstchen have written a novel, 1945, in which the us defeated japan but not germany in world war ii, resulting in a cold war with germany rather than the soviet union. gingrich and forstchen neglected to write the promised sequel ; instead, they wrote a trilogy about the american civil war, starting with gettysburg : a novel of the civil war, in which the confederates win a victory at the battle of gettysburg - however, after lincoln responds by bringing grant and his forces to the eastern theater, the army of northern virginia is soon trapped and destroyed in maryland, and the war ends within weeks. while world war ii has been a common point of divergence in alternate history literature, several works have been based on other points of divergence. for example, martin cruz smith, in his first novel, posited an independent american indian nation following the defeat of custer in the indians won ( 1970 ). beginning with the probability broach in 1980, l. neil smith wrote several novels that postulated the disintegration of the us federal government after albert gallatin joins the whiskey rebellion in 1794 and eventually leads to the creation of a libertarian utopia. in the 2022 novel poutine and gin by steve rhinelander, the point of divergence is the battle of the plains of abraham of the french and indian war. that novel is a mystery set in 1940 of that time line. a recent time traveling