to neutralise the current attacker while turning to face attackers approaching from behind. in shodokan aikido, differs in that it is not performed with multiple persons with defined roles of defender and attacker, but between two people, where both participants attack, defend, and counter at will. in this respect it resembles judo. injuries in applying a technique during training, it is the responsibility of to prevent injury to by employing a speed and force of application that is appropriate with their partner ' s proficiency in. when injuries ( especially to the joints ) occur, they are often the result of a misjudging the ability of to receive the throw or pin. a study of injuries in the martial arts showed that the type of injuries varied considerably from one art to the other. soft tissue injuries are one of the most common types of injuries found within aikido, as well as joint strain and stubbed fingers and toes. several deaths from head - and - neck injuries, caused by aggressive in a hazing context, have been reported. mental training aikido training is mental as well as physical, emphasizing the ability to relax the mind and body even under the stress of dangerous situations. this is necessary to enable the practitioner to perform the ' enter - and - blend ' movements that underlie aikido techniques, wherein an attack is met with confidence and directness. morihei ueshiba once remarked that one " must be willing to receive 99 % of an opponent ' s attack and stare death in the face " in order to execute techniques without hesitation. as a martial art concerned not only with fighting proficiency but with the betterment of daily life, this mental aspect is of key importance to aikido practitioners. uniforms and ranking aikido practitioners ( commonly called outside japan ) generally progress by promotion through a series of " grades " ( ), followed by a series of " degrees " ( ), pursuant to formal testing procedures. some aikido organizations use belts to distinguish practitioners ' grades, often simply white and black belts to distinguish and grades, although some use various belt colors. testing requirements vary, so a particular rank in one organization is not comparable or interchangeable with the rank of another. some dojos have an age requirement before students can take the rank exam. the uniform worn for practicing aikido ( ) is similar to the training uniform ( ) used in most other modern martial arts ; simple trousers and a wraparound jacket, usually white. both thick ( " judo - style " ), and thin ( " karate - style