when gershwin specialist jack gibbons made his own restoration of the original orchestration of an american in paris, working directly from gershwin ' s original manuscript, including the restoration of gershwin ' s soprano saxophone parts removed in campbell - watson ' s revision. gibbons ' restored orchestration of an american in paris was performed at london ' s queen elizabeth hall on july 9, 2000, by the city of oxford orchestra conducted by levon parikian. william daly arranged the score for piano solo ; this was published by new world music in 1929. preservation status on september 22, 2013, it was announced that a musicological critical edition of the full orchestral score would be eventually released. the gershwin family, working in conjunction with the library of congress and the university of michigan, were working to make scores available to the public that represent gershwin ' s true intent. it was unknown whether the critical score would include the four minutes of material gershwin later deleted from the work ( such as the restatement of the blues theme after the faster 12 bar blues section ), or if the score would document changes in the orchestration during gershwin ' s composition process. the score to an american in paris was scheduled to be issued first in a series of scores to be released. the entire project was expected to take 30 to 40 years to complete, but an american in paris was planned to be an early volume in the series. two urtext editions of the work were published by the german publisher b - note music in 2015. the changes made by campbell - watson were withdrawn in both editions. in the extended urtext, 120 bars of music were re - integrated. conductor walter damrosch had cut them shortly before the first performance. on september 9, 2017, the cincinnati symphony orchestra gave the world premiere of the long - awaited critical edition of the piece prepared by mark clague, director of the gershwin initiative at the university of michigan. this performance was of the original 1928 orchestration. recordings an american in paris has been frequently recorded. the first recording was made for the victor talking machine company in 1929 with nathaniel shilkret conducting the victor symphony orchestra, drawn from members of the philadelphia orchestra. gershwin was on hand to " supervise " the recording ; however, shilkret was reported to be in charge and eventually asked the composer to leave the recording studio. then, a little later, shilkret discovered there was no one to play the brief celesta solo during the slow section, so he hastily asked gershwin if he might play the solo ; gershwin said he could and so