promoting, collecting awards and accolades, and exhibiting as art the drawings he had made to serve as storyboards for the film. the international success of allowed kurosawa to proceed with his next project,, another epic in a similar vein. the script, partly based on william shakespeare ' s king lear, depicted a ruthless, bloodthirsty daimyo ( warlord ), played by tatsuya nakadai, who, after foolishly banishing his one loyal son, surrenders his kingdom to his other two sons, who then betray him, thus plunging the entire kingdom into war. as japanese studios still felt wary about producing another film that would rank among the most expensive ever made in the country, international help was again needed. this time it came from french producer serge silberman, who had produced luis bunuel ' s final movies. filming did not begin until december 1983 and lasted more than a year. in january 1985, production of was halted as kurosawa ' s 64 - year - old wife yoko fell ill. she died on february 1. kurosawa returned to finish his film and premiered at the tokyo film festival on may 31, with a wide release the next day. the film was a moderate financial success in japan, but a larger one abroad and, as he had done with, kurosawa embarked on a trip to europe and america, where he attended the film ' s premieres in september and october. won several awards in japan, but was not quite as honored there as many of the director ' s best films of the 1950s and 1960s had been. the film world was surprised, however, when japan passed over the selection of in favor of another film as its official entry to compete for an oscar nomination in the best foreign film category, which was ultimately rejected for competition at the 58th academy awards. both the producer and kurosawa himself attributed the failure to even submit for competition to a misunderstanding : because of the academy ' s arcane rules, no one was sure whether qualified as a japanese film, a french film ( due to its financing ), or both, so it was not submitted at all. in response to what at least appeared to be a blatant snub by his own countrymen, the director sidney lumet led a successful campaign to have kurosawa receive an oscar nomination for best director that year ( sydney pollack ultimately won the award for directing out of africa ). s costume designer, emi wada, won the movie ' s only oscar. and,