festival is 5daysoff, which takes place in the venues paradiso and. in the summertime, there are several big outdoor dance parties in or nearby amsterdam, such as awakenings, dance valley, mystery land, loveland, a day at the park, welcome to the future, and valtifest. amsterdam has a world - class symphony orchestra, the royal concertgebouw orchestra. their home is the, which is across the van baerlestraat from the museum square. it is considered by critics to be a concert hall with some of the best acoustics in the world. the building contains three halls, grote zaal, kleine zaal, and spiegelzaal. some nine hundred concerts and other events per year take place in the concertgebouw, for a public of over 700, 000, making it one of the most - visited concert halls in the world. the opera house of amsterdam is located adjacent to the city hall. therefore, the two buildings combined are often called the stopera, ( a word originally coined by protesters against it very construction : stop the opera [ - house ] ). this huge modern complex, opened in 1986, lies in the former jewish neighbourhood at waterlooplein next to the river amstel. the stopera is the home base of dutch national opera, dutch national ballet and the holland symfonia. muziekgebouw aan ' t ij is a concert hall, which is located in the ij near the central station. its concerts perform mostly modern classical music. located adjacent to it, is the bimhuis, a concert hall for improvised and jazz music. performing arts amsterdam has three main theatre buildings. the stadsschouwburg at the leidseplein is the home base of toneelgroep amsterdam. the current building dates from 1894. most plays are performed in the grote zaal ( great hall ). the normal program of events encompasses all sorts of theatrical forms. in 2009, the new hall of the stadsschouwburg amsterdam, toneelgroep amsterdam and melkweg opened, and the renovation of the front end of the theatre was ready. the dutch national opera and ballet ( formerly known as het muziektheater ), dating from 1986, is the principal opera house and home to dutch national opera and dutch national ballet. royal theatre carre was built as a permanent circus theatre in 1887 and is currently mainly used for musicals, cabaret performances,