those laws to the pupils of our schools to lead them to choose their partners in marriage in such a way that deaf - mute offspring will not be the result. " historians have noted that bell explicitly opposed laws regulating marriage, and never mentioned sterilization in any of his writings. even after bell agreed to engage with scientists conducting eugenic research, he consistently refused to support public policy that limited the rights or privileges of the deaf. bell ' s interest and research on heredity attracted the interest of charles davenport, a harvard professor and head of the cold spring harbor laboratory. in 1906, davenport, who was also the founder of the american breeder ' s association, approached bell about joining a new committee on eugenics chaired by david starr jordan. in 1910, davenport opened the eugenics records office at cold spring harbor. to give the organization scientific credibility, davenport set up a board of scientific directors naming bell as chairman. other members of the board included luther burbank, roswell h. johnson, vernon l. kellogg, and william e. castle. in 1921, a second international congress of eugenics was held in new york at the museum of natural history and chaired by davenport. although bell did not present any research or speak as part of the proceedings, he was named as honorary president as a means to attract other scientists to attend the event. a summary of the event notes that bell was a " pioneering investigator in the field of human heredity ". death bell died of complications arising from diabetes on august 2, 1922, at his private estate in cape breton, nova scotia, at age 75. bell had also been affected by pernicious anemia. his last view of the land he had inhabited was by moonlight on his mountain estate at 2 : 00 a. m. while tending to him after his long illness, mabel, his wife, whispered, " don ' t leave me. " by way of reply, bell signed " no... ", lost consciousness, and died shortly after. on learning of bell ' s death, the canadian prime minister, mackenzie king, cabled mrs. bell, saying : bell ' s coffin was constructed of beinn bhreagh pine by his laboratory staff, lined with the same red silk fabric used in his tetrahedral kite experiments. to help celebrate his life, his wife asked guests not to wear black ( the traditional funeral color ) while attending his service, during which soloist jean macdonald sang a verse of robert louis stevenson ' s " requiem " : upon the conclusion of bell ' s