inadequate governing institutions ), much higher growth rates are needed to reduce the rate of poverty when compared with other nations. additionally, if china and india are removed from the equation, up to 70 % of the world ' s poor live in fragile states by some definitions of fragility. some analysts project that extreme poverty will be increasingly concentrated in fragile, low - income states like haiti, yemen and the central african republic. however, some academics, such as andy sumner, say that extreme poverty will be increasingly concentrated in middle - income countries, creating a paradox where the world ' s poor do not actually live in the poorest countries. to help low - income earners, fragile states make the transition towards peace and prosperity, the new deal for engagement in fragile states, endorsed by roughly forty countries and multilateral institutions, was created in 2011. this represents an important step towards redressing the problem of fragility as it was originally articulated by self - identified fragile states who called on the international community to not only " do things differently ", but to also " do different things ". civil conflict also remains a prime cause for the perpetuation of poverty throughout the developing world. armed conflict can have severe effects on economic growth for many reasons such as the destruction of assets, destruction of livelihoods, creation of unwanted mass migration, and diversion of public resources towards war. significantly, a country that experienced major violence during 1981 – 2005 had extreme poverty rates 21 percentage points higher than a country with no violence. on average, each civil conflict will cost a country roughly 30 years of gdp growth. therefore, a renewed commitment from the international community to address the deteriorating situation in highly fragile states is necessary to both prevent the mass loss of life, but to also prevent the vicious cycle of extreme poverty. population trends and dynamics ( e. g. population growth ) can also have a large impact on prospects for poverty reduction. according to the united nations, " in addition to improving general health and well - being, analysis shows that meeting the reproductive health and contraceptive needs of all women in the developing world more than pays for itself " ). in 2013, a prevalent finding in a report by the world bank was that extreme poverty is most prevalent in low - income countries. in these countries, the world bank found that progress in poverty reduction is the slowest, the poor live under the worst conditions, and the most affected persons are children age 12 and under. international initiatives millennium summit and millennium development goals in september 2000, world leaders gathered at the millennium summit held