of wings — monoplane, biplane, etc. wing support — braced or cantilever, rigid or flexible. wing planform — including aspect ratio, angle of sweep, and any variations along the span ( including the important class of delta wings ). location of the horizontal stabilizer, if any. dihedral angle — positive, zero, or negative ( anhedral ). a variable geometry aircraft can change its wing configuration during flight. a flying wing has no fuselage, though it may have small blisters or pods. the opposite of this is a lifting body, which has no wings, though it may have small stabilizing and control surfaces. wing - in - ground - effect vehicles are generally not considered aircraft. they " fly " efficiently close to the surface of the ground or water, like conventional aircraft during takeoff. an example is the russian ekranoplan nicknamed the " caspian sea monster ". man - powered aircraft also rely on ground effect to remain airborne with minimal pilot power, but this is only because they are so underpowered — in fact, the airframe is capable of flying higher. rotorcraft rotorcraft, or rotary - wing aircraft, use a spinning rotor with aerofoil cross - section blades ( a rotary wing ) to provide lift. types include helicopters, autogyros, and various hybrids such as gyrodynes and compound rotorcraft. helicopters have a rotor turned by an engine - driven shaft. the rotor pushes air downward to create lift. by tilting the rotor forward, the downward flow is tilted backward, producing thrust for forward flight. some helicopters have more than one rotor and a few have rotors turned by gas jets at the tips. some have a tail rotor to counteract the rotation of the main rotor, and to aid directional control. autogyros have unpowered rotors, with a separate power plant to provide thrust. the rotor is tilted backward. as the autogyro moves forward, air blows upward across the rotor, making it spin. this spinning increases the speed of airflow over the rotor, to provide lift. rotor kites are unpowered autogyros, which are towed to give them forward speed or tethered to a static anchor in high - wind for kited flight. compound rotorcraft have wings that provide some or all of the lift in forward flight. they are nowadays classified as powered lift types and not as rotorcraft. tiltrotor aircraft ( such as the bell boeing v - 22 osprey ), tiltwing, tail - sitter, and