cargo centre in thriasion, the expansion of the athens metro and the athens tram, as well as the hellenikon metropolitan park redevelopment in elliniko and other urban projects, are the economic landmarks of the upcoming years. prominent greek companies such as hellas sat, hellenic aerospace industry, mytilineos holdings, titan cement, hellenic petroleum, papadopoulos e. j., folli follie, jumbo s. a., opap, and cosmote have their headquarters in the metropolitan area of athens. multinational companies such as ericsson, sony, siemens, motorola, samsung, microsoft, teleperformance, novartis, mondelez and coca - cola also have their regional research and development headquarters in the city. the banking sector is represented by national bank of greece, alpha bank, eurobank, and piraeus bank, while the bank of greece is also situated in the city centre. the athens stock exchange was severely hit by the greek government - debt crisis and the decision of the government to proceed into capital controls during summer 2015. as a whole the economy of athens and greece was strongly affected, while data showed a change from long recession to growth of 1. 4 % from 2017 onwards. tourism is also a leading contributor to the economy of the city, as one of europe ' s top destinations for city - break tourism, and also the gateway for excursions to both the islands and other parts of the mainland. greece attracted 26. 5 million visitors in 2015, 30. 1 million visitors in 2017, and over 33 million in 2018, making greece one of the most visited countries in europe and the world, and contributing 18 % to the country ' s gdp. athens welcomed more than 5 million tourists in 2018, and 1. 4 million were " city - breakers " ; this was an increase by over a million city - breakers since 2013. tourism athens has been a destination for travellers since antiquity. over the past decade, the city ' s infrastructure and social amenities have improved, in part because of its successful bid to stage the 2004 olympic games. the greek government, aided by the eu, has funded major infrastructure projects such as the state - of - the - art eleftherios venizelos international airport, the expansion of the athens metro system, and the new attiki odos motorway. transport athens is the country ' s major transportation hub. the city has greece ' s largest airport and its largest port ; piraeus, too, is the largest container transport