alexander mackenzie ( january 28, 1822 – april 17, 1892 ) was a canadian politician who served as the second prime minister of canada, in office from 1873 to 1878. mackenzie was born in logierait, perthshire, scotland. he left school at the age of 13, following his father ' s death, to help his widowed mother, and trained as a stonemason. mackenzie immigrated to the province of canada when he was 19, settling in what became ontario. his masonry business prospered, allowing him to pursue other interests – such as the editorship of a pro - reformist newspaper called the lambton shield. mackenzie was elected to the legislative assembly of the province of canada in 1862, as a supporter of george brown. in 1867, mackenzie was elected to the new house of commons of canada for the liberal party. he became leader of the party ( thus leader of the opposition ) in mid - 1873, and a few months later succeeded john a. macdonald as prime minister, following macdonald ' s resignation in the aftermath of the pacific scandal. mackenzie and the liberals won a clear majority at the 1874 election. he was popular among the general public for his humble background and consistent democratic principles. as prime minister, mackenzie continued the nation - building programme that had been begun by his predecessor. his government established the supreme court of canada and royal military college of canada, and created the district of keewatin to better administer canada ' s newly acquired western territories. however, it made little progress on the transcontinental railway, and struggled to deal with the aftermath of the panic of 1873. at the 1878 election, mackenzie ' s government suffered a landslide defeat. he remained leader of the liberal party for another two years, and continued on as a member of parliament ( mp ) until his death, due to a stroke. early life mackenzie was born on january 28, 1822, in logierait, perthshire, scotland, the son of mary stewart ( fleming ) and alexander mackenzie sr. ( born 1784 ) who were married in 1817. the site of his birthplace is known as clais - ' n - deoir ( the hollow of the weeping ), where families said their goodbyes as the convicted were led to nearby gallows hill. the house in which he was born was built by his father. he was the third of 10 boys, seven of whom survived infancy. alexander mackenzie sr. was a carpenter and ship ' s joiner who had to move around frequently for work after the end of the napoleonic wars in 1815