##izes cultural antisemitism as being based on the idea of " jewishness " as a " religious or cultural tradition that is acquired through learning, through distinctive traditions and education. " according to kandel, this form of antisemitism views jews as possessing " unattractive psychological and social characteristics that are acquired through acculturation. " niewyk and nicosia characterize cultural antisemitism as focusing on and condemning " the jews ' aloofness from the societies in which they live. " an important feature of cultural antisemitism is that it considers the negative attributes of judaism to be redeemable by education or by religious conversion. religious antisemitism religious antisemitism, also known as anti - judaism, is antipathy towards jews because of their perceived religious beliefs. in theory, antisemitism and attacks against individual jews would stop if jews stopped practicing judaism or changed their public faith, especially by conversion to the official or right religion. however, in some cases, discrimination continues after conversion, as in the case of marranos ( christianized jews in spain and portugal ) in the late 15th century and 16th century, who were suspected of secretly practising judaism or jewish customs. although the origins of antisemitism are rooted in the judeo - christian conflict, other forms of antisemitism have developed in modern times. frederick schweitzer asserts that " most scholars ignore the christian foundation on which the modern antisemitic edifice rests and invoke political antisemitism, cultural antisemitism, racism or racial antisemitism, economic antisemitism, and the like. " william nichols draws a distinction between religious antisemitism and modern antisemitism based on racial or ethnic grounds : " the dividing line was the possibility of effective conversion [... ] a jew ceased to be a jew upon baptism. " from the perspective of racial antisemitism, however, " the assimilated jew was still a jew, even after baptism. [... ] from the enlightenment onward, it is no longer possible to draw clear lines of distinction between religious and racial forms of hostility towards jews [... ] once jews have been emancipated and secular thinking makes its appearance, without leaving behind the old christian hostility towards jews, the new term antisemitism becomes almost unavoidable, even before explicitly racist doctrines appear. " some christians such as the catholic priest ernest jouin, who