1 ' 26 " eastern longitude as the easternmost point. mount korab, rising at above the adriatic, is the highest point, while the mediterranean sea, at, is the lowest point. the country extends from east to west and around from north to south. albania possesses a diverse and varied landscape with mountains and hills that traverse its territory in various directions. the country is home to extensive mountain ranges, including the albanian alps in the north, the korab mountains in the east, the pindus mountains in the southeast, the ceraunian mountains in the southwest and the skanderbeg mountains in the centre. in the northwest, the country boasts the remarkable lake of shkoder, recognised as the largest lake in southern europe. towards the southeast, the lake of ohrid emerges, renowned as one of the world ' s oldest continuously existing lakes. further to the south, the expanse includes the large and small lake of prespa, distinguished as some of the highest positioned lakes in the balkans. rivers rise mostly in the east of albania and discharge into the adriatic sea but as well as into the ionian sea to a lesser extent. the longest river in the country, measured from its mouth to its source, is the drin that starts at the confluence of its two headwaters, the black and white drin. of particular concern is the vjose, which represents one of the last intact large river systems in europe. climate the climate of albania exhibits a distinguished level of variability and diversity due to the differences in latitude, longitude and altitude. albania experiences a mediterranean and continental climate, characterised by the presence of four distinct seasons. according to the koppen classification, albania encompasses five primary climatic types, spanning from mediterranean and subtropical in the western half to oceanic, continental and subarctic in the eastern half of the country. the coastal regions along the adriatic and ionian seas in albania are acknowledged as the warmest areas, while the northern and eastern regions encompassing the albanian alps and the korab mountains are recognised as the coldest areas in the country. throughout the year, the average monthly temperatures fluctuate, ranging from during the winter months to in the summer months. notably, the highest recorded temperature of was observed in kucove on 18 july 1973, while the lowest temperature of was recorded in shtylle, librazhd on 9 january 2017. albania receives most of the precipitation in winter months and less in summer months. the average precipitation is about. the mean annual precipitation ranges between and depending on geographical location