the sunday times scottish university of the year ". aberdeen is also home to two artistic schools : gray ' s school of art, founded in 1886, which is one of the oldest established colleges of art in the uk. scott sutherland school of architecture and built environment, was one of the first architectural schools to have its training courses recognised by the royal institute of british architects. both are now part of robert gordon university and are based at its garthdee campus. north east scotland college has several campuses in the city and offers a wide variety of part - time and full - time courses leading to several different qualifications in science. the scottish agricultural college is based just outside aberdeen, on the craibstone estate. this is situated beside the roundabout for aberdeen airport on the a96. the college provides three services — learning, research and consultancy. the college features many land - based courses such as agriculture, countryside management, sustainable environmental management and rural business management. there are a variety of courses from diplomas to master ' s degrees. the marine laboratory aberdeen, which specialises in fisheries, macaulay land use research institute ( soil science ), and the rowett research institute ( animal nutrition ) are some other higher education institutions. the aberdeen college of performing arts also provides full - time drama and musical theatre training at further education level. schools there are currently 15 secondary schools and 54 primary schools which are run by the city council. there are a number of private schools in aberdeen : robert gordon ' s college, albyn school for girls ( co - educational as of october 2022 ), st margaret ' s school for girls, the international school of aberdeen and a waldorf / steiner school. state primary schools in aberdeen include airyhall primary school, ashley road primary school, balgownie primary school, bramble brae primary school, broomhill primary school, cornhill primary school ( the city ' s largest ), culter primary school, cults primary school, danestone primary school, fernielea primary school, ferryhill primary school, gilcomstoun primary school, glashieburn primary school, greenbrae school, hamilton school, kaimhill primary school, kingsford primary school, kittybrewster primary school, middleton park primary school, mile end school, muirfield primary school, skene square primary school, and st. joseph ' s primary school. state secondary schools in aberdeen include aberdeen grammar school, albyn school, bridge of don academy, bucksburn academy, cults academy, dyce