august kekule in the 19th century. each carbon atom in the hexagonal cycle has four electrons to share. one goes to the hydrogen atom, and one to each of the two neighboring carbons. this leaves one electron to share with one of the two neighboring carbon atoms, thus creating a double bond with one carbon and leaving a single bond with the other, which is why some representations of the benzene molecule portray it as a hexagon with alternating single and double bonds. other depictions of the structure portray the hexagon with a circle inside it, to indicate that the six electrons are floating around in delocalized molecular orbitals the size of the ring itself. this represents the equivalent nature of the six carbon - carbon bonds all of bond order 1. 5 ; the equivalency is explained by resonance forms. the electrons are visualized as floating above and below the ring, with the electromagnetic fields they generate acting to keep the ring flat. general properties of aromatic hydrocarbons : they display aromaticity the carbon - hydrogen ratio is high they burn with a strong sooty yellow flame because of the high carbon – hydrogen ratio they undergo electrophilic substitution reactions and nucleophilic aromatic substitutions the circle symbol for aromaticity was introduced by sir robert robinson and his student james armit in 1925 and popularized starting in 1959 by the morrison & boyd textbook on organic chemistry. the proper use of the symbol is debated : some publications use it to any cyclic π system, while others use it only for those π systems that obey huckel ' s rule. jensen argues that, in line with robinson ' s original proposal, the use of the circle symbol should be limited to monocyclic 6 π - electron systems. in this way the circle symbol for a six - center six - electron bond can be compared to the y symbol for a three - center two - electron bond. reactions aromatic ring systems participate in many organic reactions. aromatic substitution in aromatic substitution one substituent on the arene ring, usually hydrogen, is replaced by another substituent. the two main types are electrophilic aromatic substitution, when the active reagent is an electrophile, and nucleophilic aromatic substitution, when the reagent is a nucleophile. in radical - nucleophilic aromatic substitution, the active reagent is a radical. an example of electrophilic aromatic substitution is the nitration of salicylic acid : coupling reactions in coupling reactions a metal