listen ". " anagrams " itself can be anagrammatized as " ars magna " ( latin, ' the great art ' ). history anagrams can be traced back to the time of the ancient greeks, and were used to find the hidden and mystical meaning in names. they were popular throughout europe during the middle ages, for example with the poet and composer guillaume de machaut. they are said to date back at least to the greek poet lycophron, in the third century bce ; but this relies on an account of lycophron given by john tzetzes in the 12th century. in the talmudic and midrashic literature, anagrams were used to interpret the hebrew bible, notably by eleazar of modi ' im. later, kabbalists took this up with enthusiasm, calling anagrams temurah. anagrams in latin were considered witty over many centuries. est vir qui adest, explained below, was cited as the example in samuel johnson ' s a dictionary of the english language. they became hugely popular in the early modern period, especially in germany. any historical material on anagrams must always be interpreted in terms of the assumptions and spellings that were current for the language in question. in particular, spelling in english only slowly became fixed. there were attempts to regulate anagram formation, an important one in english being that of george puttenham ' s of the anagram or posy transposed in the art of english poesie ( 1589 ). influence of latin as a literary game when latin was the common property of the literate, latin anagrams were prominent. two examples are the change of ave maria, gratia plena, dominus tecum ( latin : hail mary, full of grace, the lord [ is ] with you ) into virgo serena, pia, munda et immaculata ( latin : serene virgin, pious, clean and spotless ), and the anagrammatic answer to pilate ' s question, quid est veritas? ( latin : what is truth? ), namely, est vir qui adest ( latin : it is the man who is here ). the origins of these are not documented. latin continued to influence letter values ( such as i = j, u = v and w = vv ). there was an ongoing tradition of allowing anagrams to be " perfect " if the letters were all used once, but allowing for