- soviet union low earth orbit mission in 1975. apollo set several major human spaceflight milestones. it stands alone in sending crewed missions beyond low earth orbit. apollo 8 was the first crewed spacecraft to orbit another celestial body, and apollo 11 was the first crewed spacecraft to land humans on one. overall, the apollo program returned of lunar rocks and soil to earth, greatly contributing to the understanding of the moon ' s composition and geological history. the program laid the foundation for nasa ' s subsequent human spaceflight capability and funded construction of its johnson space center and kennedy space center. apollo also spurred advances in many areas of technology incidental to rocketry and human spaceflight, including avionics, telecommunications, and computers. name the program was named after apollo, the greek god of light, music, and the sun, by nasa manager abe silverstein, who later said, " i was naming the spacecraft like i ' d name my baby. " silverstein chose the name at home one evening, early in 1960, because he felt " apollo riding his chariot across the sun was appropriate to the grand scale of the proposed program ". the context of this was that the program focused at its beginning mainly on developing an advanced crewed spacecraft, the apollo command and service module, succeeding the mercury program. a lunar landing became the focus of the program only in 1961. thereafter project gemini instead followed the mercury program to test and study advanced crewed spaceflight technology. background origin and spacecraft feasibility studies the apollo program was conceived during the eisenhower administration in early 1960, as a follow - up to project mercury. while the mercury capsule could support only one astronaut on a limited earth orbital mission, apollo would carry three. possible missions included ferrying crews to a space station, circumlunar flights, and eventual crewed lunar landings. in july 1960, nasa deputy administrator hugh l. dryden announced the apollo program to industry representatives at a series of space task group conferences. preliminary specifications were laid out for a spacecraft with a mission module cabin separate from the command module ( piloting and reentry cabin ), and a propulsion and equipment module. on august 30, a feasibility study competition was announced, and on october 25, three study contracts were awarded to general dynamics / convair, general electric, and the glenn l. martin company. meanwhile, nasa performed its own in - house spacecraft design studies led by maxime faget, to serve as a gauge to judge and monitor the three industry designs. political pressure builds in november 1960,