comply with the ada when, while making public street improvements, it did not bring its sidewalks into compliance with the ada. certain issues were resolved in federal court. one issue, whether sidewalks were covered by the ada, was appealed to the 9th circuit court of appeals, which ruled that sidewalks were a " program " under ada and must be made accessible to persons with disabilities. the ruling was later appealed to the u. s. supreme court, which refused to hear the case, letting stand the ruling of the 9th circuit court. bates v. united parcel service, inc bates v. united parcel service, inc ( ups ; begun in 1999 ) was the first equal opportunity employment class action brought on behalf of deaf and hard of hearing ( d / deaf / hoh ) workers throughout the country concerning workplace discrimination. it established legal precedence for d / deaf / hoh employees and customers to be fully covered under the ada. key findings included ups failed to address communication barriers and to ensure equal conditions and opportunities for deaf employees ; deaf employees were routinely excluded from workplace information, denied opportunities for promotion, and exposed to unsafe conditions due to lack of accommodations by ups ; ups also lacked a system to alert these employees as to emergencies, such as fires or chemical spills, to ensure that they would safely evacuate their facility ; and ups had no policy to ensure that deaf applicants and employees actually received effective communication in the workplace. the outcome was that ups agreed to pay a $ 5. 8 million award and agreed to a comprehensive accommodations program that was implemented in their facilities throughout the country. spector v. norwegian cruise line ltd. spector v. norwegian cruise line ltd. was a case that was decided by the united states supreme court in 2005. the defendant argued that as a vessel flying the flag of a foreign nation it was exempt from the requirements of the ada. this argument was accepted by a federal court in florida and, subsequently, the fifth circuit court of appeals. however, the u. s. supreme court reversed the ruling of the lower courts on the basis that norwegian cruise lines was a business headquartered in the united states whose clients were predominantly americans and, more importantly, operated out of port facilities throughout the united states. olmstead v. l. c. olmstead v. l. c. was a case before the united states supreme court in 1999. the two plaintiffs, lois curtis and e. w., were institutionalized in georgia for diagnosed " mental retardation " and schizophrenia. clinical assessments by the state determined that the plaintiffs could be appropriately