is constant over time "... " if one considers a physically bounded volume, particles of matter will be continually leaving it. for the density to remain constant, new particles of matter must be continually formed in the volume from space. " it thus appears that einstein considered a steady - state model of the expanding universe many years before hoyle, bondi and gold. however, einstein ' s steady - state model contained a fundamental flaw and he quickly abandoned the idea. energy momentum pseudotensor general relativity includes a dynamical spacetime, so it is difficult to see how to identify the conserved energy and momentum. noether ' s theorem allows these quantities to be determined from a lagrangian with translation invariance, but general covariance makes translation invariance into something of a gauge symmetry. the energy and momentum derived within general relativity by noether ' s prescriptions do not make a real tensor for this reason. einstein argued that this is true for a fundamental reason : the gravitational field could be made to vanish by a choice of coordinates. he maintained that the non - covariant energy momentum pseudotensor was, in fact, the best description of the energy momentum distribution in a gravitational field. while the use of non - covariant objects like pseudotensors was criticized by erwin schrodinger and others, einstein ' s approach has been echoed by physicists including lev landau and evgeny lifshitz. wormholes in 1935, einstein collaborated with nathan rosen to produce a model of a wormhole, often called einstein – rosen bridges. his motivation was to model elementary particles with charge as a solution of gravitational field equations, in line with the program outlined in the paper " do gravitational fields play an important role in the constitution of the elementary particles? ". these solutions cut and pasted schwarzschild black holes to make a bridge between two patches. because these solutions included spacetime curvature without the presence of a physical body, einstein and rosen suggested that they could provide the beginnings of a theory that avoided the notion of point particles. however, it was later found that einstein – rosen bridges are not stable. einstein – cartan theory in order to incorporate spinning point particles into general relativity, the affine connection needed to be generalized to include an antisymmetric part, called the torsion. this modification was made by einstein and cartan in the 1920s. equations of motion in general relativity, gravitational force is reimagined as curvature of spacetime. a curved path like an