his initial influences were in the study of religion and service to the community. at the time, society had a number of conflicting views of religion that he ultimately sought to step aside from religion. this led to him delving into the study of mathematics and science. he held a position with the title vizier in his native basra, and made a name for himself on his knowledge of applied mathematics. as he claimed to be able to regulate the flooding of the nile, he was invited to meet the fatimid caliph al - hakim in order to realise a hydraulic project at aswan. however, ibn al - haytham was forced to concede the impracticability of his project. upon his return to cairo, he was given an administrative post. after he proved unable to fulfill this task as well, he contracted the ire of the caliph al - hakim, and is said to have been forced into hiding until the caliph ' s death in 1021, after which his confiscated possessions were returned to him. legend has it that alhazen feigned madness and was kept under house arrest during this period. during this time, he wrote his influential book of optics. alhazen continued to live in cairo, in the neighborhood of the famous university of al - azhar, and lived from the proceeds of his literary production until his death in c. 1040. ( a copy of apollonius ' conics, written in ibn al - haytham ' s own handwriting exists in aya sofya : ( ms aya sofya 2762, 307 fob., dated safar 415 a. h. [ 1024 ] ). ) among his students were sorkhab ( sohrab ), a persian from semnan, and abu al - wafa mubashir ibn fatek, an egyptian prince. book of optics alhazen ' s most famous work is his seven - volume treatise on optics kitab al - manazir ( book of optics ), written from 1011 to 1021. in it, ibn al - haytham was the first to explain that vision occurs when light reflects from an object and then passes to one ' s eyes, and to argue that vision occurs in the brain, pointing to observations that it is subjective and affected by personal experience. optics was translated into latin by an unknown scholar at the end of the 12th century or the beginning of the 13th century. this work enjoyed a great reputation during the middle ages. the latin version of de aspectibus was