##um " in 1904. after a comparison of the substances ' half - lives determined by debierne, harriet brooks in 1904, and otto hahn and otto sackur in 1905, debierne ' s chosen name for the new element was retained because it had seniority, despite the contradicting chemical properties he claimed for the element at different times. articles published in the 1970s and later suggest that debierne ' s results published in 1904 conflict with those reported in 1899 and 1900. furthermore, the now - known chemistry of actinium precludes its presence as anything other than a minor constituent of debierne ' s 1899 and 1900 results ; in fact, the chemical properties he reported make it likely that he had, instead, accidentally identified protactinium, which would not be discovered for another fourteen years, only to have it disappear due to its hydrolysis and adsorption onto his laboratory equipment. this has led some authors to advocate that giesel alone should be credited with the discovery. a less confrontational vision of scientific discovery is proposed by adloff. he suggests that hindsight criticism of the early publications should be mitigated by the then nascent state of radiochemistry : highlighting the prudence of debierne ' s claims in the original papers, he notes that nobody can contend that debierne ' s substance did not contain actinium. debierne, who is now considered by the vast majority of historians as the discoverer, lost interest in the element and left the topic. giesel, on the other hand, can rightfully be credited with the first preparation of radiochemically pure actinium and with the identification of its atomic number 89. the name actinium originates from the ancient greek aktis, aktinos ( ακτις, ακτινος ), meaning beam or ray. its symbol ac is also used in abbreviations of other compounds that have nothing to do with actinium, such as acetyl, acetate and sometimes acetaldehyde. properties actinium is a soft, silvery - white, radioactive, metallic element. its estimated shear modulus is similar to that of lead. owing to its strong radioactivity, actinium glows in the dark with a pale blue light, which originates from the surrounding air ionized by the emitted energetic particles. actinium has similar chemical properties to lanthanum and other lanthanides, and therefore these elements are difficult to separate when extracting from uranium ores. solvent extraction and