" none of that, sir ", johnston roared at the officer, " we are not here for plunder. " then, realizing he had embarrassed the man, he picked up a tin cup from a table and announced, " let this be my share of the spoils today ", before directing his army onward. at about 2 : 30 pm, while leading one of those charges against a u. s. camp near the " peach orchard ", he was wounded, taking a bullet behind his right knee. the bullet clipped a part of his popliteal artery, and his boot filled up with blood. no medical personnel were on the scene since johnston had sent his personal surgeon to care for the wounded confederate troops and u. s. prisoners earlier in the battle. within a few minutes, johnston was observed by his staff to be nearly fainting. among his staff was isham g. harris, the governor of tennessee, who had ceased to make any real effort to function as governor after learning that abraham lincoln had appointed andrew johnson as military governor of tennessee. seeing johnston slumping in his saddle and his face turning deathly pale, harris asked : " general, are you wounded? " johnston glanced down at his leg wound, then faced harris and said his last words in a weak voice : " yes... and i fear seriously. " harris and other staff officers removed johnston from his horse, carried him to a small ravine near the " hornets nest ", and desperately tried to aid the general, who had lost consciousness. harris then sent an aide to fetch johnston ' s surgeon but did not apply a tourniquet to johnson ' s wounded leg. a few minutes later, johnston died from blood loss before a doctor could be found. it is believed that johnston may have lived for as long as one hour after receiving his fatal wound. ironically, it was later discovered that johnston had a tourniquet in his pocket when he died. harris and the other officers wrapped general johnston ' s body in a blanket to not damage the troops ' morale with the sight of the dead general. johnston and his wounded horse, fire eater, were taken to his field headquarters on the corinth road, where his body remained in his tent for the remainder of the battle. p. g. t. beauregard assumed command of the army. he resumed leading the confederate assault, which continued advancing and pushed the u. s. forces back to a final defensive line near the tennessee river. with his army exhausted and daylight almost gone, beaure