( ahs ) — a quasi - independent agency that delivers health care on behalf of the government of alberta ' s ministry of health. the alberta government provides health services for all its residents as set out by the provisions of the canada health act of 1984. alberta became canada ' s second province ( after saskatchewan ) to adopt a tommy douglas - style program in 1950, a precursor to the modern medicare system. alberta ' s health care budget was $ 22. 5 billion during the 2018 – 2019 fiscal year ( approximately 45 % of all government spending ), making it the best - funded health - care system per - capita in canada. every hour the province spends more than $ 2. 5 million, ( or $ 60 million per day ), to maintain and improve health care in the province. notable health, education, research, and resources facilities in alberta, all of which are located within calgary or edmonton. health centres in calgary include : alberta children ' s hospital foothills medical centre grace women ' s health centre libin cardiovascular institute of alberta peter lougheed centre rockyview general hospital south health campus tom baker cancer centre university of calgary medical centre ( ucmc ) health centres in edmonton include : alberta diabetes institute cross cancer institute edmonton clinic grey nuns community hospital lois hole hospital for women mazankowski alberta heart institute misericordia community hospital rexall centre for pharmacy and health research royal alexandra hospital stollery children ' s hospital university of alberta hospital the edmonton clinic complex, completed in 2012, provides a similar research, education, and care environment as the mayo clinic in the united states. all public health care services funded by the government of alberta are delivered operationally by alberta health services. ahs is the province ' s single health authority, established on july 1, 2008, which replaced nine regional health authorities. ahs also funds all ground ambulance services in the province, as well as the province - wide shock trauma air rescue service ( stars ) air ambulance service. transportation air alberta is well - connected by air, with international airports in both calgary and edmonton. calgary international airport and edmonton international airport are the fourth - and fifth - busiest in canada, respectively. calgary ' s airport is a hub for westjet airlines and a regional hub for air canada, primarily serving the prairie provinces ( alberta, saskatchewan and manitoba ) for connecting flights to british columbia, eastern canada, fifteen major united states centres, nine european airports, one asian airport and four destinations in mexico and the caribbean. edmonton ' s airport acts as a hub for the canadian north and has connections to all major