native language. for example, sign production of letters may vary in older signers. slight differences in finger spelling production can be a signal of age. additionally, signers who learned american sign language as a second language vary in production. for deaf signers who learned a different sign language before learning american sign language, qualities of their native language may show in their asl production. some examples of that varied production include fingerspelling towards the body, instead of away from it, and signing certain movement from bottom to top, instead of top to bottom. hearing people who learn american sign language also have noticeable differences in signing production. the most notable production difference of hearing people learning american sign language is their rhythm and arm posture. sign variants most popularly, there are variants of the signs for english words such as " birthday ", " pizza ", " halloween ", " early ", and " soon ", just a sample of the most commonly recognized signs with variants based on regional change. the sign for " school " is commonly varied between black and white signers ; the variants used by black signers are sometimes called black american sign language. social variation is also found between citation forms and forms used by deaf gay men for words such as " pain " and " protest ". history and implications the prevalence of residential deaf schools can account for much of the regional variance of signs and sign productions across the united states. deaf schools often serve students of the state in which the school resides. that limited access to signers from other regions, combined with the residential quality of deaf schools promoted specific use of certain sign variants. native signers did not have much access to signers from other regions during the beginning years of their education. it is hypothesized that because of that seclusion, certain variants of a sign prevailed over others due to the choice of variant used by the student of the school / signers in the community. however, american sign language does not appear to be vastly varied in comparison to other signed languages. that is because when deaf education was beginning in the united states, many educators flocked to the american school for the deaf in hartford, connecticut, whose central location for the first generation of educators in deaf education to learn american sign language allows asl to be more standardized than its variant. varieties varieties of asl are found throughout the world. there is little difficulty in comprehension among the varieties of the united states and canada. mutual intelligibility among those asl varieties is high, and the variation is primarily lexical. for