##saurus, first named by marsh in 1879. elmer riggs reclassified brontosaurus as a synonym of apatosaurus in 1903, transferring the species b. excelsus to a. excelsus. in 2015, tschopp, mateus, and benson argued that the species was distinct enough to be placed in its own genus, so they reclassified it back into brontosaurus. apatosaurus parvus, first described from a juvenile specimen as elosaurus in 1902 by peterson and gilmore, was reassigned to apatosaurus in 1994, and then to brontosaurus in 2015. many other, more mature specimens were assigned to it following the 2015 study. apatosaurus minimus was originally described as a specimen of brontosaurus sp. in 1904 by osborn. in 1917, henry mook named it as its own species, a. minimus, for a pair of ilia and their sacrum. in 2012, mike p. taylor and matt j. wedel published a short abstract describing the material of a. minimus, finding it hard to place among either diplodocoidea or macronaria. while it was placed with saltasaurus in a phylogenetic analysis, it was thought to represent instead some form with convergent features from many groups. the study of tschopp etal. did find that a camarasaurid position for the taxon was supported, but noted that the position of the taxon was found to be highly variable and there was no clearly more likely position. apatosaurus alenquerensis was named in 1957 by albert - felix de lapparent and georges zbyweski. it was based on post cranial material from portugal. in 1990, this material was reassigned to camarasaurus, but in 1998 it was given its own genus, lourinhasaurus. this was further supported by the findings of tschopp etal. in 2015, where lourinhasaurus was found to be sister to camarasaurus and other camarasaurids. apatosaurus yahnahpin was named by james filla and patrick redman in 1994. bakker made a. yahnahpin the type species of a new genus, eobrontosaurus in 1998, and tschopp reclassified it as brontosaurus yahnahpin in 2015. classification apatosaurus is a member of the family diplodocidae, a clade of gigantic sauropod dinosaurs. the family includes some of the longest creatures ever to walk the earth, including dip