and exchange commission. nathan most and steven bloom, under the direction of ivers riley, designed and developed standard & poor ' s depositary receipts ( nyse arca : spy ), which were introduced in january 1993. known as spdrs or " spiders ", the fund became the largest etf in the world. in may 1995, state street global advisors introduced the s & p 400 midcap spdrs ( nyse arca : mdy ). barclays, in conjunction with msci and funds distributor inc., entered the market in 1996 with world equity benchmark shares ( webs ), which became ishares msci index fund shares. webs originally tracked 17 msci country indices managed by the funds ' index provider, morgan stanley. webs were particularly innovative because they gave casual investors easy access to foreign markets. while spdrs were organized as unit investment trusts, webs were set up as a mutual fund, the first of their kind. in 1998, state street global advisors introduced " sector spiders ", separate etfs for each of the sectors of the s & p 500 index. also in 1998, the " dow diamonds " ( nyse arca : dia ) were introduced, tracking the dow jones industrial average. in 1999, the influential " cubes " ( nasdaq : qqq ), were launched, with the goal of replicate the price movement of the nasdaq - 100. the ishares line was launched in early 2000. by 2005, it had a 44 % market share of etf assets under management. barclays global investors was sold to blackrock in 2009. nyse merger as of 2003, amex was the only u. s. stock market to permit the transmission of buy and sell orders through hand signals. in october 2008 nyse euronext completed acquisition of the amex for $ 260 million in stock. before the closing of the acquisition, nyse euronext announced that the amex would be integrated with the alternext european small - cap exchange and renamed the nyse alternext u. s. the american stock exchange merged with the new york stock exchange ( nyse euronext ) on october 1, 2008. post merger, the amex equities business was branded " nyse alternext us ". as part of the re - branding exercise, nyse alternext us was re - branded as nyse amex equities. on december 1, 2008, the curb exchange building at 86 trinity place was