declared apollo the winner. apollo hung marsyas from a tree to flay him. apollo flayed the limbs of marsyas alive in a cave near celaenae in phrygia for his hubris to challenge a god. he then gave the rest of his body for proper burial and nailed marsyas ' flayed skin to a nearby pine - tree as a lesson to the others. marsyas ' blood turned into the river marsyas. but apollo soon repented and being distressed at what he had done, he tore the strings of his lyre and threw it away. the lyre was later discovered by the muses and apollo ' s sons linus and orpheus. the muses fixed the middle string, linus the string struck with the forefinger, and orpheus the lowest string and the one next to it. they took it back to apollo, but the god, who had decided to stay away from music for a while, laid away both the lyre and the pipes at delphi and joined cybele in her wanderings to as far as hyperborea. contest with cinyras cinyras was a ruler of cyprus, who was a friend of agamemnon. cinyras promised to assist agamemnon in the trojan war, but did not keep his promise. agamemnon cursed cinyras. he invoked apollo and asked the god to avenge the broken promise. apollo then had a lyre - playing contest with cinyras, and defeated him. either cinyras committed suicide when he lost, or was killed by apollo. patron of sailors apollo functions as the patron and protector of sailors, one of the duties he shares with poseidon. in the myths, he is seen helping heroes who pray to him for a safe journey. when apollo spotted a ship of cretan sailors that were caught in a storm, he quickly assumed the shape of a dolphin and guided their ship safely to delphi. when the argonauts faced a terrible storm, jason prayed to his patron, apollo, to help them. apollo used his bow and golden arrow to shed light upon an island, where the argonauts soon took shelter. this island was renamed " anaphe ", which means " he revealed it ". apollo helped the greek hero diomedes, to escape from a great tempest during his journey homeward. as a token of gratitude, diomedes built a temple in honor of apollo under the epithet epibaterius ( " the embarker