sports foundation the iowa state cyclones play a variety of sports in the ames area. the iowa state cyclones football team plays at jack trice stadium in ames. also, the cyclones ' men ' s and women ' s basketball teams and volleyball teams play at hilton coliseum just across the street from jack trice stadium. the iowa state cyclones are a charter member of the big 12 conference in all sports and compete in ncaa division i - a. the iowa state women ' s tennis is also well known and very successful. the ames figure skating club provides recreational to professional level skating opportunities. the club sponsors the learn to skate program. coaches provide on and off ice lessons or workshops. the club hosts the figure skating portion of the iowa games competition every summer. in the fall the club hosts cyclone country championships. the ames isu ice arena also hosts the iowa state cyclones hockey team. the arena also hosts the ames little cyclones hockey program for high school students and children in elementary or middle school. education much of the city is served by the ames community school district. a portion of northern ames is zoned to the gilbert community school district. public high school in ames ames high school : grades 9 – 12 public elementary / middle schools in ames david edwards elementary : k - 5 abbie sawyer elementary school : grades k - 5 kate mitchell elementary school : grades k - 5 warren h. meeker elementary school : grades k - 5 gertrude fellows elementary school : grades k - 5 ames middle school : grades 6 – 8 gilbert csd students are zoned to gilbert high school. private schools in ames ames christian school saint cecilia school ( prek – 5th grade ) iowa state university iowa state university of science and technology, more commonly known as iowa state university ( isu ), is a public land - grant and space - grant research university located in ames. iowa state university is the birthplace of the atanasoff – berry computer, the world ' s first electronic digital computer. iowa state has produced a number of astronauts, scientists, nobel laureates, and pulitzer prize winners. until 1945 it was known as the iowa state college of agriculture and mechanic arts. the university is a member of the american association of universities and the big 12 conference. isu is the nation ' s first designated land - grant university. in 1856, the iowa general assembly enacted legislation to establish the state agricultural college and model farm. story county was chosen as the location on june 21, 1859, from proposals by johnson, kossuth, marshall, polk, and story counties. when iowa accepted the