muziektheater ), dating from 1986, is the principal opera house and home to dutch national opera and dutch national ballet. royal theatre carre was built as a permanent circus theatre in 1887 and is currently mainly used for musicals, cabaret performances, and pop concerts. the recently re - opened delamar theater houses more commercial plays and musicals. a new theatre has also moved into the amsterdam scene in 2014, joining other established venues : theater amsterdam is located in the west part of amsterdam, on the danzigerkade. it is housed in a modern building with a panoramic view over the harbour. the theatre is the first - ever purpose - built venue to showcase a single play entitled anne, the play based on anne frank ' s life. on the east side of town, there is a small theatre in a converted bathhouse, the badhuistheater. the theatre often has english programming. the netherlands has a tradition of cabaret or kleinkunst, which combines music, storytelling, commentary, theatre and comedy. cabaret dates back to the 1930s and artists like wim kan, wim sonneveld and toon hermans were pioneers of this form of art in the netherlands. in amsterdam is the kleinkunstacademie ( english : cabaret academy ) and nederlied kleinkunstkoor ( english : cabaret choir ). contemporary popular artists are youp van ' t hek, freek de jonge, herman finkers, hans teeuwen, theo maassen, herman van veen, najib amhali, raoul heertje, jorgen raymann, brigitte kaandorp and comedytrain. the english spoken comedy scene was established with the founding of boom chicago in 1993. they have their own theatre at leidseplein. nightlife amsterdam is famous for its vibrant and diverse nightlife. amsterdam has many cafes ( bars ). they range from large and modern to small and cosy. the typical bruine kroeg ( brown cafe ) breathe a more old fashioned atmosphere with dimmed lights, candles, and somewhat older clientele. these brown cafes mostly offer a wide range of local and international artisanal beers. most cafes have terraces in summertime. a common sight on the leidseplein during summer is a square full of terraces packed with people drinking beer or wine. many restaurants can be found in amsterdam as well. since amsterdam is a multicultural city, a lot of different ethnic restaurants can be found. restaurants range from being rather luxurious