canovas del castillo. alfonso was well - educated and cultured, especially compared to his mother. his tutors took great care to have him educated in good schools and to familiarize him with different cultures, languages and government models throughout europe. during the franco - prussian war, alfonso relocated from paris to geneva with his family, and then continued his studies at the theresianum in vienna in 1872. canovas began to take responsibility for alfonso ' s education with the goal of shaping him into the ideal king for the planned bourbon restoration, and next sent him to the royal military college, sandhurst, in england. the training he received there was severe but more cosmopolitan than it would have been in spain, given its atmosphere at the time. on 1 december 1874, alfonso issued the sandhurst manifesto, where he set the ideological basis of the bourbon restoration. it was drafted in reply to a birthday greeting from his followers, a manifesto proclaiming himself the sole representative of the spanish monarchy. at the end of 1874, brigadier martinez campos, who had long been working more or less openly for the king, led some battalions of the central army to sagunto, rallied the troops sent against him to his own flag, and entered valencia in the king ' s name. thereupon the president resigned, and his power was transferred to the king ' s plenipotentiary and adviser, canovas. the 29 december 1874 military coup of gen. martinez campos in sagunto ended the failed republic and meant the rise of the young prince alfonso. reign within a few days after canovas del castillo took power as premier, the new king, proclaimed on 29 december 1874, arrived at madrid, passing through barcelona and valencia and was acclaimed everywhere ( 1875 ). in 1876, a vigorous campaign against the carlists, in which the young king took part, resulted in the defeat of don carlos and the duke ' s abandonment of the struggle. initially led by canovas del castillo as moderate prime minister, what was thought at one time as a coup aimed at placing the military in the political - administrative positions of power, in reality ushered in a civilian regime that lasted until primo de rivera ' s 1923 coup d ' etat. canovas was the real architect of the new regime of the restoration. in 1881 alfonso refused to sanction a law by which the ministers were to remain in office for a fixed term of 18 months. upon the consequent resignation of canovas del castillo, he summoned praxedes mateo saga