opponents – the exception being the three games assigned based on the team ' s prior - season divisional standing. at the end of each season, the four division winners and three wild cards ( non - division winners with best regular season record ) in the afc qualify for the playoffs. the afc playoffs culminate in the afc championship game, with the winner receiving the lamar hunt trophy. the afc champion then plays the nfc champion in the super bowl. history both the afc and the nfc were created after the nfl merged with the american football league ( afl ) in 1970. the afl began play in 1960 with eight teams, and added two more expansion clubs ( the miami dolphins in 1966 and the cincinnati bengals in 1968 ) before the merger. in order to equalize the number of teams in each conference, three nfl teams that predated the afl ' s launch ( the cleveland browns, pittsburgh steelers, and the then - baltimore colts ) joined the ten former afl teams to form the afc. the two afl divisions afl east and afl west were more or less intact, while the nfl ' s century division, in which the browns and the steelers had played since 1967, was moved from the nfl to become the new afc central. upon the completion of the merger of the afl and nfl in 1970, the newly minted american football conference had already agreed upon their divisional setup along mostly geographical lines for the 1970 season ; the national football conference, however, could not agree upon their setup, and one was chosen from a fishbowl on january 16, 1970. since the merger, five expansion teams have joined the afc and two have left, thus making the current total 16. when the seattle seahawks and the tampa bay buccaneers joined the league in 1976, they were temporarily placed in the nfc and afc respectively. this arrangement lasted for one season only before the two teams switched conferences. the seahawks eventually returned to the nfc as a result of the 2002 realignment. the expansion jacksonville jaguars joined the afc in 1995. there have been five teams that have relocated at least once. in 1984, the baltimore colts relocated to indianapolis. in 1995, the cleveland browns had attempted to move to baltimore ; the resulting dispute between cleveland and the team led to modell establishing the baltimore ravens with the players and personnel from the browns, while the browns were placed in suspended operations before they were reinstated by the nfl. the ravens were treated as an expansion team. in california, the oakland raiders relocated to los angeles in 1982, back to oakland in 1995, and then to las vegas in 2020, while