##n butter bread does not require any additional butter to be added once it has been baked. this dish is another mainstay of antiguan cuisine. breakfast and other meals throughout the day often consist of fresh - baked butter bread and cheese for the community ' s residents. throughout the city of antigua, there are a great number of homes that have small bakeries built onto them. these bakeries sell freshly baked loaves, and locals can go to these bakeries to buy them. they are served alongside cheese, sardines, and / or a bright red sausage that residents of the area occasionally refer to as salami, in addition to a great deal of other foods. in addition, the majority of meals feature something known as " provisions ", which is typically a root vegetable or starch such as potatoes, yams, sweet potatoes, or eddo. during carnival, a popular snack is souse, which is a type of soup that is very spicy and is made with pig feet, knuckles, and tails in addition to many onions. this soup is sold by vendors on the side of the road. black pudding, also referred to as blood sausage, is a well - seasoned sausage that is made with rice, meat, and blood that is also enjoyed by locals in antigua. on improvised grills, locals in the countryside sell freshly picked corn that has been roasted, typically while still in the husk. the antiguan pineapple is typically quite succulent and sugary, despite its diminutive size. the entire island is covered with numerous small pineapple plantations. the following are some examples of local beverages : mauby, seamoss, tamarind juice, raspberry juice, mango juice, lemonade, coconut milk, hibiscus juice, ginger beer, passion fruit juice, guava juice, soursop juice, and ginger beer, which is a soft drink. beer, malts, and rums are some of the alcoholic beverages that can be found here. many of these drinks are produced locally, such as the award - winning english harbour rum and the wadadli beer, which takes its name from the island ' s former name. a significant number of residents in the area consume bottled sodas, which they refer to as sweet drink. punch is a flavor that is enjoyed by many. in addition to red stripe beer, guinness stout, heineken beer, and malta, the locals like to drink red malta. ponche kuba cream liqueur is a special celebratory