, in 1889, when the potsdam astronomer hermann carl vogel found periodic doppler shifts in the spectrum of algol, inferring variations in the radial velocity of this binary system. thus algol became one of the first known spectroscopic binaries. joel stebbins at the university of illinois observatory used an early selenium cell photometer to produce the first - ever photoelectric study of a variable star. the light curve revealed the second minimum and the reflection effect between the two stars. some difficulties in explaining the observed spectroscopic features led to the conjecture that a third star may be present in the system ; four decades later this conjecture was found to be correct. system algol is a multiple - star system with three confirmed and two suspected stellar components. from the point of view of the earth, algol aa1 and algol aa2 form an eclipsing binary because their orbital plane contains the line of sight to the earth. the eclipsing binary pair is separated by only 0. 062 astronomical units ( au ) from each other, whereas the third star in the system ( algol ab ) is at an average distance of 2. 69 au from the pair, and the mutual orbital period of the trio is 681 earth days. the total mass of the system is about 5. 8 solar masses, and the mass ratios of aa1, aa2, and ab are about 4. 5 to 1 to 2. the three components of the bright triple star used to be, and still sometimes are, referred to as β per a, b, and c. the washington double star catalog lists them as aa1, aa2, and ab, with two very faint stars b and c about one arcmin distant. a further five faint stars are also listed as companions. the close pair consists of a b8 main sequence star and a much less massive k0 subgiant, which is highly distorted by the more massive star. these two orbit every 2. 9 days and undergo the eclipses that cause algol to vary in brightness. the third star orbits these two every 680 days and is an a or f - type main sequence star. it has been classified as an am star, but this is now considered doubtful. studies of algol led to the algol paradox in the theory of stellar evolution : although components of a binary star form at the same time, and massive stars evolve much faster than the less massive stars, the more massive component algol aa1 is still in the main sequence, but