to the formation of the league of prizren. the league had initially the assistance of the ottoman authorities whose position was based on the religious solidarity of muslim people and landlords connected with the ottoman administration. they favoured and protected the muslim solidarity and called for defence of muslim lands simultaneously constituting the reason for titling the league committee of the real muslims. approximately 300 muslims participated in the assembly composed by delegates from bosnia, the administrator of the sanjak of prizren as representatives of the central authorities and no delegates from vilayet of scutari. signed by only 47 muslim deputies, the league issued the kararname that contained a proclamation that the people from northern albania, epirus and bosnia and herzegovina are willing to defend the territorial integrity of the ottoman empire by all possible means against the troops of bulgaria, serbia and montenegro. ottomans authorities cancelled their assistance when the league, under abdyl frasheri, became focused on working towards albanian autonomy and requested merging four vilayets, including kosovo, shkoder, monastir and ioannina, into an unified vilayet, the albanian vilayet. the league used military force to prevent the annexing areas of plav and gusinje assigned to montenegro. after several successful battles with montenegrin troops, such as the battle of novsice, the league was forced to retreat from their contested regions. the league was later defeated by the ottoman army sent by the sultan. independence albania declared independence from the ottoman empire on 28 november 1912, accompanied with the establishment of the senate and government by the assembly of vlore on 4 december 1912. its sovereignty was recognised by the conference of london. on 29 july 1913, the treaty of london delineated the borders of the country and its neighbours, leaving many albanians outside albania, predominantly partitioned between montenegro, serbia and greece. headquartered in vlore, the international commission of control was established on 15 october 1913 to take care of the administration of newly established albania, until its own political institutions were in order. the international gendarmerie was established as the first law enforcement agency of the principality of albania. in november, the first gendarmerie members arrived in the country. prince of albania wilhelm of wied ( princ vilhelm vidi ) was selected as the first prince of the principality. on 7 march, he arrived in the provisional capital of durres and started to organise his government, appointing turhan pasha permeti to form the first albanian cabinet. in november 1913, the albanian pro - ottoman forces