the town of ekibastuz in kazakhstan, he worked as a miner, bricklayer, and foundry foreman. his experiences at ekibastuz formed the basis for the book one day in the life of ivan denisovich. one of his fellow political prisoners, ion moraru, remembers that solzhenitsyn spent some of his time at ekibastuz writing. while there, solzhenitsyn had a tumor removed. his cancer was not diagnosed at the time. in march 1953, after his sentence ended, solzhenitsyn was sent to internal exile for life at birlik, a village in baidibek district of south kazakhstan. his undiagnosed cancer spread until, by the end of the year, he was close to death. in 1954, solzhenitsyn was permitted to be treated in a hospital in tashkent, where his tumor went into remission. his experiences there became the basis of his novel cancer ward and also found an echo in the short story " the right hand. " it was during this decade of imprisonment and exile that solzhenitsyn developed the philosophical and religious positions of his later life, gradually becoming a philosophically minded eastern orthodox christian as a result of his experience in prison and the camps. he repented for some of his actions as a red army captain, and in prison compared himself to the perpetrators of the gulag. his transformation is described at some length in the fourth part of the gulag archipelago ( " the soul and barbed wire " ). the narrative poem the trail ( written without benefit of pen or paper in prison and camps between 1947 and 1952 ) and the 28 poems composed in prison, forced - labour camp, and exile also provide crucial material for understanding solzhenitsyn ' s intellectual and spiritual odyssey during this period. these " early " works, largely unknown in the west, were published for the first time in russian in 1999 and excerpted in english in 2006. marriages and children on 7 april 1940, while at the university, solzhenitsyn married natalia alekseevna reshetovskaya. they had just over a year of married life before he went into the army, then to the gulag. they divorced in 1952, a year before his release because the wives of gulag prisoners faced the loss of work or residence permits. after the end of his internal exile, they remarried in 1957, divorcing a second time in 1972. reshetovskaya wrote negatively of solzhenitsyn