defeat at the hands of alexander the great who conquered the city in 333 bc. alexander came from gordion to ankara and stayed in the city for a short period. after his death at babylon in 323 bc and the subsequent division of his empire among his generals, ankara, and its environs fell into the share of antigonus. another important expansion took place under the greeks of pontos who came there around 300 bc and developed the city as a trading center for the commerce of goods between the black sea ports and crimea to the north ; assyria, cyprus, and lebanon to the south ; and georgia, armenia and persia to the east. by that time the city also took its name αγκυρα ( ankyra, meaning anchor in greek ) which, in slightly modified form, provides the modern name of ankara. celtic history in 278 bc, the city, along with the rest of central anatolia, was occupied by a celtic group, the galatians, who were the first to make ankara one of their main tribal centers, the headquarters of the tectosages tribe. other centers were pessinus, today ' s ballıhisar, for the trocmi tribe, and tavium, to the east of ankara, for the tolistobogii tribe. the city was then known as ancyra. the celtic element was probably relatively small in numbers ; a warrior aristocracy which ruled over phrygian - speaking peasants. however, the celtic language continued to be spoken in galatia for many centuries. at the end of the 4th century, st. jerome, a native of dalmatia, observed that the language spoken around ankara was very similar to that being spoken in the northwest of the roman world near trier. roman history the city was subsequently passed under the control of the roman empire. in 25 bc, emperor augustus raised it to the status of a polis and made it the capital city of the roman province of galatia. ankara is famous for the monumentum ancyranum ( temple of augustus and rome ) which contains the official record of the acts of augustus, known as the res gestae divi augusti, an inscription cut in marble on the walls of this temple. the ruins of ancyra still furnish today valuable bas - reliefs, inscriptions and other architectural fragments. two other galatian tribal centers, tavium near yozgat, and pessinus ( balhisar ) to the west, near sivrihisar, continued to be