and men ran into one another in an attempt to seek cover. muhammad, however, stood firm. only nine companions remained around him, including abu bakr. under muhammad ' s instruction, his uncle abbas shouted at the top of his voice, " o muslims, come to the prophet of allah ". the call was heard by the muslim soldiers and they gathered beside muhammad. when the muslims had gathered in sufficient number, muhammad ordered a charge against the enemy. in the hand - to - hand fight that followed the tribes were routed and they fled to autas. muhammad posted a contingent to guard the hunayn pass and led the main army to autas. in the confrontation at autas the tribes could not withstand the muslim onslaught. believing continued resistance useless, the tribes broke camp and retired to ta ' if. abu bakr was commissioned by muhammad to lead the attack against ta ' if. the tribes shut themselves in the fort and refused to come out in the open. the muslims employed catapults, but without tangible result. the muslims attempted to use a testudo formation, in which a group of soldiers shielded by a cover of cowhide advanced to set fire to the gate. however, the enemy threw red hot scraps of iron on the testudo, rendering it ineffective. the siege dragged on for two weeks, and still there was no sign of weakness in the fort. muhammad held a council of war. abu bakr advised that the siege might be raised and that god make arrangements for the fall of the fort. the advice was accepted, and in february 630, the siege of ta ' if was raised and the muslim army returned to mecca. a few days later malik bin auf, the commander, came to mecca and became a muslim. abu bakr as amir - ul - hajj in 631 ad, muhammad sent from medina a delegation of three hundred muslims to perform the hajj according to the new islamic way and appointed abu bakr as the leader of the delegation. the day after abu bakr and his party had left for the hajj, muhammad received a new revelation : surah tawbah, the ninth chapter of the quran. it is related that when this revelation came, someone suggested to muhammad that he should send news of it to abu bakr. muhammad said that only a man of his house could proclaim the revelation. muhammad summoned ali, and asked him to proclaim a portion of surah tawbah to the people on the day of sacrifice when they assembled at