of anagram formation as a basic skill. some examples : in anagrams, players flip tiles over one at a time and race to take words. they can " steal " each other ' s words by rearranging the letters and extending the words. in a version of scrabble called clabbers, the name itself is an anagram of scrabble. tiles may be placed in any order on the board as long as they anagram to a valid word. on the british game show countdown, contestants are given 30 seconds to make the longest word from nine random letters. in boggle, players make constrained words from a grid of sixteen random letters, by joining adjacent cubes. on the british game show brainteaser, contestants are shown a word broken into randomly arranged segments and must announce the whole word. at the end of the game there is a " pyramid " which starts with a three - letter word. a letter appears in the line below to which the player must add the existing letters to find a solution. the pattern continues until the player reaches the final eight - letter anagram. the player wins the game by solving all the anagrams within the allotted time. in bananagrams, players place tiles from a pool into crossword - style word arrangements in a race to see who can finish the pool of tiles first. ciphers multiple anagramming is a technique used to solve some kinds of cryptograms, such as a permutation cipher, a transposition cipher, and the jefferson disk. solutions may be computationally found using a jumble algorithm. methods of construction sometimes, it is possible to " see " anagrams in words, unaided by tools, though the more letters involved the more difficult this becomes. the difficulty is that for a word of different letters, there are ( factorial of ) different permutations and so different anagrams of the word. anagram dictionaries can also be used. computer programs, known as " anagram search ", " anagram servers ", " anagram solvers ", offer a much faster route to creating anagrams, and a large number of these programs are available on the internet. some programs use the anatree algorithm to compute anagrams efficiently. the program or server carries out an exhaustive search of a database of words, to produce a list containing every possible combination of words or phrases from the input word or phrase using a jumble algorithm. some programs ( such as lexpert ) restrict to