who have worked with their karmic inheritance. the fourth level is that from which evolved souls teach and direct those on earth. the fifth level is where the soul leaves human consciousness behind. at the sixth plane, the soul is finally aligned with the cosmic consciousness and has no sense of separateness or individuality. finally, the seventh level, the goal of each soul, is where the soul transcends its own sense of " soulfulness " and reunites with the world soul and the universe. taoism taoism views life as an illusion and death as a transformation into immortality. taoists believe that immortality of the soul can be achieved by living a virtuous life in harmony with the tao. they are taught not to fear death, as it is simply part of nature. traditional african religions traditional african religions are diverse in their beliefs in an afterlife. hunter - gatherer societies such as the hadza have no particular belief in an afterlife, and the death of an individual is a straightforward end to their existence. ancestor cults are found throughout sub - saharan africa, including cultures like the yombe, beng, yoruba and ewe, " [ t ] he belief that the dead come back into life and are reborn into their families is given concrete expression in the personal names that are given to children.... what is reincarnated are some of the dominant characteristics of the ancestor and not his soul. for each soul remains distinct and each birth represents a new soul. " the yoruba, dogon and lodagoa have eschatological ideas similar to abrahamic religions, " but in most african societies, there is a marked absence of such clear - cut notions of heaven and hell, although there are notions of god judging the soul after death. " in some societies like the mende, multiple beliefs coexist. the mende believe that people die twice : once during the process of joining the secret society, and again during biological death after which they become ancestors. however, some mende also believe that after people are created by god they live ten consecutive lives, each in progressively descending worlds. one cross - cultural theme is that the ancestors are part of the world of the living, interacting with it regularly. unitarian universalism some unitarian universalists believe in universalism : that all souls will ultimately be saved and that there are no torments of hell. unitarian universalists differ widely in their theology hence there is no exact same stance on the issue. although unitarians historically believed in a literal hell