he discussed prophethood and developed a system of philosophical criteria to discern its false claimants in his time. he also wrote a treatise entitled finding the direction of qibla by calculation in which he discussed finding the qibla, where prayers ( salat ) are directed towards, mathematically. there are occasional references to theology or religious sentiment in his technical works, e. g. in doubts concerning ptolemy : in the winding motion : regarding the relation of objective truth and god : legacy alhazen made significant contributions to optics, number theory, geometry, astronomy and natural philosophy. alhazen ' s work on optics is credited with contributing a new emphasis on experiment. his main work, kitab al - manazir ( book of optics ), was known in the muslim world mainly, but not exclusively, through the thirteenth - century commentary by kamal al - din al - farisi, the tanqih al - manazir li - dhawi l - absar wa l - basa ' ir. in al - andalus, it was used by the eleventh - century prince of the banu hud dynasty of zaragossa and author of an important mathematical text, al - mu ' taman ibn hud. a latin translation of the kitab al - manazir was made probably in the late twelfth or early thirteenth century. this translation was read by and greatly influenced a number of scholars in christian europe including : roger bacon, robert grosseteste, witelo, giambattista della porta, leonardo da vinci, galileo galilei, christiaan huygens, rene descartes, and johannes kepler. meanwhile, in the islamic world, alhazen ' s work influenced averroes ' writings on optics, and his legacy was further advanced through the ' reforming ' of his optics by persian scientist kamal al - din al - farisi ( died c. 1320 ) in the latter ' s kitab tanqih al - manazir ( the revision of [ ibn al - haytham ' s ] optics ). alhazen wrote as many as 200 books, although only 55 have survived. some of his treatises on optics survived only through latin translation. during the middle ages his books on cosmology were translated into latin, hebrew and other languages. although only one commentary on alhazen ' s optics has survived the islamic middle ages, geoffrey chaucer mentions the work in the canterbury tales : " they spoke of alhazen and vitello, and aristotle,