partnerships between state - run endiama and mining companies such as alrosa which operate in angola. access to biocapacity in angola is higher than world average. in 2016, angola had 1. 9 global hectares of biocapacity per person within its territory, slightly more than world average of 1. 6 global hectares per person. in 2016, angola used 1. 01 global hectares of biocapacity per person - their ecological footprint of consumption. this means they use about half as much biocapacity as angola contains. as a result, angola is running a biocapacity reserve. agriculture agriculture and forestry is an area of potential opportunity for the country. the african economic outlook organization states that " angola requires 4. 5 million tonnes a year of grain but grows only about 55 % of the maize it needs, 20 % of the rice and just 5 % of its required wheat ". in addition, the world bank estimates that " less than 3 per cent of angola ' s abundant fertile land is cultivated and the economic potential of the forestry sector remains largely unexploited ". before independence in 1975, angola was a bread - basket of southern africa and a major exporter of bananas, coffee and sisal, but three decades of civil war ( 1975 – 2002 ) destroyed fertile countryside, left it littered with landmines and drove millions into the cities. the country now depends on expensive food imports, mainly from south africa and portugal, while more than 90 % of farming is done at the family and subsistence level. thousands of angolan small - scale farmers are trapped in poverty. transport transport in angola consists of : three separate railway systems totalling of highway of which is paved 1, 295 navigable inland waterways five major sea ports 243 airports, of which 32 are paved. angola centers its port trade in five main ports : namibe, lobito, soyo, cabinda and luanda. the port of luanda is the largest of the five, as well as being one of the busiest on the african continent. travel on highways outside of towns and cities in angola ( and in some cases within ) is often not best advised for those without four - by - four vehicles. while reasonable road infrastructure has existed within angola, time and war have taken their toll on the road surfaces, leaving many severely potholed, littered with broken asphalt. in many areas drivers have established alternative tracks to avoid the worst parts of the surface, although careful attention must be paid to the presence or absence of landmine warning markers