##ds, technically vassals of the seljuk sultans, but sometimes de facto rulers themselves. under the seljuks, local poets such as nizami ganjavi and khaqani gave rise to a blossoming of persian literature on the territory of present - day azerbaijan. the local dynasty of the shirvanshahs became a vassal state of timur ' s empire and assisted him in his war with the ruler of the golden horde tokhtamysh. following timur ' s death, two independent and rival states emerged : qara qoyunlu and aq qoyunlu. the shirvanshahs returned, maintaining for numerous centuries to come a high degree of autonomy as local rulers and vassals as they had done since 861. in 1501, the safavid dynasty of iran subdued the shirvanshahs and gained its possessions. in the course of the next century, the safavids converted the formerly sunni population to shia islam, as they did with the population in what is modern - day iran. the safavids allowed the shirvanshahs to remain in power, under safavid suzerainty, until 1538, when safavid king tahmasp i ( r. 1524 – 1576 ) completely deposed them, and made the area into the safavid province of shirvan. the sunni ottomans briefly managed to occupy present - day azerbaijan as a result of the ottoman – safavid war of 1578 – 1590 ; by the early 17th century, they were ousted by safavid iranian ruler abbas i ( r. 1588 – 1629 ). in the wake of the demise of the safavid empire, baku and its environs were briefly occupied by the russians as a consequence of the russo - persian war of 1722 – 1723. remainder of present azerbaijan was occupied by the ottomans from 1722 to 1736. despite brief intermissions such as these by safavid iran ' s neighboring rivals, the land of what is today azerbaijan remained under iranian rule from the earliest advent of the safavids up to the course of the 19th century. modern history after the safavids, the area was ruled by the iranian afsharid dynasty. after the death of nader shah ( r. 1736 – 1747 ), many of his former subjects capitalized on the eruption of instability. numerous self - ruling khanates with various forms of autonomy emerged in the area. the rulers of these