open individualism by daniel kolak, that concludes that individual conscious experience is illusory, and because consciousness continues after death in all conscious beings, you do not die. this position has allegedly been supported by physicists such as erwin schrodinger and freeman dyson. certain problems arise with the idea of a particular person continuing after death. peter van inwagen, in his argument regarding resurrection, notes that the materialist must have some sort of physical continuity. john hick also raises questions regarding personal identity in his book, death and eternal life, using an example of a person ceasing to exist in one place while an exact replica appears in another. if the replica had all the same experiences, traits, and physical appearances of the first person, we would all attribute the same identity to the second, according to hick. process philosophy in the panentheistic model of process philosophy and theology the writers alfred north whitehead and charles hartshorne rejected the idea that the universe was made of substance, instead saying reality is composed of living experiences ( occasions of experience ). according to hartshorne people do not experience subjective ( or personal ) immortality in the afterlife, but they do have objective immortality because their experiences live on forever in god, who contains all that was. however other process philosophers such as david ray griffin have written that people may have subjective experience after death. science psychological proposals for the origin of a belief in an afterlife include cognitive disposition, cultural learning, and as an intuitive religious idea. in 2008, a large - scale study conducted by the university of southampton involving 2060 patients from 15 hospitals in the united kingdom, united states and austria was launched. the aware ( awareness during resuscitation ) study examined the broad range of mental experiences in relation to death. in a large study, researchers also tested the validity of conscious experiences for the first time using objective markers, to determine whether claims of awareness compatible with out - of - body experiences correspond with real or hallucinatory events. the results revealed that 40 % of those who survived a cardiac arrest were aware during the time that they were clinically dead and before their hearts were restarted. one patient also had a verified out - of - body experience ( over 80 % of patients did not survive their cardiac arrest or were too sick to be interviewed ), but his cardiac arrest occurred in a room without markers. dr. parnia in the interview stated, " the evidence thus far suggests that in the first few minutes after death, consciousness is not annihilated.