puts laissez - faire economics before economic equality, it is commonly viewed as incompatible with the anti - capitalist and egalitarian tradition of anarchism. although anarcho - capitalist theory implies the abolition of the state in favour of a fully laissez - faire economy, it lies outside the tradition of anarchism. while using the language of anarchism, anarcho - capitalism only shares anarchism ' s antipathy towards the state and not anarchism ' s antipathy towards hierarchy as theorists expect from anarcho - capitalist economic power relations. it follows a different paradigm from anarchism and has a fundamentally different approach and goals. in spite of the anarcho - in its title, anarcho - capitalism is more closely affiliated with capitalism, right - libertarianism, and liberalism than with anarchism. some within this laissez - faire tradition reject the designation of anarcho - capitalism, believing that capitalism may either refer to the laissez - faire market they support or the government - regulated system that they oppose. rothbard argued that anarcho - capitalism is the only true form of anarchism — the only form of anarchism that could possibly exist in reality as he maintained that any other form presupposes authoritarian enforcement of a political ideology such as " redistribution of private property ", which he attributed to anarchism. according to this argument, the capitalist free market is " the natural situation " that would result from people being free from state authority and entails the establishment of all voluntary associations in society such as cooperatives, non - profit organizations, businesses and so on. moreover, anarcho - capitalists, as well as classical liberal minarchists, argue that the application of anarchist ideals as advocated by what they term " left - wing anarchists " would require an authoritarian body of some sort to impose it. based on their understanding and interpretation of anarchism, in order to forcefully prevent people from accumulating capital, which they believe is a goal of anarchists, there would necessarily be a redistributive organization of some sort which would have the authority to in essence exact a tax and re - allocate the resulting resources to a larger group of people. they conclude that this theoretical body would inherently have political power and would be nothing short of a state. the difference between such an arrangement and an anarcho - capitalist system is what anarcho - capitalists see as the voluntary nature of organization within