##n - charts and control tables are structured ways to express algorithms that avoid many of the ambiguities common in the statements based on natural language. programming languages are primarily intended for expressing algorithms in a form that can be executed by a computer, but are also often used as a way to define or document algorithms. there is a wide variety of representations possible and one can express a given turing machine program as a sequence of machine tables ( see finite - state machine, state - transition table and control table for more ), as flowcharts and drakon - charts ( see state diagram for more ), or as a form of rudimentary machine code or assembly code called " sets of quadruples " ( see turing machine for more ). representations of algorithms can be classed into three accepted levels of turing machine description, as follows : 1 high - level description "... prose to describe an algorithm, ignoring the implementation details. at this level, we do not need to mention how the machine manages its tape or head. " 2 implementation description "... prose used to define the way the turing machine uses its head and the way that it stores data on its tape. at this level, we do not give details of states or transition function. " 3 formal description most detailed, " lowest level ", gives the turing machine ' s " state table ". for an example of the simple algorithm " add m + n " described in all three levels, see examples. design algorithm design refers to a method or a mathematical process for problem - solving and engineering algorithms. the design of algorithms is part of many solution theories, such as divide - and - conquer or dynamic programming within operation research. techniques for designing and implementing algorithm designs are also called algorithm design patterns, with examples including the template method pattern and the decorator pattern. one of the most important aspects of algorithm design is resource ( run - time, memory usage ) efficiency ; the big o notation is used to describe e. g. an algorithm ' s run - time growth as the size of its input increases. typical steps in the development of algorithms : problem definition development of a model specification of the algorithm designing an algorithm checking the correctness of the algorithm analysis of algorithm implementation of algorithm program testing documentation preparation computer algorithms " elegant " ( compact ) programs, " good " ( fast ) programs : the notion of " simplicity and elegance " appears informally in knuth and precisely in chaitin : knuth : "... we want good algorithms in some loosely defined aesthetic sense