a roman and a christian caused him to strive for what a modern context would describe as a type of communism or socialism. he was not just interested in the church but was also interested in the condition of contemporary italian society. ambrose considered the poor not a distinct group of outsiders, but a part of a united people to be stood with in solidarity. giving to the poor was not to be considered an act of generosity towards the fringes of society but a repayment of resources that god had originally bestowed on everyone equally and that the rich had usurped. he defines justice as providing for the poor whom he describes as our " brothers and sisters " because they " share our common humanity ". mariology the theological treatises of ambrose of milan would come to influence popes damasus, siricius and leo xiii. central to ambrose is the virginity of mary and her role as mother of god. the virgin birth is worthy of god. which human birth would have been more worthy of god, than the one in which the immaculate son of god maintained the purity of his immaculate origin while becoming human? we confess that christ the lord was born from a virgin, and therefore we reject the natural order of things. because she conceived not from a man but from the holy spirit. christ is not divided but one. if we adore him as the son of god, we do not deny his birth from the virgin.... but nobody shall extend this to mary. mary was the temple of god but not god in the temple. therefore, only the one who was in the temple can be worshiped. yes, truly blessed for having surpassed the priest ( zechariah ). while the priest denied, the virgin rectified the error. no wonder that the lord, wishing to rescue the world, began his work with mary. thus she, through whom salvation was being prepared for all people, would be the first to receive the promised fruit of salvation. ambrose viewed celibacy as superior to marriage and saw mary as the model of virginity. augustine ambrose studied theology with simplician, a presbyter of rome. using his excellent knowledge of greek, which was then rare in the west, ambrose studied the old testament and greek authors like philo, origen, athanasius, and basil of caesarea, with whom he was also exchanging letters. ambrose became a famous rhetorician whom augustine came to hear speak. augustine wrote in his confessions that faustus, the manichean rhetorician, was a more impressive speaker