fragilis type specimen, so it is a separate species at minimum. a. maximus was a new combination by david k. smith for chure ' s saurophaganax maximus, a taxon created by chure in 1995 for giant allosaurid remains from the morrison of oklahoma. these remains had been known as saurophagus, but that name was already in use, leading chure to propose a substitute. smith, in his 1998 analysis of variation, concluded that s. maximus was not different enough from allosaurus to be a separate genus, but did warrant its own species, a. maximus. this reassignment was rejected in a review of basal tetanurans. there are also several species left over from the synonymizations of creosaurus and labrosaurus with allosaurus. creosaurus potens was named by lull in 1911 for a vertebra from the early cretaceous of maryland. it is now regarded as a dubious theropod. labrosaurus stechowi, described in 1920 by janensch based on isolated ceratosaurus - like teeth from the tendaguru beds of tanzania, was listed by donald f. glut as a species of allosaurus, is now considered a dubious ceratosaurian related to ceratosaurus. l. sulcatus, named by marsh in 1896 for a morrison theropod tooth, which like l. stechowi is now regarded as a dubious ceratosaurus - like ceratosaur. a. tendagurensis was named in 1925 by werner janensch for a partial shin ( mb. r. 3620 ) found in the kimmeridgian - age tendaguru formation in mtwara, tanzania. although tabulated as a tentatively valid species of allosaurus in the second edition of the dinosauria, subsequent studies place it as indeterminate beyond tetanurae, either a carcharodontosaurian or megalosaurid. although obscure, it was a large theropod, possibly around 10 meters long ( 33 ft ) and 2. 5 metric tons ( 2. 8 short tons ) in weight. kurzanov and colleagues in 2003 designated six teeth from siberia as allosaurus sp. ( meaning the authors found the specimens to be most like those of allosaurus, but did not or could not assign a species to them ). they were reclassified as an indeterminate theropod. also, reports of allosaurus in shanxi, china go back to at least 1982.