his prime minister dr. vladan đorđevic, who was visiting the universal exhibition in paris at the time of the announcement. both immediately resigned, and alexander had difficulty in forming a new cabinet. alexander ' s mother also opposed the marriage and was subsequently banished from the kingdom. opposition to the union seemed to subside somewhat for a time upon the publication of congratulations of nicholas ii of russia to the king on his engagement and of his agreement to act as the principal witness at the wedding. the marriage duly took place in august 1900. even so, the unpopularity of the union weakened the king ' s position in the eyes of the army and the country at large. politics and the constitution king alexander tried to reconcile political parties by unveiling a liberal constitution of his own initiative in 1901, introducing for the first time in the constitutional history of serbia the system of two chambers ( skupstina and senate ). this reconciled the political parties, but did not placate the army which, already dissatisfied with the king ' s marriage, became still more so at the rumors that one of the two unpopular brothers of queen draga, lieutenant nikodije, was to be proclaimed heir presumptive to the throne. alexander ' s good relations and the country ' s growing dependence on austria - hungary were detested by the serbian public. two million serbs lived in austria - hungary, with another million in the ottoman empire, although many migrated to serbia. meanwhile, the independence of the senate and of the council of state caused increasing irritation to king alexander. in march 1903, the king suspended the constitution for half an hour, time enough to publish decrees dismissing and replacing the old senators and councillors of state. this arbitrary act increased dissatisfaction in the country. attempting to appease the opposition, king alexander granted an amnesty to the persecuted radicals, and in 1901 issued a moderately liberal constitution. a council of state and a second chamber to parliament were instituted. in 1902 alexander ' s rival peter кarađorđevic was proclaimed king by followers at sabac, and alexander responded by organizing a military cabinet and suspending the constitution. radicals began to plot the king ' s assassination. assassination the general impression was that, as much as the senate was packed with men devoted to the royal couple and the government obtained a large majority at the general elections, king alexander would not hesitate any longer to proclaim queen draga ' s brother as the heir presumptive to the throne. in spite of this, it had been agreed with the serbian government that prince