arsenic could leach out of the wood into the surrounding soil ( from playground equipment, for instance ), a risk is also presented by the burning of older cca timber. the direct or indirect ingestion of wood ash from burnt cca lumber has caused fatalities in animals and serious poisonings in humans ; the lethal human dose is approximately 20 grams of ash. scrap cca lumber from construction and demolition sites may be inadvertently used in commercial and domestic fires. protocols for safe disposal of cca lumber are not consistent throughout the world. widespread landfill disposal of such timber raises some concern, but other studies have shown no arsenic contamination in the groundwater. mapping of industrial releases in the us one tool that maps the location ( and other information ) of arsenic releases in the united states is toxmap. toxmap is a geographic information system ( gis ) from the division of specialized information services of the united states national library of medicine ( nlm ) funded by the us federal government. with marked - up maps of the united states, toxmap enables users to visually explore data from the united states environmental protection agency ' s ( epa ) toxics release inventory and superfund basic research programs. toxmap ' s chemical and environmental health information is taken from nlm ' s toxicology data network ( toxnet ), pubmed, and from other authoritative sources. bioremediation physical, chemical, and biological methods have been used to remediate arsenic contaminated water. bioremediation is said to be cost - effective and environmentally friendly. bioremediation of ground water contaminated with arsenic aims to convert arsenite, the toxic form of arsenic to humans, to arsenate. arsenate ( + 5 oxidation state ) is the dominant form of arsenic in surface water, while arsenite ( + 3 oxidation state ) is the dominant form in hypoxic to anoxic environments. arsenite is more soluble and mobile than arsenate. many species of bacteria can transform arsenite to arsenate in anoxic conditions by using arsenite as an electron donor. this is a useful method in ground water remediation. another bioremediation strategy is to use plants that accumulate arsenic in their tissues via phytoremediation but the disposal of contaminated plant material needs to be considered. bioremediation requires careful evaluation and design in accordance with existing conditions. some sites may require the addition of an electron acceptor while others require microbe supplementation ( bio