from this follows a simple algorithm, which can be stated in a high - level description in english prose, as : high - level description : if there are no numbers in the set, then there is no highest number. assume the first number in the set is the largest number in the set. for each remaining number in the set : if this number is larger than the current largest number, consider this number to be the largest number in the set. when there are no numbers left in the set to iterate over, consider the current largest number to be the largest number of the set. ( quasi - ) formal description : written in prose but much closer to the high - level language of a computer program, the following is the more formal coding of the algorithm in pseudocode or pidgin code : input : a list of numbers l. output : the largest number in the list l. if l. size = 0 return null largest ← l [ 0 ] for each item in l, do if item > largest, then largest ← item return largest euclid ' s algorithm in mathematics, the euclidean algorithm or euclid ' s algorithm, is an efficient method for computing the greatest common divisor ( gcd ) of two integers ( numbers ), the largest number that divides them both without a remainder. it is named after the ancient greek mathematician euclid, who first described it in his elements ( ). it is one of the oldest algorithms in common use. it can be used to reduce fractions to their simplest form, and is a part of many other number - theoretic and cryptographic calculations. euclid poses the problem thus : " given two numbers not prime to one another, to find their greatest common measure ". he defines " a number [ to be ] a multitude composed of units " : a counting number, a positive integer not including zero. to " measure " is to place a shorter measuring length s successively ( q times ) along longer length l until the remaining portion r is less than the shorter length s. in modern words, remainder r = l − q×s, q being the quotient, or remainder r is the " modulus ", the integer - fractional part left over after the division. for euclid ' s method to succeed, the starting lengths must satisfy two requirements : ( i ) the lengths must not be zero, and ( ii ) the subtraction must be " proper " ; i. e., a test must guarantee that the smaller of