the gepids were defeated in the ensuing battle, their king slain by alboin, and cunimund ' s daughter rosamund taken captive, according to references in the origo. the full destruction of the gepid kingdom was completed by the avars, who overcame the gepids in the east. as a result, the gepids ceased to exist as an independent people, and were partly absorbed by the lombards and the avars. some time before 568, alboin ' s first wife chlothsind died, and after his victory against cunimund alboin married rosamund, to establish a bond with the remaining gepids. the war also marked a watershed in the geo - political history of the region, as together with the lombard migration the following year, it signalled the end of six centuries of germanic dominance in the pannonian basin. preparations and departure from pannonia despite his success against the gepids, alboin had failed to greatly increase his power, and was now faced with a much stronger threat from the avars. historians consider this the decisive factor in convincing alboin to undertake a migration, even though there are indications that before the war with the gepids a decision was maturing to leave for italy, a country thousands of lombards had seen in the 550s when hired by the byzantines to fight in the gothic war. additionally, the lombards would have known of the weakness of byzantine italy, which had endured a number of problems after being retaken from the goths. in particular the so - called plague of justinian had ravaged the region and conflict remained endemic, with the three - chapter controversy sparking religious opposition and administration at a standstill after the able governor of the peninsula, narses, was recalled. nevertheless, the lombards viewed italy as a rich land which promised great booty, assets alboin used to gather together a horde which included not only lombards but many other peoples of the region, including heruli, suebi, gepids, thuringii, bulgars, sarmatians, the remaining romans and a few ostrogoths. but the most important group, other than the lombards, were the saxons, of whom 20, 000 male warriors with their families participated in the trek. these saxons were tributaries to the frankish king sigebert, and their participation indicates that alboin had the support of the franks for his venture. the precise size of the hetero