administration so that the area might have someone with experience with the welsh in charge. in 1058 ealdred made a pilgrimage to jerusalem, the first english bishop to make the journey. he travelled through hungary, and the anglo - saxon chronicle said that " he went to jerusalem in such state as no - one had done before him. " while in jerusalem he made a gift of a gold chalice to the church of the holy sepulchre. it is possible that the reason ealdred travelled through hungary was to arrange the travel of edward the exile ' s family to england. another possibility is that he wished to search for other possible heirs to king edward in hungary. it is not known exactly when edward the exile ' s family returned to england, whether they returned with edward in 1057, or sometime later, so it is only a possibility that they returned with ealdred in 1058. very little documentary evidence is available from ealdred ' s time as bishop of worcester. only five leases that he signed survive, and all date from 1051 to 1053. two further leases exist in hemming ' s cartulary as copies only. how the diocese of worcester was administered when ealdred was abroad is unclear, although it appears wulfstan, the prior of the cathedral chapter, performed the religious duties in the diocese. on the financial side, the evesham chronicle states that æthelwig, who became abbot of evesham abbey in 1058, administered worcester before he became abbot. archbishop of york cynesige, the archbishop of york, died on 22 december 1060, and ealdred was elected archbishop of york on christmas day, 1060. although a bishop was promptly appointed to hereford, none was named to worcester, and it appears ealdred intended to retain worcester along with york, which several of his predecessors had done. there were a few reasons for this, one of which was political, as the kings of england preferred to appoint bishops from the south to the northern bishoprics, hoping to counter the northern tendency towards separatism. another reason was that york was not a wealthy see, and worcester was. holding worcester along with york allowed the archbishop sufficient revenue to support himself. in 1061 ealdred travelled to rome to receive the pallium, the symbol of an archbishop ' s authority. journeying with him was tostig, another son of earl godwin, who was now earl of northumbria. william of malmesbury says that ealdred, by "