at a younger age, while the risk of bleeding, while small, increases with age, particular for adults over 60, and can be compounded by other risk factors such as diabetes and a history of gastrointestinal bleeding. as a result, the uspstf suggests that " people ages 40 to 59 who are at higher risk for cvd should decide with their clinician whether to start taking aspirin ; people 60 or older should not start taking aspirin to prevent a first heart attack or stroke. " primary prevention guidelines from made by the american college of cardiology and the american heart association state they might consider aspirin for patients aged 40 – 69 with a higher risk of atherosclerotic cvd, without an increased bleeding risk, while stating they would not recommend aspirin for patients aged over 70 or adults of any age with an increased bleeding risk. they state a cvd risk estimation and a risk discussion should be done before starting on aspirin, while stating aspirin should be used " infrequently in the routine primary prevention of ( atherosclerotic cvd ) because of lack of net benefit ". as of, the european society of cardiology made similar recommendations ; considering aspirin specifically to patients aged less than 70 at high or very high cvd risk, without any clear contraindications, on a case - by - case basis considering both ischemic risk and bleeding risk. cancer prevention aspirin may reduce the overall risk of both getting cancer and dying from cancer. there is substantial evidence for lowering the risk of colorectal cancer ( crc ), but aspirin must be taken for at least 10 – 20 years to see this benefit. it may also slightly reduce the risk of endometrial cancer and prostate cancer. some conclude the benefits are greater than the risks due to bleeding in those at average risk. others are unclear if the benefits are greater than the risk. given this uncertainty, the 2007 united states preventive services task force ( uspstf ) guidelines on this topic recommended against the use of aspirin for prevention of crc in people with average risk. nine years later however, the uspstf issued a grade b recommendation for the use of low - dose aspirin ( 75 to 100mg / day ) " for the primary prevention of cvd [ cardiovascular disease ] and crc in adults 50 to 59 years of age who have a 10 % or greater 10 - year cvd risk, are