- 80 and commodore pet, because of its character cell - based color graphics and open architecture. while the apple i and early apple ii models used ordinary audio cassette tapes as storage devices, they were superseded by the introduction of a - inch floppy disk drive and interface called the disk ii in 1978. the apple ii was chosen to be the desktop platform for the first " killer application " of the business world : visicalc, a spreadsheet program released in 1979. visicalc created a business market for the apple ii and gave home users an additional reason to buy an apple ii : compatibility with the office, but apple ii market share remained behind home computers made by competitors such as atari, commodore, and tandy. on december 12, 1980, apple ( ticker symbol " aapl " ) went public selling 4. 6 million shares at $ 22 per share ( $. 10 per share when adjusting for stock splits ), generating over $ 100 million, which was more capital than any ipo since ford motor company in 1956. by the end of the day, 300 millionaires were created, from a stock price of $ 29 per share and a market cap of $ 1. 778 billion. 1980 – 1990 : success with macintosh a critical moment in the company ' s history came in december 1979 when jobs and several apple employees, including human – computer interface expert jef raskin, visited xerox parc in to see a demonstration of the xerox alto, a computer using a graphical user interface. xerox granted apple engineers three days of access to the parc facilities in return for the option to buy 100, 000 shares ( 22. 4 million split - adjusted shares ) of apple at the pre - ipo price of $ 10 a share. after the demonstration, jobs was immediately convinced that all future computers would use a graphical user interface, and development of a gui began for the apple lisa, named after jobs ' s daughter. the lisa division would be plagued by infighting, and in 1982 jobs was pushed off the project. the lisa launched in 1983 and became the first personal computer sold to the public with a gui, but was a commercial failure due to its high price and limited software titles. jobs, angered by being pushed off the lisa team, took over the company ' s macintosh division. wozniak and raskin had envisioned the macintosh as a low - cost computer with a text - based interface like the apple ii, but a plane crash in 1981 forced wozniak to step back from the project.