- brothers, sometimes under the supervision of a monk. benedictine abbeys in england many of today ' s cathedrals in england were originally benedictine monasteries. these included canterbury, chester, durham, ely, gloucester, norwich, peterborough, rochester, winchester, and worcester. shrewsbury abbey in shropshire was founded as a benedictine monastery by the normans in 1083. westminster abbey westminster abbey was founded in the tenth century by saint dunstan who established a community of benedictine monks. the only traces of st dunstan ' s monastery remaining are round arches and massive supporting columns of the undercroft and the pyx chamber. the cloister and buildings lie directly to the south of the church. parallel to the nave, on the south side of the cloister, was a refectory, with a lavatory at the door. on the eastern side, there was a dormitory, raised on a vaulted substructure and communicating with the south transept and a chapter house ( meeting room ). a small cloister lay to the south - east of the large cloister. beyond that was an infirmary with a table hall and a refectory for those who were able to leave their chambers. at the west entrance to the abbey, there was a house and a small courtyard for the abbot. st mary ' s abbey, york in 1055, st mary ' s abbey, york was built in england ' s north by the order of saint benedict. it followed the common plan. the entrance to the abbey was through a strong gate on the northern side. close to the entrance was a chapel. this was for visitors arriving at the abbey to make their devotions. near the gate was the hospitium ( guest hall ). the buildings are completely ruined, but the walls of the nave and the cloisters are still visible on the grounds of the yorkshire museum. the abbey was surrounded by fortified walls on three sides. the river ouse bordered the fourth side. the stone walls remain as an excellent example of english abbey walls. reforms at the abbey of cluny the abbey of cluny was founded by william i, duke of aquitaine in 910 ad at cluny, saone - et - loire, france. the abbey was built in the romanesque style. the abbey was noted for its strict observance of the rule of saint benedict. however, reforms resulted in many departures from this precedent. the cluniac reforms brought focus to the traditions of monastic life, encouraging art and the caring of the poor.