the effect of obliquity alone could be ignored. for diffraction by a straight edge, the intensity as a function of distance from the geometric shadow could then be expressed with sufficient accuracy in terms of what are now called the normalized fresnel integrals : the same note included a table of the integrals, for an upper limit ranging from 0 to 5. 1 in steps of 0. 1, computed with a mean error of 0. 0003, plus a smaller table of maxima and minima of the resulting intensity. in his final " memoir on the diffraction of light ", deposited on 29 july and bearing the latin epigraph " natura simplex et fecunda " ( " nature simple and fertile " ), fresnel slightly expanded the two tables without changing the existing figures, except for a correction to the first minimum of intensity. for completeness, he repeated his solution to " the problem of interference ", whereby sinusoidal functions are added like vectors. he acknowledged the directionality of the secondary sources and the variation in their distances from the observation point, chiefly to explain why these things make negligible difference in the context, provided of course that the secondary sources do not radiate in the retrograde direction. then, applying his theory of interference to the secondary waves, he expressed the intensity of light diffracted by a single straight edge ( half - plane ) in terms of integrals which involved the dimensions of the problem, but which could be converted to the normalized forms above. with reference to the integrals, he explained the calculation of the maxima and minima of the intensity ( external fringes ), and noted that the calculated intensity falls very rapidly as one moves into the geometric shadow. the last result, as olivier darrigol says, " amounts to a proof of the rectilinear propagation of light in the wave theory, indeed the first proof that a modern physicist would still accept. " for the experimental testing of his calculations, fresnel used red light with a wavelength of 638nm, which he deduced from the diffraction pattern in the simple case in which light incident on a single slit was focused by a cylindrical lens. for a variety of distances from the source to the obstacle and from the obstacle to the field point, he compared the calculated and observed positions of the fringes for diffraction by a half - plane, a slit, and a narrow strip — concentrating on the minima, which were visually