##onis. the story also provides an etiology for aphrodite ' s associations with certain flowers. reportedly, as she mourned adonis ' s death, she caused anemones to grow wherever his blood fell and declared a festival on the anniversary of his death. in one version of the story, aphrodite injured herself on a thorn from a rose bush and the rose, which had previously been white, was stained red by her blood. according to lucian ' s on the syrian goddess, each year during the festival of adonis, the adonis river in lebanon ( now known as the abraham river ) ran red with blood. the myth of adonis is associated with the festival of the adonia, which was celebrated by greek women every year in midsummer. the festival, which was evidently already celebrated in lesbos by sappho ' s time, seems to have first become popular in athens in the mid - fifth century bc. at the start of the festival, the women would plant a " garden of adonis ", a small garden planted inside a small basket or a shallow piece of broken pottery containing a variety of quick - growing plants, such as lettuce and fennel, or even quick - sprouting grains such as wheat and barley. the women would then climb ladders to the roofs of their houses, where they would place the gardens out under the heat of the summer sun. the plants would sprout in the sunlight but wither quickly in the heat. then the women would mourn and lament loudly over the death of adonis, tearing their clothes and beating their breasts in a public display of grief. divine favoritism in hesiod ' s works and days, zeus orders aphrodite to make pandora, the first woman, physically beautiful and sexually attractive, so that she may become " an evil men will love to embrace ". aphrodite " spills grace " over pandora ' s head and equips her with " painful desire and knee - weakening anguish ", thus making her the perfect vessel for evil to enter the world. aphrodite ' s attendants, peitho, the charites, and the horae, adorn pandora with gold and jewelry. according to one myth, aphrodite aided hippomenes, a noble youth who wished to marry atalanta, a maiden who was renowned throughout the land for her beauty, but who refused to marry any man unless he could outrun her in a footrace.