##l success. the public was fascinated by an inside view of the third reich and a major war criminal became a popular figure almost overnight. importantly, he provided an alibi to older germans who had been nazis. if speer, who had been so close to hitler, had not known the full extent of the crimes of the nazi regime and had just been " following orders ", then they could tell themselves and others they too had done the same. so great was the need to believe this " speer myth " that fest and siedler were able to strengthen it — even in the face of mounting historical evidence to the contrary. death speer made himself widely available to historians and other enquirers. in october 1973, he made his first trip to britain, flying to london to be interviewed on the bbc midweek programme. in the same year, he appeared on the television programme the world at war. speer returned to london in 1981 to participate in the bbc newsnight programme. he suffered a stroke and died in london on 1 september. he had remained married to his wife, but he had formed a relationship with a german woman living in london and was with her at the time of his death. his daughter, margret nissen, wrote in her 2005 memoirs that after his release from spandau he spent all of his time constructing the " speer myth ". the speer myth the good nazi after his release from spandau, speer portrayed himself as the " good nazi ". he was well - educated, middle class, and bourgeois, and could contrast himself with those who, in the popular mind, typified " bad nazis ". in his memoirs and interviews, he had distorted the truth and made so many major omissions that his lies became known as " myths ". speer even invented his own birth ' s circumstances, stating falsely that he was born at midday amid crashes of thunder and bells of the nearby christ church, whereas it was between three and five o ' clock, and the church was built only some years after. speer took his myth - making to a mass media level and his " cunning apologies " were reproduced frequently in post - war germany. isabell trommer writes in her biography of speer that fest and siedler were co - authors of speer ' s memoirs and co - creators of his myths. in return they were paid handsomely in royalties and other financial inducements. speer, siedler and fest had constructed a masterpiece ; the