objects, ranging from practical items such as dishes, surgical tools, candlesticks or funnels, to decorative items like ear rings and hair clips. the earliest examples of pewter come from ancient egypt, around 1450 bc. the use of pewter was widespread across europe, from france to norway and britain ( where most of the ancient tin was mined ) to the near east. the alloy was also used in china and the far east, arriving in japan around 800 ad, where it was used for making objects like ceremonial vessels, tea canisters, or chalices used in shinto shrines. iron the first known smelting of iron began in anatolia, around 1800 bc. called the bloomery process, it produced very soft but ductile wrought iron. by 800 bc, iron - making technology had spread to europe, arriving in japan around 700 ad. pig iron, a very hard but brittle alloy of iron and carbon, was being produced in china as early as 1200 bc, but did not arrive in europe until the middle ages. pig iron has a lower melting point than iron, and was used for making cast - iron. however, these metals found little practical use until the introduction of crucible steel around 300 bc. these steels were of poor quality, and the introduction of pattern welding, around the 1st century ad, sought to balance the extreme properties of the alloys by laminating them, to create a tougher metal. around 700 ad, the japanese began folding bloomery - steel and cast - iron in alternating layers to increase the strength of their swords, using clay fluxes to remove slag and impurities. this method of japanese swordsmithing produced one of the purest steel - alloys of the ancient world. while the use of iron started to become more widespread around 1200 bc, mainly because of interruptions in the trade routes for tin, the metal was much softer than bronze. however, very small amounts of steel, ( an alloy of iron and around 1 % carbon ), was always a byproduct of the bloomery process. the ability to modify the hardness of steel by heat treatment had been known since 1100 bc, and the rare material was valued for the manufacture of tools and weapons. because the ancients could not produce temperatures high enough to melt iron fully, the production of steel in decent quantities did not occur until the introduction of blister steel during the middle ages. this method introduced carbon by heating wrought iron in charcoal for long periods of time, but the absorption of carbon in this manner is