120 dead against 62 frisians and english ) that they had difficulty putting out to sea. all were too damaged to row around sussex, and two were driven against the sussex coast ( possibly at selsey bill ). the shipwrecked crew were brought before alfred at winchester and hanged. legal reform in the late 880s or early 890s, alfred issued a long domboc or law code consisting of his own laws, followed by a code issued by his late seventh - century predecessor king ine of wessex. together these laws are arranged into 120 chapters. in his introduction alfred explains that he gathered together the laws he found in many " synod - books " and " ordered to be written many of the ones that our forefathers observed — those that pleased me ; and many of the ones that did not please me, i rejected with the advice of my councillors, and commanded them to be observed in a different way ". alfred singled out in particular the laws that he " found in the days of ine, my kinsman, or offa, king of the mercians, or king æthelberht of kent who first among the english people received baptism ". he appended, rather than integrated, the laws of ine into his code and although he included, as had æthelbert, a scale of payments in compensation for injuries to various body parts, the two injury tariffs are not aligned. offa is not known to have issued a law code, leading historian patrick wormald to speculate that alfred had in mind the legatine capitulary of 786 that was presented to offa by the papal legate george of ostia. about a fifth of the law code is taken up by alfred ' s introduction which includes translations into english of the ten commandments, a few chapters from the book of exodus, and the apostolic letter from the acts of the apostles ( 15 : 23 – 29 ). the introduction may best be understood as alfred ' s meditation upon the meaning of christian law. it traces the continuity between god ' s gift of law to moses to alfred ' s own issuance of law to the west saxon people. by doing so, it linked the holy past to the historical present and represented alfred ' s law - giving as a type of divine legislation. similarly alfred divided his code into 120 chapters because 120 was the age at which moses died and, in the number - symbolism of early medieval biblical exegetes, 120 stood for law. the link between mosaic law and alfred