for the east. kuyucu murad pasha then negotiated the peace of zsitvatorok, which abolished the tribute of 30, 000 ducats paid by austria and addressed the habsburg emperor as the equal of the ottoman sultan. the jelali revolts were a strong factor in the ottomans ' acceptance of the terms. this signaled the end of ottoman growth in europe. jelali revolts resentment over the war with the habsburgs and heavy taxation, along with the weakness of the ottoman military response, combined to make the reign of ahmed i the zenith of the jelali revolts. tavil ahmed launched a revolt soon after the coronation of ahmed i and defeated nasuh pasha and the beylerbey of anatolia, kecdehan ali pasha. in 1605, tavil ahmed was offered the position of the beylerbey of shahrizor to stop his rebellion, but soon afterwards he went on to capture harput. his son, mehmed, obtained the governorship of baghdad with a fake firman and defeated the forces of nasuh pasha sent to defeat him. meanwhile, canbulatoglu ali pasha united his forces with the druze sheikh ma ' noglu fahreddin to defeat the amir of tripoli seyfoglu yusuf. he went on to take control of the adana area, forming an army and issuing coins. his forces routed the army of the newly appointed beylerbey of aleppo, huseyin pasha. grand vizier bosnak dervish mehmed pasha was executed for the weakness he showed against the jelalis. he was replaced by kuyucu murad pasha, who marched to syria with his forces to defeat the 30, 000 - strong rebel army with great difficulty, albeit with a decisive result, on 24 october 1607. meanwhile, he pretended to forgive the rebels in anatolia and appointed the rebel kalenderoglu, who was active in manisa and bursa, as the sanjakbey of ankara. baghdad was recaptured in 1607 as well. canbulatoglu ali pasha fled to constantinople and asked for forgiveness from ahmed i, who appointed him to timisoara and later belgrade, but then executed him due to his misrule there. meanwhile, kalenderoglu was not allowed in the city by the people of ankara and rebelled again, only to be crushed by murad pasha ' s forces. kalenderoglu ended up fleeing to persia. murad pasha then suppressed some smaller revolts in central anatolia and