and diseases. exposed to excess ammonia, fish may suffer loss of equilibrium, hyper - excitability, increased respiratory activity and oxygen uptake and increased heart rate. at concentrations exceeding 2. 0 mg / l, ammonia causes gill and tissue damage, extreme lethargy, convulsions, coma, and death. experiments have shown that the lethal concentration for a variety of fish species ranges from 0. 2 to 2. 0 mg / l. during winter, when reduced feeds are administered to aquaculture stock, ammonia levels can be higher. lower ambient temperatures reduce the rate of algal photosynthesis so less ammonia is removed by any algae present. within an aquaculture environment, especially at large scale, there is no fast - acting remedy to elevated ammonia levels. prevention rather than correction is recommended to reduce harm to farmed fish and in open water systems, the surrounding environment. storage information similar to propane, anhydrous ammonia boils below room temperature when at atmospheric pressure. a storage vessel capable of is suitable to contain the liquid. ammonia is used in numerous different industrial applications requiring carbon or stainless steel storage vessels. ammonia with at least 0. 2 % by weight water content is not corrosive to carbon steel. carbon steel construction storage tanks with 0. 2 % by weight or more of water could last more than 50 years in service. experts warn that ammonium compounds not be allowed to come in contact with bases ( unless in an intended and contained reaction ), as dangerous quantities of ammonia gas could be released. laboratory the hazards of ammonia solutions depend on the concentration : ' dilute ' ammonia solutions are usually 5 – 10 % by weight ( < 5. 62 mol / l ) ; ' concentrated ' solutions are usually prepared at > 25 % by weight. a 25 % ( by weight ) solution has a density of 0. 907 g / cm3, and a solution that has a lower density will be more concentrated. the european union classification of ammonia solutions is given in the table. the ammonia vapour from concentrated ammonia solutions is severely irritating to the eyes and the respiratory tract, and experts warn that these solutions only be handled in a fume hood. saturated ( ' 0. 880 ' – see ) solutions can develop a significant pressure inside a closed bottle in warm weather, and experts also warn that the bottle be opened with care. this is not usually a problem for 25 % ( ' 0. 900 ' ) solutions. experts warn that ammonia solutions not be mixed with halogens, as toxic and / or explosive