##cott collaborated on a major expansion of their educational theories into a utopian society. alcott, however, was still in debt and could not purchase the land needed for their planned community. in a letter, lane wrote, " i do not see anyone to act the money part but myself. " in may 1843, he purchased a farm in harvard, massachusetts. up front, he paid $ 1, 500 of the total $ 1, 800 value of the property ; the rest was meant to be paid by the alcotts over a two - year period. they moved to the farm on june 1 and optimistically named it " fruitlands " despite only ten old apple trees on the property. in july, alcott announced their plans in the dial : " we have made an arrangement with the proprietor of an estate of about a hundred acres, which liberates this tract from human ownership ". their goal was to regain eden, to find the formula for agriculture, diet, and reproduction that would provide the perfect way for the individual to live " in harmony with nature, the animal world, his fellows, himself, [ and ] his creator ". in order to achieve this, they removed themselves from the economy as much as possible and lived independently, styling themselves a " consociate family ". unlike a similar project named brook farm, the participants at fruitlands avoided interaction with other local communities. at first scorning animal labor as exploitative, they found human spadework insufficient to their needs and eventually allowed some cattle to be " enslaved ". they banned coffee, tea, alcoholic drinks, milk, and warm bathwater. as alcott had published earlier, " our wine is water, — flesh, bread ; — drugs, fruits. " one member, samuel bower, " gave the community the reputation of refusing to eat potatoes because instead of aspiring toward the sky they grew downward in the earth ", for clothing, they prohibited leather, because animals were killed for it, as well as cotton, silk, and wool, because they were products of slave labor. alcott had high expectations, but was often away, attempting to recruit more members when the community most needed him. the experimental community was never successful, partly because most of the land was not arable. alcott lamented, " none of us were prepared to actualize practically the ideal life of which we dreamed. so we fell apart ". its founders were often away as well ; in the middle of harvesting, they left for a lecture tour through providence, rhode