to resemble real life, using advanced rendering that mimics in detail skin, plants, water, fire, clouds, etc. examples include up ( 2009, us ), how to train your dragon ( 2010, us ) physically based animation is animation using computer simulations. analog animation is used nearly similar to analog horror genre, allowing to animate erupting signals in computers through real - life audio sources, cryptic messages, and minimal visuals. examples include calls ( 2021 ). mechanical animatronics is the use of mechatronics to create machines that seem animate rather than robotic. audio - animatronics and autonomatronics is a form of robotics animation, combined with 3 - d animation, created by walt disney imagineering for shows and attractions at disney theme parks move and make noise ( generally a recorded speech or song ). they are fixed to whatever supports them. they can sit and stand, and they cannot walk. an audio - animatron is different from an android - type robot in that it uses prerecorded movements and sounds, rather than responding to external stimuli. in 2009, disney created an interactive version of the technology called autonomatronics. linear animation generator is a form of animation by using static picture frames installed in a tunnel or a shaft. the animation illusion is created by putting the viewer in a linear motion, parallel to the installed picture frames. the concept and the technical solution were invented in 2007 by mihai girlovan in romania. chuckimation is a type of animation created by the makers of the television series action league now! in which characters / props are thrown, or chucked from off camera or wiggled around to simulate talking by unseen hands. the magic lantern used mechanical slides to project moving images, probably since christiaan huygens invented this early image projector in 1659. other hydrotechnics : a technique that includes lights, water, fire, fog, and lasers, with high - definition projections on mist screens. drawn on film animation : a technique where footage is produced by creating the images directly on film stock ; for example, by norman mclaren, len lye and stan brakhage. paint - on - glass animation : a technique for making animated films by manipulating slow drying oil paints on sheets of glass, for example by aleksandr petrov. erasure animation : a technique using traditional 2d media, photographed over time as the artist manipulates the image. for example, william kentridge is famous for his charcoal erasure films, and piotr