in nennal. he and maria feodorovna were officially crowned and anointed at the assumption cathedral in moscow on 27 may 1883. alexander ' s ascension to the throne was followed by an outbreak of anti - jewish riots. alexander iii disliked the extravagance of the rest of his family. it was also expensive for the crown to pay so many grand dukes each year. each one received an annual salary of 250, 000 rubles, and grand duchesses received a dowry of a million when they married. he limited the title of grand duke and duchess to only children and male - line grandchildren of emperors. the rest would bear a princely title and the style of serene highness. he also forbade morganatic marriages, as well as those outside of the orthodoxy. domestic policies on the day of his assassination, alexander ii signed an ukaz setting up consultative commissions to advise the monarch. on ascending to the throne, however, alexander iii took pobedonostsev ' s advice and cancelled the policy before its publication. he made it clear that his autocracy would not be limited. all of alexander iii ' s internal reforms aimed to reverse the liberalization that had occurred in his father ' s reign. the new emperor believed that remaining true to russian orthodoxy, autocracy, and nationality ( the ideology introduced by his grandfather, emperor nicholas i ) would save russia from revolutionary agitation. alexander weakened the power of the zemstvo ( elective local administrative bodies ) and placed the administration of peasant communes under the supervision of land - owning proprietors appointed by his government, " land captains " ( zemskiye nachalniki ). these acts weakened the nobility and the peasantry and brought imperial administration under the emperor ' s personal control. in such policies alexander iii followed the advice of konstantin pobedonostsev, who retained control of the church in russia through his long tenure as procurator of the holy synod ( from 1880 to 1905 ) and who became tutor to alexander ' s son and heir, nicholas. ( pobedonostsev appears as " toporov " in tolstoy ' s novel resurrection. ) other conservative advisors included count d. a. tolstoy ( minister of education, and later of internal affairs ) and i. n. durnovo ( d. a. tolstoy ' s successor in the latter post ). mikhail katkov and other journalists supported the emperor in his autocracy. the russian famine of 1891 – 92, which caused 375, 000 to 500