##lands ). glacier ice covers about of alaska. the bering glacier is the largest glacier in north america, covering alone. regions there are no officially defined borders demarcating the various regions of alaska, but there are five / six regions that the state is most commonly broken up into : south central the most populous region of alaska, containing anchorage, the matanuska - susitna valley and the kenai peninsula. rural, mostly unpopulated areas south of the alaska range and west of the wrangell mountains also fall within the definition of south central, as do the prince william sound area and the communities of cordova and valdez. southeast also referred to as the panhandle or inside passage, this is the region of alaska closest to the contiguous states. as such, this was where most of the initial non - indigenous settlement occurred in the years following the alaska purchase. the region is dominated by the alexander archipelago as well as the tongass national forest, the largest national forest in the united states. it contains the state capital juneau, the former capital sitka, and ketchikan, at one time alaska ' s largest city. the alaska marine highway provides a vital surface transportation link throughout the area and country, as only three communities ( haines, hyder and skagway ) enjoy direct connections to the contiguous north american road system. interior the interior is the largest region of alaska ; much of it is uninhabited wilderness. fairbanks is the only large city in the region. denali national park and preserve is located here. denali, formerly mount mckinley, is the highest mountain in north america, and is also located here. north slope the north slope is mostly tundra peppered with small villages. the area is known for its massive reserves of crude oil and contains both the national petroleum reserve – alaska and the prudhoe bay oil field. the city of utqiagvik, formerly known as barrow, is the northernmost city in the united states and is located here. the northwest arctic area, anchored by kotzebue and also containing the kobuk river valley, is often regarded as being part of this region. however, the respective inupiat of the north slope and of the northwest arctic seldom consider themselves to be one people. southwest southwest alaska is a sparsely inhabited region stretching some inland from the bering sea. most of the population lives along the coast. kodiak island is also located in southwest. the massive yukon – kuskokwim delta, one of the largest river