he seems to attribute an idea to some earlier thinker, we are not bound to take what he says in an historical sense. " for anaximander, the principle of things, the constituent of all substances, is nothing determined and not an element such as water in thales ' view. neither is it something halfway between air and water, or between air and fire, thicker than air and fire, or more subtle than water and earth. anaximander argues that water cannot embrace all of the opposites found in nature — for example, water can only be wet, never dry — and therefore cannot be the one primary substance ; nor could any of the other candidates. he postulated the apeiron as a substance that, although not directly perceptible to us, could explain the opposites he saw around him. " if thales had been right in saying that water was the fundamental reality, it would not be easy to see how anything else could ever have existed. one side of the opposition, the cold and moist, would have had its way unchecked, and the warm and dry would have been driven from the field long ago. we must, then, have something not itself one of the warring opposites, something more primitive, out of which they arise, and into which they once more pass away. " anaximander explains how the four elements of ancient physics ( air, earth, water and fire ) are formed, and how earth and terrestrial beings are formed through their interactions. unlike other pre - socratics, he never defines this principle precisely, and it has generally been understood ( e. g., by aristotle and by saint augustine ) as a sort of primal chaos. according to him, the universe originates in the separation of opposites in the primordial matter. it embraces the opposites of hot and cold, wet and dry, and directs the movement of things ; an entire host of shapes and differences then grow that are found in " all the worlds " ( for he believed there were many ). " anaximander taught, then, that there was an eternal. the indestructible something out of which everything arises, and into which everything returns ; a boundless stock from which the waste of existence is continually made good, " elements. ". that is only the natural development of the thought we have ascribed to thales, and there can be no doubt that anaximander at least formulated it distinctly. indeed, we can still follow to some