vini as ". " the word ' s meaning became restricted to " spirit of wine " ( the chemical known today as ethanol ) in the 18th century and was extended to the class of substances so - called as " alcohols " in modern chemistry after 1850. the term ethanol was invented in 1892, blending " ethane " with the " - ol " ending of " alcohol ", which was generalized as a libfix. the term alcohol originally referred to the primary alcohol ethanol ( ethyl alcohol ), which is used as a drug and is the main alcohol present in alcoholic drinks. the suffix - ol appears in the international union of pure and applied chemistry ( iupac ) chemical name of all substances where the hydroxyl group is the functional group with the highest priority. when a higher priority group is present in the compound, the prefix hydroxy - is used in its iupac name. the suffix - ol in non - iupac names ( such as paracetamol or cholesterol ) also typically indicates that the substance is an alcohol. however, some compounds that contain hydroxyl functional groups have trivial names which do not include the suffix - ol or the prefix hydroxy -, e. g. the sugars glucose and sucrose. systematic names iupac nomenclature is used in scientific publications and where precise identification of the substance is important. in naming simple alcohols, the name of the alkane chain loses the terminal e and adds the suffix - ol, e. g., as in " ethanol " from the alkane chain name " ethane ". when necessary, the position of the hydroxyl group is indicated by a number between the alkane name and the - ol : propan - 1 - ol for, propan - 2 - ol for. if a higher priority group is present ( such as an aldehyde, ketone, or carboxylic acid ), then the prefix hydroxy - is used, e. g., as in 1 - hydroxy - 2 - propanone ( ). compounds having more than one hydroxy group are called polyols. they are named using suffixes - diol, - triol, etc., following a list of the position numbers of the hydroxyl groups, as in propane - 1, 2 - diol for ch3ch ( oh ) ch2oh ( propylene glycol ). in cases where the hydroxy group is bonded to an sp2 carbon