struggles against a wide range of regimes of domination, from capitalism, the state system, patriarchy, heterosexism, and the domination of nature to colonialism, the war system, slavery, fascism, white supremacy, and certain forms of organised religion ". according to davis, " [ w ] hile these visions range from the predominantly individualistic to the predominantly communitarian, features common to virtually all include an emphasis on self - management and self - regulatory methods of organisation, voluntary association, decentralised society, based on the principle of free association, in which people will manage and govern themselves ". finally, davis includes a footnote stating that " [ i ] ndividualist anarchism may plausibly be re regarded as a form of both socialism and anarchism. whether the individualist anarchists were consistent anarchists ( and socialists ) is another question entirely.... mckay comments as follows : ' any individualist anarchism which supports wage labour is inconsistent anarchism. it can easily be made consistent anarchism by applying its own principles consistently. in contrast ' anarcho ' - capitalism rejects so many of the basic, underlying, principles of anarchism... that it cannot be made consistent with the ideals of anarchism. historical precedents several anarcho - capitalists and right - libertarians have discussed historical precedents of what they believe were examples of anarcho - capitalism. free cities of medieval europe economist and libertarian scholar bryan caplan considers the free cities of medieval europe as examples of " anarchist " or " nearly anarchistic " societies, further arguing : medieval iceland according to the libertarian theorist david d. friedman, " [ m ] edieval icelandic institutions have several peculiar and interesting characteristics ; they might almost have been invented by a mad economist to test the lengths to which market systems could supplant government in its most fundamental functions ". while not directly labeling it anarcho - capitalist, friedman argues that the legal system of the icelandic commonwealth comes close to being a real - world anarcho - capitalist legal system. although noting that there was a single legal system, friedman argues that enforcement of the law was entirely private and highly capitalist, providing some evidence of how such a society would function. friedman further wrote that " [ e ] ven where the icelandic legal system recognized an essentially ' public ' offense, it dealt with it by giving some individual ( in some cases chosen by lot from those affected ) the right to pursue the case and