planetary nebulae. ngc 7009, also known as the saturn nebula, is an 8th magnitude planetary nebula located 3, 000 light - years from earth. it was given its moniker by the 19th century astronomer lord rosse for its resemblance to the planet saturn in a telescope ; it has faint protrusions on either side that resemble saturn ' s rings. it appears blue - green in a telescope and has a central star of magnitude 11. 3. compared to the helix nebula, another planetary nebula in aquarius, it is quite small. ngc 7293, also known as the helix nebula, is the closest planetary nebula to earth at a distance of 650 light - years. it covers 0. 25 square degrees, making it also the largest planetary nebula as seen from earth. however, because it is so large, it is only viewable as a very faint object, though it has a fairly high integrated magnitude of 6. 0. one of the visible galaxies in aquarius is ngc 7727, of particular interest for amateur astronomers who wish to discover or observe supernovae. a spiral galaxy ( type s ), it has an integrated magnitude of 10. 7 and is 3 by 3 arcseconds. ngc 7252 is a tangle of stars resulting from the collision of two large galaxies and is known as the atoms - for - peace galaxy because of its resemblance to a cartoon atom. meteor showers there are three major meteor showers with radiants in aquarius : the eta aquariids, the delta aquariids, and the iota aquariids. the eta aquariids are the strongest meteor shower radiating from aquarius. it peaks between 5 and 6 may with a rate of approximately 35 meteors per hour. originally discovered by chinese astronomers in 401, eta aquariids can be seen coming from the water jar beginning on 21 april and as late as 12 may. the parent body of the shower is halley ' s comet, a periodic comet. fireballs are common shortly after the peak, approximately between 9 may and 11 may. the normal meteors appear to have yellow trails. the delta aquariids is a double radiant meteor shower that peaks first on 29 july and second on 6 august. the first radiant is located in the south of the constellation, while the second radiant is located in the northern circlet of pisces asterism. the southern radiant ' s peak rate is about 20 meteors per hour, while the northern radiant ' s peak rate is about 10 meteors per hour. the iota aqua