human ecology. human activity is the most important agent in creating environmental change, a study commonly found in human ecology which can claim a central place in how environmental problems are examined and addressed. other ways anthropology contributes to environmental discourse is by being theorists and analysts, or by refinement of definitions to become more neutral / universal, etc. in exploring environmentalism - the term typically refers to a concern that the environment should be protected, particularly from the harmful effects of human activities. environmentalism itself can be expressed in many ways. anthropologists can open the doors of environmentalism by looking beyond industrial society, understanding the opposition between industrial and non industrial relationships, knowing what ecosystem people and biosphere people are and are affected by, dependent and independent variables, " primitive " ecological wisdom, diverse environments, resource management, diverse cultural traditions, and knowing that environmentalism is a part of culture. historical ethnohistory is the study of ethnographic cultures and indigenous customs by examining historical records. it is also the study of the history of various ethnic groups that may or may not exist today. ethnohistory uses both historical and ethnographic data as its foundation. its historical methods and materials go beyond the standard use of documents and manuscripts. practitioners recognize the utility of such source material as maps, music, paintings, photography, folklore, oral tradition, site exploration, archaeological materials, museum collections, enduring customs, language, and place names. religion the anthropology of religion involves the study of religious institutions in relation to other social institutions, and the comparison of religious beliefs and practices across cultures. modern anthropology assumes that there is complete continuity between magical thinking and religion, and that every religion is a cultural product, created by the human community that worships it. urban urban anthropology is concerned with issues of urbanization, poverty, and neoliberalism. ulf hannerz quotes a 1960s remark that traditional anthropologists were " a notoriously agoraphobic lot, anti - urban by definition ". various social processes in the western world as well as in the " third world " ( the latter being the habitual focus of attention of anthropologists ) brought the attention of " specialists in ' other cultures ' " closer to their homes. there are two main approaches to urban anthropology : examining the types of cities or examining the social issues within the cities. these two methods are overlapping and dependent of each other. by defining different types of cities, one would use social factors as well as economic and political factors to categorize the cities. by directly looking