a decrease - and - conquer algorithm, which solves an identical subproblem and uses the solution of this subproblem to solve the bigger problem. divide and conquer divides the problem into multiple subproblems and so the conquer stage is more complex than decrease and conquer algorithms. an example of a decrease and conquer algorithm is the binary search algorithm. search and enumeration many problems ( such as playing chess ) can be modeled as problems on graphs. a graph exploration algorithm specifies rules for moving around a graph and is useful for such problems. this category also includes search algorithms, branch and bound enumeration and backtracking. randomized algorithm such algorithms make some choices randomly ( or pseudo - randomly ). they can be very useful in finding approximate solutions for problems where finding exact solutions can be impractical ( see heuristic method below ). for some of these problems, it is known that the fastest approximations must involve some randomness. whether randomized algorithms with polynomial time complexity can be the fastest algorithms for some problems is an open question known as the p versus np problem. there are two large classes of such algorithms : monte carlo algorithms return a correct answer with high - probability. e. g. rp is the subclass of these that run in polynomial time. las vegas algorithms always return the correct answer, but their running time is only probabilistically bound, e. g. zpp. reduction of complexity this technique involves solving a difficult problem by transforming it into a better - known problem for which we have ( hopefully ) asymptotically optimal algorithms. the goal is to find a reducing algorithm whose complexity is not dominated by the resulting reduced algorithm ' s. for example, one selection algorithm for finding the median in an unsorted list involves first sorting the list ( the expensive portion ) and then pulling out the middle element in the sorted list ( the cheap portion ). this technique is also known as transform and conquer. back tracking in this approach, multiple solutions are built incrementally and abandoned when it is determined that they cannot lead to a valid full solution. optimization problems for optimization problems there is a more specific classification of algorithms ; an algorithm for such problems may fall into one or more of the general categories described above as well as into one of the following : linear programming when searching for optimal solutions to a linear function bound to linear equality and inequality constraints, the constraints of the problem can be used directly in producing the optimal solutions. there are algorithms that can solve any problem in this