##eans had started 2000 years earlier ). galileo wrote " waves are produced by the vibrations of a sonorous body, which spread through the air, bringing to the tympanum of the ear a stimulus which the mind interprets as sound ", a remarkable statement that points to the beginnings of physiological and psychological acoustics. experimental measurements of the speed of sound in air were carried out successfully between 1630 and 1680 by a number of investigators, prominently mersenne. meanwhile, newton ( 1642 – 1727 ) derived the relationship for wave velocity in solids, a cornerstone of physical acoustics ( principia, 1687 ). age of enlightenment and onward substantial progress in acoustics, resting on firmer mathematical and physical concepts, was made during the eighteenth century by euler ( 1707 – 1783 ), lagrange ( 1736 – 1813 ), and d ' alembert ( 1717 – 1783 ). during this era, continuum physics, or field theory, began to receive a definite mathematical structure. the wave equation emerged in a number of contexts, including the propagation of sound in air. in the nineteenth century the major figures of mathematical acoustics were helmholtz in germany, who consolidated the field of physiological acoustics, and lord rayleigh in england, who combined the previous knowledge with his own copious contributions to the field in his monumental work the theory of sound ( 1877 ). also in the 19th century, wheatstone, ohm, and henry developed the analogy between electricity and acoustics. the twentieth century saw a burgeoning of technological applications of the large body of scientific knowledge that was by then in place. the first such application was sabine ' s groundbreaking work in architectural acoustics, and many others followed. underwater acoustics was used for detecting submarines in the first world war. sound recording and the telephone played important roles in a global transformation of society. sound measurement and analysis reached new levels of accuracy and sophistication through the use of electronics and computing. the ultrasonic frequency range enabled wholly new kinds of application in medicine and industry. new kinds of transducers ( generators and receivers of acoustic energy ) were invented and put to use. definition acoustics is defined by ansi / asa s1. 1 - 2013 as " ( a ) science of sound, including its production, transmission, and effects, including biological and psychological effects. ( b ) those qualities of a room that, together, determine its character with respect to auditory effects. " the study of acoustics revolves around the generation, propagation and reception of