day before declining. he thought lovell deserved to command his own mission ( eventually apollo 13 ). the apollo 11 prime crew had none of the close cheerful camaraderie characterized by that of apollo 12. instead, they forged an amiable working relationship. armstrong in particular was notoriously aloof, but collins, who considered himself a loner, confessed to rebuffing aldrin ' s attempts to create a more personal relationship. aldrin and collins described the crew as " amiable strangers ". armstrong did not agree with the assessment, and said "... all the crews i was on worked very well together. " backup crew the backup crew consisted of lovell as commander, william anders as cmp, and haise as lmp. anders had flown with lovell on apollo 8. in early 1969, anders accepted a job with the national aeronautics and space council effective august 1969, and announced he would retire as an astronaut at that time. ken mattingly was moved from the support crew into parallel training with anders as backup cmp in case apollo 11 was delayed past its intended july launch date, at which point anders would be unavailable. by the normal crew rotation in place during apollo, lovell, mattingly, and haise were scheduled to fly on apollo 14, but the three of them were bumped to apollo 13 : there was a crew issue for apollo 13 as none of them except edgar mitchell flew in space again. george mueller rejected the crew and this was the first time an apollo crew was rejected. to give alan shepard more training time, lovell ' s crew were bumped to apollo 13. mattingly would later be replaced by jack swigert as cmp on apollo 13. support crew during projects mercury and gemini, each mission had a prime and a backup crew. for apollo, a third crew of astronauts was added, known as the support crew. the support crew maintained the flight plan, checklists and mission ground rules, and ensured the prime and backup crews were apprised of changes. they developed procedures, especially those for emergency situations, so these were ready for when the prime and backup crews came to train in the simulators, allowing them to concentrate on practicing and mastering them. for apollo 11, the support crew consisted of ken mattingly, ronald evans and bill pogue. capsule communicators the capsule communicator ( capcom ) was an astronaut at the mission control center in houston, texas, who was the only person who communicated directly with the flight crew. for