becoming more frequent in the roman catholic church as well, especially through the neocatechumenal way. in some churches, the sacrament is reserved in a tabernacle or aumbry with a lighted candle or lamp nearby. in anglican churches, only a priest or a bishop may be the celebrant at the eucharist. divine office all anglican prayer books contain offices for morning prayer ( matins ) and evening prayer ( evensong ). in the original book of common prayer, these were derived from combinations of the ancient monastic offices of matins and lauds ; and vespers and compline, respectively. the prayer offices have an important place in anglican history. prior to the catholic revival of the 19th century, which eventually restored the holy eucharist as the principal sunday liturgy, and especially during the 18th century, a morning service combining matins, the litany, and ante - communion comprised the usual expression of common worship, while matins and evensong were sung daily in cathedrals and some collegiate chapels. this nurtured a tradition of distinctive anglican chant applied to the canticles and psalms used at the offices ( although plainsong is often used as well ). in some official and many unofficial anglican service books, these offices are supplemented by other offices such as the little hours of prime and prayer during the day such as ( terce, sext, none, and compline ). some anglican monastic communities have a daily office based on that of the book of common prayer but with additional antiphons and canticles, etc., for specific days of the week, specific psalms, etc. see, for example, order of the holy cross and order of st helena, editors, a monastic breviary ( wilton, conn. : morehouse - barlow, 1976 ). the all saints sisters of the poor, with convents in catonsville, maryland, and elsewhere, use an elaborated version of the anglican daily office. the society of st. francis publishes celebrating common prayer, which has become especially popular for use among anglicans. in england, the united states, canada, australia, new zealand, and some other anglican provinces, the modern prayer books contain four offices : morning prayer, corresponding to matins, lauds and prime ; prayer during the day, roughly corresponding to the combination of terce, sext, and none ( noonday prayer in the usa ) ; evening prayer, corresponding to vespers ( and compline ) ; complin