of the disapproval of homer that he expresses in the republic. the dialogue ion suggests that homer ' s iliad functioned in the ancient greek world as the bible does today in the modern christian world : as divinely inspired literary art that can provide moral guidance, if only it can be properly interpreted. with regards to the literary art and the musical arts, aristotle considered epic poetry, tragedy, comedy, dithyrambic poetry and music to be mimetic or imitative art, each varying in imitation by medium, object, and manner. for example, music imitates with the media of rhythm and harmony, whereas dance imitates with rhythm alone, and poetry with language. the forms also differ in their object of imitation. comedy, for instance, is a dramatic imitation of men worse than average ; whereas tragedy imitates men slightly better than average. lastly, the forms differ in their manner of imitation — through narrative or character, through change or no change, and through drama or no drama. aristotle believed that imitation is natural to mankind and constitutes one of mankind ' s advantages over animals. the more recent and specific sense of the word art as an abbreviation for creative art or fine art emerged in the early 17th century. fine art refers to a skill used to express the artist ' s creativity, or to engage the audience ' s aesthetic sensibilities, or to draw the audience towards consideration of more refined or finer works of art. within this latter sense, the word art may refer to several things : ( i ) a study of a creative skill, ( ii ) a process of using the creative skill, ( iii ) a product of the creative skill, or ( iv ) the audience ' s experience with the creative skill. the creative arts ( art as discipline ) are a collection of disciplines which produce artworks ( art as objects ) that are compelled by a personal drive ( art as activity ) and convey a message, mood, or symbolism for the perceiver to interpret ( art as experience ). art is something that stimulates an individual ' s thoughts, emotions, beliefs, or ideas through the senses. works of art can be explicitly made for this purpose or interpreted on the basis of images or objects. for some scholars, such as kant, the sciences and the arts could be distinguished by taking science as representing the domain of knowledge and the arts as representing the domain of the freedom of artistic expression. often, if the skill is being used in a common or practical way, people will consider it a craft instead of art. likewise, if