server ' s timestamps, or eliminating them from the server ' s responses, does not stop the attack : the client simply uses round - trip timings based on its local clock, and compensates for the increased noise by averaging over a larger number of samples. " in october 2005, dag arne osvik, adi shamir and eran tromer presented a paper demonstrating several cache - timing attacks against the implementations in aes found in openssl and linux ' s dm - crypt partition encryption function. one attack was able to obtain an entire aes key after only 800 operations triggering encryptions, in a total of 65 milliseconds. this attack requires the attacker to be able to run programs on the same system or platform that is performing aes. in december 2009 an attack on some hardware implementations was published that used differential fault analysis and allows recovery of a key with a complexity of 232. in november 2010 endre bangerter, david gullasch and stephan krenn published a paper which described a practical approach to a " near real time " recovery of secret keys from aes - 128 without the need for either cipher text or plaintext. the approach also works on aes - 128 implementations that use compression tables, such as openssl. like some earlier attacks, this one requires the ability to run unprivileged code on the system performing the aes encryption, which may be achieved by malware infection far more easily than commandeering the root account. in march 2016, ashokkumar c., ravi prakash giri and bernard menezes presented a side - channel attack on aes implementations that can recover the complete 128 - bit aes key in just 6 – 7 blocks of plaintext / ciphertext, which is a substantial improvement over previous works that require between 100 and a million encryptions. the proposed attack requires standard user privilege and key - retrieval algorithms run under a minute. many modern cpus have built - in hardware instructions for aes, which protect against timing - related side - channel attacks. quantum attacks aes - 256 is considered to be quantum resistant, as it has similar quantum resistance to aes - 128 ' s resistance against traditional, non - quantum, attacks. whilst aes - 192 and aes - 128 are not considered quantum resistant due to their smaller key sizes. aes - 192 has a strength of 96 - bits against quantum attacks and aes - 128 has 64 - bits of strength against quantum attacks, making them both insecure. nist /