against the suppression of children and young people and for the right of all children to education ". sir c. v. raman is the first asian to get a nobel prize in sciences. he won the nobel prize in physics " for his work on the scattering of light and for the discovery of the effect named after him ". japan has won the most nobel prizes of any asian nation with 24 followed by india which has won 13. amartya sen, ( born 3 november 1933 ) is an indian economist who was awarded the 1998 nobel memorial prize in economic sciences for his contributions to welfare economics and social choice theory, and for his interest in the problems of society ' s poorest members. other asian nobel prize winners include subrahmanyan chandrasekhar, abdus salam, malala yousafzai, robert aumann, menachem begin, aaron ciechanover, avram hershko, daniel kahneman, shimon peres, yitzhak rabin, ada yonath, yasser arafat, jose ramos - horta and bishop carlos filipe ximenes belo of timor leste, kim dae - jung, and 13 japanese scientists. most of the said awardees are from japan and israel except for chandrasekhar and raman ( india ), abdus salam and malala yousafzai, ( pakistan ), arafat ( palestinian territories ), kim ( south korea ), and horta and belo ( timor leste ). in 2006, dr. muhammad yunus of bangladesh was awarded the nobel peace prize for the establishment of grameen bank, a community development bank that lends money to poor people, especially women in bangladesh. dr. yunus received his phd in economics from vanderbilt university, united states. he is internationally known for the concept of micro credit which allows poor and destitute people with little or no collateral to borrow money. the borrowers typically pay back money within the specified period and the incidence of default is very low. the dalai lama has received approximately eighty - four awards over his spiritual and political career. on 22 june 2006, he became one of only four people ever to be recognized with honorary citizenship by the governor general of canada. on 28 may 2005, he received the christmas humphreys award from the buddhist society in the united kingdom. most notable was the nobel peace prize, presented in oslo, norway on 10 december 1989. political geography within the above - mentioned states are several partially recognized countries with limited to no international recognition. none