randomization - based analysis assumes only the homogeneity of the variances of the residuals ( as a consequence of unit - treatment additivity ) and uses the randomization procedure of the experiment. both these analyses require homoscedasticity, as an assumption for the normal - model analysis and as a consequence of randomization and additivity for the randomization - based analysis. however, studies of processes that change variances rather than means ( called dispersion effects ) have been successfully conducted using anova. there are no necessary assumptions for anova in its full generality, but the f - test used for anova hypothesis testing has assumptions and practical limitations which are of continuing interest. problems which do not satisfy the assumptions of anova can often be transformed to satisfy the assumptions. the property of unit - treatment additivity is not invariant under a " change of scale ", so statisticians often use transformations to achieve unit - treatment additivity. if the response variable is expected to follow a parametric family of probability distributions, then the statistician may specify ( in the protocol for the experiment or observational study ) that the responses be transformed to stabilize the variance. also, a statistician may specify that logarithmic transforms be applied to the responses which are believed to follow a multiplicative model. according to cauchy ' s functional equation theorem, the logarithm is the only continuous transformation that transforms real multiplication to addition. characteristics anova is used in the analysis of comparative experiments, those in which only the difference in outcomes is of interest. the statistical significance of the experiment is determined by a ratio of two variances. this ratio is independent of several possible alterations to the experimental observations : adding a constant to all observations does not alter significance. multiplying all observations by a constant does not alter significance. so anova statistical significance result is independent of constant bias and scaling errors as well as the units used in expressing observations. in the era of mechanical calculation it was common to subtract a constant from all observations ( when equivalent to dropping leading digits ) to simplify data entry. this is an example of data coding. algorithm the calculations of anova can be characterized as computing a number of means and variances, dividing two variances and comparing the ratio to a handbook value to determine statistical significance. calculating a treatment effect is then trivial : " the effect of any treatment is estimated by taking the difference between the mean of the observations which receive the treatment and the general mean