, which originates from the surrounding air ionized by the emitted energetic particles. actinium has similar chemical properties to lanthanum and other lanthanides, and therefore these elements are difficult to separate when extracting from uranium ores. solvent extraction and ion chromatography are commonly used for the separation. the first element of the actinides, actinium gave the set its name, much as lanthanum had done for the lanthanides. the actinides are much more diverse than the lanthanides and therefore it was not until 1945 that the most significant change to dmitri mendeleev ' s periodic table since the recognition of the lanthanides, the introduction of the actinides, was generally accepted after glenn t. seaborg ' s research on the transuranium elements ( although it had been proposed as early as 1892 by british chemist henry bassett ). actinium reacts rapidly with oxygen and moisture in air forming a white coating of actinium oxide that impedes further oxidation. as with most lanthanides and actinides, actinium exists in the oxidation state + 3, and the ac3 + ions are colorless in solutions. the oxidation state + 3 originates from the [ rn ] 6d17s2 electronic configuration of actinium, with three valence electrons that are easily donated to give the stable closed - shell structure of the noble gas radon. although the 5f orbitals are unoccupied in an actinium atom, it can be used as a valence orbital in actinium complexes and hence it is generally considered the first 5f element by authors working on it. ac3 + is the largest of all known tripositive ions and its first coordination sphere contains approximately 10. 9 ± 0. 5 water molecules. chemical compounds due to actinium ' s intense radioactivity, only a limited number of actinium compounds are known. these include : acf3, accl3, acbr3, acof, acocl, acobr, ac2s3, ac2o3, acpo4 and ac ( no3 ) 3. they all contain actinium in the oxidation state + 3. in particular, the lattice constants of the analogous lanthanum and actinium compounds differ by only a few percent. here a, b and c are lattice constants, no is space group number and z is the number of formula units per unit cell. density was not measured directly but calculated from the lattice parameters. oxides actinium oxide (