edgar bain ), so " alloy steel " became the popular term for ternary and quaternary steel - alloys. after benjamin huntsman developed his crucible steel in 1740, he began experimenting with the addition of elements like manganese ( in the form of a high - manganese pig - iron called spiegeleisen ), which helped remove impurities such as phosphorus and oxygen ; a process adopted by bessemer and still used in modern steels ( albeit in concentrations low enough to still be considered carbon steel ). afterward, many people began experimenting with various alloys of steel without much success. however, in 1882, robert hadfield, being a pioneer in steel metallurgy, took an interest and produced a steel alloy containing around 12 % manganese. called mangalloy, it exhibited extreme hardness and toughness, becoming the first commercially viable alloy - steel. afterward, he created silicon steel, launching the search for other possible alloys of steel. robert forester mushet found that by adding tungsten to steel it could produce a very hard edge that would resist losing its hardness at high temperatures. " r. mushet ' s special steel " ( rms ) became the first high - speed steel. mushet ' s steel was quickly replaced by tungsten carbide steel, developed by taylor and white in 1900, in which they doubled the tungsten content and added small amounts of chromium and vanadium, producing a superior steel for use in lathes and machining tools. in 1903, the wright brothers used a chromium - nickel steel to make the crankshaft for their airplane engine, while in 1908 henry ford began using vanadium steels for parts like crankshafts and valves in his model t ford, due to their higher strength and resistance to high temperatures. in 1912, the krupp ironworks in germany developed a rust - resistant steel by adding 21 % chromium and 7 % nickel, producing the first stainless steel. others due to their high reactivity, most metals were not discovered until the 19th century. a method for extracting aluminium from bauxite was proposed by humphry davy in 1807, using an electric arc. although his attempts were unsuccessful, by 1855 the first sales of pure aluminium reached the market. however, as extractive metallurgy was still in its infancy, most aluminium extraction - processes produced unintended alloys contaminated with other elements found in the ore ; the most abundant of which was copper. these aluminium - copper alloys ( at the