4 global hectares of biocapacity per person – their ecological footprint of consumption. this means they use just under 4. 5 times as much biocapacity as algeria contains. as a result, algeria is running a biocapacity deficit. in april 2022, diplomats from italy and spain held talks after rome ' s move to secure large volume of algerian gas stoked concerns in madrid. under the deal between algeria ' s sonatrach and italy ' s eni, algeria will send an additional 9 billion cubic metres of gas to italy by next year and in 2024. research and alternative energy sources algeria has invested an estimated 100 billion dinars towards developing research facilities and paying researchers. this development program is meant to advance alternative energy production, especially solar and wind power. algeria is estimated to have the largest solar energy potential in the mediterranean, so the government has funded the creation of a solar science park in hassi r ' mel. currently, algeria has 20, 000 research professors at various universities and over 780 research labs, with state - set goals to expand to 1, 000. besides solar energy, areas of research in algeria include space and satellite telecommunications, nuclear power and medical research. labour market the overall rate of unemployment was 10 % in 2011, but remained higher among young people, with a rate of 21. 5 % for those aged between 15 and 24. the government strengthened in 2011 the job programs introduced in 1988, in particular in the framework of the program to aid those seeking work ( dispositif d ' aide a l ' insertion professionnelle ). despite a decline in total unemployment, youth and women unemployment is high. tourism the development of the tourism sector in algeria had previously been hampered by a lack of facilities, but since 2004 a broad tourism development strategy has been implemented resulting in many hotels of a high modern standard being built. there are several unesco world heritage sites in algeria including al qal ' a of beni hammad, the first capital of the hammadid empire ; tipasa, a phoenician and later roman town ; and djemila and timgad, both roman ruins ; m ' zab valley, a limestone valley containing a large urbanized oasis ; and the casbah of algiers, an important citadel. the only natural world heritage site is the tassili n ' ajjer, a mountain range. transport the algerian road network is the densest in africa ; its length is estimated at of highways, with more than 3, 756 structures and a