brother, philip arrhidaeus. olympias and several of alexander ' s friends suggested this showed philip intended to make arrhidaeus his heir. alexander reacted by sending an actor, thessalus of corinth, to tell pixodarus that he should not offer his daughter ' s hand to an illegitimate son, but instead to alexander. when philip heard of this, he stopped the negotiations and scolded alexander for wishing to marry the daughter of a carian, explaining that he wanted a better bride for him. philip exiled four of alexander ' s friends, harpalus, nearchus, ptolemy and erigyius, and had the corinthians bring thessalus to him in chains. king of macedon accession in summer 336 bc, while at aegae attending the wedding of his daughter cleopatra to olympias ' s brother, alexander i of epirus, philip was assassinated by the captain of his bodyguards, pausanias. as pausanias tried to escape, he tripped over a vine and was killed by his pursuers, including two of alexander ' s companions, perdiccas and leonnatus. alexander was proclaimed king on the spot by the nobles and army at the age of 20. consolidation of power alexander began his reign by eliminating potential rivals to the throne. he had his cousin, the former amyntas iv, executed. he also had two macedonian princes from the region of lyncestis killed for having been involved in his father ' s assassination, but spared a third, alexander lyncestes. olympias had cleopatra eurydice, and europa, her daughter by philip, burned alive. when alexander learned about this, he was furious. alexander also ordered the murder of attalus, who was in command of the advance guard of the army in asia minor and cleopatra ' s uncle. attalus was at that time corresponding with demosthenes, regarding the possibility of defecting to athens. attalus also had severely insulted alexander, and following cleopatra ' s murder, alexander may have considered him too dangerous to be left alive. alexander spared arrhidaeus, who was by all accounts mentally disabled, possibly as a result of poisoning by olympias. news of philip ' s death roused many states into revolt, including thebes, athens, thessaly, and the thracian tribes north of macedon. when news of the revolts reached alexander, he responded quickly. though advised to use diplomacy, alexander mustered 3, 000 macedonian cavalry and