had the benefit of appearing victorious. invasion of italy and death attila returned in 452 to renew his marriage claim with honoria, invading and ravaging italy along the way. communities became established in what would later become venice as a result of these attacks when the residents fled to small islands in the venetian lagoon. his army sacked numerous cities and razed aquileia so completely that it was afterwards hard to recognize its original site. aetius lacked the strength to offer battle, but managed to harass and slow attila ' s advance with only a shadow force. attila finally halted at the river po. by this point, disease and starvation may have taken hold in attila ' s camp, thus hindering his war efforts and potentially contributing to the cessation of invasion. emperor valentinian iii sent three envoys, the high civilian officers gennadius avienus and trigetius, as well as the bishop of rome leo i, who met attila at mincio in the vicinity of mantua and obtained from him the promise that he would withdraw from italy and negotiate peace with the emperor. prosper of aquitaine gives a short description of the historic meeting, but gives all the credit to leo for the successful negotiation. priscus reports that superstitious fear of the fate of alaric gave him pause — as alaric died shortly after sacking rome in 410. italy had suffered from a terrible famine in 451 and her crops were faring little better in 452. attila ' s devastating invasion of the plains of northern italy this year did not improve the harvest. to advance on rome would have required supplies which were not available in italy, and taking the city would not have improved attila ' s supply situation. therefore, it was more profitable for attila to conclude peace and retreat to his homeland. furthermore, an east roman force had crossed the danube under the command of another officer also named aetius — who had participated in the council of chalcedon the previous year — and proceeded to defeat the huns who had been left behind by attila to safeguard their home territories. attila, hence, faced heavy human and natural pressures to retire " from italy without ever setting foot south of the po ". as hydatius writes in his chronica minora : death in the eastern roman empire, emperor marcian succeeded theodosius ii, and stopped paying tribute to the huns. attila withdrew from italy to his palace across the danube, while making plans to strike at constantinople once more to