abraham ( originally abram ) is the common hebrew patriarch of the abrahamic religions, including judaism, christianity, and islam. in judaism, he is the founding father of the special relationship between the jews and god ; in christianity, he is the spiritual progenitor of all believers, whether jewish or non - jewish ; and in islam, he is a link in the chain of islamic prophets that begins with adam and culminates in muhammad. the story of the life of abraham as told in the narrative of the book of genesis revolves around the themes of posterity and land. he is said to have been called by god to leave the house of his father terah and settle in the land of canaan, which god now promises to abraham and his progeny. this promise is subsequently inherited by isaac, abraham ' s son, by his wife sarah, while isaac ' s half - brother ishmael is also promised that he will be the founder of a great nation. abraham purchases a tomb ( the cave of the patriarchs ) at hebron to be sarah ' s grave, thus establishing his right to the land ; and, in the second generation, his heir isaac is married to a woman from his own kin, thus ruling the canaanites out of any inheritance. abraham later marries keturah and has six more sons ; but, on his death, when he is buried beside sarah, it is isaac who receives " all abraham ' s goods " while the other sons receive only " gifts ". most scholars view the patriarchal age, along with the exodus and the period of the biblical judges, as a late literary construct that does not relate to any particular historical era, and after a century of exhaustive archaeological investigation, no evidence has been found for a historical abraham. it is largely concluded that the torah, the series of books that includes genesis, was composed during the early persian period,, as a result of tensions between jewish landowners who had stayed in judah during the babylonian captivity and traced their right to the land through their " father abraham ", and the returning exiles who based their counterclaim on moses and the exodus tradition of the israelites. the abraham cycle structure and narrative programs the abraham cycle is not structured by a unified plot centered on a conflict and its resolution or a problem and its solution. the episodes are often only loosely linked, and the sequence is not always logical, but it is unified by the presence of abraham himself, as either actor or witness, and by the themes of posterity and land. these themes form