##lkane ring is stated, and the substituents are according to their position on the ring, with the numbering decided by the cahn – ingold – prelog priority rules. trivial / common names the trivial ( non - systematic ) name for alkanes is ' paraffins '. together, alkanes are known as the ' paraffin series '. trivial names for compounds are usually historical artifacts. they were coined before the development of systematic names, and have been retained due to familiar usage in industry. cycloalkanes are also called naphthenes. branched - chain alkanes are called isoparaffins. " paraffin " is a general term and often does not distinguish between pure compounds and mixtures of isomers, i. e., compounds of the same chemical formula, e. g., pentane and isopentane. in iupac the following trivial names are retained in the iupac system : isobutane for 2 - methylpropane isopentane for 2 - methylbutane neopentane for 2, 2 - dimethylpropane. non - iupac some non - iupac trivial names are occasionally used : cetane, for hexadecane cerane, for hexacosane physical properties all alkanes are colorless. alkanes with the lowest molecular weights are gases, those of intermediate molecular weight are liquids, and the heaviest are waxy solids. table of alkanes boiling point alkanes experience intermolecular van der waals forces. stronger intermolecular van der waals forces give rise to greater boiling points of alkanes. there are two determinants for the strength of the van der waals forces : the number of electrons surrounding the molecule, which increases with the alkane ' s molecular weight the surface area of the molecule under standard conditions, from ch4 to c4h10 alkanes are gaseous ; from c5h12 to c17h36 they are liquids ; and after c18h38 they are solids. as the boiling point of alkanes is primarily determined by weight, it should not be a surprise that the boiling point has an almost linear relationship with the size ( molecular weight ) of the molecule. as a rule of thumb, the boiling point rises 20 – 30 °c for each carbon added to the chain ; this rule applies to other homologous series. a straight - chain alkan