cruickshank, actor famous for his role in dr finlay ' s casebook john mathieson dodds, apprentice and engineer with metrovick, manchester and radar pioneer in chain home defence system for 1940 battle of britain. neil fachie, cyclist, 2012 paralympic games gold and silver medalist. simon farquhar, playwright. graeme garden, author, actor, comedian, artist, tv presenter, famous for the goodies. martin gatt, principal bassoonist english chamber orchestra, lpo and lso. ryan gauld, footballer who currently plays for sporting lisbon in the portuguese primeira liga. james gibbs, 18th - century architect. quentin gibson frs ( 1918 – 2011 ), physiologist and biochemist james gregory frs ( 1638 – 1675 ), scottish mathematician and astronomer, born in the manse at drumoak, just outside aberdeen. attended aberdeen grammar school and marischal college, university of aberdeen. discovered diffraction gratings a year after newton ' s prism experiments, and invented the gregorian telescope design in 1663 which is used in telescopes such as the arecibo observatory. david gregory frs ( 1659 – 1708 ), scottish mathematician and astronomer. attended aberdeen grammar school and marischal college, university of aberdeen. a professor of mathematics. based on his uncle james gregory ' s work, he extended or discovered the method of quadratures by infinite series. his principle work " astronomiae physicae et geometricae elementa " ( 1702 ) was the first text - book on gravitational principles. michael gove, politician and mp. george jamesone, scotland ' s first eminent portrait - painter. reginald victor jones, physicist, chair of natural philosophy at the university of aberdeen, author. john michael kosterlitz, physicist, professor of physics at brown university. awarded the nobel prize in physics in 2016. denis law, former football player, played for manchester city, manchester united and the scotland national team, joint all - time record scotland goalscorer with 30 goals. paul lawrie, golfer, winner of the 1999 open championship. annie lennox, musician, winner of eight brit awards, grew up in ellon. rose leslie, actress, best known for playing ygritte in hbo ' s game of thrones. john macleod frse frs lld ( 1876 – 1935 ) biochemist and physiologist. for his role in the discovery and isolation of insulin he was awarded the nobel prize for physiology or medicine in 1923. john alexander macwilliam frs (