afonso vi ( ; 21 august 164312 september 1683 ), known as " the victorious " ( ), was the second king of portugal of the house of braganza from 1656 until his death. he was initially under the regency of his mother, luisa de guzman, until 1662, when he removed her to a convent and took power with the help of his favourite, the luis de vasconcelos e sousa, 3rd count of castelo melhor. afonso ' s reign saw the end of the restoration war ( 1640 – 68 ) and spain ' s recognition of portugal ' s independence. he also negotiated a french alliance through his marriage. in 1668, his brother pedro ii conspired to have him declared incapable of ruling, and took supreme de facto power as regent, although nominally afonso was still sovereign. queen maria francisca, afonso ' s wife, received an annulment and subsequently married pedro. afonso spent the rest of his life and reign practically a prisoner. early life afonso was the second of three sons born to king john iv and queen luisa. at the age of three, he experienced an illness that resulted in paralysis on the right side of his body. the condition was believed to have also affected his intellectual abilities. his father created him 10th duke of braganza. after the death of his eldest brother teodosio, prince of brazil in 1653, afonso became the heir apparent to the throne of the kingdom. he also received the crown - princely title 2nd prince of brazil. reign he succeeded his father, john iv, in 1656 at the age of thirteen. his mother, luisa de guzman, was named regent in his father ' s will. luisa ' s regency continued even after afonso came of age because he was considered mentally unfit for governing. in addition to lacking intellect, the king exhibited wild and disruptive behavior. in 1662, after afonso terrorized lisbon at night alongside his favorites, luisa and her council responded by banishing some of the king ' s companions that were associated with the raids. angered, afonso took power with the help of castelo - melhor and luisa ' s regency came to an end. she subsequently retired to a convent, where she died in 1666. afonso appointed castelo - melhor as his private secretary ( escrivao da puridade ). he proved to be a competent minister. his astute military organization and sensible general appointments resulted in decisive military victories over