border protection ( cbp ) has a full pre - clearance facility since 1 february 2001 when queen beatrix airport expanded. since 2008, aruba has been the only island to have this service for private flights. culture aruba boasts a diverse culture. according to the bureau burgelijke stand en bevolkingsregister ( bbsb, civil registry and population register ), in 2005, the island was home to peope from ninety - two different nationalities. dutch influence is still evident in traditions like the celebration of sinterklaas ( saint nicholas ) on december 5 and 6, as well as national holidays like april 27 when aruba, along with the rest of the kingdom of the netherlands, celebrates koningsdag ( king ' s day ) or dia di rey ( in papiamento ) is celebrated. on 18 march, aruba celebrates its national anthem and flag day. christmas and new year ' s eve are celebrated with the typical music and songs of gaitas for christmas and the for new year. traditional food and drinks like ayaca, ponche crema, ham, and more are also parts of the festive season. january 25 is dedicated to celebrating betico croes day, while june 24 is the day for dia di san juan. in addition to christmas, religious holidays such as the feast of the ascension and good friday are also observed on the island. aruba ' s carnaval is a significant cultural event, akin to celebrations in other caribbean and latin american countries. it began in the 1950 ' s, influenced by residents from venezuela and nearby islands ( curacao, st. vincent, trinidad, barbados, st. maarten, and anguilla ) who worked at the oil refinery. the carnaval celebrations now spans from early january until the tuesday before ash wednesday, featuring a grand parade on the final sunday of the festivities. aruba has seen an increased influence of american culture due to rising tourism from the united states. this is evident in the adoption of american celebrations like halloween in october and thanksgiving day in november. architecture from the beginning of the colonization of the netherlands until the beginning of the 20th century, the architecture in the most inhabited areas of aruba was influenced by the dutch colonial style and also some spanish elements from the catholic missionaries present in aruba who later settled in venezuela as well. after the boom of the oil industry and the tourist sector in the 20th century the architectural style of the island incorporated a more american and international influence. in addition, elements of the