, and pricewaterhousecoopers had helped members of the family of former president jose eduardo dos santos ( especially his daughter isabel dos santos ) corruptly run sonangol for their own personal profit, helping them use the company ' s revenues to fund vanity projects in france and switzerland. after further revelations in the pandora papers, former generals dias and do nascimento and former presidential advisers were also accused of misappropriating significant public funds for personal benefit. the enormous differences between the regions pose a serious structural problem for the angolan economy, illustrated by the fact that about one third of economic activities are concentrated in luanda and neighbouring bengo province, while several areas of the interior suffer economic stagnation and even regression. one of the economic consequences of social and regional disparities is a sharp increase in angolan private investments abroad. the small fringe of angolan society where most of the asset accumulation takes place seeks to spread its assets, for reasons of security and profit. for the time being, the biggest share of these investments is concentrated in portugal where the angolan presence ( including the family of the state president ) in banks as well as in the domains of energy, telecommunications, and mass media has become notable, as has the acquisition of vineyards and orchards as well as of tourism enterprises. angola has upgraded critical infrastructure, an investment made possible by funds from the nation ' s development of oil resources. according to a report, just slightly more than ten years after the end of the civil war angola ' s standard of living has overall greatly improved. life expectancy, which was just 46 years in 2002, reached 51 in 2011. mortality rates for children fell from 25 per cent in 2001 to 19 per cent in 2010 and the number of students enrolled in primary school has tripled since 2001. however, at the same time the social and economic inequality that has characterised the country for so long has not diminished, but has deepened in all respects. with a stock of assets corresponding to 70 billion kz ( us $ 6. 8 billion ), angola is now the third - largest financial market in sub - saharan africa, surpassed only by nigeria and south africa. according to the angolan minister of economy, abraao gourgel, the financial market of the country grew modestly since 2002 and now occupies third place in sub - saharan africa. on 19 december 2014, the capital market in angola was launched. bodiva ( angola stock exchange and derivatives, in english ) was allocated the secondary public debt market, and was expected to