, computer technology has now become the industry standard. furthermore, design may include the use of photos, collages, prints, linocuts, 3d scanning technology, and other media in design production. increasingly, computer software is shaping how architects work. bim technology allows for the creation of a virtual building that serves as an information database for the sharing of design and building information throughout the life - cycle of the building ' s design, construction, and maintenance. virtual reality ( vr ) presentations are becoming more common for visualizing structural designs and interior spaces from the point - of - view perspective. environmental role since modern buildings are known to place carbon into the atmosphere, increasing controls are being placed on buildings and associated technology to reduce emissions, increase energy efficiency, and make use of renewable energy sources. renewable energy sources may be designed into the proposed building by local or national renewable energy providers. as a result, the architect is required to remain abreast of current regulations that are continually being updated. some new developments exhibit extremely low energy use or passive solar building design. however, the architect is also increasingly being required to provide initiatives in a wider environmental sense. examples of this include making provisions for low - energy transport, natural daylighting instead of artificial lighting, natural ventilation instead of air conditioning, pollution, and waste management, use of recycled materials, and employment of materials which can be easily recycled. construction role as the design becomes more advanced and detailed, specifications and detail designs are made of all the elements and components of the building. techniques in the production of a building are continually advancing which places a demand on the architect to ensure that he or she remains up to date with these advances. depending on the client ' s needs and the jurisdiction ' s requirements, the spectrum of the architect ' s services during each construction stage may be extensive ( detailed document preparation and construction review ) or less involved ( such as allowing a contractor to exercise considerable design - build functions ). architects typically put projects to tender on behalf of their clients, advise them on the award of the project to a general contractor, facilitate and administer a contract of agreement which is often between the client and the contractor. this contract is legally binding and covers a wide range of aspects including the insurance and commitments of all stakeholders, the status of the design documents, provisions for the architect ' s access, and procedures for the control of the works as they proceed. depending on the type of contract utilized, provisions for further sub - contract tenders may be required. the architect may require that some elements are covered