countries, the instrument is very popular in mainstream pop music. in some parts of the country, such as the northeast it is the most popular melodic instrument. as opposed to most european folk accordions, a very dry tuning is usually used in brazil. outside the south, the accordion ( predominantly the piano accordion ) is used in almost all styles of forro ( in particular in the subgenres of xote and baiao ) as the principal instrument, luiz gonzaga ( the " king of the baiao " ) and dominguinhos being among the notable musicians in this style from the northeast. in this musical style the typical combination is a trio of accordion, triangle and zabumba ( a type of drum ). this style has gained popularity recently, in particular among the student population of the southeast of the country ( in the forro universitario genre, with important exponents today being falamansa, and trios such as trio dona zefa, trio virgulino and trio alvorada ). moreover, the accordion is the principal instrument in junina music ( music of the sao joao festival ), with mario zan having been a very important exponent of this music. it is an important instrument in sertanejo ( and caipira ) music, which originated in the midwest and southeast of brazil, and subsequently has gained popularity throughout the country. colombia the accordion is also a traditional instrument in colombia, commonly associated with the vallenato and cumbia genres. the accordion has been used by tropipop musicians such as carlos vives, andres cabas, fonseca ( singer ) and bacilos, as well as rock musicians such as juanes and pop musicians as shakira. vallenato, who emerged in the early twentieth century in valledupar, and have come to symbolize the folk music of colombia. every year in april, colombia holds one of the most important musical festivals in the country : the vallenato legend festival. the festival holds contests for best accordion player. once every decade, the " king of kings " accordion competition takes place, where winners of the previous festivals compete for the highest possible award for a vallenato accordion player : the pilonera mayor prize. this is the world ' s largest competitive accordion festival. czech republic accordion is often played at traditional czech pubs, such as u fleku, prague. mexico norteno heavily relies on the accordion ; it is a genre related to polka. ramon ayala, known