##stophanes of byzantium and aristarchus of samothrace sometime in the 3rd century bc, and yet his verses today exist only in fragmentary form, varying in size from mere phrases, such as wine, window into a man ( fr. 333 ) to entire groups of verses and stanzas, such as those quoted below ( fr. 346 ). alexandrian scholars numbered him in their canonic nine ( one lyric poet per muse ). among these, pindar was held by many ancient critics to be pre - eminent, but some gave precedence to alcaeus instead. the canonic nine are traditionally divided into two groups, with alcaeus, sappho and anacreon, being ' monodists ' or ' solo - singers ', with the following characteristics : they composed and performed personally for friends and associates on topics of immediate interest to them ; they wrote in their native dialects ( alcaeus and sappho in aeolic dialect, anacreon in ionic ) ; they preferred quite short, metrically simple stanzas or ' strophes ' which they re - used in many poems – hence the ' alcaic ' and ' sapphic ' stanzas, named after the two poets who perfected them or possibly invented them. the other six of the canonic nine composed verses for public occasions, performed by choruses and professional singers and typically featuring complex metrical arrangements that were never reproduced in other verses. however, this division into two groups is considered by some modern scholars to be too simplistic and often it is practically impossible to know whether a lyric composition was sung or recited, or whether or not it was accompanied by musical instruments and dance. even the private reflections of alcaeus, ostensibly sung at dinner parties, still retain a public function. critics often seek to understand alcaeus in comparison with sappho : the roman poet, horace, also compared the two, describing alcaeus as " more full - throatedly singing " – see horace ' s tribute below. alcaeus himself seems to underscore the difference between his own ' down - to - earth ' style and sappho ' s more ' celestial ' qualities when he describes her almost as a goddess ( as cited above ), and yet it has been argued that both poets were concerned with a balance between the divine and the profane, each emphasising different elements in that balance. dionysius of halicarnassus exhorts us to " observe in alcaeus the sub