to create pavements similar to hot - mixed asphalt, several inches in depth, and bitumen emulsions are also blended into recycled hot - mix asphalt to create low - cost pavements. bitumen emulsion based techniques are known to be useful for all classes of roads, their use may also be possible in the following applications : 1. asphalts for heavily trafficked roads ( based on the use of polymer modified emulsions ) 2. warm emulsion based mixtures, to improve both their maturation time and mechanical properties 3. half - warm technology, in which aggregates are heated up to 100 degrees, producing mixtures with similar properties to those of hot asphalts 4. high performance surface dressing. synthetic crude oil synthetic crude oil, also known as syncrude, is the output from a bitumen upgrader facility used in connection with oil sand production in canada. bituminous sands are mined using enormous ( 100 - ton capacity ) power shovels and loaded into even larger ( 400 - ton capacity ) dump trucks for movement to an upgrading facility. the process used to extract the bitumen from the sand is a hot water process originally developed by dr. karl clark of the university of alberta during the 1920s. after extraction from the sand, the bitumen is fed into a bitumen upgrader which converts it into a light crude oil equivalent. this synthetic substance is fluid enough to be transferred through conventional oil pipelines and can be fed into conventional oil refineries without any further treatment. by 2015 canadian bitumen upgraders were producing over per day of synthetic crude oil, of which 75 % was exported to oil refineries in the united states. in alberta, five bitumen upgraders produce synthetic crude oil and a variety of other products : the suncor energy upgrader near fort mcmurray, alberta produces synthetic crude oil plus diesel fuel ; the syncrude canada, canadian natural resources, and nexen upgraders near fort mcmurray produce synthetic crude oil ; and the shell scotford upgrader near edmonton produces synthetic crude oil plus an intermediate feedstock for the nearby shell oil refinery. a sixth upgrader, under construction in 2015 near redwater, alberta, will upgrade half of its crude bitumen directly to diesel fuel, with the remainder of the output being sold as feedstock to nearby oil refineries and petrochemical plants. non - upgraded crude bitumen canadian bitumen does not differ substantially from oils such as venezuelan extra - heavy and mexican heavy oil in chemical composition, and the real difficulty