were capable of very little, lacking in and says that they were given three gifts by the three gods : the meaning of these gifts has been a matter of scholarly disagreement and translations therefore vary. according to chapter 9 of the prose edda book, the three brothers vili, ve, and odin, are the creators of the first man and woman. the brothers were once walking along a beach and found two trees there. they took the wood and from it created the first human beings ; ask and embla. one of the three gave them the breath of life, the second gave them movement and intelligence, and the third gave them shape, speech, hearing and sight. further, the three gods gave them clothing and names. ask and embla go on to become the progenitors of all humanity and were given a home within the walls of midgard. theories indo - european origins a proto - indo - european basis has been theorized for the duo based on the etymology of embla meaning " vine. " in indo - european societies, an analogy is derived from the drilling of fire and sexual intercourse. vines were used as a flammable wood, where they were placed beneath a drill made of harder wood, resulting in fire. further evidence of ritual making of fire in scandinavia has been theorized from a depiction on a stone plate on a bronze age grave in kivik, scania, sweden. jaan puhvel comments that " ancient myths teem with trite ' first couples ' similar to the type of adam and his by - product eve. in indo - european tradition, these range from the vedic yama and yami and the iranian masya and masyanag to the icelandic askr and embla, with trees or rocks as preferred raw material, and dragon ' s teeth or other bony substance occasionally thrown in for good measure ". in his study of the comparative evidence for an origin of mankind from trees in indo - european society, anders hultgard observes that " myths of the origin of mankind from trees or wood seem to be particularly connected with ancient europe and indo - europe and indo - european - speaking peoples of asia minor and iran. by contrast the cultures of the near east show almost exclusively the type of anthropogonic stories that derive man ' s origin from clay, earth or blood by means of a divine creation act ". other potential germanic analogues two wooden figures — the braak bog figures — of " more than human height " were unearthed from a peat bog at braak in schleswig, germany