of taxation and to provide for the food supply of the colonists. the defeated were often kidnapped and forced to participate in expeditions elsewhere in the new world as slave laborers. the caquetio population of the leeward antilles was incorporated into the spanish colonial empire. on june 8 and 10, 1501, alonso de ojeda acquired the exclusive right to exploit the current venezuelan coastal area, known as coquibacoa, and the islands of the coast curacao, aruba, and bonaire, and probably also the mongues and aves islands. de ojeda had to form an administration as far west as possible on the tierra firme to secure the spanish presence. it is believed that de ojeda and amerigo vespucci visited bonaire and curacao, but neither vespucci nor de ojeda are thought to have set foot on aruban soil. he was explicitly forbidden to enslave natives. however, de ojeda lacked administrative skills and intentions, and he became a controversial figure. de ojeda established a base, named santa cruz, at the tip of guajira, from where he conducted trade and, probably even more importantly, carried out his raids, including slave hunts. during his third voyage to the new world in 1502, de ojeda visited curacao, but his attempt to exploit the region failed. instead, bartolome de las casas documented de ojeda ' s raids, slave hunts, and atrocities in the rural areas of present - day cartagena in his book,. these raids were disastrous, even for the spaniards, and marked the end of the first attempt to control the region. upon returning to spain in 1504, de ojeda was brought to trial to account for his failed venture and the atrocities he had committed. de ojeda lost his case, and the court stripped him of his earthly possessions and the rights to exploit the region. de ojeda died in 1515 or 1516, impoverished, in a franciscan monastery in hispaniola. as a sign of his forced simplicity, he was buried in the entrance of the monastery. between 1513 and 1515, the leeward antilles, including curacao, aruba, and bonaire, were depopulated. captain diego salazar led this effort, which affected an estimated 2, 000 indigenous inhabitants from these islands, and likely more from tierra firme. most of the caquetio were taken to hispaniola as