scotland to pick potatoes, a migratory pattern that had been established in the early nineteenth century. kildamhnait kildamhnait on the south - east coast of achill is named after st. damhnait, or dymphna, who founded a church there in the 7th century. there is also a holy well just outside the graveyard. the present church was built in the 1700s and the graveyard contains memorials to the victims of two of achill ' s greatest tragedies, the kirchintilloch fire ( 1937 ) and the clew bay drowning ( 1894 ). the monastery in 1852, dr john machale, roman catholic archbishop of tuam, purchased land in bunnacurry, on which a franciscan monastery was established, which, for many years, provided an education for local children. the building of the monastery was marked by a conflict between the protestants of the mission colony and the workers building the monastery. the dispute is known in the island folklore as the battle of the stones. a notable monk who lived at the monastery for almost thirty years was brother paul carney. he wrote a biography of james lynchehaun who rose to either fame or infamy ( depending on whom you spoke to ) following his conviction for the 1894 attack on an englishwoman named agnes macdonnell, which left her face disfigured, and the burning of her home, valley house, tonatanvally, north achill. ( the home was rebuilt and mrs macdonnell died there in 1923, while lynchehaun escaped to the usa after serving 7 years and successfully resisted extradition but spent his last years in scotland, where he died. ) brother carney ' s - great grandniece, patricia byrne, write her own account of mrs macdonnell and lynchehaun, entitled the veiled woman of achill. brother carney also wrote accounts of his lengthy fundraising trips across the u. s. at the start of the 20th century. the ruins of this monastery are still to be seen in bunnacurry today. valley house the historic valley house is located in tonatanvally, " the valley ", near dugort, in the northeast of achill island. the present building sits on the site of a hunting lodge built by the earl of cavan in the 19th century. its notoriety arises from an incident in 1894 in which the then owner, an englishwoman, mrs agnes mcdonnell, was savagely beaten and the house set alight