humanists, such as cosimo de ' medici, he appeared as the student of classical antiquities and especially of greek theological authors ". works his works include a treatise on the holy eucharist, one on the procession of the holy spirit, many lives of saints, as well as a history of his term as prior general of the camaldolese. he also translated from greek into latin a life of john chrysostom ( venice, 1533 ) ; the spiritual wisdom of john moschus ; the ladder of divine ascent of john climacus ( venice, 1531 ), p. g., lxxxviii. between 1424 and 1433 he worked on the translation of the lives and opinions of eminent philosophers by diogenes laertius, which came to be widely circulated in manuscript form. he also translated four books against the errors of the greeks, by manuel kalekas, patriarch of constantinople, a dominican friar ( ingolstadt, 1608 ), p. g., clii, col. 13 - 661, a work known only through ambrose ' s translation. he also translated many homilies of john chrysostom ; the writings of dionysius areopagita ( 1436 ) ; basil of caesarea ' s treatise on virginity ; thirty - nine discourses of ephrem the syrian, and many other works of the fathers and writers of the greek church. dom mabillon ' s letters and orations of st. ambrose of camaldoli was published in florence in 1759. selected works : hodoeporicon, diary of a journey visiting the monasteries of italy epistolarium, correspondence translations of palladius, life of chrysostom ephraem syrus, nineteen sermons of ephraem syrus basil of caesarea, on virginity diogenes laertius, vitae philosophorum ( lives and opinions of eminent philosophers ) pseudo - dionysius the areopagite ( 1436 ) a number of his manuscripts remain in the library of saint mark in venice. see also traversari the baptism of christ ( piero della francesca ) references attribution further reading external links letters – a few letters in the original latin and a portrait of him from a manuscript he copied. contains short biography 1386 births 1439 deaths people from portico e san benedetto 14th - century christian saints 15th - century christian saints 15th - century italian roman catholic theologians camaldolese saints medieval italian saints italian benedictines benedictine saints benedictine