ancient xhubleta. dedicated efforts have been undertaken to preserve and promote the dress, acknowledging its significance as an emblem of albanian heritage. as a testament to its importance, the xhubleta has been inscribed on the unesco intangible cultural heritage list. the distinctive bell - shaped garment is fashioned in black and enriched with embroidered ethnic albanian motifs, showcasing the remarkable craftsmanship of northern albania. its crafting process involves multiple intricate stages, encompassing the preparation of shajak fabric and the precise cutting techniques. art and architecture the artistic history of albania has been particularly influenced by a multitude of ancient and medieval people, traditions and religions. it covers a broad spectrum with mediums and disciplines that include painting, pottery, sculpture, ceramics and architecture all of them exemplifying a great variety in style and shape, in different regions and period. the rise of the byzantine and ottoman empire in the middle ages was accompanied by a corresponding growth in christian and islamic art in the lands of albania which are apparent in examples of architecture and mosaics throughout the country. centuries later, the albanian renaissance proved crucial to the emancipation of the modern albanian culture and saw unprecedented developments in all fields of literature and art whereas artists sought to return to the ideals of impressionism and romanticism. however, onufri, kole idromeno, david selenica, kostandin shpataraku and the zografi brothers are the most eminent representatives of albanian art. the architecture of albania reflects the legacy of various civilisations tracing back to the classical antiquity. major cities in albania have evolved from within the castle to include dwellings, religious and commercial structures, with constant redesigning of town squares and evolution of building techniques. nowadays, the cities and towns reflect a whole spectrum of various architectural styles. in the 20th century, many historical as well as sacred buildings bearing the ancient influence were demolished during the communist era. ancient architecture is found throughout albania and most visible in byllis, amantia, phoenice, apollonia, butrint, antigonia, shkoder and durres. considering the long period of rule of the byzantine empire, they introduced castles, citadels, churches and monasteries with spectacular wealth of visible murals and frescos. perhaps the best known examples can be found in the southern albanian cities and surroundings of korce, berat, voskopoje and gjirokaster. involving the introduction of ottoman architecture there was a development of mosques and other islamic buildings, particularly seen in berat and gjirok