- indian burial practices in aruba and the post - columbian variant in guajira justifies the assumption that the similar beliefs about life after death existed in both societies. spanish period new route to india it is known that christopher columbus was not searching for a new continent, but for the shortest route to india. india had been the spearhead of european trade expansion and the foreign policy of the spanish crown since the travels of marco polo a century earlier. india, china, and japan formed the focal point of medieval ideas about boundless riches ; cities with houses covered in gold, and islands with inexhaustible amounts of spices, pearls, and silk. the suspicion arose that india could be reached via the relatively short route to the west, across the ocean of atlantis. during his third voyage to the new world, columbus was searching for the southern route to india and explored the paria peninsula ( eastern venezuela ) and the orinoco region, where he discovered the fresh river water of the orinoco delta. the suspicion arose that he had not found islands off the coast of india but a much more extensive land mass ; an extension of asia. columbus did not realize that this was an unknown continent. characteristic of his christian, medieval attitude, columbus solved the puzzle by assuming that he had discovered the earthly paradise. the earthly paradise was inaccessible to humans without god ' s permission. columbus experienced the geographical discovery of the new world in christian terms and assigned himself a special role assigned by a divine power. with the discovery of the americas the myths of the golden age, atlantis, and the earthly paradise moved from asia to the new world. he died on may 20, 1506, believing that he had found new islands of the coast of or possibly a peninsula of india — pre - islands : ant - ilha. these ant - ilhas were inhabited by peoples whom he called " indians ". early explorations in 1500, juan de la cosa drew the first map of the new world, which depicted the two leeward antilles known at the time. this was followed by the more accurate cantino map, created anonymously in 1502, which also showed an extensive landmass and mentioned the isla do gigante ( island of giants ) and isla do brasil ( island of brasil ). the location of the isla do gigante southwest of the isla do brasil suggest that it refers to bonaire and curacao since aruba is located more to the northwest. in 1493, the year in which the west indian islands became known in europe,