ora oubao which means " shell island " and oirubae which means " companion of curacao ". a common misconception is that the name " aruba " came from oro hubo, ( spanish for " there was gold once " ). however, the spanish declared these islands islas inutiles, meaning " useless islands ", due to their lack of mineral wealth. it was not until, a century later, in 1824, that gold was discovered on aruba by a twelve year - old herder named willem rasmijn ; leading to the aruban gold rush. history pre - ceramic age in aruba ' s prehistoric era, there were distinct periods : the archaic or pre - ceramic and the neo - indian ( ceramic ) period. the archaic occupation of aruba continued well into the first millennium ad, which is relatively late in compared to other parts of the insular caribbean. the archaic lifestyle revolved around a food economy based on fishing, hunting, and gathering, with a strong emphasis on marine resources. ceramics were absent, as was horticulture and agriculture. these people not only chipped stones but also polished and sharpened them. weapons and tools were predominantly crafted from stone. sharp - edged ax blades, chisels, and knives were commonly used, with the knives distinguishable by their elongated shape and flat blades. one notable site, sero muskita, yielded a tool that is older than other archaic age sites on the island. the finishing techniques and shape of this tool resembles one found at arikok, suggesting a date before approximately 2000 bc. the presence of these tools on the island may be due to occasional visits from the mainland. in total, 33 archaic age sites have been identified on aruba. early human migration and cultural exchange during this period, the leeward islands maintained connections and engaged in trade with mainland south america, particularly with partners in the present - day falcon - zulia state in venezuela and possibly the la guajira peninsula ( venezuela / colombia ). the specific language group to which they belonged remains uncertain. this theory is supported by the discovery of 60 to 70 amerindian cemetery burial grounds in malmok and canashito, aruba. among these burial sites, five are found smaller canashito burial ground and are dated between 100 bc to 100 ad. interestingly, isotopic research revealed that one of the individuals buried there was not from aruba and had a different diet compared to the other four individuals of aruban origin