algorithm. linear time : if the time is proportional to the input size. e. g. the traverse of a list. polynomial time : if the time is a power of the input size. e. g. the bubble sort algorithm has quadratic time complexity. exponential time : if the time is an exponential function of the input size. e. g. brute - force search. some problems may have multiple algorithms of differing complexity, while other problems might have no algorithms or no known efficient algorithms. there are also mappings from some problems to other problems. owing to this, it was found to be more suitable to classify the problems themselves instead of the algorithms into equivalence classes based on the complexity of the best possible algorithms for them. continuous algorithms the adjective " continuous " when applied to the word " algorithm " can mean : an algorithm operating on data that represents continuous quantities, even though this data is represented by discrete approximations — such algorithms are studied in numerical analysis ; or an algorithm in the form of a differential equation that operates continuously on the data, running on an analog computer. algorithm = logic + control in logic programming, algorithms are viewed as having both " a logic component, which specifies the knowledge to be used in solving problems, and a control component, which determines the problem - solving strategies by means of which that knowledge is used. " the euclidean algorithm illustrates this view of an algorithm. here is a logic programming representation, using : - to represent " if ", and the relation gcd ( a, b, c ) to represent the function gcd ( a, b ) = c : gcd ( a, a, a ). gcd ( a, b, c ) : - a > b, gcd ( a - b, b, c ). gcd ( a, b, c ) : - b > a, gcd ( a, b - a, c ). in the logic programming language ciao the gcd relation can be represented directly in functional notation : gcd ( a, a ) : = a. gcd ( a, b ) : = gcd ( a - b, b ) : - a > b. gcd ( a, b ) : = gcd ( a, b - a ) : - b > a. the ciao implementation translates the functional notation into a relational representation in prolog, extracting the embedded subtractions, a - b and b - a, as separate conditions : gcd ( a, a, a ). gcd