", and cites several examples of related greek words ( but not that one ) which describe chemical or biological efflorescence. the early uses of antimonium include the translations, in 1050 – 1100, by constantine the african of arabic medical treatises. several authorities believe antimonium is a scribal corruption of some arabic form ; meyerhof derives it from ithmid ; other possibilities include athimar, the arabic name of the metalloid, and a hypothetical as - stimmi, derived from or parallel to the greek. the standard chemical symbol for antimony ( sb ) is credited to jons jakob berzelius, who derived the abbreviation from stibium. the ancient words for antimony mostly have, as their chief meaning, kohl, the sulfide of antimony. the egyptians called antimony msdmt or stm. the arabic word for the substance, as opposed to the cosmetic, can appear as اثمد ithmid, athmoud, othmod, or uthmod. littre suggests the first form, which is the earliest, derives from stimmida, an accusative for stimmi. the greek word, στιμμι ( stimmi ) is used by attic tragic poets of the 5th century bc, and is possibly a loan word from arabic or from egyptian stm. production process the extraction of antimony from ores depends on the quality and composition of the ore. most antimony is mined as the sulfide ; lower - grade ores are concentrated by froth flotation, while higher - grade ores are heated to 500 – 600 °c, the temperature at which stibnite melts and separates from the gangue minerals. antimony can be isolated from the crude antimony sulfide by reduction with scrap iron : + 3 fe → 2 sb + 3 fes the sulfide is converted to an oxide by roasting. the product is further purified by vaporizing the volatile antimony ( iii ) oxide, which is recovered. this sublimate is often used directly for the main applications, impurities being arsenic and sulfide. antimony is isolated from the oxide by a carbothermal reduction : 2 + 3 c → 4 sb + 3 the lower - grade ores are reduced in blast furnaces while the higher - grade ores are reduced in reverberatory furnaces. top producers and production volumes in 2022, according to the us geological survey, china accounted