alaric i ( ;,, " ruler of all " ; c. 370 – 411 ad ) was the first king of the visigoths, from 395 to 410. he rose to leadership of the goths who came to occupy moesia — territory acquired a couple of decades earlier by a combined force of goths and alans after the battle of adrianople. alaric began his career under the gothic soldier gainas and later joined the roman army. once an ally of rome under the roman emperor theodosius, alaric helped defeat the franks and other allies of a would - be roman usurper. despite losing many thousands of his men, he received little recognition from rome and left the roman army disappointed. after the death of theodosius and the disintegration of the roman armies in 395, he is described as king of the visigoths. as the leader of the only effective field force remaining in the balkans, he sought roman legitimacy, never quite achieving a position acceptable to himself or to the roman authorities. he operated mainly against the successive western roman regimes, and marched into italy, where he died. he is responsible for the sack of rome in 410 ; one of several notable events in the western roman empire ' s eventual decline. early life, federate status in the balkans according to jordanes, a 6th - century roman bureaucrat of gothic origin — who later turned his hand to history — alaric was born on peuce island at the mouth of the danube delta in present - day romania and belonged to the noble balti dynasty of the thervingian goths. there is no way to verify this claim. historian douglas boin does not make such an unequivocal assessment about alaric ' s gothic heritage and instead claims he came from either the thervingi or the greuthung tribes. when the goths suffered setbacks against the huns, they made a mass migration across the danube, and fought a war with rome. alaric was probably a child during this period who grew up along rome ' s periphery. alaric ' s upbringing was shaped by living along the border of roman territory in a region that the romans viewed as a veritable " backwater " ; some four centuries before, the roman poet ovid regarded the area along the danube and black sea where alaric was reared as a land of " barbarians ", among " the most remote in the vast world. " alaric ' s childhood in the balkans, where the goths had settled by way