hockey competitions take place in the city. there are many popular spots for skateboarding which is active in the city since the 1980s. skaters in ankara usually meet in the park near the grand national assembly of turkey. the 2012 - built thf sport hall hosts the handball super league and women ' s handball super league matches scheduled in ankara. parks ankara has many parks and open spaces mainly established in the early years of the republic and well maintained and expanded thereafter. the most important of these parks are : genclik parkı ( houses an amusement park with a large pond for rowing ), the botanical garden, segmenler park, anayasa park, kugulu park ( famous for the swans received as a gift from the chinese government ), abdi ipekci park, esertepe parkı, guven park ( see above for the monument ), kurtulus park ( has an ice - skating rink ), altınpark ( also a prominent exposition / fair area ), harikalar diyarı ( claimed to be biggest park of europe inside city borders ) and goksu park. dikmen vadisi ( dikmen valley ) is a park and recreation area situated in cankaya district. genclik park was depicted on the reverse of the turkish 100 lira banknotes of 1952 – 1976. ataturk forest farm and zoo ( ataturk orman ciftligi ) is an expansive recreational farming area which houses a zoo, several small agricultural farms, greenhouses, restaurants, a dairy farm and a brewery. it is a pleasant place to spend a day with family, be it for having picnics, hiking, biking or simply enjoying good food and nature. there is also an exact replica of the house where ataturk was born in 1881, in thessaloniki, greece. visitors to the " ciftlik " ( farm ) as it is affectionately called by ankarans, can sample such famous products of the farm such as old - fashioned beer and ice cream, fresh dairy products and meat rolls / kebabs made on charcoal, at a traditional restaurant ( merkez lokantası, central restaurant ), cafes and other establishments scattered around the farm. education universities ankara is noted, within turkey, for the multitude of universities it is home to. these include the following, several of them being among the most reputable in the country : ankara university atılım university baskent university bilkent university cankaya university gazi university gulhane military