is left deeply scarred by these events and when he encounters alex two years later, he uses him as a guinea pig in a sadistic experiment intended to prove the ludovico technique unsound. the government imprisons him afterwards. he is given the name frank alexander in the film. cat woman : an indirectly named woman who blocks alex ' s gang ' s entrance scheme, and threatens to shoot alex and set her cats on him if he does not leave. after alex breaks into her house, she fights with him, ordering her cats to join the melee, but reprimands alex for fighting them off. she sustains a fatal blow to the head during the scuffle. she is given the name miss weathers in the film. analysis background a clockwork orange was written in hove, then a senescent english seaside town. burgess had arrived back in britain after his stint abroad to see that much had changed. a youth culture had developed, based around coffee bars, pop music and teenage gangs. england was gripped by fears over juvenile delinquency. burgess stated that the novel ' s inspiration was his first wife lynne ' s beating by a gang of drunk american servicemen stationed in england during world war ii. she subsequently miscarried. in its investigation of free will, the book ' s target is ostensibly the concept of behaviourism, pioneered by such figures as b. f. skinner. burgess later stated that he wrote the book in three weeks. title burgess has offered several clarifications about the meaning and origin of its title : he had overheard the phrase " as queer as a clockwork orange " in a london pub in 1945 and assumed it was a cockney expression. in clockwork marmalade, an essay published in the listener in 1972, he said that he had heard the phrase several times since that occasion. he also explained the title in response to a question from william everson on the television programme camera three in 1972, " well, the title has a very different meaning but only to a particular generation of london cockneys. it ' s a phrase which i heard many years ago and so fell in love with, i wanted to use it, the title of the book. but the phrase itself i did not make up. the phrase " as queer as a clockwork orange " is good old east london slang and it didn ' t seem to me necessary to explain it. now, obviously, i have to give it an extra meaning. i ' ve implied an extra dimension. i