presenting the " living trump " abilities as somewhat limited. powers characters in amber drpg have access to the powers seen in the chronicles of amber : pattern, logrus, shape - shifting, trump, and magic. pattern : a character who has walked the pattern can walk in shadow to any possible universe, and while there can manipulate probability. logrus : a character who has mastered the logrus can send out logrus tendrils and pull themselves or objects through shadow. shape - shifting : shape - shifters can alter their physical form and abilities. trump : trump artists can create trumps, a sort of tarot card which allows mental communication and travel. the book features trump portraits of each of the elder amberites. the trump picture of corwin is executed in a subtly different style – and has features very similar to roger zelazny ' s. magic : three types of magic are detailed : power words, with a quick, small effect ; sorcery, with pre - prepared spells as in many other game systems ; and conjuration, the creation of small objects. each of the first four powers is available in an advanced form. artifacts, personal shadows and constructs while a character with pattern, logrus or conjuration can acquire virtually any object, players can choose to spend character points to obtain objects with particular virtues – unbreakability, or a mind of their own. since they have paid points for the items, they are a part of the character ' s legend, and cannot lightly be destroyed. similarly, a character can find any possible universe, but they can spend character points to know of or inhabit shadows which are ( in some sense ) " real " and therefore useful. the expansion, shadow knight, adds constructs – artifacts with connections to shadows. stuff unspent character points become good stuff – a good luck for the character. players are also allowed to overspend ( in moderation ), with the points becoming bad stuff – bad luck which the gamemaster should inflict on the character. stuff governs how non - player characters perceive and respond to the character : characters with good stuff will often receive friendly or helpful reactions, while characters with bad stuff are often treated with suspicion or hostility. as well as representing luck, stuff can be seen as representing a character ' s outlook on the universe : characters with good stuff seeing the multiverse as a cheerful place, while characters with bad stuff see it as hostile. conflict resolution in any given fair conflict between two characters, the character with the higher score