s. cheered. lincoln ended the crisis by releasing the two diplomats. biographer james g. randall dissected lincoln ' s successful techniques : lincoln painstakingly monitored the telegraph reports coming into the war department. he tracked all phases of the effort, consulting with governors, and selecting generals based on their success, their state, and their party. in january 1862, after complaints of inefficiency and profiteering in the war department, lincoln replaced war secretary simon cameron with edwin stanton. stanton centralized the war department ' s activities, auditing and canceling contracts, saving the federal government $ 17, 000, 000. stanton was a staunch unionist, pro - business, conservative democrat who gravitated toward the radical republican faction. he worked more often and more closely with lincoln than any other senior official. " stanton and lincoln virtually conducted the war together ", say thomas and hyman. lincoln ' s war strategy embraced two priorities : ensuring that washington was well - defended and conducting an aggressive war effort for a prompt, decisive victory. twice a week, lincoln met with his cabinet in the afternoon. occasionally mary prevailed on him to take a carriage ride, concerned that he was working too hard. for his edification lincoln relied upon a book by his chief of staff general henry halleck entitled elements of military art and science ; halleck was a disciple of the european strategist antoine - henri jomini. lincoln began to appreciate the critical need to control strategic points, such as the mississippi river. lincoln saw the importance of vicksburg and understood the necessity of defeating the enemy ' s army, rather than merely capturing territory. in directing the union ' s war strategy, lincoln valued the advice of gen. winfield scott, even after his retirement as commanding general of the united states army. on june 23 – 24, 1862, president lincoln made an unannounced visit to west point, where he spent five hours consulting with scott regarding the handling of the civil war and the staffing of the war department. general mcclellan after the union rout at bull run and winfield scott ' s retirement, lincoln appointed major general george b. mcclellan general - in - chief. mcclellan then took months to plan his virginia peninsula campaign. mcclellan ' s slow progress frustrated lincoln, as did his position that no troops were needed to defend washington. mcclellan, in turn, blamed the failure of the campaign on lincoln ' s reservation of troops for the capital. in 1862, lincoln removed mcclellan for the general ' s continued inaction. he elevated