is the most prominent because it is the product of fermentation, a major energy - producing pathway. other simple alcohols, chiefly fusel alcohols, are formed in only trace amounts. more complex alcohols however are pervasive, as manifested in sugars, some amino acids, and fatty acids. production hydroxylation many alcohols are produced by hydroxylation, i. e., the installation of a hydroxy group using oxygen or related oxidant. hydroxylation is the means by which the body processes many poisons, converting lipophilic compounds into hydrophilic derivatives that are more readily excreted. enzymes called hydroxylases and oxidases facilitate these conversions. many industrial alcohols, such as cyclohexanol for the production of nylon, are produced by hydroxylation. ziegler and oxo processes in the ziegler process, linear alcohols are produced from ethylene and triethylaluminium followed by oxidation and hydrolysis. an idealized synthesis of 1 - octanol is shown : al ( c2h5 ) 3 + 9 c2h4 - > al ( c8h17 ) 3 al ( c8h17 ) 3 + 3o + 3 h2o - > 3 hoc8h17 + al ( oh ) 3 the process generates a range of alcohols that are separated by distillation. many higher alcohols are produced by hydroformylation of alkenes followed by hydrogenation. when applied to a terminal alkene, as is common, one typically obtains a linear alcohol : rch = ch2 + h2 + co - > rch2ch2cho rch2ch2cho + 3 h2 - > rch2ch2ch2oh such processes give fatty alcohols, which are useful for detergents. hydration reactions some low molecular weight alcohols of industrial importance are produced by the addition of water to alkenes. ethanol, isopropanol, 2 - butanol, and tert - butanol are produced by this general method. two implementations are employed, the direct and indirect methods. the direct method avoids the formation of stable intermediates, typically using acid catalysts. in the indirect method, the alkene is converted to the sulfate ester, which is subsequently hydrolyzed. the direct hydration using ethylene ( ethylene hydration ) or other alkenes from cracking of fractions of disti