##shnikov started work on a submachine gun design in 1942 and light machine gun design in 1943. early in 1944, kalashnikov was given some 7. 62×39mm m43 cartridges and informed that other designers were working on weapons for this new soviet small - arms cartridge. it was suggested that a new weapon might well lead to greater things. he then undertook work on the new rifle. in 1944, he entered a design competition with this new 7. 62×39mm, semi - automatic, gas - operated, long - stroke piston carbine, strongly influenced by the american m1 garand. the new rifle was in the same class as the sks - 45 carbine, with a fixed magazine and gas tube above the barrel. however, the new kalashnikov design lost out to a simonov design. in 1946, a new design competition was initiated to develop a new rifle. kalashnikov submitted a gas - operated rifle with a short - stroke gas piston above the barrel, a breechblock mechanism similar to his 1944 carbine, and a curved 30 - round magazine. kalashnikov ' s rifles, the ak - 1 ( with a milled receiver ) and ak - 2 ( with a stamped receiver ) proved to be reliable weapons and were accepted to a second round of competition along with other designs. these prototypes ( also known as the ak - 46 ) had a rotary bolt, a two - part receiver with separate trigger unit housing, dual controls ( separate safety and fire selector switches ), and a non - reciprocating charging handle located on the left side of the weapon. this design had many similarities to the stg 44. in late 1946, as the rifles were being tested, one of kalashnikov ' s assistants, aleksandr zaitsev, suggested a major redesign to improve reliability. at first, kalashnikov was reluctant, given that their rifle had already fared better than its competitors. eventually, however, zaitsev managed to persuade kalashnikov. in november 1947, the new prototypes ( ak - 47s ) were completed. the rifle used a long - stroke gas piston above the barrel. the upper and lower receivers were combined into a single receiver. the selector and safety were combined into a single control lever / dust cover on the right side of the rifle. and, the bolt handle was simply attached to the bolt carrier. this simplified the design and production of the rifle. the first army trial series began in early 1948. the new rifle proved to be reliable under a wide