to be a good person in respectful relationships with other persons. " in his handbook of contemporary animism ( 2013 ), harvey identifies the animist perspective in line with martin buber ' s " i - thou " as opposed to " i - it ". in such, harvey says, the animist takes an i - thou approach to relating to the world, whereby objects and animals are treated as a " thou ", rather than as an " it ". religion there is ongoing disagreement ( and no general consensus ) as to whether animism is merely a singular, broadly encompassing religious belief or a worldview in and of itself, comprising many diverse mythologies found worldwide in many diverse cultures. this also raises a controversy regarding the ethical claims animism may or may not make : whether animism ignores questions of ethics altogether ; or, by endowing various non - human elements of nature with spirituality or personhood, it in fact promotes a complex ecological ethics. concepts distinction from pantheism animism is not the same as pantheism, although the two are sometimes confused. moreover, some religions are both pantheistic and animistic. one of the main differences is that while animists believe everything to be spiritual in nature, they do not necessarily see the spiritual nature of everything in existence as being united ( monism ) the way pantheists do. as a result, animism puts more emphasis on the uniqueness of each individual soul. in pantheism, everything shares the same spiritual essence, rather than having distinct spirits or souls. for example, giordano bruno equated the world soul with god and espoused a pantheistic animism. fetishism / totemism in many animistic world views, the human being is often regarded as on a roughly equal footing with other animals, plants, and natural forces. african indigenous religions traditional african religions : most religious traditions of sub - saharan africa are basically a complex form of animism with polytheistic and shamanistic elements and ancestor worship. in east africa the kerma culture display animistic elements similar to other traditional african religions. in contrast, the later polytheistic napatan and meroitic periods, with displays of animals in amulets and the esteemed antiques of lions, appear to be an animistic culture rather than a polytheistic culture. the kermans likely treated jebel barkal as a special sacred site, and passed it on to the kushites