the great has given rise to speculation that its original intent was to be the burial place of alexander. this would fit with the intended destination of alexander ' s funeral cortege. however, the memorial was found to be dedicated to the dearest friend of alexander the great, hephaestion. pompey, julius caesar and augustus all visited the tomb in alexandria, where augustus, allegedly, accidentally knocked the nose off. caligula was said to have taken alexander ' s breastplate from the tomb for his own use. around ad 200, emperor septimius severus closed alexander ' s tomb to the public. his son and successor, caracalla, a great admirer, visited the tomb during his own reign. after this, details on the fate of the tomb are hazy. the so - called " alexander sarcophagus ", discovered near sidon and now in the istanbul archaeology museum, is so named not because it was thought to have contained alexander ' s remains, but because its bas - reliefs depict alexander and his companions fighting the persians and hunting. it was originally thought to have been the sarcophagus of abdalonymus ( died 311 bc ), the king of sidon appointed by alexander immediately following the battle of issus in 331. however, more recently, it has been suggested that it may date from earlier than abdalonymus ' s death. demades likened the macedonian army, after the death of alexander, to the blinded cyclops, due to the many random and disorderly movements that it made. in addition, leosthenes, also, likened the anarchy between the generals, after alexander ' s death, to the blinded cyclops " who after he had lost his eye went feeling and groping about with his hands before him, not knowing where to lay them ". division of the macedonian empire alexander ' s death was so sudden that when reports of his death reached greece, they were not immediately believed. alexander had no obvious or legitimate heir, his son alexander iv by roxane being born after alexander ' s death. according to diodorus, alexander ' s companions asked him on his deathbed to whom he bequeathed his kingdom ; his laconic reply was " toi kratistoi " — " to the strongest ". another theory is that his successors wilfully or erroneously misheard " toi krateroi " — " to craterus ", the general leading his macedonian troops home and newly entrusted with the regency of macedonia. arrian and pl