##able and perfectible through personal and communal endeavour especially including self - cultivation and self - creation. a main idea of confucianism is the cultivation of virtue and the development of moral perfection. confucianism holds that one should give up one ' s life, if necessary, either passively or actively, for the sake of upholding the cardinal moral values of ren and yi. legalism. often compared with machiavelli, and foundational for the traditional chinese bureaucratic empire, the legalists examined administrative methods, emphasizing a realistic consolidation of the wealth and power of autocrat and state. taoism ( also called daoism ), a philosophy which emphasizes the three jewels of the tao : compassion, moderation, and humility, while taoist thought generally focuses on nature, the relationship between humanity and the cosmos ; health and longevity ; and wu wei ( action through inaction ). harmony with the universe, or the source thereof ( tao ), is the intended result of many taoist rules and practices. mohism, which advocated the idea of universal love : mozi believed that " everyone is equal before heaven ", and that people should seek to imitate heaven by engaging in the practice of collective love. his epistemology can be regarded as primitive materialist empiricism ; he believed that human cognition ought to be based on one ' s perceptions – one ' s sensory experiences, such as sight and hearing – instead of imagination or internal logic, elements founded on the human capacity for abstraction. mozi advocated frugality, condemning the confucian emphasis on ritual and music, which he denounced as extravagant. naturalism, the school of naturalists or the yin - yang school, which synthesized the concepts of yin and yang and the five elements ; zou yan is considered the founder of this school. agrarianism, or the school of agrarianism, which advocated peasant utopian communalism and egalitarianism. the agrarians believed that chinese society should be modeled around that of the early sage king shen nong, a folk hero which was portrayed in chinese literature as " working in the fields, along with everyone else, and consulting with everyone else when any decision had to be reached. " the logicians or the school of names, which focused on definition and logic. it is said to have parallels with that of the ancient greek sophists or dialecticians. the most notable logician was gongsun longzi. the school of diplomacy or school of vertical and horizontal [ alliances ], which