and the division of popular opinion, spain remained neutral. the king established an office for assistance to prisoners of war on all sides. this office used the spanish diplomatic and military network abroad to intercede for thousands of pows – transmitting and receiving letters for them, and other services. the office was located in the royal palace. alfonso attempted to save the russian tsar nicholas ii and his family from the bolsheviks who captured them, sending two telegrams offering the russian royal family refuge in spain. he later learned of the execution of the romanov family, but was mistaken in believing that only nicholas ii and his son alexei had been killed. as such, he continued to push for the tsarina alexandra and her four daughters to be brought to spain, not having realized that they had also been murdered. alfonso became gravely ill during the 1918 flu pandemic. spain was neutral and thus under no wartime censorship restrictions, so his illness and subsequent recovery were reported to the world, while flu outbreaks in the belligerent countries were concealed. this gave the misleading impression that spain was the most affected area and led to the pandemic being dubbed " the spanish flu ". cracking of the system and dictatorship following world war i, spain entered the lengthy yet victorious rif war ( 1920 – 1926 ) to preserve its colonial rule over northern morocco. critics of the monarchy thought the war was an unforgivable loss of money and lives, and nicknamed alfonso el africano ( " the african " ). alfonso had not acted as a strict constitutional monarch, and supported the africanists who wanted to conquer for spain a new empire in africa to compensate for the lost empire in the americas and elsewhere. the rif war had starkly polarized spanish society between the africanists who wanted to conquer an empire in africa vs. the abandonistas who wanted to abandon morocco as not worth the blood and treasure. alfonso liked to play favourites with his generals, and one of his most favoured generals was manuel fernandez silvestre. in 1921, when silvestre advanced up into the rif mountains of morocco, alfonso sent him a telegram whose first line read " hurrah for real men! ", urging silvestre not to retreat at a time when silvestre was experiencing major difficulties. silvestre stayed the course, leading his men into the battle of annual, one of spain ' s worst defeats. alfonso, who was on holiday in the south of france at the time, was informed of the " disaster of the annual " while he was playing golf.