- containing polymers. the flame retarding effect of antimony trioxide is produced by the formation of halogenated antimony compounds, which react with hydrogen atoms, and probably also with oxygen atoms and oh radicals, thus inhibiting fire. markets for these flame - retardants include children ' s clothing, toys, aircraft, and automobile seat covers. they are also added to polyester resins in fiberglass composites for such items as light aircraft engine covers. the resin will burn in the presence of an externally generated flame, but will extinguish when the external flame is removed. alloys antimony forms a highly useful alloy with lead, increasing its hardness and mechanical strength. for most applications involving lead, varying amounts of antimony are used as alloying metal. in lead – acid batteries, this addition improves plate strength and charging characteristics. for sailboats, lead keels are used to provide righting moment, ranging from 600 lbs to over 200 tons for the largest sailing superyachts ; to improve hardness and tensile strength of the lead keel, antimony is mixed with lead between 2 % and 5 % by volume. antimony is used in antifriction alloys ( such as babbitt metal ), in bullets and lead shot, electrical cable sheathing, type metal ( for example, for linotype printing machines ), solder ( some " lead - free " solders contain 5 % sb ), in pewter, and in hardening alloys with low tin content in the manufacturing of organ pipes. other applications three other applications consume nearly all the rest of the world ' s supply. one application is as a stabilizer and catalyst for the production of polyethylene terephthalate. another is as a fining agent to remove microscopic bubbles in glass, mostly for tv screens antimony ions interact with oxygen, suppressing the tendency of the latter to form bubbles. the third application is pigments. in the 1990s antimony was increasingly being used in semiconductors as a dopant in n - type silicon wafers for diodes, infrared detectors, and hall - effect devices. in the 1950s, the emitters and collectors of n - p - n alloy junction transistors were doped with tiny beads of a lead - antimony alloy. indium antimonide ( insb ) is used as a material for mid - infrared detectors. biology and medicine have few uses for antimony. treatments containing antimony, known as antimonials, are used as emetics