nobility of navarre aligned behind pedro de atares, the grandson of alfonso ' s illegitimate uncle, while the aragonese nobility rallied around the abbot - bishop ramiro. a convention was called at borja in order to develop a consensus. pedro de atares had so alienated his own partisans there with his perceived arrogance that they had abandoned him, yet at the same time were unwilling to accept alfonso ' s younger brother ramiro. the convention then broke up without ever arriving at a compromise, and the two regional factions proceeded to act independently. the choice of the navarrese lords fell on garcia ramirez, lord of monzon, descendant of an illegitimate son of garcia sanchez iii and protege of alfonso vii to be their king. the aragonese took ramiro out of a monastery and made him king, marrying him without papal dispensation to agnes, sister of the duke of aquitaine, then betrothing their newborn daughter to ramon berenguer iv, count of barcelona, who was then named ramiro ' s heir. " the result of the crisis produced by the result of alfonso i ' s will was a major reorientation of the peninsula ' s kingdoms : the separation of aragon and navarre, the union of aragon and catalonia and – a moot point but stressed particularly by some castilian historians – the affirmation of ' castilian hegemony ' in spain " by the rendering of homage for zaragoza by alfonso ' s eventual heir, ramon berenguer iv of barcelona. pseudo - alfonso the battler sometime during the reign of alfonso ii of aragon, the battler ' s grandnephew, a man came forward claiming to be alfonso the battler. the only contemporary references to this event are two letters of alfonso ii addressed to louis vii of france ; they were carried to louis by berengar, the bishop of lleida, but are not dated. according to the second of these, the pretender was then living in louis ' s domains, meaning the principality of catalonia, which was ruled by alfonso under louis ' s suzerainty. this pretender was an old man ( appropriately, since the battler had died some decades earlier ) and alfonso ii expressed confidence that louis would arrest him at the earliest possible moment and bring him to justice. the first letter supplies sufficient information to date it approximately, since the bishop sojourned at the court of louis on his way to rome. it is known from other sources that berengar attended the third lateran council in march 1179