marked the end of the period of manuscript production at aachen. 16th – 18th centuries in 1598, following the invasion of spanish troops from the netherlands, rudolf deposed all protestant office holders in aachen and even went as far as expelling them from the city. from the early 16th century, aachen started to lose its power and influence. first the coronations of emperors were moved from aachen to frankfurt. this was followed by the religious wars and the great fire of 1656. after the destruction of most of the city in 1656, the rebuilding was mostly in the baroque style. the decline of aachen culminated in 1794, when the french, led by general charles dumouriez, occupied aachen. in 1542, the dutch humanist and physician francis fabricius published his study of the health benefits of the hot springs in aachen. by the middle of the 17th century, the city had developed a considerable reputation as a spa, although this was in part because aachen was then – and remained well into the 19th century – a place of high - level prostitution. traces of this hidden agenda of the city ' s history are found in the 18th - century guidebooks to aachen as well as to the other spas. the main indication for visiting patients, ironically, was syphilis ; only by the end of the 19th century had rheumatism become the most important object of cures at aachen and burtscheid. aachen was chosen as the site of several important congresses and peace treaties : the first congress of aachen ( often referred to as the congress of aix - la - chapelle in english ) on 2 may 1668, leading to the first treaty of aachen in the same year which ended the war of devolution. the second congress ended with the second treaty in 1748, ending the war of the austrian succession. in 1789, there was a constitutional crisis in the aachen government, and in 1794 aachen lost its status as a free imperial city. 19th century on 9 february 1801, the peace of luneville removed the ownership of aachen and the entire " left bank " of the rhine from germany ( the holy roman empire ) and granted it to france. in 1815, control of the town was passed to the kingdom of prussia through an agreement reached by the congress of vienna. the third congress took place in 1818, to decide the fate of occupied napoleonic france. by the middle of the 19th century, industrialisation had swept away most of the city ' s medieval rules of production and commerce, although the entirely corrupt remains of the city ' s medieval constitution were kept