. agricultural water usage can also cause major environmental problems, including the destruction of natural wetlands, the spread of water - borne diseases, and land degradation through salinization and waterlogging, when irrigation is performed incorrectly. pesticides pesticide use has increased since 1950 to 2. 5 million short tons annually worldwide, yet crop loss from pests has remained relatively constant. the world health organization estimated in 1992 that three million pesticide poisonings occur annually, causing 220, 000 deaths. pesticides select for pesticide resistance in the pest population, leading to a condition termed the " pesticide treadmill " in which pest resistance warrants the development of a new pesticide. an alternative argument is that the way to " save the environment " and prevent famine is by using pesticides and intensive high yield farming, a view exemplified by a quote heading the center for global food issues website : ' growing more per acre leaves more land for nature '. however, critics argue that a trade - off between the environment and a need for food is not inevitable, and that pesticides can replace good agronomic practices such as crop rotation. the push – pull agricultural pest management technique involves intercropping, using plant aromas to repel pests from crops ( push ) and to lure them to a place from which they can then be removed ( pull ). contribution to climate change agriculture contributes towards climate change through greenhouse gas emissions and by the conversion of non - agricultural land such as forests into agricultural land. the agriculture, forestry and land use sector contribute between 13 % and 21 % of global greenhouse gas emissions. emissions of nitrous oxide, methane make up over half of total greenhouse gas emission from agriculture. animal husbandry is a major source of greenhouse gas emissions. approximately 57 % of global ghg emissions from the production of food are from the production of animal - based food while plant - based foods contribute 29 % and the remaining 14 % is for other utilizations. farmland management and land - use change represented major shares of total emissions ( 38 % and 29 %, respectively ), whereas rice and beef were the largest contributing plant - and animal - based commodities ( 12 % and 25 %, respectively ). south and southeast asia and south america were the largest emitters of production - based ghgs. sustainability current farming methods have resulted in over - stretched water resources, high levels of erosion and reduced soil fertility. there is not enough water to continue farming using current practices ; therefore how water, land, and ecosystem resources are used to boost crop yields