was the emergence in the 16th century of the cameo glass portland vase ( or " barberini vase " ), dated to around the reign of augustus. this was allegedly found at the mausoleum of the emperor and his family at monte del grano. the discovery of the vase is described by pietro santi bartoli. pietro bartoli indicates that the vase contained the ashes of severus alexander. however, this together with the interpretations of the scenes depicted are the source of countless theories and disputed ' facts '. the vase passed through the hands of sir william hamilton ambassador to the royal court in naples, and in 1784 was sold to the duchess of portland, and has subsequently been known as the portland vase. after an attack by a disturbed man in the british museum in 1845 smashed it into many fragments, the vase has been reconstructed three times. in 1786 the portland vase had been borrowed from the 3rd duke of portland and copied in black jasperware pottery by josiah wedgwood for his firm wedgwood. he appears to have added some drapery to cover nudity, but his replicas were useful in the reconstructions. personal life family alexander ' s only known wife was sallustia orbiana, augusta, whom he married in 225 when she was 16 years old. their marriage was arranged by alexander ' s mother, mamaea. according to historian herodian, however, as soon as orbiana received the title of augusta, mamaea became increasingly jealous and resentful of alexander ' s wife due to mamaea ' s excessive desire of all regal female titles. alexander divorced and exiled orbiana in 227, after her father, seius sallustius, was executed after being accused of treason. according to historia augusta, a late roman work containing biographies of emperors and others, and considered by scholars to be a work of dubious historical reliability, alexander was also at some point married to sulpicia memmia, a member of one of the most ancient patrician families in rome and a daughter to a man of consular rank ; her grandfather ' s name was catulus. she is mentioned as his wife only in this later text, thus the marriage has been questioned. the ancient historian zosimus claimed that alexander was married three times. a man named varius macrinus may have been alexander ' s father - in - law, but it is uncertain if he was the same man as seius sallustius, the father of memmia or the father of an entirely unknown third wife. alexander is not known to have fathered