cut, at their own expense. even such influential figures as walt whitman tolerated bigotry toward the jews in america. during his time as editor of the brooklyn eagle ( 1846 – 1848 ), the newspaper published historical sketches casting jews in a bad light. the dreyfus affair was an infamous antisemitic event of the late 19th century and early 20th century. alfred dreyfus, a jewish artillery captain in the french army, was accused in 1894 of passing secrets to the germans. as a result of these charges, dreyfus was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment on devil ' s island. the actual spy, marie charles esterhazy, was acquitted. the event caused great uproar among the french, with the public choosing sides on the issue of whether dreyfus was actually guilty or not. emile zola accused the army of corrupting the french justice system. however, general consensus held that dreyfus was guilty : 80 % of the press in france condemned him. this attitude among the majority of the french population reveals the underlying antisemitism of the time period. adolf stoecker ( 1835 – 1909 ), the lutheran court chaplain to kaiser wilhelm i, founded in 1878 an antisemitic, anti - liberal political party called the christian social party. this party always remained small, and its support dwindled after stoecker ' s death, with most of its members eventually joining larger conservative groups such as the german national people ' s party. some scholars view karl marx ' s essay " on the jewish question " as antisemitic, and argue that he often used antisemitic epithets in his published and private writings. these scholars argue that marx equated judaism with capitalism in his essay, helping to spread that idea. some further argue that the essay influenced national socialist, as well as soviet and arab antisemites. marx himself had jewish ancestry, and albert lindemann and hyam maccoby have suggested that he was embarrassed by it. others argue that marx consistently supported prussian jewish communities ' struggles to achieve equal political rights. these scholars argue that " on the jewish question " is a critique of bruno bauer ' s arguments that jews must convert to christianity before being emancipated, and is more generally a critique of liberal rights discourses and capitalism. iain hamphsher - monk wrote that " this work [ on the jewish question ] has been cited as evidence for marx ' s supposed anti - semitism, but only the most superficial reading of