caesarian army was victorious and brutus and cassius committed suicide. mark antony later used the examples of these battles as a means to belittle octavian, as both battles were decisively won with the use of antony ' s forces. in addition to claiming responsibility for both victories, antony branded octavian as a coward for handing over his direct military control to marcus vipsanius agrippa instead. after philippi, a new territorial arrangement was made among the members of the second triumvirate. gaul and the province of hispania were placed in the hands of octavian. antony traveled east to egypt where he allied himself with queen cleopatra, the former lover of julius caesar and mother of caesar ' s son caesarion. lepidus was left with the province of africa, stymied by antony, who conceded hispania to octavian instead. octavian was left to decide where in italy to settle the tens of thousands of veterans of the macedonian campaign, whom the triumvirs had promised to discharge. the tens of thousands who had fought on the republican side with brutus and cassius could easily ally with a political opponent of octavian if not appeased, and they also required land. there was no more government - controlled land to allot as settlements for their soldiers, so octavian had to choose one of two options : alienating many roman citizens by confiscating their land, or alienating many roman soldiers who could mount a considerable opposition against him in the roman heartland. octavian chose the former. there were as many as eighteen roman towns affected by the new settlements, with entire populations driven out or at least given partial evictions. rebellion and marriage alliances there was widespread dissatisfaction with octavian over these settlements of his soldiers, and this encouraged many to rally at the side of lucius antonius, who was brother of mark antony and supported by a majority in the senate. meanwhile, octavian asked for a divorce from claudia, the daughter of fulvia ( antony ' s wife ) and her first husband publius clodius pulcher. he returned claudia to her mother, claiming that their marriage had never been consummated. fulvia decided to take action. together with lucius antonius, she raised an army in italy to fight for antony ' s rights against octavian. lucius and fulvia took a political and martial gamble in opposing octavian however, since the roman army still depended on the triumvirs for their salaries. lucius and his allies ended