, kappa, and epsilon capricorni. near the border with cetus, the axe fuyue was represented by three stars ; its position is disputed and may have instead been located in sculptor. tienliecheng also has a disputed position ; the 13 - star castle replete with ramparts may have possessed nu and xi aquarii but may instead have been located south in piscis austrinus. the water jar asterism was seen to the ancient chinese as the tomb, fenmu. nearby, the emperors ' mausoleum xiuliang stood, demarcated by kappa aquarii and three other collinear stars. ku ( " crying " ) and qi ( " weeping " ), each composed of two stars, were located in the same region. three of the chinese lunar mansions shared their name with constellations. nu, also the name for the 10th lunar mansion, was a handmaiden represented by epsilon, mu, 3, and 4 aquarii. the 11th lunar mansion shared its name with the constellation xu ( " emptiness " ), formed by beta aquarii and alpha equulei ; it represented a bleak place associated with death and funerals. wei, the rooftop and 12th lunar mansion, was a v - shaped constellation formed by alpha aquarii, theta pegasi, and epsilon pegasi ; it shared its name with two other chinese constellations, in modern - day scorpius and aries. features stars despite both its prominent position on the zodiac and its large size, aquarius has no particularly bright stars, its four brightest stars being less than however, recent research has shown that there are several stars lying within its borders that possess planetary systems. the two brightest stars, α aquarii and β aquarii, are luminous yellow supergiants, of spectral types g0ib and g2ib respectively, that were once hot blue - white b - class main sequence stars 5 to 9 times as massive as the sun. the two are also moving through space perpendicular to the plane of the milky way. just shading α, β aquarii is the brightest star in aquarius with apparent it also has the proper name of sadalsuud. having cooled and swollen to around 50 times the sun ' s diameter, it is around 2200 times as luminous as the sun. it is around 6. 4 times as massive as the sun and around 56 million years old. sadalsuud is from earth. α aquarii, also known as sad