least one moon, including three known to have two moons. the asteroid 3122 florence, one of the largest potentially hazardous asteroids with a diameter of, has two moons measuring across, which were discovered by radar imaging during the asteroid ' s 2017 approach to earth. near - earth asteroids are divided into groups based on their semi - major axis ( a ), perihelion distance ( q ), and aphelion distance ( q ) : the atiras or apoheles have orbits strictly inside earth ' s orbit : an atira asteroid ' s aphelion distance ( q ) is smaller than earth ' s perihelion distance ( 0. 983 au ). that is,, which implies that the asteroid ' s semi - major axis is also less than 0. 983 au. the atens have a semi - major axis of less than 1 au and cross earth ' s orbit. mathematically, and. ( 0. 983 au is earth ' s perihelion distance. ) the apollos have a semi - major axis of more than 1 au and cross earth ' s orbit. mathematically, and. ( 1. 017 au is earth ' s aphelion distance. ) the amors have orbits strictly outside earth ' s orbit : an amor asteroid ' s perihelion distance ( q ) is greater than earth ' s aphelion distance ( 1. 017 au ). amor asteroids are also near - earth objects so. in summary,. ( this implies that the asteroid ' s semi - major axis ( a ) is also larger than 1. 017 au. ) some amor asteroid orbits cross the orbit of mars. martian moons it is unclear whether martian moons phobos and deimos are captured asteroids or were formed due to impact event on mars. phobos and deimos both have much in common with carbonaceous c - type asteroids, with spectra, albedo, and density very similar to those of c - or d - type asteroids. based on their similarity, one hypothesis is that both moons may be captured main - belt asteroids. both moons have very circular orbits which lie almost exactly in mars ' s equatorial plane, and hence a capture origin requires a mechanism for circularizing the initially highly eccentric orbit, and adjusting its inclination into the equatorial plane, most probably by a combination of atmospheric drag and tidal forces, although it is not clear whether sufficient time was available for this to occur for deimos. capture also requires dissipation of energy. the current