% of zoonotic bacteria in three types of animal feed, but not silage. anhydrous ammonia is currently used commercially to reduce or eliminate microbial contamination of beef. lean finely textured beef ( popularly known as ' pink slime ' ) in the beef industry is made from fatty beef trimmings ( c. 50 – 70 % fat ) by removing the fat using heat and centrifugation, then treating it with ammonia to kill e. coli. the process was deemed effective and safe by the us department of agriculture based on a study that found that the treatment reduces e. coli to undetectable levels. there have been safety concerns about the process as well as consumer complaints about the taste and smell of ammonia - treated beef. fuel ammonia has been used as fuel, and is a proposed alternative to fossil fuels and hydrogen in the future. compared to hydrogen, ammonia is easier to store. compared to hydrogen as a fuel, ammonia is much more energy efficient, and could be produced, stored and delivered at a much lower cost than hydrogen, which must be kept compressed or as a cryogenic liquid. the raw energy density of liquid ammonia is 11. 5 mj / l, which is about a third that of diesel. ammonia can be converted back to hydrogen to be used to power hydrogen fuel cells, or it may be used directly within high - temperature solid oxide direct ammonia fuel cells to provide efficient power sources that do not emit greenhouse gases. ammonia to hydrogen conversion can be achieved through the sodium amide process or the catalytic decomposition of ammonia using solid catalysts. ammonia engines or ammonia motors, using ammonia as a working fluid, have been proposed and occasionally used. the principle is similar to that used in a fireless locomotive, but with ammonia as the working fluid, instead of steam or compressed air. ammonia engines were used experimentally in the 19th century by goldsworthy gurney in the uk and the st. charles avenue streetcar line in new orleans in the 1870s and 1880s, and during world war ii ammonia was used to power buses in belgium. ammonia is sometimes proposed as a practical alternative to fossil fuel for internal combustion engines. however, ammonia cannot be easily used in existing otto cycle engines because of its very narrow flammability range. despite this, several tests have been run. its high octane rating of 120 and low flame temperature allows the use of high compression ratios without a penalty of high production. since ammonia contains no carbon, its combustion cannot produce carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons, or