per square centimeter. bismuth oxide can be used instead ; this is forcibly fused with a copper plate. the target is kept under a chemically neutral nitrogen atmosphere, and is cooled with water to prevent premature astatine vaporization. in a particle accelerator, such as a cyclotron, alpha particles are collided with the bismuth. even though only one bismuth isotope is used ( bismuth - 209 ), the reaction may occur in three possible ways, producing astatine - 209, astatine - 210, or astatine - 211. in order to eliminate undesired nuclides, the maximum energy of the particle accelerator is set to a value ( optimally 29. 17 mev ) above that for the reaction producing astatine - 211 ( to produce the desired isotope ) and below the one producing astatine - 210 ( to avoid producing other astatine isotopes ). separation methods since astatine is the main product of the synthesis, after its formation it must only be separated from the target and any significant contaminants. several methods are available, " but they generally follow one of two approaches — dry distillation or [ wet ] acid treatment of the target followed by solvent extraction. " the methods summarized below are modern adaptations of older procedures, as reviewed by kugler and keller. pre - 1985 techniques more often addressed the elimination of co - produced toxic polonium ; this requirement is now mitigated by capping the energy of the cyclotron irradiation beam. dry the astatine - containing cyclotron target is heated to a temperature of around 650 °c. the astatine volatilizes and is condensed in ( typically ) a cold trap. higher temperatures of up to around 850 °c may increase the yield, at the risk of bismuth contamination from concurrent volatilization. redistilling the condensate may be required to minimize the presence of bismuth ( as bismuth can interfere with astatine labeling reactions ). the astatine is recovered from the trap using one or more low concentration solvents such as sodium hydroxide, methanol or chloroform. astatine yields of up to around 80 % may be achieved. dry separation is the method most commonly used to produce a chemically useful form of astatine. wet the irradiated bismuth ( or sometimes bismuth trioxide ) target is first dissolved in, for example,