portugal as nothing but a rebel. conflict between the two was constant and bitter in the following years. afonso became involved in a war, taking the side of the aragonese king, an enemy of castile. to ensure the alliance, his son sancho was engaged to dulce of aragon. finally after winning the battle of valdevez, the treaty of zamora ( 1143 ) established peace between the cousins and the recognition by the kingdom of leon that portugal was a fully independent kingdom. in 1169 the now old king afonso was possibly disabled in an engagement near badajoz, by a fall from his horse and slamming against the castle gate, and made prisoner by the soldiers of king ferdinand ii of leon, his son - in - law. he spent months at the hot springs of sao pedro do sul, but never recovered and from this time onward the portuguese king never rode a horse again. however, it is not certain if this was because of the disability : according to the later portuguese chronistic tradition, this happened because afonso would have to surrender himself again to ferdinand or risk war between the two kingdoms if he ever rode a horse again. portugal was obliged to surrender as his ransom almost all the conquests afonso had made in galicia ( north of the minho river ) in the previous years. this event became known in portuguese history as the disaster of badajoz ( o desastre de badajoz ). in 1179 the privileges and favors given to the catholic church were compensated. with consistent effort by several parties, such as the primate archbishop of braga, paio mendes, in the papal court, the papal bull manifestis probatum was promulgated accepting the new king as vassal to the pope exclusively. in it pope alexander iii also acknowledged afonso as king and portugal as an independent kingdom with the right to conquer lands from the moors. in 1184, the almohad caliph abu yaqub yusuf rallied a great almohad force to retaliate against the portuguese raids done since the end of a five - year truce in 1178 and besieged santarem, which was defended by afonso ' s son sancho. the almohad siege failed when news arrived the archbishop of compostella had come to the defense of the city and fernando ii of leon himself with his army. the almohads ended the siege and their retreat turned into a rout due to panic in their camp, with the almohad caliph being injured in the