1924, einstein was a member of the geneva - based international committee on intellectual cooperation of the league of nations, a group set up by the league to encourage scientists, artists, scholars, teachers and other people engaged in the life of the mind to work more closely with their counterparts in other countries. he was appointed as a german delegate rather than as a representative of switzerland because of the machinations of two catholic activists, oskar halecki and giuseppe motta. by persuading secretary general eric drummond to deny einstein the place on the committee reserved for a swiss thinker, they created an opening for gonzague de reynold, who used his league of nations position as a platform from which to promote traditional catholic doctrine. einstein ' s former physics professor hendrik lorentz and the polish chemist marie curie were also members of the committee. 1925 : touring south america in march and april 1925, einstein and his wife visited south america, where they spent about a week in brazil, a week in uruguay and a month in argentina. their tour was suggested by jorge duclout ( 1856 – 1927 ) and mauricio nirenstein ( 1877 – 1935 ) with the support of several argentine scholars, including julio rey pastor, jakob laub, and leopoldo lugones. and was financed primarily by the council of the university of buenos aires and the asociacion hebraica argentina ( argentine hebraic association ) with a smaller contribution from the argentine - germanic cultural institution. 1930 – 1931 : touring the us in december 1930, einstein began another significant sojourn in the united states, drawn back to the us by the offer of a two month research fellowship at the california institute of technology. caltech supported him in his wish that he should not be exposed to quite as much attention from the media as he had experienced when visiting the us in 1921, and he therefore declined all the invitations to receive prizes or make speeches that his admirers poured down upon him. but he remained willing to allow his fans at least some of the time with him that they requested. after arriving in new york city, einstein was taken to various places and events, including chinatown, a lunch with the editors of the new york times, and a performance of carmen at the metropolitan opera, where he was cheered by the audience on his arrival. during the days following, he was given the keys to the city by mayor jimmy walker and met the president of columbia university, who described einstein as " the ruling monarch of the mind ". harry emerson fosdick,