' s main developments came from jeremy bentham and john stuart mill who distinguished between act and rule utilitarianism. notable later developments were made by henry sidgwick who introduced the significance of motive or intent, and r. m. hare who introduced the significance of preference in utilitarian decision - making. other forms of consequentialism include prioritarianism. deontological ethics, which hold that acts have an inherent rightness or wrongness regardless of their context or consequences. this approach is epitomized by immanuel kant ' s notion of the categorical imperative, which was the centre of kant ' s ethical theory based on duty. another key deontological theory is natural law, which was heavily developed by thomas aquinas and is an important part of the catholic church ' s teaching on morals. threshold deontology holds that rules ought to govern up to a point despite adverse consequences ; but when the consequences become so dire that they cross a stipulated threshold, consequentialism takes over. virtue ethics, derived from aristotle ' s and confucius ' notions, which asserts that the right action will be that chosen by a suitably ' virtuous ' agent. normative ethical theories can clash when trying to resolve real - world ethical dilemmas. one approach attempting to overcome the divide between consequentialism and deontology is case - based reasoning, also known as casuistry. casuistry does not begin with theory, rather it starts with the immediate facts of a real and concrete case. while casuistry makes use of ethical theory, it does not view ethical theory as the most important feature of moral reasoning. casuists, like albert jonsen and stephen toulmin ( the abuse of casuistry, 1988 ), challenge the traditional paradigm of applied ethics. instead of starting from theory and applying theory to a particular case, casuists start with the particular case itself and then ask what morally significant features ( including both theory and practical considerations ) ought to be considered for that particular case. in their observations of medical ethics committees, jonsen and toulmin note that a consensus on particularly problematic moral cases often emerges when participants focus on the facts of the case, rather than on ideology or theory. thus, a rabbi, a catholic priest, and an agnostic might agree that, in this particular case, the best approach is to withhold extraordinary medical care, while disagreeing on the reasons that support their individual positions. by focusing on cases and not on