the australian labor party ( alp ), also simply known as labor, is the major centre - left political party in australia and one of two major parties in australian politics, along with the centre - right liberal party of australia. the party has been in government since being elected at the 2022 federal election, and with political branches in each state and territory, they currently form government in new south wales, queensland, south australia, victoria, western australia, the australian capital territory, and the northern territory. as of 2023, tasmania is the only state or territory where labor forms the opposition. it is the oldest continuous political party in australian history, being established on 8 may 1901 at parliament house, melbourne, the meeting place of the first federal parliament. the alp was not founded as a federal party until after the first sitting of the australian parliament in 1901. it is regarded as descended from labour parties founded in the various australian colonies by the emerging labour movement in australia, formally beginning in 1891. colonial labour parties contested seats from 1891, and federal seats following federation at the 1901 federal election. the alp formed the world ' s first labour party government and the world ' s first social - democratic government at a national level. at the 1910 federal election, labor was the first party in australia to win a majority in either house of the australian parliament. in every election since 1910 labor has either served as the governing party or the opposition. there have been 13 labor prime ministers and 10 periods of federal labor governments. at the federal and state / colony level, the australian labor party predates both the british labour party and the new zealand labour party in party formation, government, and policy implementation. internationally, the alp is a member of the progressive alliance, a network of social - democratic parties, having previously been a member of the socialist international. name and spelling in standard australian english, the word " labour " is spelt with a u. however, the political party uses the spelling " labor ", without a u. there was originally no standardised spelling of the party ' s name, with " labor " and " labour " both in common usage. according to ross mcmullin, who wrote an official history of the labor party, the title page of the proceedings of the federal conference used the spelling " labor " in 1902, " labour " in 1905 and 1908, and then " labor " from 1912 onwards. in 1908, james catts put forward a motion at the federal conference that " the name of the party be the australian labour party