##ng have reduced wild populations to such an extent that farmed abalone now supplies most of the abalone meat consumed. the principal abalone farming regions are china, taiwan, japan, and korea. abalone is also farmed in australia, canada, chile, france, iceland, ireland, mexico, namibia, new zealand, south africa, spain, thailand, and the united states. after trials in 2012, a commercial " sea ranch " was set up in flinders bay, western australia to raise abalone. the ranch is based on an artificial reef made up of 5, 000 separate concrete abalone habitat units, which can host 400 abalone each. the reef is seeded with young abalone from an onshore hatchery. the abalone feed on seaweed that grows naturally on the habitats ; the ecosystem enrichment of the bay also results in growing numbers of dhufish, pink snapper, wrasse, and samson fish among other species. consumption abalones have long been a valuable food source for humans in every area of the world where a species is abundant. the meat of this mollusc is considered a delicacy in certain parts of latin america ( particularly chile ), france, new zealand, east asia and southeast asia. in the greater china region and among overseas chinese communities, abalone is commonly known as bao yu, and sometimes forms part of a chinese banquet. in the same way as shark fin soup or bird ' s nest soup, abalone is considered a luxury item, and is traditionally reserved for special occasions such as weddings and other celebrations. as abalone became more popular and less common, the prices adjusted accordingly. in the 1920s, a restaurant - served portion of abalone, about 4 ounces, would cost ( in inflation adjusted dollars ) about us $ 7 ; by 2004, the price had risen to us $ 75. in the united states, prior to this time, abalone was predominantly eaten, gathered, and prepared by chinese immigrants. before that, abalone were collected to be eaten, and used for other purposes by native american tribes. by 1900, laws were passed in california to outlaw the taking of abalone above the intertidal zone. this forced the chinese out of the market and the japanese perfected diving, with or without gear, to enter the market. abalone started to become popular in the us after the panama – pacific international exposition in 1915, which exhibited 365 varieties of fish with cooking demonstrations, and a 1, 300 - seat dining hall. in japan, live and raw