s overland campaign grant ' s army set out on the overland campaign intending to draw lee into a defense of richmond, where they would attempt to pin down and destroy the confederate army. the union army first attempted to maneuver past lee and fought several battles, notably at the wilderness, spotsylvania, and cold harbor. these battles resulted in heavy losses on both sides and forced lee ' s confederates to fall back repeatedly. at the battle of yellow tavern, the confederates lost jeb stuart. an attempt to outflank lee from the south failed under butler, who was trapped inside the bermuda hundred river bend. each battle resulted in setbacks for the union that mirrored those they had suffered under prior generals, though, unlike those prior generals, grant chose to fight on rather than retreat. grant was tenacious and kept pressing lee ' s army of northern virginia back to richmond. while lee was preparing for an attack on richmond, grant unexpectedly turned south to cross the james river and began the protracted siege of petersburg, where the two armies engaged in trench warfare for over nine months. sheridan ' s valley campaign grant finally found a commander, general philip sheridan, aggressive enough to prevail in the valley campaigns of 1864. sheridan was initially repelled at the battle of new market by former u. s. vice president and confederate gen. john c. breckinridge. the battle of new market was the confederacy ' s last major victory of the war and included a charge by teenage vmi cadets. after redoubling his efforts, sheridan defeated maj. gen. jubal a. early in a series of battles, including a final decisive defeat at the battle of cedar creek. sheridan then proceeded to destroy the agricultural base of the shenandoah valley, a strategy similar to the tactics sherman later employed in georgia. sherman ' s march to the sea meanwhile, sherman maneuvered from chattanooga to atlanta, defeating confederate generals joseph e. johnston and john bell hood along the way. the fall of atlanta on september 2, 1864, guaranteed the reelection of lincoln as president. hood left the atlanta area to swing around and menace sherman ' s supply lines and invade tennessee in the franklin – nashville campaign. union maj. gen. john schofield defeated hood at the battle of franklin, and george h. thomas dealt hood a massive defeat at the battle of nashville, effectively destroying hood ' s army. leaving atlanta, and his base of supplies, sherman ' s army marched, with no destination set, laying waste to about 20 percent of the farms in georgia in