- libels in europe. during the russian civil war, close to 50, 000 jews were killed in pogroms. antisemitism in america reached its peak during the interwar period. the pioneer automobile manufacturer henry ford propagated antisemitic ideas in his newspaper the dearborn independent ( published by ford from 1919 to 1927 ). the radio speeches of father coughlin in the late 1930s attacked franklin d. roosevelt ' s new deal and promoted the notion of a jewish financial conspiracy. some prominent politicians shared such views : louis t. mcfadden, chairman of the united states house committee on banking and currency, blamed jews for roosevelt ' s decision to abandon the gold standard, and claimed that " in the united states today, the gentiles have the slips of paper while the jews have the lawful money ". in germany, shortly after adolf hitler and the nazi party came to power in 1933, the government instituted repressive legislation which denied jews basic civil rights. in september 1935, the nuremberg laws prohibited sexual relations and marriages between " aryans " and jews as rassenschande ( " race disgrace " ) and stripped all german jews, even quarter - and half - jews, of their citizenship ( their official title became " subjects of the state " ). it instituted a pogrom on the night of 9 – 10 november 1938, dubbed kristallnacht, in which jews were killed, their property destroyed and their synagogues torched. antisemitic laws, agitation and propaganda were extended to german - occupied europe in the wake of conquest, often building on local antisemitic traditions. in 1940, the famous aviator charles lindbergh and many prominent americans led the america first committee in opposing any involvement in a european war. lindbergh alleged that jews were pushing america to go to war against germany. lindbergh adamantly denied being antisemitic, and yet he refers numerous times in his private writings – his letters and diary – to jewish control of the media being used to pressure the u. s. to get involved in the european war. in one diary entry in november 1938, he responded to kristallnacht by writing " i do not understand these riots on the part of the germans.... they have undoubtedly had a difficult jewish problem, but why is it necessary to handle it so unreasonably? ", acknowledgement on lindbergh ' s part that he agreed with the nazis that germany had a " jewish problem ". an article