forest repeatedly, the indigenous people caused the soil to become richer in nutrients. this created dark soil areas known as terra preta de indio ( " indian dark earth " ). because of the terra preta, indigenous communities were able to make land fertile and thus sustainable for the large - scale agriculture needed to support their large populations and complex social structures. further research has hypothesized that this practice began around 11, 000 years ago. some say that its effects on forest ecology and regional climate explain the otherwise inexplicable band of lower rainfall through the amazon basin. many indigenous tribes engaged in constant warfare. according to james s. olson, " the munduruku expansion ( in the 18th century ) dislocated and displaced the kawahib, breaking the tribe down into much smaller groups... [ munduruku ] first came to the attention of europeans in 1770 when they began a series of widespread attacks on brazilian settlements along the amazon river. " arrival of europeans in march 1500, spanish conquistador vicente yanez pinzon was the first documented european to sail up the amazon river. pinzon called the stream rio santa maria del mar dulce, later shortened to mar dulce, literally, sweet sea, because of its freshwater pushing out into the ocean. another spanish explorer, francisco de orellana, was the first european to travel from the origins of the upstream river basins, situated in the andes, to the mouth of the river. in this journey, orellana baptized some of the affluents of the amazonas like rio negro, napo and jurua. the name amazonas is thought to be taken from the native warriors that attacked this expedition, mostly women, that reminded de orellana of the mythical female amazon warriors from the ancient hellenic culture in greece ( see also origin of the name ). exploration gonzalo pizarro set off in 1541 to explore east of quito into the south american interior in search of el dorado, the " city of gold " and la canela, the " valley of cinnamon ". he was accompanied by his second - in - command francisco de orellana. after, the coca river joined the napo river ( at a point now known as puerto francisco de orellana ) ; the party stopped for a few weeks to build a boat just upriver from this confluence. they continued downriver through an uninhabited area, where they could not find food. orellana offered and was ordered to follow the nap