without manual assistance. this is an oft copied design with the european brake and australian sarca excel being two of the more notable ones. although it is a plough type anchor, it sets and holds reasonably well in hard bottoms. danforth anchor american richard danforth invented the danforth anchor in the 1940s for use aboard landing craft. it uses a stock at the crown to which two large flat triangular flukes are attached. the stock is hinged so the flukes can orient toward the bottom ( and on some designs may be adjusted for an optimal angle depending on the bottom type ). tripping palms at the crown act to tip the flukes into the seabed. the design is a burying variety, and once well set can develop high resistance. its lightweight and compact flat design make it easy to retrieve and relatively easy to store ; some anchor rollers and hawsepipes can accommodate a fluke - style anchor. a danforth does not usually penetrate or hold in gravel or weeds. in boulders and coral it may hold by acting as a hook. if there is much current, or if the vessel is moving while dropping the anchor, it may " kite " or " skate " over the bottom due to the large fluke area acting as a sail or wing. the fob hp anchor designed in brittany in the 1970s is a danforth variant designed to give increased holding through its use of rounded flukes setting at a 30° angle. the fortress is an american aluminum alloy danforth variant that can be disassembled for storage and it features an adjustable 32° and 45° shank / fluke angle to improve holding capability in common sea bottoms such as hard sand and soft mud. this anchor performed well in a 1989 us naval sea systems command ( navsea ) test and in an august 2014 holding power test that was conducted in the soft mud bottoms of the chesapeake bay. bruce or claw anchor this claw - shaped anchor was designed by peter bruce from scotland in the 1970s. bruce gained his early reputation from the production of large - scale commercial anchors for ships and fixed installations such as oil rigs. it was later scaled down for small boats, and copies of this popular design abound. the bruce and its copies, known generically as " claw type anchors ", have been adopted on smaller boats ( partly because they stow easily on a bow roller ) but they are most effective in larger sizes. claw anchors are quite popular on charter fleets as they have a high chance to set on the first try in many bottoms.