strength toward a series of acids, versus other lewis bases, can be illustrated by c - b plots. for historical reasons, ammonia is named ammine in the nomenclature of coordination compounds. some notable ammine complexes include tetraamminediaquacopper ( ii ) ( ), a dark blue complex formed by adding ammonia to a solution of copper ( ii ) salts. tetraamminediaquacopper ( ii ) hydroxide is known as schweizer ' s reagent, and has the remarkable ability to dissolve cellulose. diamminesilver ( i ) ( ) is the active species in tollens ' reagent. formation of this complex can also help to distinguish between precipitates of the different silver halides : silver chloride ( agcl ) is soluble in dilute ( 2 m ) ammonia solution, silver bromide ( agbr ) is only soluble in concentrated ammonia solution, whereas silver iodide ( agi ) is insoluble in aqueous ammonia. ammine complexes of chromium ( iii ) were known in the late 19th century, and formed the basis of alfred werner ' s revolutionary theory on the structure of coordination compounds. werner noted only two isomers ( fac - and mer - ) of the complex could be formed, and concluded the ligands must be arranged around the metal ion at the vertices of an octahedron. this proposal has since been confirmed by x - ray crystallography. an ammine ligand bound to a metal ion is markedly more acidic than a free ammonia molecule, although deprotonation in aqueous solution is still rare. one example is the reaction of mercury ( ii ) chloride with ammonia ( calomel reaction ) where the resulting mercuric amidochloride is highly insoluble. ammonia forms 1 : 1 adducts with a variety of lewis acids such as, phenol, and. ammonia is a hard base ( hsab theory ) and its e & c parameters are eb = 2. 31 and cb = 2. 04. its relative donor strength toward a series of acids, versus other lewis bases, can be illustrated by c - b plots. detection and determination ammonia in solution ammonia and ammonium salts can be readily detected, in very minute traces, by the addition of nessler ' s solution, which gives a distinct yellow colouration in the presence of the slightest trace of ammonia or ammonium salts. the amount of ammonia in ammonium salts can be estimated quantitatively