, jainism, buddhism, confucianism, taoism, christianity, islam, sikhism, as well as many other religions. given its size and diversity, the concept of asia — a name dating back to classical antiquity — may actually have more to do with human geography than physical geography. asia varies greatly across and within its regions with regard to ethnic groups, cultures, environments, economics, historical ties and government systems. it also has a mix of many different climates ranging from the equatorial south via the hot desert in the middle east, temperate areas in the east and the continental centre to vast subarctic and polar areas in siberia. definition and boundaries asia – africa boundary the boundary between asia and africa is the red sea, the gulf of suez, and the suez canal. this makes egypt a transcontinental country, with the sinai peninsula in asia and the remainder of the country in africa. asia – europe boundary the threefold division of the old world into europe, asia and africa has been in use since the 6th century bce, due to greek geographers such as anaximander and hecataeus. anaximander placed the boundary between asia and europe along the phasis river ( the modern rioni river ) in georgia of caucasus ( from its mouth by poti on the black sea coast, through the surami pass and along the kura river to the caspian sea ), a convention still followed by herodotus in the 5th century bce. during the hellenistic period, this convention was revised, and the boundary between europe and asia was now considered to be the tanais ( the modern don river ). this is the convention used by roman era authors such as posidonius, strabo and ptolemy. the border between asia and europe was historically defined by european academics. the don river became unsatisfactory to northern europeans when peter the great, king of the tsardom of russia, defeating rival claims of sweden and the ottoman empire to the eastern lands, and armed resistance by the tribes of siberia, synthesized a new russian empire extending to the ural mountains and beyond, founded in 1721. in sweden, five years after peter ' s death, in 1730 philip johan von strahlenberg published a new atlas proposing the ural mountains as the border of asia. tatishchev announced that he had proposed the idea to von strahlenberg. the latter had suggested the emba river as the lower boundary. over the next century various proposals were made until the ural river prevailed in