portuguese men and local women. at that time, portuguese women were barred from traveling overseas in order to maintain discipline among the men on board the ships. in 1511 under a policy which afonso promulgated, the portuguese government encouraged their explorers to marry local women. to promote settlement, the king of portugal granted freeman status and exemption from crown taxes to portuguese men ( known as casados, or " married men " ) who ventured overseas and married local women. with afonso ' s encouragement, mixed marriages flourished, giving birth to portuguese - indians or mesticos. he appointed local people for positions in the portuguese administration and did not interfere with local traditions ( except " sati ", the practice of immolating widows, which he banned ). in march 1514 king manuel sent to pope leo x a huge and exotic embassy led by tristao da cunha, who toured the streets of rome in an extravagant procession of animals from the colonies and wealth from the indies. his reputation reached its peak, laying foundations of the portuguese empire in the east. in early 1514, afonso sent ambassadors to gujarat ' s sultan muzaffar shah ii, ruler of cambay, to seek permission to build a fort on diu, india. the mission returned without an agreement, but diplomatic gifts were exchanged, including an indian rhinoceros, afonso sent the rhino to king manuel, making it the first living example of a rhinoceros seen in europe since the roman empire. conquest of ormuz and illness in 1513, at cannanore, afonso was visited by a persian ambassador from shah ismail i, who had sent ambassadors to gujarat, ormuz and bijapur. the shah ' s ambassador to bijapur invited afonso to send back an envoy to persia. miguel ferreira was sent via ormuz to tabriz, where he had several interviews with the shah about common goals of defeating the mamluk sultan. at the same time, albuquerque decided to conclude the effective conquest of hormuz. he had learned that after the portuguese retreat in 1507, a young king was reigning under the influence of a powerful persian vizier, reis hamed, whom the king greatly feared. at ormuz in march 1515, afonso met the king and asked the vizier to be present. he then had him immediately stabbed and killed by his entourage, thus " freeing " the terrified king, so the island in the persian gulf yielded to him