march 31, 1996, the short - lived eworld was purchased by aol. in 1997, about half of all u. s. homes with internet access had it through aol. during this time, aol ' s content channels, under jason seiken, including news, sports, and entertainment, experienced their greatest growth as aol become the dominant online service internationally with more than 34 million subscribers. in november 1998, aol announced it would acquire netscape, best known for their web browser, in a major $ 4. 2 billion deal. the deal closed on march 17, 1999. another large acquisition in december 1999 was that of mapquest, for $ 1. 1 billion. in january 2000, as new broadband technologies were being rolled out around the new york city metropolitan area and elsewhere across the u. s., aol and time warner announced plans to merge, forming aol time warner, inc. the terms of the deal called for aol shareholders to own 55 % of the new, combined company. the deal closed on january 11, 2001. the new company was led by executives from aol, sbi, and time warner. gerald levin, who had served as ceo of time warner, was ceo of the new company. steve case served as chairman, j. michael kelly ( from aol ) was the chief financial officer, robert w. pittman ( from aol ) and dick parsons ( from time warner ) served as co - chief operating officers. in 2002, jonathan miller became ceo of aol. the following year, aol time warner dropped the " aol " from its name. it was the largest merger in history when completed with the combined value of the companies at $ 360 billion. this value fell sharply, to as low as $ 120 billion, as markets repriced aol ' s valuation as a pure internet firm more modestly when combined with the traditional media and cable business. this status did not last long, and the company ' s value rose again within three months. by the end of that year, the tide had turned against " pure " internet companies, with many collapsing under falling stock prices, and even the strongest companies in the field losing up to 75 % of their market value. the decline continued though 2001, but even with the losses, aol was among the internet giants that continued to outperform brick and mortar companies. in 2004, along with the launch of aol 9. 0 optimized, aol also made available the option of personalized