, subtly phrased sentences. " gide ' s surviving letters run into the thousands. but it is the journal that sheridan calls " the pre - eminently gidean mode of expression. " " his first novel emerged from gide ' s own journal, and many of the first - person narratives read more or less like journals. in les faux - monnayeurs, edouard ' s journal provides an alternative voice to the narrator ' s. " " in 1946, when pierre herbert asked gide which of his books he would choose if only one were to survive, " gide replied, ' i think it would be my journal. ' ' ' " beginning at the age of eighteen or nineteen, gide kept a journal all of his life and when these were first made available to the public, they ran to thirteen hundred pages. struggle for values " each volume that gide wrote was intended to challenge itself, what had preceded it, and what could conceivably follow it. this characteristic, according to daniel moutote in his cahiers de andre gide essay, is what makes gide ' s work ' essentially modern ' : the ' perpetual renewal of the values by which one lives. ' " gide wrote in his journal in 1930 : " the only drama that really interests me and that i should always be willing to depict anew, is the debate of the individual with whatever keeps him from being authentic, with whatever is opposed to his integrity, to his integration. most often the obstacle is within him. and all the rest is merely accidental. " as a whole, " the works of andre gide reveal his passionate revolt against the restraints and conventions inherited from 19th - century france. he sought to uncover the authentic self beneath its contradictory masks. " sexuality in his journal, gide distinguishes between adult - attracted " sodomites " and boy - loving " pederasts ", categorizing himself as the latter. gide ' s journal documents his behavior in the company of oscar wilde. gide ' s novel corydon, which he considered his most important work, includes a defense of pederasty. at that time, the age of consent for any type of sexual activity was set at thirteen. bibliography see also colonialism mise en abyme pederasty references citations works cited edmund white, andre gide : a life in the present. cambridge, ma : harvard university press, 1998. ] further reading noel i. garde [ edgar h. leoni ], jonathan