. similarly, the lumbini ( rumminidei ) inscription states that he exempted the village of buddha ' s birth from the land tax, and reduced the revenue tax to one - eighth. ashoka appointed the dhamma - mahamatta officers, whose duties included the welfare of various religious sects, including the buddhist sangha, brahmins, ajivikas, and nirgranthas. the rock edicts 8 and 12, and the pillar edict 7, mandate donations to all religious sects. ashoka ' s minor rock edict 1 contains the phrase " amissa deva ". according to one interpretation, the term " amissa " derives from the word " amrsa " ( " false " ), and thus, the phrase is a reference to ashoka ' s belief in " true " and " false " gods. however, it is more likely that the term derives from the word " amisra " ( " not mingled " ), and the phrase refers to celestial beings who did not mingle with humans. the inscription claims that the righteousness generated by adoption of dhamma by the humans attracted even the celestial gods who did not mingle with humans. dharma ashoka ' s various inscriptions suggest that he devoted himself to the propagation of " dharma " ( pali : dhamma ), a term that refers to the teachings of gautama buddha in the buddhist circles. however, ashoka ' s own inscriptions do not mention buddhist doctrines such as the four noble truths or nirvana. the word " dharma " has various connotations in the indian religions, and can be generally translated as " law, duty, or righteousness ". in the kandahar inscriptions of ashoka, the word " dharma " has been translated as eusebeia ( greek ) and qsyt ( aramaic ), which further suggests that his " dharma " meant something more generic than buddhism. the inscriptions suggest that for ashoka, dharma meant " a moral polity of active social concern, religious tolerance, ecological awareness, the observance of common ethical precepts, and the renunciation of war. " for example : abolition of the death penalty ( pillar edict iv ) plantation of banyan trees and mango groves, and construction of resthouses and wells, every along the roads. ( pillar edict 7 ). restriction on killing of animals in the royal kitchen ( rock edict 1 ) ; the number of animals killed was limited to two peacocks and a deer daily, and in future,