where he unsuccessfully solicited support for a second expedition up kanchenjunga. upon arrival in britain, crowley learned that his daughter lilith had died of typhoid in rangoon, something he later blamed on rose ' s increasing alcoholism. under emotional distress, his health began to suffer, and he underwent a series of surgical operations. he began short - lived romances with actress vera " lola " neville ( nee snepp ) and author ada leverson, while rose gave birth to crowley ' s second daughter, lola zaza, in february 1907. the and the holy books of thelema : 1907 – 1909 with his old mentor george cecil jones, crowley continued performing the abramelin rituals at the ashdown park hotel in coulsdon, surrey. crowley claimed that in doing so he attained samadhi, or union with godhead, thereby marking a turning point in his life. making heavy use of hashish during these rituals, he wrote an essay on " the psychology of hashish " ( 1909 ) in which he championed the drug as an aid to mysticism. he also claimed to have been contacted once again by aiwass in late october and november 1907, adding that aiwass dictated two further texts to him, " liber vii " and " liber cordis cincti serpente ", both of which were later classified in the corpus of the holy books of thelema. crowley wrote down more thelemic holy books during the last two months of the year, including " liber lxvi ", " liber arcanorum ", " liber porta lucis, sub figura x ", " liber tau ", " liber trigrammaton " and " liber dcccxiii vel ararita ", which he again claimed to have received from a preternatural source. crowley stated that in june 1909, when the manuscript of the book of the law was rediscovered at boleskine, he developed the opinion that thelema represented objective truth. crowley ' s inheritance was running out. trying to earn money, he was hired by george montagu bennett, the earl of tankerville, to help protect him from witchcraft ; recognising bennett ' s paranoia as being based in his cocaine addiction, crowley took him on holiday to france and morocco to recuperate. in 1907, he also began taking in paying students, whom he instructed in occult and magical practice. victor neuburg, whom crowley met in february 1907