revising the articles of confederation ". although the states ' representatives to the constitutional convention in philadelphia were only authorized to amend the articles, delegates held secret, closed - door sessions and wrote a new constitution. the new frame of government gave much more power to the central government, but characterization of the result is disputed. the general goal of the authors was to get close to a republic as defined by the philosophers of the age of enlightenment, while trying to address the many difficulties of the interstate relationships. historian forrest mcdonald, using the ideas of james madison from federalist 39, described the change this way : in may 1786, charles pinckney of south carolina proposed that congress revise the articles of confederation. recommended changes included granting congress power over foreign and domestic commerce, and providing means for congress to collect money from state treasuries. unanimous approval was necessary to make the alterations, however, and congress failed to reach a consensus. the weakness of the articles in establishing an effective unifying government was underscored by the threat of internal conflict both within and between the states, especially after shays ' rebellion threatened to topple the state government of massachusetts. historian ralph ketcham commented on the opinions of patrick henry, george mason, and other anti - federalists who were not so eager to give up the local autonomy won by the revolution : historians have given many reasons for the perceived need to replace the articles in 1787. jillson and wilson ( 1994 ) point to the financial weakness as well as the norms, rules and institutional structures of the congress, and the propensity to divide along sectional lines. rakove identifies several factors that explain the collapse of the confederation. the lack of compulsory direct taxation power was objectionable to those wanting a strong centralized state or expecting to benefit from such power. it could not collect customs after the war because tariffs were vetoed by rhode island. rakove concludes that their failure to implement national measures " stemmed not from a heady sense of independence but rather from the enormous difficulties that all the states encountered in collecting taxes, mustering men, and gathering supplies from a war - weary populace. " the second group of factors rakove identified derived from the substantive nature of the problems the continental congress confronted after 1783, especially the inability to create a strong foreign policy. finally, the confederation ' s lack of coercive power reduced the likelihood for profit to be made by political means, thus potential rulers were uninspired to seek power. when the war ended in 1783, certain special interests had incentives to