to make preparations. antony ' s fleet sailed through the bay of actium on the western coast of greece in a desperate attempt to break free of the naval blockade. it was there that antony ' s fleet faced the much larger fleet of smaller, more maneuverable ships under commanders agrippa and gaius sosius in the battle of actium on 2 september 31 bc. antony and his remaining forces were spared by a last - ditch effort from cleopatra ' s fleet that had been waiting nearby. octavian pursued them and defeated their forces in alexandria on 1 august 30 bc — after which antony and cleopatra committed suicide. antony fell on his own sword and was taken by his soldiers back to alexandria where he died in cleopatra ' s arms. cleopatra died soon after, reputedly by the venomous bite of an asp or by poison. octavian had exploited his position as caesar ' s heir to further his own political career, and he was well aware of the dangers in allowing another person to do the same. he therefore followed the advice of the greek philosopher arius didymus that " two caesars are one too many ", ordering caesarion killed while sparing cleopatra ' s children by antony, with the exception of antony ' s older son. octavian had previously shown little mercy to surrendered enemies and acted in ways that had proven unpopular with the roman people, yet he was given credit for pardoning many of his opponents after the battle of actium. sole ruler of rome after actium and the defeat of antony and cleopatra, octavian was in a position to rule the entire republic under an unofficial principate — but he had to achieve this through incremental power gains. he did so by courting the senate and the people while upholding the republican traditions of rome, appearing that he was not aspiring to dictatorship or monarchy. marching into rome, octavian and agrippa were elected as consuls by the senate. years of civil war had left rome in a state of near lawlessness, but the republic was not prepared to accept the control of octavian as a despot. at the same time, octavian could not give up his authority without risking further civil wars among the roman generals, and even if he desired no position of authority his position demanded that he look to the well - being of the city of rome and the roman provinces. octavian ' s aims from this point forward were to return rome to a state of stability, traditional legality, and civility by lifting the overt political pressure imposed on the courts