nucleic acids are important for the manufacturing of dna and rna and transmitting of traits to offspring through genes. carbonic acid is important for maintenance of ph equilibrium in the body. human bodies contain a variety of organic and inorganic compounds, among those dicarboxylic acids play an essential role in many biological behaviors. many of those acids are amino acids, which mainly serve as materials for the synthesis of proteins. other weak acids serve as buffers with their conjugate bases to keep the body ' s ph from undergoing large scale changes that would be harmful to cells. the rest of the dicarboxylic acids also participate in the synthesis of various biologically important compounds in human bodies. acid catalysis acids are used as catalysts in industrial and organic chemistry ; for example, sulfuric acid is used in very large quantities in the alkylation process to produce gasoline. some acids, such as sulfuric, phosphoric, and hydrochloric acids, also effect dehydration and condensation reactions. in biochemistry, many enzymes employ acid catalysis. biological occurrence many biologically important molecules are acids. nucleic acids, which contain acidic phosphate groups, include dna and rna. nucleic acids contain the genetic code that determines many of an organism ' s characteristics, and is passed from parents to offspring. dna contains the chemical blueprint for the synthesis of proteins, which are made up of amino acid subunits. cell membranes contain fatty acid esters such as phospholipids. an α - amino acid has a central carbon ( the α or alpha carbon ) that is covalently bonded to a carboxyl group ( thus they are carboxylic acids ), an amino group, a hydrogen atom and a variable group. the variable group, also called the r group or side chain, determines the identity and many of the properties of a specific amino acid. in glycine, the simplest amino acid, the r group is a hydrogen atom, but in all other amino acids it is contains one or more carbon atoms bonded to hydrogens, and may contain other elements such as sulfur, oxygen or nitrogen. with the exception of glycine, naturally occurring amino acids are chiral and almost invariably occur in the l - configuration. peptidoglycan, found in some bacterial cell walls contains some d - amino acids. at physiological ph, typically around 7, free amino acids exist in a charged form, where the acidic carboxyl group ( - cooh ) loses a proton