township — most of alaska uses only two tiers — state / borough. owing to the low population density, most of the land is located in the unorganized borough. as the name implies, it has no intermediate borough government but is administered directly by the state government. in 2000, 57. 71 % of alaska ' s area has this status, with 13. 05 % of the population. anchorage merged the city government with the greater anchorage area borough in 1975 to form the municipality of anchorage, containing the city proper and the communities of eagle river, chugiak, peters creek, girdwood, bird, and indian. fairbanks has a separate borough ( the fairbanks north star borough ) and municipality ( the city of fairbanks ). the state ' s most populous city is anchorage, home to 291, 247 people in 2020. the richest location in alaska by per capita income is denali ( $ 42, 245 ). yakutat city, sitka, juneau, and anchorage are the four largest cities in the u. s. by area. cities and census - designated places ( by population ) as reflected in the 2020 united states census, alaska has a total of 355 incorporated cities and census - designated places ( cdps ). the tally of cities includes four unified municipalities, essentially the equivalent of a consolidated city – county. the majority of these communities are located in the rural expanse of alaska known as " the bush " and are unconnected to that contiguous north american road network. the table at the bottom of this section lists about the 100 largest cities and census - designated places in alaska, in population order. of alaska ' s 2020 u. s. census population figure of 733, 391, 16, 655 people, or 2. 27 % of the population, did not live in an incorporated city or census - designated place. approximately three - quarters of that figure were people who live in urban and suburban neighborhoods on the outskirts of the city limits of ketchikan, kodiak, palmer and wasilla. cdps have not been established for these areas by the united states census bureau, except that seven cdps were established for the ketchikan - area neighborhoods in the 1980 census ( clover pass, herring cove, ketchikan east, mountain point, north tongass highway, pennock island and saxman east ), but have not been used since. the remaining population was scattered throughout alaska, both within organized boroughs and in the unorganized borough, in largely remote areas. climate the climate