2, 000 volunteers, who were ordered to head to new orleans to defend against a british attack. when his forces arrived at natchez, they were ordered to halt by general wilkinson, the commander at new orleans and the man jackson accused of treason after the burr adventure. a little later, jackson received a letter from the secretary of war, john armstrong, stating that his volunteers were not needed, and that they were to hand over any supplies to wilkinson and disband. jackson refused to disband his troops ; instead, he led them on the difficult march back to nashville, earning the nickname " hickory " ( later " old hickory " ) for his toughness. after returning to nashville, jackson and one of his colonels, john coffee, got into a street brawl over honor with the brothers jesse and thomas hart benton. nobody was killed, but jackson received a gunshot in the shoulder that nearly killed him. jackson had not fully recovered from his wounds when governor willie blount called out the militia in september 1813 following the august fort mims massacre. the red sticks, a confederate faction that had allied with tecumseh, a shawnee chief who was fighting with the british against the united states, killed about 250 militia men and civilians at fort mims in retaliation for an ambush by american militia at burnt corn creek. jackson ' s objective was to destroy the red sticks. he headed south from fayetteville, tennessee, in october with 2, 500 militia, establishing fort strother as his supply base. he sent his cavalry under general coffee ahead of the main force, destroying red stick villages and capturing supplies. coffee defeated a band of red sticks at the battle of tallushatchee on november 3, and jackson defeated another band later that month at the battle of talladega. by january 1814, the expiration of enlistments and desertion had reduced jackson ' s force by about 1, 000 volunteers, but he continued the offensive. the red sticks counterattacked at the battles of emuckfaw and enotachopo creek. jackson repelled them but was forced to withdraw to fort strother. jackson ' s army was reinforced by further recruitment and the addition of a regular army unit, the 39th u. s. infantry regiment. the combined force of 3, 000 men — including cherokee, choctaw, and creek allies — attacked a red stick fort at horseshoe bend on the tallapoosa river, which was manned by about 1, 000 men. the red sticks were overwhelmed and massacred