monk. that marriage, which james had refused to consummate, had been annulled in 1319 – 20. eleanor had thereafter retired to a convent ( although she never took the veil ) and had remained unmarried. by december the same year, the couple were rejoiced to become the parents of a son, ferdinand, who was followed five years later by another son, john. eleanor earnestly sought to advance the interests of her own infant sons over those of her stepson, the infante peter, who was the heir - apparent. she convinced her husband to grant very large and significant territories to her sons. on 28 december 1329, alfonso granted his new - born son ferdinand the marquisate of tortosa and the cities of albarracin, orihuela, callosa d ' en sarria, guardamar, alicante, monforte, elda, la mola, novelda and aspe. eleanor ' s younger son john, who was born five years later, was also granted several lordships when he was only a toddler : elche, biel and bolsa were all bestowed upon him. these territories would be controlled by eleanor, who had also received the city of huesca and some other villages and castles belonging to the aragonese crown at the time of her wedding. nor was this all. while all of the above grants had been made from among the possessions of the aragonese crown, the king also sought to bestow estates located within the kingdom of valencia upon the toddler ferdinand, but he was prevented from doing so. when the king granted ferdinand the cities of xativa, alzira, sagunto, morella, burriana and castellon de la plana, all located in the kingdom of valencia, the local subjects protested, and for this reason the king decided to revoked these patents. these grants of land diminished the territorial patrimony of the crown and mainly affected the infante peter, alfonso ' s son by his first wife, who however was too young to make any significant protest. however, the issue agitated the court, created a climate of resentment and divided the nobility into two camps. alfonso died in january 1336, aged only 36. he was succeeded by peter iv, his 16 - year - old son from his first marriage. children by teresa d ' entenca : alfonso ( 1315 – 1317 ) constance ( 1318 – 1346 ), married in 1336 to james iii of majorca.