that artistic portrayals of alexander " seek to legitimize him ( or, by extension, his successors ), to interpret him to their audiences, to answer their critiques, and to persuade them of his greatness ", and thus should be considered within a framework of " praise and blame ", in the same way sources such as praise poetry are. despite those caveats, lysippos ' s sculpture, famous for its naturalism, as opposed to a stiffer, more static pose, is thought to be the most faithful depiction. curtius rufus, a roman historian from the first century ad, who wrote the histories of alexander the great, gives this account of alexander sitting on the throne of darius iii : both curtius and diodorus report a story that when darius iii ' s mother, sisygambis, first met alexander and hephaestion, she assumed that the latter was alexander because he was the taller and more handsome of the two. the greek biographer plutarch ( ) discusses the accuracy of his depictions : historians have understood the detail of the pleasant odour attributed to alexander as stemming from a belief in ancient greece that pleasant scents are characteristic of gods and heroes. the alexander mosaic and contemporary coins portray alexander with " a straight nose, a slightly protruding jaw, full lips and eyes deep set beneath a strongly pronounced forehead ". he is also described as having a slight upward tilt of his head to the left. the ancient historian aelian ( – ), in his varia historia ( 12. 14 ), describes alexander ' s hair color as " ξανθην ", that could mean yellowish, reddish or brownish. it is sometimes claimed that alexander had one blue and one brown eye. reconstruction, based on remaining traces of paint, of the original polychromy on his sarcophagus indicates that he was depicted with brown eyes and chestnut brown hair. personality both of alexander ' s parents encouraged his ambitions. his father philip was probably alexander ' s most immediate and influential role model, as the young alexander watched him campaign practically every year, winning victory after victory while ignoring severe wounds. alexander ' s relationship with his father " forged " the competitive side of his personality ; he had a need to outdo his father, illustrated by his reckless behavior in battle. while alexander worried that his father would leave him " no great or brilliant achievement to be displayed to the world ", he also downplayed his father ' s achievements to his companions. alexander ' s mother olympia