the ampere (, ; symbol : a ), often shortened to amp, is the unit of electric current in the international system of units ( si ). one ampere is equal to 1 coulomb moving past a point in 1 second, or electrons ' worth of charge moving past a point in 1 second. it is named after french mathematician and physicist andre - marie ampere ( 1775 – 1836 ), considered the father of electromagnetism along with danish physicist hans christian ørsted. as of the 2019 redefinition of the si base units, the ampere is defined by fixing the elementary charge to be exactly ( coulomb ), which means an ampere is an electric current equivalent to elementary charges moving every seconds or elementary charges moving in a second. prior to the redefinition the ampere was defined as the current passing through 2 parallel wires 1 metre apart that produces a magnetic force of newtons per metre. the earlier cgs system has two units of current, one structured similar to the si ' s and the other using coulomb ' s law as a fundamental relationship, with the unit of charge defined by measuring the force between two charged metal plates. the unit of current is then defined as one unit of charge per second. in si, the unit of charge, the coulomb, is defined as the charge carried by one ampere during one second. history the ampere is named for french physicist and mathematician andre - marie ampere ( 1775 – 1836 ), who studied electromagnetism and laid the foundation of electrodynamics. in recognition of ampere ' s contributions to the creation of modern electrical science, an international convention, signed at the 1881 international exposition of electricity, established the ampere as a standard unit of electrical measurement for electric current. the ampere was originally defined as one tenth of the unit of electric current in the centimetre – gram – second system of units. that unit, now known as the abampere, was defined as the amount of current that generates a force of two dynes per centimetre of length between two wires one centimetre apart. the size of the unit was chosen so that the units derived from it in the mksa system would be conveniently sized. the " international ampere " was an early realization of the ampere, defined as the current that would deposit of silver per second from a silver nitrate solution. later, more accurate measurements revealed that this current is. since power is defined as the product of