, new terms were invented to sidestep the issue : kuiper - belt object, trans - neptunian object, scattered - disc object, and so on. they inhabit the cold outer reaches of the solar system where ices remain solid and comet - like bodies are not expected to exhibit much cometary activity ; if centaurs or trans - neptunian objects were to venture close to the sun, their volatile ices would sublimate, and traditional approaches would classify them as comets and not asteroids. the innermost of these are the kuiper - belt objects, called " objects " partly to avoid the need to classify them as asteroids or comets. they are thought to be predominantly comet - like in composition, though some may be more akin to asteroids. furthermore, most do not have the highly eccentric orbits associated with comets, and the ones so far discovered are larger than traditional comet nuclei. ( the much more distant oort cloud is hypothesized to be the main reservoir of dormant comets. ) other recent observations, such as the analysis of the cometary dust collected by the stardust probe, are increasingly blurring the distinction between comets and asteroids, suggesting " a continuum between asteroids and comets " rather than a sharp dividing line. the minor planets beyond jupiter ' s orbit are sometimes also called " asteroids ", especially in popular presentations. however, it is becoming increasingly common for the term asteroid to be restricted to minor planets of the inner solar system. therefore, this article will restrict itself for the most part to the classical asteroids : objects of the asteroid belt, jupiter trojans, and near - earth objects. when the iau introduced the class small solar system bodies in 2006 to include most objects previously classified as minor planets and comets, they created the class of dwarf planets for the largest minor planets — those that have enough mass to have become ellipsoidal under their own gravity. according to the iau, " the term ' minor planet ' may still be used, but generally, the term ' small solar system body ' will be preferred. " currently only the largest object in the asteroid belt, ceres, at about across, has been placed in the dwarf planet category. formation many asteroids are the shattered remnants of planetesimals, bodies within the young sun ' s solar nebula that never grew large enough to become planets. it is thought that planetesimals in the asteroid belt evolved much like the rest of objects in the solar nebula until jupiter neared its current mass, at which point