s death in 337, open dispute resumed again. constantine ' s son constantius ii, who had become emperor of the eastern part of the roman empire, actually encouraged the arians and set out to reverse the nicene creed. his advisor in these affairs was eusebius of nicomedia, who had already at the council of nicaea been the head of the arian party, who also was made the bishop of constantinople. constantius used his power to exile bishops adhering to the nicene creed, especially st athanasius of alexandria, who fled to rome. in 355 constantius became the sole roman emperor and extended his pro - arian policy toward the western provinces, frequently using force to push through his creed, even exiling pope liberius and installing antipope felix ii. the third council of sirmium in 357 was the high point of arianism. the seventh arian confession ( second sirmium confession ) held that both homoousios ( of one substance ) and homoiousios ( of similar substance ) were unbiblical and that the father is greater than the son. ( this confession was later known as the blasphemy of sirmium. ) but since many persons are disturbed by questions concerning what is called in latin substantia, but in greek ousia, that is, to make it understood more exactly, as to ' coessential, ' or what is called, ' like - in - essence, ' there ought to be no mention of any of these at all, nor exposition of them in the church, for this reason and for this consideration, that in divine scripture nothing is written about them, and that they are above men ' s knowledge and above men ' s understanding ; as debates raged in an attempt to come up with a new formula, three camps evolved among the opponents of the nicene creed. the first group mainly opposed the nicene terminology and preferred the term homoiousios ( alike in substance ) to the nicene homoousios, while they rejected arius and his teaching and accepted the equality and co - eternality of the persons of the trinity. because of this centrist position, and despite their rejection of arius, they were called " semi - arians " by their opponents. the second group also avoided invoking the name of arius, but in large part followed arius ' s teachings and, in another attempted compromise wording, described the son as being like ( homoios ) the father. a third group explicitly called upon arius and described