further research in the area suggests that turing ' s work can partially explain the growth of " feathers, hair follicles, the branching pattern of lungs, and even the left - right asymmetry that puts the heart on the left side of the chest ". in 2012, sheth, et al. found that in mice, removal of hox genes causes an increase in the number of digits without an increase in the overall size of the limb, suggesting that hox genes control digit formation by tuning the wavelength of a turing - type mechanism. later papers were not available until collected works of a. m. turing was published in 1992. a study conducted in 2023 confirmed turing ' s mathematical model hypothesis. presented by the american physical society, the experiment involved growing chia seeds in even layers within trays, later adjusting the available moisture. researchers experimentally tweaked the factors which appear in the turing equations, and, as a result, patterns resembling those seen in natural environments emerged. this is believed to be the first time that experiments with living vegetation have verified turing ' s mathematical insight. personal life treasure in the 1940s, turing became worried about losing his savings in the event of a german invasion. in order to protect it, he bought two silver bars weighing and worth £250 ( in 2022, £8, 000 adjusted for inflation, £48, 000 at spot price ) and buried them in a wood near bletchley park. upon returning to dig them up, turing found that he was unable to break his own code describing where exactly he had hidden them. this, along with the fact that the area had been renovated, meant that he never regained the silver. engagement in 1941, turing proposed marriage to hut 8 colleague joan clarke, a fellow mathematician and cryptanalyst, but their engagement was short - lived. after admitting his homosexuality to his fiancee, who was reportedly " unfazed " by the revelation, turing decided that he could not go through with the marriage. homosexuality and indecency conviction in january 1952, turing was 39 when he started a relationship with arnold murray, a 19 - year - old unemployed man. just before christmas, turing was walking along manchester ' s oxford road when he met murray just outside the regal cinema and invited him to lunch. on 23 january, turing ' s house was burgled. murray told turing that he and the burglar were acquainted, and turing reported the crime to the police. during the investigation, he acknowledged a sexual relationship with murray. homosexual acts were