hierakonpolis. tombs and at least one temple of rulers of the predynastic period have been found at umm el qa ' ab including that of narmer, dating to. the temple and town continued to be rebuilt at intervals down to the times of the thirtieth dynasty, and the cemetery was in continuous use. the pharaohs of the first dynasty were buried in abydos, including narmer, who is regarded as the founder of the first dynasty, and his successor, aha. it was in this time period that the abydos boats were constructed. some pharaohs of the second dynasty were also buried in abydos. the temple was renewed and enlarged by these pharaohs as well. funerary enclosures, misinterpreted in modern times as great ' forts ', were built on the desert behind the town by three kings of the second dynasty ; the most complete is that of khasekhemwy, the shunet el zebib. from the fifth dynasty, the deity khentiamentiu, foremost of the westerners, came to be seen as a manifestation of the dead pharaoh in the underworld. pepi i ( sixth dynasty ) constructed a funerary chapel which evolved over the years into the great temple of osiris, the ruins of which still exist within the town enclosure. abydos became the centre of the worship of the isis and osiris cult. during the first intermediate period, the principal deity of the area, khentiamentiu, began to be seen as an aspect of osiris, and the deities gradually merged and came to be regarded as one. khentiamentiu ' s name became an epithet of osiris. king mentuhotep ii was the first to build a royal chapel. in the twelfth dynasty a gigantic tomb was cut into the rock by senusret iii. associated with this tomb was a cenotaph, a cult temple and a small town known as " wah - sut ", that was used by the workers for these structures. next to the cenotaph at least two kings of the thirteenth dynasty were buried ( in tombs s9 and s10 ) as well as some rulers of the second intermediate period, such as senebkay. an indigenous line of kings, the abydos dynasty, may have ruled the region from abydos at the time. new construction during the eighteenth dynasty began with a large chapel of ahmose i. the