of the increased market concentration is likely increased efficiency, the changes redistribute economic surplus from producers ( farmers ) and consumers, and may have negative implications for rural communities. national government policies, such as taxation, subsidies, tariffs and others, can significantly change the economic marketplace for agricultural products. since at least the 1960s, a combination of trade restrictions, exchange rate policies and subsidies have affected farmers in both the developing and the developed world. in the 1980s, non - subsidized farmers in developing countries experienced adverse effects from national policies that created artificially low global prices for farm products. between the mid - 1980s and the early 2000s, several international agreements limited agricultural tariffs, subsidies and other trade restrictions. however,, there was still a significant amount of policy - driven distortion in global agricultural product prices. the three agricultural products with the most trade distortion were sugar, milk and rice, mainly due to taxation. among the oilseeds, sesame had the most taxation, but overall, feed grains and oilseeds had much lower levels of taxation than livestock products. since the 1980s, policy - driven distortions have decreases more among livestock products than crops during the worldwide reforms in agricultural policy. despite this progress, certain crops, such as cotton, still see subsidies in developed countries artificially deflating global prices, causing hardship in developing countries with non - subsidized farmers. unprocessed commodities such as corn, soybeans, and cattle are generally graded to indicate quality, affecting the price the producer receives. commodities are generally reported by production quantities, such as volume, number or weight. agricultural science agricultural science is a broad multidisciplinary field of biology that encompasses the parts of exact, natural, economic and social sciences used in the practice and understanding of agriculture. it covers topics such as agronomy, plant breeding and genetics, plant pathology, crop modelling, soil science, entomology, production techniques and improvement, study of pests and their management, and study of adverse environmental effects such as soil degradation, waste management, and bioremediation. the scientific study of agriculture began in the 18th century, when johann friedrich mayer conducted experiments on the use of gypsum ( hydrated calcium sulphate ) as a fertilizer. research became more systematic when in 1843, john lawes and henry gilbert began a set of long - term agronomy field experiments at rothamsted research station in england ; some of them, such as the park grass experiment, are still running. in america, the hatch