bonaire, were depopulated. captain diego salazar led this effort, which affected an estimated 2, 000 indigenous inhabitants from these islands, and likely more from tierra firme. most of the caquetio were taken to hispaniola as forced laborers. many of them likely died on the way or later in the gold mines by the spanish colonizers or during the devastating smallpox epidemic of 1518. later on, new indians migrated from the mainland to aruba, while indians were brought to curacao by juan de ampies. the indigenous population was under encomienda, which ended the autonomy of caquetio community in the islands. their relatives on the mainland did not fare any better. after an unsuccessful attempt by bartolome de las casas to convert the local population to christianity, the coastal region of the mainland was leased to the banking firm of the welsers in 1528. this led to the violent conquest of the caquetio kingdom. before 1634, curacao, along with its neighboring islands bonaire and aruba, were considered part of the province of venezuela. they had been separated from venezuela only during the during the period of the welser grant. the appropriation of the caribbean region turned out to be a failure for the spaniards. the exploitation of the west indian islands proved unprofitable, and gold mining on hispaniola and puerto rico declined. spanish settlers moved elsewhere, and in 1569, the spanish crown banned settlement on the caribbean islands by royal decree. this measure that did not apply to the leased islands of curacao, aruba, and bonaire. the colonization of the large caribbean islands, such as cuba, was encouraged, while the small islands were abandoned. most of the islands remained largely uncontrolled and undefended, making them a potential opportunity for northwestern european countries that wanted to break spain ' s monopoly on colonizing the new world. england, france, the netherlands, and denmark explored the possibilities of piracy and trade on the caribbean islands. on the continent, the great empires declined, but indigenous societies continued to exist and were exposed to a long process of miscegenation. in the falcon - zulia province, among other places, caquetio societies survived on tierra firme. although their cultures and social structures were largely destroyed by the spaniards. on the ( former ) caquetio coastal islands of aruba, curacao, and trinidad, indigenous people lived well into the colonial period. the indigenous history of the