choice function. however, that particular case is a theorem of the zermelo – fraenkel set theory without the axiom of choice ( zf ) ; it is easily proved by the principle of finite induction. in the even simpler case of a collection of one set, a choice function just corresponds to an element, so this instance of the axiom of choice says that every nonempty set has an element ; this holds trivially. the axiom of choice can be seen as asserting the generalization of this property, already evident for finite collections, to arbitrary collections. usage until the late 19th century, the axiom of choice was often used implicitly, although it had not yet been formally stated. for example, after having established that the set x contains only non - empty sets, a mathematician might have said " let f ( s ) be one of the members of s for all s in x " to define a function f. in general, it is impossible to prove that f exists without the axiom of choice, but this seems to have gone unnoticed until zermelo. examples the nature of the individual nonempty sets in the collection may make it possible to avoid the axiom of choice even for certain infinite collections. for example, suppose that each member of the collection x is a nonempty subset of the natural numbers. every such subset has a smallest element, so to specify our choice function we can simply say that it maps each set to the least element of that set. this gives us a definite choice of an element from each set, and makes it unnecessary to add the axiom of choice to our axioms of set theory. the difficulty appears when there is no natural choice of elements from each set. if we cannot make explicit choices, how do we know that our selection forms a legitimate set ( as defined by the other zf axioms of set theory )? for example, suppose that x is the set of all non - empty subsets of the real numbers. first we might try to proceed as if x were finite. if we try to choose an element from each set, then, because x is infinite, our choice procedure will never come to an end, and consequently, we shall never be able to produce a choice function for all of x. next we might try specifying the least element from each set. but some subsets of the real numbers do not have least elements. for example, the open interval ( 0, 1 ) does not have a least element : if x is in