##yota. however, as a legacy of the older plant life scheme, some groups that were also treated as protozoans in the past still have duplicated classifications ( see ambiregnal protists ). some parasitic algae ( e. g., the green algae prototheca and helicosporidium, parasites of metazoans, or cephaleuros, parasites of plants ) were originally classified as fungi, sporozoans, or protistans of incertae sedis, while others ( e. g., the green algae phyllosiphon and rhodochytrium, parasites of plants, or the red algae pterocladiophila and gelidiocolax mammillatus, parasites of other red algae, or the dinoflagellates oodinium, parasites of fish ) had their relationship with algae conjectured early. in other cases, some groups were originally characterized as parasitic algae ( e. g., chlorochytrium ), but later were seen as endophytic algae. some filamentous bacteria ( e. g., beggiatoa ) were originally seen as algae. furthermore, groups like the apicomplexans are also parasites derived from ancestors that possessed plastids, but are not included in any group traditionally seen as algae. relationship to land plants the first land plants probably evolved from shallow freshwater charophyte algae much like chara almost 500 million years ago. these probably had an isomorphic alternation of generations and were probably filamentous. fossils of isolated land plant spores suggest land plants may have been around as long as 475 million years ago. morphology a range of algal morphologies is exhibited, and convergence of features in unrelated groups is common. the only groups to exhibit three - dimensional multicellular thalli are the reds and browns, and some chlorophytes. apical growth is constrained to subsets of these groups : the florideophyte reds, various browns, and the charophytes. the form of charophytes is quite different from those of reds and browns, because they have distinct nodes, separated by internode ' stems ' ; whorls of branches reminiscent of the horsetails occur at the nodes. conceptacles are another polyphyletic trait ; they appear in the coralline algae and the hildenbrandiales, as well as the browns. most of the simpler algae are unicellular flagellates or am