patriot cause among german - american immigrants. the presence of over 150, 000 german americans meant both sides felt the german soldiers might be persuaded to desert ; one reason clinton suggested employing russians was that he felt they were less likely to defect. when the first german troops arrived on staten island in august 1776, congress approved the printing of handbills, promising land and citizenship to any willing to join the patriot cause. the british launched a counter - campaign claiming deserters could well be executed for meddling in a war that was not theirs. desertion among the germans occurred throughout the war, with the highest rate of desertion occurring during the time between the surrender at yorktown and the treaty of paris. german regiments were central to the british war effort ; of the estimated 30, 000 sent to america, some 13, 000 became casualties. revolution as civil war loyalists wealthy loyalists convinced the british government that most of the colonists were sympathetic toward the crown ; consequently, british military planners relied on recruiting loyalists, but had trouble recruiting sufficient numbers as the patriots had widespread support. nevertheless, they continued to deceive themselves on their level of american support as late as 1780, a year before hostilities ended. approximately 25, 000 loyalists fought for the british throughout the war. although loyalists constituted about twenty percent of the colonial population, they were concentrated in distinct communities. many of them lived among large plantation owners in the tidewater region and south carolina who produced cash crops in tobacco and indigo comparable to global markets in caribbean sugar. when the british began probing the backcountry in 1777 – 1778, they were faced with a major problem : any significant level of organized loyalist activity required a continued presence of british regulars. the available manpower that the british had in america was insufficient to protect loyalist territory and counter american offensives. the loyalist militias in the south were constantly defeated by neighboring patriot militia. the most critical combat between the two partisan militias was at the battle of kings mountain ; the patriot victory irreversibly impaired any further loyalist militia capability in the south. when the early war policy was administered by general william howe, the crown ' s need to maintain loyalist support prevented it from using the traditional revolt suppression methods. the british cause suffered when their troops ransacked local homes during an aborted attack on charleston in 1779 that enraged both patriots and loyalists. after congress rejected the carlisle peace commission in 1778 and westminster turned to " hard war " during clinton ' s command, neutral colonists in the carolinas often allied with the patriots whenever brutal combat broke out between tories and whigs