input was two simultaneous equations, a trivial problem. ) intermediate results were binary, written onto paper sheets by electrostatically modifying the resistance at 1500 locations to represent 30 of the 50 - bit numbers ( one equation ). each sheet could be written or read in one second. the reliability of the system was limited to about 1 error in 100, 000 calculations by these units, primarily attributed to lack of control of the sheets ' material characteristics. in retrospect, a solution could have been to add a parity bit to each number as written. this problem was not solved by the time atanasoff left the university for war - related work. primary user input was decimal, via standard ibm 80 - column punched cards, and output was decimal, via a front - panel display. function the abc was designed for a specific purpose the solution of systems of simultaneous linear equations. it could handle systems with up to 29 equations, a difficult problem for the time. problems of this scale were becoming common in physics, the department in which john atanasoff worked. the machine could be fed two linear equations with up to 29 variables and a constant term and eliminate one of the variables. this process would be repeated manually for each of the equations, which would result in a system of equations with one fewer variable. then the whole process would be repeated to eliminate another variable. george w. snedecor, the head of iowa state ' s statistics department, was very likely the first user of an electronic digital computer to solve real - world mathematics problems. he submitted many of these problems to atanasoff. patent dispute on june 26, 1947, j. presper eckert and john mauchly were the first to file for patent on a digital computing device ( eniac ), much to the surprise of atanasoff. the abc had been examined by john mauchly in june 1941, and isaac auerbach, a former student of mauchly ' s, alleged that it influenced his later work on eniac, although mauchly denied this. the eniac patent did not issue until 1964, and by 1967 honeywell sued sperry rand in an attempt to break the eniac patents, arguing that the abc constituted prior art. the united states district court for the district of minnesota released its judgement on october 19, 1973, finding in honeywell v. sperry rand that the eniac patent was a derivative of john atanasoff ' s invention. campbell - kelly and aspray conclude : the case was legally resolved on