— that showcased the range of talents of the girls. also in 1716, vivaldi wrote and produced two more operas, l ' incoronazione di dario ( rv 719 ) and la costanza trionfante degli amori e degli odi ( rv 706 ). the latter was so popular that it was performed two years later, re - edited and retitled artabano re dei parti ( rv 701, now lost ). it was also performed in prague in 1732. in the years that followed, vivaldi wrote several operas that were performed all over italy. his progressive operatic style caused him some trouble with more conservative musicians such as benedetto marcello, a magistrate and amateur musician who wrote a pamphlet denouncing vivaldi and his operas. the pamphlet, il teatro alla moda, attacks the composer even as it does not mention him directly. the cover drawing shows a boat ( the sant ' angelo ), on the left end of which stands a little angel wearing a priest ' s hat and playing the violin. the marcello family claimed ownership of the teatro sant ' angelo, and a long legal battle had been fought with the management for its restitution, without success. the obscure text under the engraving mentions non - existent places and names : for example, aldiviva is an anagram of " a. vivaldi ". in a letter written by vivaldi to his patron marchese bentivoglio in 1737, he makes reference to his " 94 operas ". only around 50 operas by vivaldi have been discovered, and no other documentation of the remaining operas exists. although vivaldi may have been exaggerating, it is plausible that, in his dual role of composer and impresario, he may have either written or been responsible for the production of as many as 94 operas — given that his career had by then spanned almost 25 years. while vivaldi certainly composed many operas in his time, he never attained the prominence of other great composers such as alessandro scarlatti, johann adolph hasse, leonardo leo, and baldassare galuppi, as evidenced by his inability to keep a production running for an extended period of time in any major opera house. mantua and the four seasons in 1717 or 1718, vivaldi was offered a prestigious new position as maestro di cappella of the court of prince philip of hesse - darmstadt, governor of mantua, in the northwest of italy he moved there for three years and produced several