. according to krohn, this and a great deal of other information revealed through his research of hitchcock ' s personal papers, script revisions and the like refute the notion of hitchcock as a director who was always in control of his films, whose vision of his films did not change during production, which krohn notes has remained the central long - standing myth of alfred hitchcock. both his fastidiousness and attention to detail also found their way into each film poster for his films. hitchcock preferred to work with the best talent of his day — film poster designers such as bill gold and saul bass — who would produce posters that accurately represented his films. legacy awards and honours hitchcock was inducted into the hollywood walk of fame on 8 february 1960 with two stars : one for television and a second for motion pictures. in 1978, john russell taylor described him as " the most universally recognizable person in the world " and " a straightforward middle - class englishman who just happened to be an artistic genius ". in 2002, moviemaker named him the most influential director of all time, and a 2007 the daily telegraph critics ' poll ranked him britain ' s greatest director. david gritten, the newspaper ' s film critic, wrote : " unquestionably the greatest filmmaker to emerge from these islands, hitchcock did more than any director to shape modern cinema, which would be utterly different without him. his flair was for narrative, cruelly withholding crucial information ( from his characters and from us ) and engaging the emotions of the audience like no one else. " in 1992, the sight & sound critics ' poll ranked hitchcock at no. 4 in its list of " top 10 directors " of all time. in 2002, hitchcock was ranked second in the critics ' top ten poll and fifth in the directors ' top ten poll in the list of " the greatest directors of all time " compiled by sight & sound. hitchcock was voted the " greatest director of 20th century " in a poll conducted by japanese film magazine kinema junpo. in 1996, entertainment weekly ranked hitchcock at no. 1 in its " 50 greatest directors " list. hitchcock was ranked at no. 2 on empires " top 40 greatest directors of all - time " list in 2005. in 2007, total film ranked hitchcock at no. 1 on its " 100 greatest film directors ever " list. he won two golden globes, eight laurel awards, and five lifetime achievement awards, including the first bafta academy fellowship award and, in 1979, an afi life achievement award. he was nominated five times for an