renders any claim that relies on either the axiom of choice or its negation unprovable. for example, the banach – tarski paradox is neither provable nor disprovable from zf alone : it is impossible to construct the required decomposition of the unit ball in zf, but also impossible to prove there is no such decomposition. similarly, all the statements listed below which require choice or some weaker version thereof for their proof are unprovable in zf, but since each is provable in zf plus the axiom of choice, there are models of zf in which each statement is true. statements such as the banach – tarski paradox can be rephrased as conditional statements, for example, " if ac holds, then the decomposition in the banach – tarski paradox exists. " such conditional statements are provable in zf when the original statements are provable from zf and the axiom of choice. in constructive mathematics as discussed above, in zfc, the axiom of choice is able to provide " nonconstructive proofs " in which the existence of an object is proved although no explicit example is constructed. zfc, however, is still formalized in classical logic. the axiom of choice has also been thoroughly studied in the context of constructive mathematics, where non - classical logic is employed. the status of the axiom of choice varies between different varieties of constructive mathematics. in martin - lof type theory and higher - order heyting arithmetic, the appropriate statement of the axiom of choice is ( depending on approach ) included as an axiom or provable as a theorem. errett bishop argued that the axiom of choice was constructively acceptable, saying in constructive set theory, however, diaconescu ' s theorem shows that the axiom of choice implies the law of excluded middle ( unlike in martin - lof type theory, where it does not ). thus the axiom of choice is not generally available in constructive set theory. a cause for this difference is that the axiom of choice in type theory does not have the extensionality properties that the axiom of choice in constructive set theory does. some results in constructive set theory use the axiom of countable choice or the axiom of dependent choice, which do not imply the law of the excluded middle in constructive set theory. although the axiom of countable choice in particular is commonly used in constructive mathematics, its use has also been questioned. independence in 1938, kurt godel showed