the days of king saul, the legitimacy of david ' s claim to royalty was disputed on account of his descent from ruth, the moabite ; whereupon ithra, the israelite, girt with his sword, strode like an ishmaelite into the schoolhouse of jesse, declaring upon the authority of samuel, the prophet, and his bet din ( court of justice ), that the law excluding the ammonite and moabite from the jewish congregation referred only to the men — who alone had sinned in not meeting israel with bread and water — and not to the women. the story reflects actual conditions in pre - talmudic times, conditions that led to the fixed rule stated in the mishnah : " ammonite and moabite men are excluded from the jewish community for all time ; their women are admissible. " that rehoboam, the son of king solomon, was born of an ammonite woman also made it difficult to maintain the messianic claims of the house of david ; but it was adduced as an illustration of divine providence which selected the " two doves, " ruth, the moabite, and naamah, the ammonitess, for honorable distinction. ruth ' s kindness as noted in the book of ruth by boaz is seen in the jewish tradition as in rare contradistinction to the peoples of moab ( where ruth comes from ) and amon in general, who were noted by the torah for their distinct lack of kindness. deut. 23 : 5 : " because they [ the peoples of amon and moab ] did not greet you with bread and water on the way when you left egypt, and because he [ the people of moab ] hired balaam the son of beor from pethor in aram naharaim against you, to curse you. " rashi notes regarding israel ' s travels on the way : " when you were in [ a state of ] extreme exhaustion. " jehoash was one of the four men who pretended to be gods. he was persuaded thereto particularly by the princes, who said to him. " wert thou not a god thou couldst not come out alive from the holy of holies " ( ex r. viii. 3 ). he was assassinated by two of his servants, one of whom was the son of an ammonite woman and the other the offspring of a moabite ( ) ; for god said : " let the descendants of the two un