january 1930, amid economic problems, general unpopularity and a putschist plot led by general manuel goded in motion, of which alfonso xiii was most probably aware, miguel primo de rivera was forced to resign, exiling to paris, only to die a few weeks later of the complications from diabetes in combination with the effects of a flu. alfonso xiii appointed general damaso berenguer as the new prime minister. back in 1926, alfonso xiii had appointed berenguer as chief of staff of the military house of the king, a post conventionally fit for burned - out generals in order to move them away from the spotlight for a time in a show of affection. the new period was nicknamed as dictablanda. the king was so closely associated with the dictatorship of primo de rivera that it was difficult for him to distance himself from the regime that he had supported for almost seven years. the enforced changes relied on the incorrect assumption that spaniards would accept the notion that nothing had happened after 1923 and that going back to the prior state of things was possible. dethronement and politics in exile on 12 april, the republican coalition, short of winning a majority of councillors overall, won a sweeping majority in major cities in the 1931 municipal elections, which were perceived as a plebiscite on monarchy. the results shocked the government, with foreign minister romanones admitting to the press an " absolute monarchist defeat " and civil guard honcho jose sanjurjo reportedly telling government ministers that, given circumstances, the armed forces could not be " absolutely " relied upon for the sustainment of the monarchy. alfonso xiii fled the country and the second spanish republic was peacefully proclaimed on 14 april 1931. in november 1931, the constituent republican cortes held an impassionate debate about the political responsibilities of the former monarch. some of the grievances against the action of alfonso xiii as a king included interference in the institutions to reinforce his personal power, bargaining personal support from the military clique with rewards and merits, his abuse of the power to dissolve the legislature, rendering the co - sovereignty between the nation and the crown a total fiction ; that he had disproportionately fostered the armed forces ( often to contain internal protest ), had used the armed forces abroad with imperialist aims alien to the interests of the nation but his own, that he had personally devised the military operation of annual behind the back of the council of ministers, and that following the massacre of annual that " cost the lives of thousands of spanish