annual visitors. etymology and toponymy the english word alps comes from the latin alpes. the latin word alpes could possibly come from the adjective albus ( " white " ), or could possibly come from the greek goddess alphito, whose name is related to alphita, the " white flour " ; alphos, a dull white leprosy ; and finally the proto - indo - european word * albʰos. similarly, the river god alpheus is also supposed to derive from the greek alphos and means whitish. in his commentary on the aeneid of vergil, the late fourth - century grammarian maurus servius honoratus says that all high mountains are called alpes by celts. according to the oxford english dictionary, the latin alpes might derive from a pre - indo - european word * alb " hill " ; " albania " is a related derivation. albania, a name not native to the region known as the country of albania, has been used as a name for several mountainous areas across europe. in roman times, " albania " was a name for the eastern caucasus, while in the english languages " albania " ( or " albany " ) was occasionally used as a name for scotland, although it is more likely derived from the latin word albus, the colour white. in modern languages the term alp, alm, albe or alpe refers to a grazing pastures in the alpine regions below the glaciers, not the peaks. an alp refers to a high mountain pasture, typically near or above the tree line, where cows and other livestock are taken to be grazed during the summer months and where huts and hay barns can be found, sometimes constituting tiny hamlets. therefore, the term " the alps ", as a reference to the mountains, is a misnomer. the term for the mountain peaks varies by nation and language : words such as horn, kogel, kopf, gipfel, spitze, stock, and berg are used in german - speaking regions ; mont, pic, tete, pointe, dent, roche, and aiguille in french - speaking regions ; and monte, picco, corno, punta, pizzo, or cima in italian - speaking regions. geography the alps are a crescent shaped geographic feature of central europe that ranges in an arc ( curved line ) from east to west and is in width. the mean height of the mountain peaks is. the range stretches from the mediterranean sea north above the