not bombs group of collectives, to highlight some features of how anarchist groups work : direct action, working together and in solidarity with those left behind. while doing so, they inform about the rising rates of world hunger suggest a policy to tackle hunger, ranging from de - funding the arms industry to addressing monsanto seed - saving policies and patents, helping farmers and commodification of food and housing. honeywell also emphasizes that contemporary anarchists are interested in the flourishing not only of humans, but non - humans and the environment as well. honeywell argues that escalation of problems such as continuous wars and world poverty show that the current framework not only cannot solve those pressing problems for humanity, but are causal factors as well, resulting in the rejection of representative democracy and the state as a whole. thought anarchist schools of thought have been generally grouped into two main historical traditions, social anarchism and individualist anarchism, owing to their different origins, values and evolution. the individualist current emphasises negative liberty in opposing restraints upon the free individual, while the social current emphasises positive liberty in aiming to achieve the free potential of society through equality and social ownership. in a chronological sense, anarchism can be segmented by the classical currents of the late 19th century and the post - classical currents ( anarcha - feminism, green anarchism, and post - anarchism ) developed thereafter. beyond the specific factions of anarchist movements which constitute political anarchism lies philosophical anarchism which holds that the state lacks moral legitimacy, without necessarily accepting the imperative of revolution to eliminate it. a component especially of individualist anarchism, philosophical anarchism may tolerate the existence of a minimal state but claims that citizens have no moral obligation to obey government when it conflicts with individual autonomy. anarchism pays significant attention to moral arguments since ethics have a central role in anarchist philosophy. anarchism ' s emphasis on anti - capitalism, egalitarianism, and for the extension of community and individuality sets it apart from anarcho - capitalism and other types of economic libertarianism. anarchism is usually placed on the far - left of the political spectrum. much of its economics and legal philosophy reflect anti - authoritarian, anti - statist, libertarian, and radical interpretations of left - wing and socialist politics such as collectivism, communism, individualism, mutualism, and syndicalism, among other libertarian socialist economic theories. as anarchism does not offer a fixed body of doctrine from a single particular world