alfonso iii ( 4 november 1265 – 18 june 1291 ), called the liberal ( el liberal ) and the free ( also " the frank ", from el franc ), was king of aragon and valencia, and count of barcelona ( as ) from 1285 until his death. he conquered the kingdom of majorca between his succession and 1287. life alfonso was the son of king peter iii of aragon and constance, daughter and heiress of king manfred of sicily. soon after assuming the throne, he conducted a campaign to reincorporate the balearic islands into the kingdom of aragon, which had been lost due to the division of the kingdom by his grandfather, james i of aragon. thus in 1285 he declared war on his uncle, james ii of majorca, and conquered both majorca ( 1285 ) and ibiza ( 1286 ), effectively reassuming suzerainty over the kingdom of majorca. he followed this with the conquest of menorca – until then an autonomous muslim state ( manurqa ) within the kingdom of majorca – on 17 january 1287, the anniversary of which now serves as menorca ' s national holiday. alfonso initially sought to maintain aragonese control over sicily by supporting the claims of his brother james ii to the island. however, he later retracted his support for his brother shortly before his death and instead tried to make peace with the papal states and with france. his reign was marred by a constitutional struggle with the aragonese nobles, which eventually culminated in the articles of the union of aragon – the so - called " magna carta of aragon ", which devolved several key royal powers into the hands of lesser nobles. his inability to resist the demands of his nobles was to leave a heritage of disunity in aragon and further dissent amongst the nobility, who increasingly saw little reason to respect the throne, and brought the kingdom of aragon close to anarchy. during his lifetime a dynastic marriage with eleanor, daughter of king edward i of england, was arranged. however, alfonso died before meeting his bride, at the age of 25 in 1291, and was buried in the franciscan convent in barcelona ; since 1852 his remains have been buried in barcelona cathedral. in culture dante alighieri, in the divine comedy, recounts that he saw alfonso ' s spirit seated outside the gates of purgatory with the other monarchs whom dante blamed for the chaotic political state of europe during the 13th century. references sources 1265 births 1291 deaths 13th - century aragonese monarchs