townspeople. along the route on via postumia, alaric first encountered stilicho. two battles were fought. the first was at pollentia on easter sunday, where stilicho ( according to claudian ) achieved an impressive victory, taking alaric ' s wife and children prisoner, and more significantly, seizing much of the treasure that alaric had amassed over the previous five years ' worth of plundering. pursuing the retreating forces of alaric, stilicho offered to return the prisoners but was refused. the second battle was at verona, where alaric was defeated for a second time. stilicho once again offered alaric a truce and allowed him to withdraw from italy. kulikowski explains this confusing, if not outright conciliatory behavior by stating, " given stilicho ' s cold war with constantinople, it would have been foolish to destroy as biddable and violent a potential weapon as alaric might well prove to be ". halsall ' s observations are similar, as he contends that the roman general ' s " decision to permit alaric ' s withdrawal into pannonia makes sense if we see alaric ' s force entering stilicho ' s service, and stilicho ' s victory being less total than claudian would have us believe ". perhaps more revealing is a report from the greek historian zosimus — writing a half a century later — that indicates an agreement was concluded between stilicho and alaric in 405, which suggests alaric being in " western service at that point ", likely stemming from arrangements made back in 402. between 404 and 405, alaric remained in one of the four pannonian provinces, from where he could " play east off against west while potentially threatening both ". historian a. d. lee observes, " alaric ' s return to the north - west balkans brought only temporary respite to italy, for in 405 another substantial body of goths and other barbarians, this time from outside the empire, crossed the middle danube and advanced into northern italy, where they plundered the countryside and besieged cities and towns " under their leader radagaisus. although the imperial government was struggling to muster enough troops to contain these barbarian invasions, stilicho managed to stifle the threat posed by the tribes under radagaisus, when the latter split his forces into three separate groups. stilicho cornered radagaisus near florence and starved the invaders into submission. meanwhile, alaric — bestowed with codicils