kingdom ( thailand ), returning in a chinese junk. he was one of the portuguese who had been arrested in malacca, having gathered knowledge about the culture of the region. there he was the first european to arrive, establishing amicable relations between the kingdom of portugal and the court of the king of siam ramathibodi ii, returning with a siamese envoy bearing gifts and letters to afonso and the king of portugal. expedition to the " spice islands " ( maluku islands ), 1512 in november, after having secured malacca and learning the location of the then secret " spice islands ", afonso sent three ships to find them, led by trusted antonio de abreu with deputy commander francisco serrao. malay sailors were recruited to guide them through java, the lesser sunda islands and the ambon island to banda islands, where they arrived in early 1512. there they remained for a month, buying and filling their ships with nutmeg and cloves. antonio de abreu then sailed to amboina whilst serrao sailed towards the moluccas, but he was shipwrecked near seram. sultan abu lais of ternate heard of their stranding, and, seeing a chance to ally himself with a powerful foreign nation, brought them to ternate in 1512 where they were permitted to build a fort on the island, the, built in 1522. return to cochin and goa afonso returned from malacca to cochin, but could not sail to goa as it faced a serious revolt headed by the forces of ismael adil shah, the sultan of bijapur, commanded by rasul khan and his countrymen. during afonso ' s absence from malacca, the portuguese who opposed the taking of goa had waived its possession, even writing to the king that it would be best to let it go. held up by the monsoon and with few forces available, afonso had to wait for the arrival of reinforcement fleets headed by his nephew d. garcia de noronha, and jorge de mello pereira. while at cochin, albuquerque started a school. in a private letter to king manuel i, he stated that he had found a chest full of books with which to teach the children of married portuguese settlers ( casados ) and christian converts, of which there were about a hundred, to read and write. on 10 september 1512, afonso sailed from cochin to goa with fourteen ships carrying 1, 700 soldiers. determined to recapture the fortress, he