began by asking avicenna eighteen questions, ten of which were criticisms of aristotle ' s on the heavens. theology avicenna was a devout muslim and sought to reconcile rational philosophy with islamic theology. his aim was to prove the existence of god and his creation of the world scientifically and through reason and logic. avicenna ' s views on islamic theology ( and philosophy ) were enormously influential, forming part of the core of the curriculum at islamic religious schools until the 19th century. avicenna wrote a number of short treatises dealing with islamic theology. these included treatises on the prophets ( whom he viewed as " inspired philosophers " ), and also on various scientific and philosophical interpretations of the quran, such as how quranic cosmology corresponds to his own philosophical system. in general these treatises linked his philosophical writings to islamic religious ideas ; for example, the body ' s afterlife. there are occasional brief hints and allusions in his longer works, however, that avicenna considered philosophy as the only sensible way to distinguish real prophecy from illusion. he did not state this more clearly because of the political implications of such a theory, if prophecy could be questioned, and also because most of the time he was writing shorter works which concentrated on explaining his theories on philosophy and theology clearly, without digressing to consider epistemological matters which could only be properly considered by other philosophers. later interpretations of avicenna ' s philosophy split into three different schools ; those ( such as al - tusi ) who continued to apply his philosophy as a system to interpret later political events and scientific advances ; those ( such as al - razi ) who considered avicenna ' s theological works in isolation from his wider philosophical concerns ; and those ( such as al - ghazali ) who selectively used parts of his philosophy to support their own attempts to gain greater spiritual insights through a variety of mystical means. it was the theological interpretation championed by those such as al - razi which eventually came to predominate in the madrasahs. avicenna memorized the quran by the age of ten, and as an adult, he wrote five treatises commenting on suras from the quran. one of these texts included the proof of prophecies, in which he comments on several quranic verses and holds the quran in high esteem. avicenna argued that the islamic prophets should be considered higher than philosophers. avicenna is generally understood to have been aligned with the sunni hanafi school of thought. avicenna studied