divided between the hardline haqqani network and moderate abdul ghani baradar over appointments needed to form an " inclusive " government. this culminated in a skirmish which led to baradar being injured and treated in pakistan. as of early september 2021, the taliban were planning the cabinet to be men - only. journalists and other human rights activists, mostly women, protested in herat and kabul, calling for women to be included. the acting cabinet announced on 7 september was men - only, and the ministry of women ' s affairs appeared to have been abolished. administrative divisions afghanistan is administratively divided into 34 provinces ( wilayat ). each province has a governor and a capital. the country is further divided into nearly 400 provincial districts, each of which normally covers a city or several villages. each district is represented by a district governor. the provincial governors are now appointed by the prime minister of afghanistan, and the district governors are selected by the provincial governors. the provincial governors are representatives of the central government in kabul and are responsible for all administrative and formal issues within their provinces. there are also provincial councils that are elected through direct and general elections for four years. the functions of provincial councils are to take part in provincial development planning and to participate in the monitoring and appraisal of other provincial governance institutions. according to article 140 of the constitution and the presidential decree on electoral law, mayors of cities should be elected through free and direct elections for a four - year term. in practice however, mayors are appointed by the government. the 34 provinces in alphabetical order are : badakhshan badghis baghlan balkh bamyan daykundi farah faryab ghazni ghor helmand herat jowzjan kabul kandahar kapisa khost kunar kunduz laghman logar nangarhar nimruz nuristan oruzgan paktia paktika panjshir parwan samangan sar - e pol takhar wardak zabul foreign relations afghanistan became a member of the united nations in 1946. historically, afghanistan had strong relations with germany, one of the first countries to recognize afghanistan ' s independence in 1919 ; the soviet union, which provided much aid and military training for afghanistan ' s forces and includes the signing of a treaty of friendship in 1921 and 1978 ; and india, with which a friendship treaty was signed in 1950. relations with pakistan have often been tense for various reasons such as the durand line border issue and alleged pakistani involvement in afghan ins