laughter created light ; his second divided the primordial waters ; his third created the mind ; his fourth created fertility and procreation ; his fifth created fate ; his sixth created time ( as the sun and moon ) ; and his seventh and final laughter created the soul. then, from various sounds made by abrasax, there arose the serpent python who " foreknew all things ", the first man ( or fear ), and the god iao, " who is lord of all ". the man fought with iao, and abrasax declared that iao ' s power would derive from both of the others, and that iao would take precedence over all the other gods. this text also describes helios as an archangel of god / abrasax. the leyden papyrus recommends that this invocation be pronounced to the moon : the magic word " ablanathanalba ", which reads in greek the same backward as forward, also occurs in the abrasax - stones as well as in the magic papyri. this word is usually conceded to be derived from the hebrew ( aramaic ), meaning " thou art our father " ( אב לן את ), and also occurs in connection with abrasax ; the following inscription is found upon a metal plate in the karlsruhe museum : in literature in popular culture in the 2022 folk horror video game the excavation of hob ' s barrow, published by wadjet eye games, abraxas features as a long - dormant god / demon inspired by the original gnostic mythology. in marvel comics, the character abraxas embodies the destruction of the multiverse ( first appearance : 2001 ). " mt. abraxas " is the title of the first track of occult rock band uncle acid & the deadbeats ' s third studio album mind control ( 2013 ). abraxas appears as a demon in charmed season 2 ( 1999 – 2000 ). abraxas appears as a demon in supernatural season 14 ( 2018 – 2019 ). in the 2008 visual novel 11eyes : tsumi to batsu to aganai no shojo, kukuri can summon her soul in the form of a chained guardian angel named abraxas. when released from his chains, he becomes a godlike entity named demiurge. the 2018 video game darksiders iii features a demon named abraxis. south korean band bts ' s videos frequently mention abraxas and