slott, as part of the fresh start relaunch that july. the first five - issue story arc was titled ' back to basics. ' during the back to basics story, kindred, a mysterious villain with some relation to peter ' s past, was introduced, and peter resumed his romantic relationship with mary jane once more. the first major story under spencer was hunted which ran through issues 16 through 23, the story also included four ". hu " issues for issues 16, 18, 19, and 20. the end of the story saw the death of long - running spider - man villain kraven the hunter, being replaced by his clone son, the last son of kraven. 2020s issue 45 kicked off the sins rising story which saw the resurrected sin - eater carry out the plans of kindred to cleanse the world of sin, particularly that of norman osborn. the story concluded with issue 49, issue 850 in legacy numbering, seeing spider - man and green goblin team up to defeat sin - eater. last remains started in issue 50 and concluded in issue 55, the story saw kindred ' s plans come to fruition as he tormented spider - man. the story has also seen five ". lr " for issues 50, 51, 52, 53, and 54 which focused on the order of the web, a new faction of spider - people consisting of julia carpenter ( madame web ), miles morales ( spider - man ), gwen stacy ( ghost - spider ), cindy moon ( silk ), jessica drew ( spider - woman ), and anya corazon ( spider - girl ). the story also revealed that kindred is harry osborn. last remains also received two fallout issues called last remains post - mortem. nick spencer concluded his run with the sinister war story which wrapped up in no. 74 ( legacy numbering 875 ). the story saw several retcons to the spider - man mythos including that kindred was gabriel and sarah stacy all along, the fact that the stacy twins were actually genetically engineered beings using norman osborn and gwen stacy ' s dna, that the harry osborn that returned in brand new day was actually a clone, and that norman had made a deal with mephisto where he sold harry ' s soul to the demon. the story ended with the deaths of the harry clone, gabriel, and sarah and the real harry ' s soul being freed from mephisto ' s grasp. after spencer left the book, marvel announced the " beyond " era of spider - man would start in #