the festa del poble. andorra participated regularly in the eurovision song contest between 2004 and 2009, being the only participating country presenting songs in catalan. in popular folklore, the best - known andorran legends are the legend of charlemagne, according to which this frankish king would have founded the country, the white lady of auvinya, the buner d ' ordino, the legend of engolasters lake and the legend of our lady of meritxell. andorran gastronomy is mainly catalan, although it has also adopted other elements of french and italian cuisines. the cuisine of the country has similar characteristics with the neighbours of cerdanya and alt urgell, with whom it has strong cultural ties. andorra ' s cuisine is marked by its nature as mountain valleys. typical dishes of the country are quince all - i - oli, duck with winter pear, roast lamb with nuts, pork civet, massegada cake, escarole with pears, duck confit and mushrooms, escudella, spinach with raisins and pine nuts, jelly marmalade, stuffed murgues ( mushrooms ) with pork, dandelion salad, and andorran river trout. to drink, mulled wine and beer are also popular. some of the dishes are very common in the mountainous regions of catalonia, such as trinxat, embotits, cooked snails, rice with mushrooms, mountain rice and mato. pre - romanesque and romanesque art are one of the most important artistic manifestations and characteristics of the principality. the romanesque one allows to know the formation of the parochial communities, the relations of ( social and political ) power and the national culture. there are a total of forty romanesque churches that stand out as being small austere ornamentation constructions, as well as bridges, fortresses and manor houses of the same period. summer solstice fire festivals in the pyrenees was included as unesco intangible cultural heritage in 2015. also the madriu - perafita - claror valley became andorra ' s first, and to date its only, unesco world heritage site in 2004, with a small extension in 2006. sports andorra is famous for the practice of winter sports. andorra has the largest territory of ski slopes in the pyrenees ( 3100 hectares and about 350 km of slopes ) and two ski resorts. grandvalira is the largest and most popular resort. other popular sports played in andorra include football, rugby union,