a few articles about rand ' s ideas appeared in academic journals before her death in 1982, many of them in the personalist. one of these was " on the randian argument " by libertarian philosopher robert nozick, who criticized her meta - ethical arguments. in the same journal, other philosophers argued that nozick misstated rand ' s case. in an article responding to nozick, douglas den uyl and douglas b. rasmussen defended her positions, but described her style as " literary, hyperbolic and emotional ". after her death, interest in rand ' s ideas increased gradually. the philosophic thought of ayn rand, a 1984 collection of essays about objectivism edited by den uyl and rasmussen, was the first academic book about rand ' s ideas published after her death. in one essay, political writer jack wheeler wrote that despite " the incessant bombast and continuous venting of randian rage ", rand ' s ethics are " a most immense achievement, the study of which is vastly more fruitful than any other in contemporary thought ". in 1987, the ayn rand society was founded as an affiliate of the american philosophical association. in a 1995 entry about rand in contemporary women philosophers, jenny a. heyl described a divergence in how different academic specialties viewed rand. she said that rand ' s philosophy " is regularly omitted from academic philosophy. yet, throughout literary academia, ayn rand is considered a philosopher. " writing in the 1998 edition of the routledge encyclopedia of philosophy, political theorist chandran kukathas summarized the mainstream philosophical reception of her work in two parts. he said most commentators view her ethical argument as an unconvincing variant of aristotle ' s ethics, and her political theory " is of little interest " because it is marred by an " ill - thought out and unsystematic " effort to reconcile her hostility to the state with her rejection of anarchism. the journal of ayn rand studies, a multidisciplinary, peer - reviewed academic journal devoted to the study of rand and her ideas, was established in 1999. 21st - century academic reaction in 2009, historian jennifer burns identified " an explosion of scholarship " since 2000, although as of that year, few universities included rand or objectivism as a philosophical specialty or research area. from 2002 to 2012, over 60 colleges and universities accepted grants from the charitable foundation of bb & t corporation that required teaching rand ' s ideas or works ; in some cases, the grants were controversial or even rejected