matthew paris in his chronica majora described alexander as red - haired : [ king john ] taunted king alexander, and because he was red - headed, sent word to him, saying, ' so shall we hunt the red fox - cub from his lairs. death alexander attempted to persuade ewen, the son of duncan, lord of argyll ( and king of the isles ), to sever his allegiance to haakon iv of norway. when ewen rejected these attempts, alexander sailed forth to compel him, but on the way he suffered a fever at the isle of kerrera in the inner hebrides. he died there in 1249 and was buried at melrose abbey. the hakonar saga hakonarsonar records additional information, in that before attempting to invade the isles, where ewen held power, he was supposedly warned in a dream by st. columba, st. olaf and st. magnus to desist. king ewen of the isles ' status as monarch had been confirmed by haakon iv and was disputed by alexander. the episode might be emblematic of a broader desire on the part of alexander to bring the kingdom of the isles fully into the power of the scottish crown. in any case, when he finally decided to continue in his endeavour, despite the dream, and having been advised against it by his men, he died shortly afterwards. the incident was portrayed in the saga as divine punishment. his body was then transported back to the mainland. he was succeeded by his son, the seven - year - old alexander iii of scotland. family alexander ii had two wives : 1. joan of england ( 22 july 12104 march 1238 ), who was the eldest legitimate daughter and third child of john of england and isabella of angouleme. she and alexander ii married on 21 june 1221, at york minster. alexander was 23 ; joan was 11. they had no children. joan died in essex in 1238, and was buried at tarant crawford abbey in dorset. 2. marie de coucy, who became mother of alexander iii of scotland. he also had an illegitimate daughter, marjorie, who married alan durward. fictional portrayals alexander ii has been depicted in historical novels : sword of state ( 1999 ) by nigel tranter. the novel depicts the friendship between alexander ii and patrick ii, earl of dunbar. " their friendship withstands treachery, danger and rivalry ". child of the phoenix ( 1992 ) by barbara erskine. the