corbett and died on april 26. secretary of war stanton had issued orders that booth be taken alive, so corbett was initially arrested to be court martialed. after a brief interview, stanton declared him a patriot and dismissed the charge. funeral and burial the late president lay in state, first in the east room of the white house, and then in the capitol rotunda from april 19 to 21. the caskets containing lincoln ' s body and the body of his son willie traveled for three weeks on the lincoln special funeral train. the train followed a circuitous route from washington d. c. to springfield, illinois, stopping at many cities for memorials attended by hundreds of thousands. many others gathered along the tracks as the train passed with bands, bonfires, and hymn singing or in silent grief. poet walt whitman composed " when lilacs last in the dooryard bloom ' d " to eulogize him, one of four poems he wrote about lincoln. african americans were especially moved ; they had lost their " moses ". in a larger sense, the reaction was in response to the deaths of so many men in the war. historians emphasized the widespread shock and sorrow, but noted that some lincoln haters celebrated his death. lincoln ' s body was buried at oak ridge cemetery in springfield and now lies within the lincoln tomb. religious and philosophical beliefs as a young man, lincoln was a religious skeptic. he was deeply familiar with the bible, quoting and praising it. he was private about his position on organized religion and respected the beliefs of others. he never made a clear profession of christian beliefs. throughout his public career, lincoln often quoted scripture. his three most famous speeches — the house divided speech, the gettysburg address, and his second inaugural — each contain direct allusions to providence and quotes from scripture. in the 1840s, lincoln subscribed to the doctrine of necessity, a belief that the human mind was controlled by a higher power. with the death of his son edward in 1850 he more frequently expressed a dependence on god. he never joined a church, although he frequently attended first presbyterian church with his wife beginning in 1852. in the 1850s, lincoln asserted his belief in " providence " in a general way, and rarely used the language or imagery of the evangelicals ; he regarded the republicanism of the founding fathers with an almost religious reverence. the death of his son willie in february 1862 may have caused him to look toward religion for solace. after willie ' s death, he questioned the divine necessity of the war ' s severity.