##3as, na3sb, na3bi, na. hydroxides all the alkali metals react vigorously or explosively with cold water, producing an aqueous solution of a strongly basic alkali metal hydroxide and releasing hydrogen gas. this reaction becomes more vigorous going down the group : lithium reacts steadily with effervescence, but sodium and potassium can ignite, and rubidium and caesium sink in water and generate hydrogen gas so rapidly that shock waves form in the water that may shatter glass containers. when an alkali metal is dropped into water, it produces an explosion, of which there are two separate stages. the metal reacts with the water first, breaking the hydrogen bonds in the water and producing hydrogen gas ; this takes place faster for the more reactive heavier alkali metals. second, the heat generated by the first part of the reaction often ignites the hydrogen gas, causing it to burn explosively into the surrounding air. this secondary hydrogen gas explosion produces the visible flame above the bowl of water, lake or other body of water, not the initial reaction of the metal with water ( which tends to happen mostly under water ). the alkali metal hydroxides are the most basic known hydroxides. recent research has suggested that the explosive behavior of alkali metals in water is driven by a coulomb explosion rather than solely by rapid generation of hydrogen itself. all alkali metals melt as a part of the reaction with water. water molecules ionise the bare metallic surface of the liquid metal, leaving a positively charged metal surface and negatively charged water ions. the attraction between the charged metal and water ions will rapidly increase the surface area, causing an exponential increase of ionisation. when the repulsive forces within the liquid metal surface exceeds the forces of the surface tension, it vigorously explodes. the hydroxides themselves are the most basic hydroxides known, reacting with acids to give salts and with alcohols to give oligomeric alkoxides. they easily react with carbon dioxide to form carbonates or bicarbonates, or with hydrogen sulfide to form sulfides or bisulfides, and may be used to separate thiols from petroleum. they react with amphoteric oxides : for example, the oxides of aluminium, zinc, tin, and lead react with the alkali metal hydroxides to give aluminates, zincates, stannates, and plumbates. silicon dioxide is acidic, and thus the alkali metal hydroxides can also attack si