adhered to assyrian people or syriac christians. vibrant indigenous minorities in west asia are adhering to the eastern catholic churches and eastern orthodoxy. saint thomas christians in india trace their origins to the evangelistic activity of thomas the apostle in the 1st century. significant christian communities also found in central asia, south asia, southeast asia and east asia. islam, which originated in the hejaz located in modern - day saudi arabia, is the second largest and most widely - spread religion in asia with at least 1 billion muslims constituting around 23. 8 % of the total population of asia. with 12. 7 % of the world muslim population, the country currently with the largest muslim population in the world is indonesia, followed by pakistan ( 11. 5 % ), india ( 10 % ), bangladesh, iran and turkey. mecca, medina and jerusalem are the three holiest cities for islam in all the world. the hajj and umrah attract large numbers of muslim devotees from all over the world to mecca and medina. iran is the largest shi ' a country. the druze faith or druzism originated in west asia, is a monotheistic religion based on the teachings of figures like hamza ibn - ' ali ibn - ahmad and al - hakim bi - amr allah, and greek philosophers such as plato and aristotle. the number of druze people worldwide is around one million, with about 45 % to 50 % live in syria, 35 % to 40 % live in lebanon, and less than 10 % live in israel, with recently there has been a growing druze diaspora. the bahaʼi faith originated in asia, in iran ( persia ), and spread from there to the ottoman empire, central asia, india, and burma during the lifetime of baha ' u ' llah. since the middle of the 20th century, growth has particularly occurred in other asian countries, because bahaʼi activities in many muslim countries has been severely suppressed by authorities. lotus temple is a big bahaʼi temple in india. indian and east asian religions almost all asian religions have philosophical character and asian philosophical traditions cover a large spectrum of philosophical thoughts and writings. indian philosophy includes hindu philosophy and buddhist philosophy. they include elements of nonmaterial pursuits, whereas another school of thought from india, carvaka, preached the enjoyment of the material world. the religions of hinduism, buddhism, jainism and sikhism originated in india, south asia. in east asia, particularly in china and japan, confucianism, taoism and zen buddhism took shape