post hoc " is inconsistently used ). the follow - up tests may be " simple " pairwise comparisons of individual group means or may be " compound " comparisons ( e. g., comparing the mean pooling across groups a, b and c to the mean of group d ). comparisons can also look at tests of trend, such as linear and quadratic relationships, when the independent variable involves ordered levels. often the follow - up tests incorporate a method of adjusting for the multiple comparisons problem. follow - up tests to identify which specific groups, variables, or factors have statistically different means include the tukey ' s range test, and duncan ' s new multiple range test. in turn, these tests are often followed with a compact letter display ( cld ) methodology in order to render the output of the mentioned tests more transparent to a non - statistician audience. study designs there are several types of anova. many statisticians base anova on the design of the experiment, especially on the protocol that specifies the random assignment of treatments to subjects ; the protocol ' s description of the assignment mechanism should include a specification of the structure of the treatments and of any blocking. it is also common to apply anova to observational data using an appropriate statistical model. some popular designs use the following types of anova : one - way anova is used to test for differences among two or more independent groups ( means ), e. g. different levels of urea application in a crop, or different levels of antibiotic action on several different bacterial species, or different levels of effect of some medicine on groups of patients. however, should these groups not be independent, and there is an order in the groups ( such as mild, moderate and severe disease ), or in the dose of a drug ( such as 5 mg / ml, 10 mg / ml, 20 mg / ml ) given to the same group of patients, then a linear trend estimation should be used. typically, however, the one - way anova is used to test for differences among at least three groups, since the two - group case can be covered by a t - test. when there are only two means to compare, the t - test and the anova f - test are equivalent ; the relation between anova and t is given by. factorial anova is used when there is more than one factor. repeated measures anova is used when the same subjects are used for each factor ( e. g., in a longitudinal study ). multi