also featured at number 31 on the modern library list of best 20th - century novels. it won a retrospective hugo award in 1996 and is included in the great books of the western world selection. popular reading in schools, animal farm was ranked the uk ' s favourite book from school in a 2016 poll. animal farm has also faced an array of challenges in school settings around the us. the following are examples of this controversy that has existed around orwell ' s work : the john birch society in wisconsin challenged the reading of animal farm in 1965 because of its reference to the masses revolting. new york state english council ' s committee on defense against censorship found that in 1968, animal farm had been widely deemed a " problem book ". a censorship survey conducted in dekalb county, georgia, relating to the years 1979 – 1982, revealed that many schools had attempted to limit access to animal farm due to its " political theories ". a superintendent in bay county, florida, banned animal farm at the middle school and high school levels in 1987. the board quickly brought back the book, however, after receiving complaints of the ban as " unconstitutional ". animal farm was removed from the stonington, connecticut school district curriculum in 2017. animal farm has also faced similar forms of resistance in other countries. the ala also mentions the way that the book was prevented from being featured at the international book fair in moscow, russia, in 1977 and banned from schools in the united arab emirates for references to practices or actions that defy arab or islamic beliefs, such as pigs or alcohol. in the same manner, animal farm has also faced relatively recent issues in china. in 2018, the government decided to censor all online posts about or referring to animal farm. however, the book itself, as of 2019, remains sold in stores. amy hawkins and jeffrey wasserstrom of the atlantic stated in 2019 that the book is widely available in mainland china for several reasons : censors believe the general public is unlikely to read a highbrow book, because the elites who do read books feel connected to the ruling party anyway, and because the communist party sees being too aggressive in blocking cultural products as a liability. the authors stated : " it was – and remains – as easy to buy 1984 and animal farm in shenzhen or shanghai as it is in london or los angeles ". an enhanced version of the book, launched in india in 2017, was widely praised for capturing the author ' s intent, by republishing the proposed preface of the first edition and the preface he