regarded the area along the danube and black sea where alaric was reared as a land of " barbarians ", among " the most remote in the vast world. " alaric ' s childhood in the balkans, where the goths had settled by way of an agreement with theodosius, was spent in the company of veterans who had fought at the battle of adrianople in 378, during which they had annihilated much of the eastern army and killed emperor valens. imperial campaigns against the visigoths were conducted until a treaty was reached in 382. this treaty was the first foedus on imperial roman soil and required these semi - autonomous germanic tribes — among whom alaric was raised — to supply troops for the roman army in exchange for peace, control of cultivatable land, and freedom from roman direct administrative control. correspondingly, there was hardly a region along the roman frontier during alaric ' s day without gothic slaves and servants of one form or another. for several subsequent decades, many goths like alaric were " called up into regular units of the eastern field army " while others served as auxiliaries in campaigns led by theodosius against the western usurpers magnus maximus and eugenius. rebellion against rome, rise to gothic leadership a new phase in the relationship between the goths and the empire resulted from the treaty signed in 382, as more and more goths attained aristocratic rank from their service in the imperial army. alaric began his military career under the gothic soldier gainas, and later joined the roman army. he first appeared as leader of a mixed band of goths and allied peoples, who invaded thrace in 391 but were stopped by the half - vandal roman general stilicho. while the roman poet claudian belittled alaric as " a little - known menace " terrorizing southern thrace during this time, alaric ' s abilities and forces were formidable enough to prevent the roman emperor theodosius from crossing the hebrus river. service under theodosius i by 392, alaric had entered roman military service, which coincided with a reduction of hostilities between goths and romans. in 394, he led a gothic force that helped emperor theodosius defeat the frankish usurper arbogast — fighting at the behest of eugenius — at the battle of frigidus. despite sacrificing around 10, 000 of his men, who had been victims of theodosius ' callous tactical decision to overw