file a petition to the supreme court of canada, asking : " does the word ' persons ' in section 24 of the british north america act, 1867, include female persons? " 1928 – the kellogg – briand pact outlawing war is signed by fifteen nations. ultimately sixty - one nations will sign it. 1933 – the first afrikaans bible is introduced during a bible festival in bloemfontein. 1939 – first flight of the turbojet - powered heinkel he 178, the world ' s first jet aircraft. 1942 – first day of the sarny massacre, perpetrated by germans and ukrainians. 1943 – world war ii : japanese forces evacuate new georgia island in the pacific theater of operations during world war ii. 1943 – world war ii : aerial bombardment by the luftwaffe razes to the ground the village of vorizia in crete. 1955 – the first edition of the guinness book of records is published in great britain. 1956 – the nuclear power station at calder hall in the united kingdom was connected to the national power grid becoming the world ' s first commercial nuclear power station to generate electricity on an industrial scale. 1962 – the mariner 2 unmanned space mission is launched to venus by nasa. 1963 – an explosion at the cane creek potash mine near moab, utah kills 18 miners. 1964 – south vietnamese junta leader nguyen khanh enters into a triumvirate power - sharing arrangement with rival generals tran thien khiem and duong van minh, who had both been involved in plots to unseat khanh. 1971 – an attempted coup d ' etat fails in the african nation of chad. the government of chad accuses egypt of playing a role in the attempt and breaks off diplomatic relations. 1975 – the governor of portuguese timor abandons its capital, dili, and flees to atauro island, leaving control to a rebel group. 1979 – the troubles : eighteen british soldiers are killed in an ambush by the provisional irish republican army near warrenpoint, northern ireland, in the deadliest attack on british forces during operation banner. an ira bomb also kills british royal family member lord mountbatten and three others on his boat at mullaghmore, republic of ireland. 1980 – south korean presidential election : after successfully staging the coup d ' etat of may seventeenth, general chun doo - hwan, running unopposed, has the national conference for unification elect him president of the fourth republic of korea. 1982 – turkish military diplomat colonel atilla altıkat is shot and killed in ottawa. justice commandos of the