.. end if, loop... end loop ). in the case of conditional blocks this avoids a dangling else that could pair with the wrong nested if - expression in other languages like c or java. ada is designed for developing very large software systems. ada packages can be compiled separately. ada package specifications ( the package interface ) can also be compiled separately without the implementation to check for consistency. this makes it possible to detect problems early during the design phase, before implementation starts. a large number of compile - time checks are supported to help avoid bugs that would not be detectable until run - time in some other languages or would require explicit checks to be added to the source code. for example, the syntax requires explicitly named closing of blocks to prevent errors due to mismatched end tokens. the adherence to strong typing allows detecting many common software errors ( wrong parameters, range violations, invalid references, mismatched types, etc. ) either during compile - time, or otherwise during run - time. as concurrency is part of the language specification, the compiler can in some cases detect potential deadlocks. compilers also commonly check for misspelled identifiers, visibility of packages, redundant declarations, etc. and can provide warnings and useful suggestions on how to fix the error. ada also supports run - time checks to protect against access to unallocated memory, buffer overflow errors, range violations, off - by - one errors, array access errors, and other detectable bugs. these checks can be disabled in the interest of runtime efficiency, but can often be compiled efficiently. it also includes facilities to help program verification. for these reasons, ada is widely used in critical systems, where any anomaly might lead to very serious consequences, e. g., accidental death, injury or severe financial loss. examples of systems where ada is used include avionics, air traffic control, railways, banking, military and space technology. ada ' s dynamic memory management is high - level and type - safe. ada has no generic or untyped pointers ; nor does it implicitly declare any pointer type. instead, all dynamic memory allocation and deallocation must occur via explicitly declared access types. each access type has an associated storage pool that handles the low - level details of memory management ; the programmer can either use the default storage pool or define new ones ( this is particularly relevant for non - uniform memory access ). it is even possible to declare several different access types that all designate the same type but