it impossible to construct any unassailable proof for the existence or non - existence of god. in his 1844 book, philosophical fragments, kierkegaard writes : hume was huxley ' s favourite philosopher, calling him " the prince of agnostics ". diderot wrote to his mistress, telling of a visit by hume to the baron d ' holbach, and describing how a word for the position that huxley would later describe as agnosticism did not seem to exist, or at least was not common knowledge, at the time. united kingdom charles darwin raised in a religious environment, charles darwin ( 1809 – 1882 ) studied to be an anglican clergyman. while eventually doubting parts of his faith, darwin continued to help in church affairs, even while avoiding church attendance. darwin stated that it would be " absurd to doubt that a man might be an ardent theist and an evolutionist ". although reticent about his religious views, in 1879 he wrote that " i have never been an atheist in the sense of denying the existence of a god. – i think that generally... an agnostic would be the most correct description of my state of mind. " thomas henry huxley agnostic views are as old as philosophical skepticism, but the terms agnostic and agnosticism were created by huxley ( 1825 – 1895 ) to sum up his thoughts on contemporary developments of metaphysics about the " unconditioned " ( william hamilton ) and the " unknowable " ( herbert spencer ). though huxley began to use the term agnostic in 1869, his opinions had taken shape some time before that date. in a letter of september 23, 1860, to charles kingsley, huxley discussed his views extensively : and again, to the same correspondent, may 6, 1863 : of the origin of the name agnostic to describe this attitude, huxley gave the following account : in 1889, huxley wrote : william stewart ross william stewart ross ( 1844 – 1906 ) wrote under the name of saladin. he was associated with victorian freethinkers and the organization the british secular union. he edited the secular review from 1882 ; it was renamed agnostic journal and eclectic review and closed in 1907. ross championed agnosticism in opposition to the atheism of charles bradlaugh as an open - ended spiritual exploration. in why i am an agnostic ( ) he claims that agnosticism is " the very reverse of atheism ". bertrand russell bertrand russell ( 1872 – 1970 )