##ı ) which is known for its light color and is mostly produced by the ataturk forest farm and zoo in the gazi district, and by other facilities in the elmadag, cubuk and beypazarı districts. cubuk - 1 and cubuk - 2 dams on the cubuk brook in ankara were among the first dams constructed in the turkish republic. ankara is the center of the state - owned and private turkish defence and aerospace companies, where the industrial plants and headquarters of the turkish aerospace industries, mke, aselsan, havelsan, roketsan, fnss, nurol makina, and numerous other firms are located. exports to foreign countries from these defense and aerospace firms have steadily increased in the past decades. the idef in ankara is one of the largest international expositions of the global arms industry. a number of the global automotive companies also have production facilities in ankara, such as the german bus and truck manufacturer man se. ankara hosts the ostim industrial zone, turkey ' s largest industrial park. a large percentage of the complicated employment in ankara is provided by the state institutions ; such as the ministries, subministries, and other administrative bodies of the turkish government. there are also many foreign citizens working as diplomats or clerks in the embassies of their respective countries. transportation the electricity, gas, bus general directorate ( ego ) operates the ankara metro and other forms of public transportation. ankara is served by a suburban rail named ankaray ( a1 ) and three subway lines ( m1, m2, m3 ) of the ankara metro with about 300, 000 total daily commuters, while an additional subway line ( m4 ) is under construction. a long gondola lift with four stations connects the district of sentepe to the yenimahalle metro station. the ankara central station is a major rail hub in turkey. the turkish state railways operates passenger train service from ankara to other major cities, such as : istanbul, eskisehir, balıkesir, kutahya, izmir, kayseri, adana, kars, elazıg, malatya, diyarbakır, karabuk, zonguldak and sivas. commuter rail also runs between the stations of sincan and kayas. on 13 march 2009, the new yuksek hızlı tren ( yht ) high - speed rail service began operation between ankara and eskisehir. on 23 august 2011,