releasing agent before filling to aid release. diesel oil is no longer used as a release agent due to environmental concerns. oil sands naturally occurring crude bitumen impregnated in sedimentary rock is the prime feed stock for petroleum production from " oil sands ", currently under development in alberta, canada. canada has most of the world ' s supply of natural bitumen, covering 140, 000 square kilometres ( an area larger than england ), giving it the second - largest proven oil reserves in the world. the athabasca oil sands are the largest bitumen deposit in canada and the only one accessible to surface mining, although recent technological breakthroughs have resulted in deeper deposits becoming producible by in situ methods. because of oil price increases after 2003, producing bitumen became highly profitable, but as a result of the decline after 2014 it became uneconomic to build new plants again. by 2014, canadian crude bitumen production averaged about per day and was projected to rise to per day by 2020. the total amount of crude bitumen in alberta that could be extracted is estimated to be about, which at a rate of would last about 200 years. alternatives and bioasphalt although uncompetitive economically, bitumen can be made from nonpetroleum - based renewable resources such as sugar, molasses and rice, corn and potato starches. bitumen can also be made from waste material by fractional distillation of used motor oil, which is sometimes otherwise disposed of by burning or dumping into landfills. use of motor oil may cause premature cracking in colder climates, resulting in roads that need to be repaved more frequently. nonpetroleum - based asphalt binders can be made light - colored. lighter - colored roads absorb less heat from solar radiation, reducing their contribution to the urban heat island effect. parking lots that use bitumen alternatives are called green parking lots. albanian deposits selenizza is a naturally occurring solid hydrocarbon bitumen found in native deposits in selenice, in albania, the only european asphalt mine still in use. the bitumen is found in the form of veins, filling cracks in a more or less horizontal direction. the bitumen content varies from 83 % to 92 % ( soluble in carbon disulphide ), with a penetration value near to zero and a softening point ( ring and ball ) around 120 °c. the insoluble matter, consisting mainly of silica ore, ranges from 8 % to 17 %. albanian bitumen extraction has a long