##ly provocations " on agrippina. he says of agrippina : " were it not that through her moral integrity and love for her husband she converted an otherwise ungovernable temper to the good " ( tacitus, annals 1. 33 ). despite being sympathetic to her as a victim of imperial oppression, he uses expressions like " excitable ", " arrogant ", " proud ", " fierce ", " obstinate ", and " ambitious " to describe agrippina. his comments are echoed by other sources. historiography historian lindsay powell says agrippina enjoyed a normal marriage and continued to show her devotion to germanicus after his death. he says she was regarded by the roman people as, quoting tacitus, " the glory of the country, the sole surviving offspring of augustus, the solitary example of the good old times. " alston cautions against accepting the stories of agrippina ' s feud with sejanus at face value, as these accounts reflect a tradition hostile to tiberius and sejanus. they may have been circulated by agrippina ' s supporters or they may have emerged after sejanus ' fall in ad 31. he adds : " these stories are plausible, though not certain to be true. " suetonius augustus was proud of agrippina. suetonius claims that augustus wrote her a letter praising her intellect and directing her education. suetonius also records that augustus, who held strict views on self - restraint and respectable speech, cautioned agrippina not to speak " offensively ". when she next appears, she is being chastised by tiberius in greek for making irritating remarks, and the tone of the greek verse quoted by tiberius suggests that she should have heeded the advice of her grandfather not to speak offensively. tacitus the annals of tacitus is a history of the julio - claudian dynasty beginning with the death of augustus. in it, he portrays women as having a profound influence on politics. the women of the imperial family in particular are depicted by tacitus as having a notable prominence in the public sphere as well as possessing a ferocity and ambition with which they pursue it. tacitus presents them as living longer than the imperial men and thus being more wise as they advance in age. among the most broad of his portrayals is that of agrippina. he emphasizes their role in connecting genetically back to augustus, a significant factor in the marriages of the emperors and princes of the dynasty