term " finite extension ", then the proof is still valid. ( finite extensions are necessarily algebraic. ) every endomorphism of fn has some eigenvector the field f is algebraically closed if and only if, for each natural number n, every linear map from fn into itself has some eigenvector. an endomorphism of fn has an eigenvector if and only if its characteristic polynomial has some root. therefore, when f is algebraically closed, every endomorphism of fn has some eigenvector. on the other hand, if every endomorphism of fn has an eigenvector, let p ( x ) be an element of f [ x ]. dividing by its leading coefficient, we get another polynomial q ( x ) which has roots if and only if p ( x ) has roots. but if q ( x ) = xn + an − 1xn − 1 + + a0, then q ( x ) is the characteristic polynomial of the n×n companion matrix decomposition of rational expressions the field f is algebraically closed if and only if every rational function in one variable x, with coefficients in f, can be written as the sum of a polynomial function with rational functions of the form a / ( x − b ) n, where n is a natural number, and a and b are elements of f. if f is algebraically closed then, since the irreducible polynomials in f [ x ] are all of degree 1, the property stated above holds by the theorem on partial fraction decomposition. on the other hand, suppose that the property stated above holds for the field f. let p ( x ) be an irreducible element in f [ x ]. then the rational function 1 / p can be written as the sum of a polynomial function q with rational functions of the form a / ( x – b ) n. therefore, the rational expression can be written as a quotient of two polynomials in which the denominator is a product of first degree polynomials. since p ( x ) is irreducible, it must divide this product and, therefore, it must also be a first degree polynomial. relatively prime polynomials and roots for any field f, if two polynomials p ( x ), q ( x ) ∈ f [ x ] are relatively prime then they do not have a common root, for if a ∈ f was a common root, then p ( x ) and q ( x ) would both