as the nieuwezijds voorburgwal and the spui. expansion after the development of amsterdam ' s canals in the 17th century, the city did not grow beyond its borders for two centuries. during the 19th century, samuel sarphati devised a plan based on the grandeur of paris and london at that time. the plan envisaged the construction of new houses, public buildings and streets just outside the grachtengordel. the main aim of the plan, however, was to improve public health. although the plan did not expand the city, it did produce some of the largest public buildings to date, like the paleis voor volksvlijt. following sarphati, civil engineers jacobus van niftrik and jan kalff designed an entire ring of 19th - century neighbourhoods surrounding the city ' s centre, with the city preserving the ownership of all land outside the 17th - century limit, thus firmly controlling development. most of these neighbourhoods became home to the working class. in response to overcrowding, two plans were designed at the beginning of the 20th century which were very different from anything amsterdam had ever seen before : plan zuid ( designed by the architect berlage ) and west. these plans involved the development of new neighbourhoods consisting of housing blocks for all social classes. after the second world war, large new neighbourhoods were built in the western, southeastern, and northern parts of the city. these new neighbourhoods were built to relieve the city ' s shortage of living space and give people affordable houses with modern conveniences. the neighbourhoods consisted mainly of large housing blocks located among green spaces, connected to wide roads, making the neighbourhoods easily accessible by motor car. the western suburbs which were built in that period are collectively called the westelijke tuinsteden. the area to the southeast of the city built during the same period is known as the bijlmer. architecture amsterdam has a rich architectural history. the oldest building in amsterdam is the oude kerk ( english : old church ), at the heart of the wallen, consecrated in 1306. the oldest wooden building is het houten huys at the begijnhof. it was constructed around 1425 and is one of only two existing wooden buildings. it is also one of the few examples of gothic architecture in amsterdam. the oldest stone building of the netherlands, the moriaan is built in ' s - hertogenbosch. in the 16th century, wooden buildings were razed and replaced with brick