##tato - 2 ' - deoxyuridine | various | - | 211at - labeled biotin conjugates | various pretargeting | - | 211at - labeled octreotide | somatostatin receptor | - | 211at - labeled monoclonal antibodies and fragments | various | - | 211at - labeled bisphosphonates | bone metastases | } newly formed astatine - 211 is the subject of ongoing research in nuclear medicine. it must be used quickly as it decays with a half - life of 7. 2 hours ; this is long enough to permit multistep labeling strategies. astatine - 211 has potential for targeted alpha - particle therapy, since it decays either via emission of an alpha particle ( to bismuth - 207 ), or via electron capture ( to an extremely short - lived nuclide, polonium - 211, which undergoes further alpha decay ), very quickly reaching its stable granddaughter lead - 207. polonium x - rays emitted as a result of the electron capture branch, in the range of 77 – 92 kev, enable the tracking of astatine in animals and patients. although astatine - 210 has a slightly longer half - life, it is wholly unsuitable because it usually undergoes beta plus decay to the extremely toxic polonium - 210. the principal medicinal difference between astatine - 211 and iodine - 131 ( a radioactive iodine isotope also used in medicine ) is that iodine - 131 emits high - energy beta particles, and astatine does not. beta particles have much greater penetrating power through tissues than do the much heavier alpha particles. an average alpha particle released by astatine - 211 can travel up to 70 µm through surrounding tissues ; an average - energy beta particle emitted by iodine - 131 can travel nearly 30 times as far, to about 2 mm. the short half - life and limited penetrating power of alpha radiation through tissues offers advantages in situations where the " tumor burden is low and / or malignant cell populations are located in close proximity to essential normal tissues. " significant morbidity in cell culture models of human cancers has been achieved with from one to ten astatine - 211 atoms bound per cell. several obstacles have been encountered in the development of astatine - based radiopharmaceuticals for cancer treatment. world war ii delayed research for close to a decade. results of early experiments indicated that a cancer - selective carrier would need to be developed and it was not