( congenital ataxia ) arnold – chiari malformation is a malformation of the brain. it consists of a downward displacement of the cerebellar tonsils and the medulla through the foramen magnum, sometimes causing hydrocephalus as a result of obstruction of cerebrospinal fluid outflow. succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency is an autosomal - recessive gene disorder where mutations in the aldh5a1 gene results in the accumulation of gamma - hydroxybutyric acid ( ghb ) in the body. ghb accumulates in the nervous system and can cause ataxia as well as other neurological dysfunction. wilson ' s disease wilson ' s disease is an autosomal - recessive gene disorder whereby an alteration of the atp7b gene results in an inability to properly excrete copper from the body. copper accumulates in the nervous system and liver and can cause ataxia as well as other neurological and organ impairments. gluten ataxia gluten ataxia is an autoimmune disease triggered by the ingestion of gluten. early diagnosis and treatment with a gluten - free diet can improve ataxia and prevent its progression. the effectiveness of the treatment depends on the elapsed time from the onset of the ataxia until diagnosis, because the death of neurons in the cerebellum as a result of gluten exposure is irreversible. it accounts for 40 % of ataxias of unknown origin and 15 % of all ataxias. less than 10 % of people with gluten ataxia present any gastrointestinal symptom and only about 40 % have intestinal damage. this entity is classified into primary auto - immune cerebellar ataxias ( paca ). potassium pump malfunction of the sodium - potassium pump may be a factor in some ataxias. the - pump has been shown to control and set the intrinsic activity mode of cerebellar purkinje neurons. this suggests that the pump might not simply be a homeostatic, " housekeeping " molecule for ionic gradients ; but could be a computational element in the cerebellum and the brain. indeed, an ouabain block of - pumps in the cerebellum of a live mouse results in it displaying ataxia and dystonia. ataxia is observed for lower ouabain concentrations