as gdp grows at outperforming rate. net private transfers decreased in 2009, but saw a continuous increase during the first six months of 2010. since private transfers from the diaspora tend to be mostly injected into consumption of imports and not in high value - added sectors, the transfers have not resulted in sizeable increases in productivity. according to the central bank of armenia, during the first half of 2008, cash remittances sent back to armenia by armenians working abroad rose by 57. 5 percent and totaled us $ 668. 6 million, equivalent to 15 percent of the country ' s first - half gross domestic product. however, the latter figures only represent cash remittances processed through armenian commercial banks. according to rfe / rl, comparable sums are believed to be transferred through non - bank systems, implying that cash remittances make up approximately 30 percent of armenia ' s gdp in the first half of 2008. in 2007, cash remittances through bank transfers rose by 37 percent to a record - high level of us $ 1. 32 billion. according to the central bank of armenia, in 2005, cash remittances from armenians working abroad reached a record - high level of $ 1 billion, which is worth more than one fifth of the country ' s 2005 gdp. banking the central bank has set additional capital buffers in the banking sector. in force since april 2019, the regulator set three buffers exceeding the current capital adequacy requirement compliant with the basel iii regulation : a capital conservation buffer, a counter - cyclical capital buffer and a systemic risk buffer. full implementation of the buffers over the course of the next few years will strengthen the financial sector ' s resistance to economic shocks and help increase the efficiency of macroprudential policies. armenian banks ' lending grew by 10 percent in 2019. microfinance the establishment of microfinance institutions in armenia was dependent on them making a complementary effort to fill the gap in the financial services sector. its primary goal was to deal with the rising unemployment and poverty brought on by transitory shock. in this context, self - employment in the country emerged as one of the best options to unemployment. commercial banking institutions in armenia overlooked micro - business enterprises that lacked credit histories and sufficient funding. microfinance has been proposed as an adaptable instrument to assist people in transition economies take advantage of new opportunities. government revenues and taxation government revenues in august 2019 moody ' s investors service upgraded armenia to ba3 rating with stable outlook. according to the national statistical