1974, and andersson took part in producing their records. anni - frid " frida " lyngstad ( born 15 november 1945 in bjørkasen in ballangen, norway ) sang from the age of 13 with various dance bands, and worked mainly in a jazz - oriented cabaret style. she also formed her own band, the anni - frid four. in the middle of 1967, she won a national talent competition with " en ledig dag " ( " a day off " ), a swedish version of the bossa nova song " a day in portofino ", which is included in the emi compilation frida 1967 – 1972. the first prize was a recording contract with emi sweden and to perform live on the most popular tv shows in the country. this tv performance, among many others, is included in the - hour documentary frida – the dvd. lyngstad released several schlager style singles on emi with mixed success. when benny andersson started to produce her recordings in 1971, she had her first number - one single, " min egen stad " ( " my own town " ), written by benny and featuring all the future abba members on backing vocals. lyngstad toured and performed regularly in the folkpark circuit and made appearances on radio and tv. she had a second number - one single with " man vill ju leva lite dessemellan " in late 1972. she had met ulvaeus briefly in 1963 during a talent contest, and faltskog during a tv show in early 1968. lyngstad linked up with her future bandmates in 1969. on 1 march 1969, she participated in the melodifestival, where she met andersson for the first time. a few weeks later they met again during a concert tour in southern sweden and they soon became a couple. andersson produced her single " peter pan " in september 1969 — her first collaboration with benny & bjorn, as they had written the song. andersson would then produce lyngstad ' s debut studio album, frida, which was released in march 1971. lyngstad also played in several revues and cabaret shows in stockholm between 1969 and 1973. after abba formed, she recorded another successful album in 1975, frida ensam, which included the original swedish rendition of " fernando ", a hit on the swedish radio charts before the english version was released by abba. agnetha faltskog ( born 5 april