to some writers, he raped cassandra inside the temple. odysseus called for ajax ' s death by stoning for this crime, but ajax saved himself by claiming innocence with an oath to athena, clutching her statue in supplication. death since ajax dragged the supplicant from her temple, athena had cause to be indignant. according to the bibliotheca, no one was aware that ajax had raped cassandra until calchas, the greek seer, warned the greeks that athena was furious at the treatment of her priestess and she would destroy the greek ships if they did not kill him immediately. despite this, ajax managed to hide at the altar of a deity where the greeks, fearing divine retribution should they kill him and destroy the altar, allowed him to live. when the greeks left without killing ajax, despite their sacrifices, athena became so angry that she persuaded zeus to send a storm that sank many of their ships. as he was returning from troy, athena hit his ship with a thunderbolt and the vessel was wrecked on the whirling rocks ( ). but he escaped with some of his men, managing to cling onto a rock through the assistance of poseidon. he would have been saved in spite of athena, but he then audaciously declared that he would escape the dangers of the sea in defiance of the immortals. offended by this presumption, poseidon split the rock with his trident and ajax was swallowed up by the sea. thetis buried him when the corpse washed up on mykonos. other versions depict a different death for ajax, showing him dying when on his voyage home. in these versions, when ajax came to the capharean rocks on the coast of euboea, his ship was wrecked in a fierce storm, he himself was lifted up in a whirlwind and impaled with a flash of rapid fire from athena in his chest, and his body thrust upon sharp rocks, which afterwards were called the rocks of ajax. after ajax ' s death, his spirit dwelt in the island of leuce. the opuntian locrians worshipped ajax as their national hero, and so great was their faith in him that when they drew up their army in battle, they always left one place open for him, believing that, although invisible to them, he was fighting for and among them. the story of ajax was frequently made use of by ancient poets and artists, and the hero who appears on some locrian coins with the helmet,