s dialectics proved more than a match for those of abner, the latter went to the prophet samuel, who not only supported abner in his view, but utterly refuted doeg ' s assertions ( midr. sam. xxii. ; yeb. 76b et seq. ). one of the most prominent families ( zizit ha - kesat ) in jerusalem in the middle of the first century of the common era claimed descent from abner ( gen. r. xcviii. ). tomb of abner the site known as the tomb of abner is located not far from the cave of the patriarchs in hebron and receives visitors throughout the year. many travelers have recorded visiting the tomb over the centuries. benjamin of tudela, who began his journeys in 1165, wrote in the journal, " the valley of eshkhol is north of the mountain upon which hebron stood, and the cave of makhpela is east thereof. a bow - shot west of the cave is the sepulchre of abner the son of ner. " a rabbi in the 12th century records visiting the tomb as reprinted in elkan nathan adler ' s book jewish travellers in the middle ages : 19 firsthand accounts. the account states, " i, jacob, the son of r. nathaniel ha cohen, journeyed with much difficulty, but god helped me to enter the holy land, and i saw the graves of our righteous patriarchs in hebron and the grave of abner the son of ner. " adler postulates that the visit must have occurred prior to saladin ' s capture of jerusalem in 1187. rabbi moses basola records visiting the tomb in 1522. he states, " abner ' s grave is in the middle of hebron ; the muslims built a mosque over it. " another visitor in the 1500s states that " at the entrance to the market in hebron, at the top of the hill against the wall, abner ben ner is buried, in a church, in a cave. " this visit was recorded in sefer yihus ha - tzaddiqim ( book of genealogy of the righteous ), a collection of travelogues from 1561. abraham moshe lunz reprinted the book in 1896. menahem mendel of kamenitz, considered the first hotelier in the land of israel, wrote about the tomb of abner is his 1839 book korot ha - itim, which was translated into