kept a very low profile and stayed away from the imperial palace and the court of the emperor. messalina was agrippina ' s paternal second cousin. among the victims of messalina ' s intrigues were agrippina ' s surviving sister livilla, who was charged with having adultery with seneca the younger. seneca was later called back from exile to be a tutor to nero. messalina considered agrippina ' s son a threat to her son ' s position and sent assassins to strangle lucius during his siesta. the assassins left after they saw a snake beneath lucius ' pillow, considering it as bad omen. it was, however, only a sloughed - off snake - skin in his bed, near his pillow. by agrippina ' s order, the serpent ' s skin was enclosed in a bracelet that the young nero wore on his right arm. in 47, crispus died, and at his funeral, the rumour spread around that agrippina poisoned crispus to gain his estate. after being widowed a second time, agrippina was left very wealthy. later that year at the secular games, at the performance of the troy pageant, messalina attended the event with her son britannicus. agrippina was also present with lucius. agrippina and lucius received greater applause from the audience than messalina and britannicus did. many people began to show pity and sympathy to agrippina, due to the unfortunate circumstances in her life. marriage to claudius after messalina was executed in 48 for conspiring with gaius silius to overthrow her husband, claudius considered marrying for the fourth time. around this time, agrippina became the mistress to one of claudius ' advisers, the greek freedman, marcus antonius pallas. at that time claudius ' advisers were discussing which noblewoman claudius should marry. claudius had a reputation that he was easily persuaded. in more recent times, it has been suggested that the senate may have pushed for the marriage between agrippina and claudius to end the feud between the julian and claudian branches. this feud dated back to agrippina ' s mother ' s actions against tiberius after the death of germanicus, actions which tiberius had gladly punished. claudius made references to her in his speeches : " my daughter and foster child, born and bred, in my lap, so to speak ". when claudius decided to marry her, he persuaded a group of senators that the marriage should be arranged in the public interest. in roman