than that of the earth. at the time it happened, apollo8 was from the moon and had a speed of relative to the moon. this historic moment was of little interest to the crew, since they were still calculating their trajectory with respect to the launch pad at kennedy space center. they would continue to do so until they performed their last mid - course correction, switching to a reference frame based on ideal orientation for the second engine burn they would make in lunar orbit. the last major event before lunar orbit insertion ( loi ) was a second mid - course correction. it was in retrograde ( against the direction of travel ) and slowed the spacecraft down by, effectively reducing the closest distance at which the spacecraft would pass the moon. at exactly 61 hours after launch, about from the moon, the crew burned the rcs for 11 seconds. they would now pass from the lunar surface. at 64 hours into the flight, the crew began to prepare for lunar orbit insertion1 ( loi - 1 ). this maneuver had to be performed perfectly, and due to orbital mechanics had to be on the far side of the moon, out of contact with the earth. after mission control was polled for a " go / no go " decision, the crew was told at 68 hours that they were go and " riding the best bird we can find ". lovell replied, " we ' ll see you on the other side ", and for the first time in history, humans travelled behind the moon and out of radio contact with the earth. with ten minutes remaining before loi - 1, the crew began one last check of the spacecraft systems and made sure that every switch was in its correct position. at that time, they finally got their first glimpses of the moon. they had been flying over the unlit side, and it was lovell who saw the first shafts of sunlight obliquely illuminating the lunar surface. the loi burn was only two minutes away, so the crew had little time to appreciate the view. lunar orbit the sps was ignited at 69 hours, 8minutes, and 16 seconds after launch and burned for 4minutes and 7seconds, placing the apollo8 spacecraft in orbit around the moon. the crew described the burn as being the longest four minutes of their lives. if the burn had not lasted exactly the correct amount of time, the spacecraft could have ended up in a highly elliptical lunar orbit or even been flung off into space. if it had lasted too long, they could have struck the moon.