the maurya state or society. even on the topic of dhamma, the content of these inscriptions cannot be taken at face value. in the words of american academic john s. strong, it is sometimes helpful to think of ashoka ' s messages as propaganda by a politician whose aim is to present a favourable image of himself and his administration, rather than record historical facts. a small number of other inscriptions also provide some information about ashoka. for example, he finds a mention in the 2nd century junagadh rock inscription of rudradaman. an inscription discovered at sirkap mentions a lost word beginning with " priy ", which is theorised to be ashoka ' s title " priyadarshi ", although this is not certain. some other inscriptions, such as the sohgaura copper plate inscription, have been tentatively dated to ashoka ' s period by some scholars, although others contest this. buddhist legends much of the information about ashoka comes from buddhist legends, which present him as a great, ideal king. these legends appear in texts that are not contemporary to ashoka and were composed by buddhist authors, who used various stories to illustrate the impact of their faith on ashoka. this makes it necessary to exercise caution while relying on them for historical information. among modern scholars, opinions range from downright dismissal of these legends as mythological to acceptance of all historical portions that seem plausible. the buddhist legends about ashoka exist in several languages, including sanskrit, pali, tibetan, chinese, burmese, khmer, sinhala, thai, lao, and khotanese. all these legends can be traced to two primary traditions : the north indian tradition preserved in the sanskrit - language texts such as divyavadana ( including its constituent ashokavadana ) ; and chinese sources such as a - yu wang chuan and a - yu wang ching. the sri lankan tradition preserved in pali - language texts, such as dipavamsa, mahavamsa, vamsatthapakasini ( a commentary on mahavamsa ), buddhaghosha ' s commentary on the vinaya, and samanta - pasadika. there are several significant differences between the two traditions. for example, the sri lankan tradition emphasizes ashoka ' s role in convening the third buddhist council, and his dispatch of several missionaries to distant regions, including his son mahinda to sri lanka. however, the north indian tradition makes no mention of these events. it describes other events not found in