; e. g., 1 bc is year 0, 45 bc is year −44 ). history the anno domini dating system was devised in 525 by dionysius exiguus to enumerate years in his easter table. his system was to replace the diocletian era that had been used in older easter tables, as he did not wish to continue the memory of a tyrant who persecuted christians. the last year of the old table, diocletian anno martyrium 247, was immediately followed by the first year of his table, anno domini 532. when dionysius devised his table, julian calendar years were identified by naming the consuls who held office that year — dionysius himself stated that the " present year " was " the consulship of probus junior ", which was 525 years " since the incarnation of our lord jesus christ ". thus, dionysius implied that jesus ' incarnation occurred 525 years earlier, without stating the specific year during which his birth or conception occurred. " however, nowhere in his exposition of his table does dionysius relate his epoch to any other dating system, whether consulate, olympiad, year of the world, or regnal year of augustus ; much less does he explain or justify the underlying date. " bonnie j. blackburn and leofranc holford - strevens briefly present arguments for 2 bc, 1 bc, or ad 1 as the year dionysius intended for the nativity or incarnation. among the sources of confusion are : in modern times, incarnation is synonymous with the conception, but some ancient writers, such as bede, considered incarnation to be synonymous with the nativity. the civil or consular year began on 1 january, but the diocletian year began on 29 august ( 30 august in the year before a julian leap year ). there were inaccuracies in the lists of consuls. there were confused summations of emperors ' regnal years. it is not known how dionysius established the year of jesus ' s birth. two major theories are that dionysius based his calculation on the gospel of luke, which states that jesus was " about thirty years old " shortly after " the fifteenth year of the reign of tiberius caesar ", and hence subtracted thirty years from that date, or that dionysius counted back 532 years from the first year of his new table. it has also been speculated by georges declercq that dionysius ' desire to replace dioc