moved to baltimore, where it remained for over two months, until february 27, 1777. loyalist activity surged in the wake of the american defeat, especially in new york state. in london, news of the victorious long island campaign was well received with festivities held in the capital. public support reached a peak, and king george iii awarded the order of the bath to howe. strategic deficiencies among patriot forces were evident : washington divided a numerically weaker army in the face of a stronger one, his inexperienced staff misread the military situation, and american troops fled in the face of enemy fire. the successes led to predictions that the british could win within a year. in the meantime, the british established winter quarters in the new york city area and anticipated renewed campaigning the following spring. patriot resurgence two weeks after congress withdrew to baltimore, on the night of december 25 – 26, 1776, washington crossed the delaware river, leading a column of continental army troops from today ' s bucks county, pennsylvania, located about 30 miles upriver from philadelphia, to today ' s mercer county, new jersey, in a logistically challenging and dangerous operation. meanwhile, the hessians were involved with numerous clashes with small bands of patriots and were often aroused by false alarms at night in the weeks before the actual battle of trenton. by christmas they were tired and weary, while a heavy snow storm led their commander, colonel johann rall, to assume no attack of any consequence would occur. at daybreak on the 26th, the american patriots surprised and overwhelmed rall and his troops, who lost over 20 killed including rall, while 900 prisoners, german cannons and much supply were captured. the battle of trenton restored the american army ' s morale, reinvigorated the patriot cause, and dispelled their fear of what they regarded as hessian " mercenaries ". a british attempt to retake trenton was repulsed at assunpink creek on january 2 ; during the night, washington outmaneuvered cornwallis, then defeated his rearguard in the battle of princeton the following day. the two victories helped convince the french that the americans were worthy military allies. after his success at princeton, washington entered winter quarters at morristown, new jersey, where he remained until may and received congressional direction to inoculate all patriot troops against smallpox. with the exception of a minor skirmishing between the two armies which continued until march, howe made no attempt to attack the americans. british northern strategy fails the 1776 campaign demonstrated that regaining new england would be a prolonged affair, which led