perpendicularly polarized components with different velocities — just like a normal ( thick ) birefringent crystal, and contrary to biot ' s " mobile polarization " hypothesis. accordingly, in the same memoir, fresnel offered his first attempt at a wave theory of chromatic polarization. when polarized light passed through a crystal lamina, it was split into ordinary and extraordinary waves ( with intensities described by malus ' s law ), and these were perpendicularly polarized and therefore did not interfere, so that no colors were produced ( yet ). but if they then passed through an analyzer ( second polarizer ), their polarizations were brought into alignment ( with intensities again modified according to malus ' s law ), and they would interfere. this explanation, by itself, predicts that if the analyzer is rotated 90°, the ordinary and extraordinary waves simply switch roles, so that if the analyzer takes the form of a calcite crystal, the two images of the lamina should be of the same hue ( this issue is revisited below ). but in fact, as arago and biot had found, they are of complementary colors. to correct the prediction, fresnel proposed a phase - inversion rule whereby one of the constituent waves of one of the two images suffered an additional 180° phase shift on its way through the lamina. this inversion was a weakness in the theory relative to biot ' s, as fresnel acknowledged, although the rule specified which of the two images had the inverted wave. moreover, fresnel could deal only with special cases, because he had not yet solved the problem of superposing sinusoidal functions with arbitrary phase differences due to propagation at different velocities through the lamina. he solved that problem in a " supplement " signed on 15 january 1818 ( mentioned above ). in the same document, he accommodated malus ' s law by proposing an underlying law : that if polarized light is incident on a birefringent crystal with its optic axis at an angle θ to the " plane of polarization ", the ordinary and extraordinary vibrations ( as functions of time ) are scaled by the factors cosθ and sinθ, respectively. although modern readers easily interpret these factors in terms of perpendicular components of a transverse oscillation, fresnel did not ( yet ) explain them that way. hence he still needed the phase - inversion rule. he applied all these principles to a case of