%. the median income of a household in the city is £16, 813 ( the mean income is £20, 292 ) ( 2005 ) which places approximately 18 % households in the city below the poverty line ( defined as 60 % of the mean income ). conversely, an aberdeen postcode has the second highest number of millionaires of any postcode in the uk. ethnicity religion christianity is the main religion practised in the city. aberdeen ' s largest denominations are the church of scotland ( through the presbytery of aberdeen ) and the roman catholic church, both with numerous churches across the city, with the scottish episcopal church having the third - largest number. the most recent census in 2001 showed that aberdeen has the highest proportion of non - religious residents of any city in scotland, with nearly 43 % of citizens claiming to have no religion and several former churches in the city have been converted into bars and restaurants. in the middle ages, the kirk of st nicholas was the only burgh kirk and one of scotland ' s largest parish churches. like a number of other scottish kirks, it was subdivided after the reformation, in this case into the east and west churches. at that time, the city also was home to houses of the carmelites ( whitefriars ) and franciscans ( greyfriars ). the latter of these survives in modified form as the chapel of marischal college. st machar ' s cathedral was built twenty years after david i ( 1124 – 1153 ) transferred the pre - reformation diocese from mortlach in banffshire to old aberdeen in 1137. with the exception of the episcopate of william elphinstone ( 1484 – 1511 ), building progressed slowly. gavin dunbar, who followed him in 1518, completed the structure by adding the two western spires and the southern transept. it is now a congregation of the church of scotland. aberdeen has two other cathedrals : st. mary ' s cathedral is a roman catholic cathedral in gothic style, erected in 1859. in addition, st. andrew ' s cathedral serves the scottish episcopal church. it was constructed in 1817 as archibald simpson ' s first commission and contains a memorial to the consecration of the first bishop of the episcopal church in the united states of america, which took place nearby. in 1804, st peter ' s church, the first permanent roman catholic church in the city after the reformation was built. numerous other protestant denominations have a presence in aberdeen. the salvation army citadel on the castlegate dominates the view