referring to the whore of babylon in his work, while in later life he sent " antichristmas cards " to his friends. in his writings, crowley occasionally identified aiwass as satan and designated him as " our lord god the devil " at one occasion. the scholar of religion gordan djurdjevic stated that crowley " was emphatically not " a satanist, " if for no other reason than simply because he did not identify himself as such ". crowley nevertheless expressed strong anti - christian sentiment, stating that he hated christianity " as socialists hate soap ", an animosity probably stemming from his experiences among the plymouth brethren. he was nevertheless influenced by the king james bible, especially the book of revelation, the impact of which can be seen in his writings. he was also accused of advocating human sacrifice, largely because of a passage in book 4 in which he stated that " a male child of perfect innocence and high intelligence is the most satisfactory victim " and added that he had sacrificed about 150 every year. this was a tongue - in - cheek reference to ejaculation, something not realized by his critics. image and opinions crowley considered himself to be one of the outstanding figures of his time. the historian ronald hutton stated that in crowley ' s youth, he was " a self - indulgent and flamboyant young man " who " set about a deliberate flouting and provocation of social and religious norms ", while being shielded from an " outraged public opinion " by his inherited wealth. hutton also described crowley as having both an " unappeasable desire " to take control of any organisation that he belonged to, and " a tendency to quarrel savagely " with those who challenged him. crowley biographer martin booth asserted that crowley was " self - confident, brash, eccentric, egotistic, highly intelligent, arrogant, witty, wealthy, and, when it suited him, cruel ". similarly, richard b. spence noted that crowley was " capable of immense physical and emotional cruelty ". biographer lawrence sutin noted that crowley exhibited " courage, skill, dauntless energy, and remarkable focus of will " while at the same time showing a " blind arrogance, petty fits of bile, [ and ] contempt for the abilities of his fellow men ". the thelemite lon milo duquette noted that crowley " was by no means perfect " and " often alienated those who loved him dearest. " political opinions crowley enjoyed being outrageous and flouting conventional morality, with john symond