time, the horrific imagery demonstrates goya ' s keen artistic ability in composition and execution and produces fitting social and political outrage. thus, the debate continues as to what mode of aesthetic satisfaction, if any, is required to define ' art '. the assumption of new values or the rebellion against accepted notions of what is aesthetically superior need not occur concurrently with a complete abandonment of the pursuit of what is aesthetically appealing. indeed, the reverse is often true, that the revision of what is popularly conceived of as being aesthetically appealing allows for a re - invigoration of aesthetic sensibility, and a new appreciation for the standards of art itself. countless schools have proposed their own ways to define quality, yet they all seem to agree in at least one point : once their aesthetic choices are accepted, the value of the work of art is determined by its capacity to transcend the limits of its chosen medium to strike some universal chord by the rarity of the skill of the artist or in its accurate reflection in what is termed the zeitgeist. art is often intended to appeal to and connect with human emotion. it can arouse aesthetic or moral feelings, and can be understood as a way of communicating these feelings. artists express something so that their audience is aroused to some extent, but they do not have to do so consciously. art may be considered an exploration of the human condition ; that is, what it is to be human. by extension, it has been argued by emily l. spratt that the development of artificial intelligence, especially in regard to its uses with images, necessitates a re - evaluation of aesthetic theory in art history today and a reconsideration of the limits of human creativity. art and law an essential legal issue are art forgeries, plagiarism, replicas and works that are strongly based on other works of art. intellectual property law plays a significant role in the art world. copyright protection is granted to artists for their original works, providing them with exclusive rights to reproduce, distribute, and display their creations. this safeguard empowers artists to govern the usage of their work and safeguard against unauthorized copying or infringement. the trade in works of art or the export from a country may be subject to legal regulations. internationally there are also extensive efforts to protect the works of art created. the un, unesco and blue shield international try to ensure effective protection at the national level and to intervene directly in the event of armed conflicts or disasters. this can particularly affect museums, archives, art collections and