encounter. other issues gender of participants there is debate as to whether the gender of those involved should lead to different treatment of the sexual encounter, in law or in practice. traditionally, age of consent laws regarding vaginal intercourse were often meant to protect the chastity of unmarried girls. many feminists and social campaigners in the 1970s have objected to the social importance of virginity, and have also attempted to change the stereotypes of female passivity and male aggression ; demanding that the law protect children from exploitation regardless of their gender, rather than dealing with concerns of chastity. this has led to gender - neutral laws in many jurisdictions. on the other hand, there is an opposing view which argues that the act of vaginal intercourse is an " unequal act " for males and females, due to issues such as pregnancy, increased risk of stds, and risk of physical injury if the girl is too young and not physically ready. in the us, in michael m. v. superior ct. 450 u. s. 464 ( 1981 ) it was ruled that the double standard of offering more legal protection to girls is valid because " the equal protection clause does not mean that the physiological differences between men and women must be disregarded ". traditionally, many age of consent laws dealt primarily with men engaging in sexual acts with underage girls and boys ( the latter acts often falling under sodomy and buggery laws ). this means that in some legal systems, issues of women having sexual contact with underage partners were rarely acknowledged. for example, until 2000, in the uk, before the sexual offences ( amendment ) act 2000, there was no statutory age of consent for lesbian sex. in new zealand, before 2005, there were no age of consent laws dealing with women having sex with underage boys. previously, in fiji, male offenders of child sexual abuse could receive up to life imprisonment, whilst female offenders would receive up to seven years. situations like these have been attributed to societal views on traditional gender roles, and to constructs of male sexuality and female sexuality ; according to e martellozzo, " [ v ] iewing females as perpetrators of sexual abuse goes against every stereotype that society has of women : women as mothers and caregivers and not as people who abuse and harm ". alissa nutting argues that women are not acknowledged as perpetrators of sex crimes because society does not accept that women have an autonomous sexuality of their own. marriage and the age of consent the age at which a person can be legally married can differ