, fort bute, and natchez, mississippi, and captured five forts. in doing so, galvez opened navigation on the mississippi river north to the american settlement in pittsburgh. on may 25, 1780, british colonel henry bird invaded kentucky as part of a wider operation to clear american resistance from quebec to the gulf coast. their pensacola advance on new orleans was repelled by spanish governor galvez ' s offensive on mobile. simultaneous british attacks were repulsed on st. louis by the spanish lieutenant governor de leyba, and on the virginia county courthouse in cahokia, illinois by lieutenant colonel clark. the british initiative under bird from detroit was ended at the rumored approach of clark. the scale of violence in the licking river valley, was extreme " even for frontier standards. " it led to english and german settlements, who joined clark ' s militia when the british and their hired german soldiers withdrew to the great lakes. the americans responded with a major offensive along the mad river in august which met with some success in the battle of piqua but did not end indian raids. french soldier augustin de la balme led a canadian militia in an attempt to capture detroit, but they dispersed when miami natives led by little turtle attacked the encamped settlers on november 5. the war in the west stalemated with the british garrison sitting in detroit and the virginians expanding westward settlements north of the ohio river in the face of british - allied indian resistance. in 1781, galvez and pollock campaigned east along the gulf coast to secure west florida, including british - held mobile and pensacola. the spanish operations impaired the british supply of armaments to british indian allies, which effectively suspended a military alliance to attack settlers between the mississippi river and the appalachian mountains. in 1782, large scale retaliations between settlers and native americans in the region included the gnadenhutten massacre and the crawford expedition. the 1782 battle of blue licks was one of the last major engagements of the american revolutionary war. news of the treaty between great britain and the united states arrived late that year. by this time, about 7 % of kentucky settlers had been killed in battles against native americans, contrasted with 1 % of the population killed in the thirteen colonies. lingering resentments led to continued fighting in the west after the war officially ended. british defeat clinton spent most of 1781 based in new york city ; he failed to construct a coherent operational strategy, partly due to his difficult relationship with admiral marriot arbuthnot. in charleston, cornwallis independently developed an aggressive plan for a