juarez and coyuca de benitez. the area has a population ( ) of 786, 830. for the names and terms of some acapulco mayors, you can check a list of municipal presidents of acapulco. demographics population acapulco is the most populated city in the state of guerrero, according to the results of the ii population and housing census 2010 carried out by the national institute of statistics and geography ( inegi ) with a census date of june 12, 2010, the city had until then a total population of 673 479 inhabitants, of that amount, 324 746 were men and 348 733 women. it is considered the twenty - second most populous city in mexico and the tenth most populous metropolitan area in mexico. it is also the city with the highest concentration of population of the homonymous municipality, representing 85. 25 percent of the 789. 971 inhabitants. the metropolitan area of acapulco is made up of six towns in the municipality of acapulco de juarez and four in the municipality of coyuca de benitez. in agreement with the last count and official delimitation realized in 2010 altogether by the national institute of statistics and geography, the national council of population and the secretariat of social development, the metropolitan area of acapulco grouped a total of 863 431 inhabitants in a surface of 3 538. 5 km2, which placed it as the tenth most populated district in mexico. it is estimated according to a study by the national autonomous university of mexico on climate and geography, carried out in 2002, that between 2015 and 2020 the city of acapulco will exceed one million inhabitants. < noinclude > notes economy tourism is the main economic activity of the municipality and most of this is centered on acapulco bay. about seventy - three percent of the municipality ' s population is involved in commerce, most of it related to tourism and the port. mining and manufacturing employ less than twenty percent and only about five percent is dedicated to agriculture. industrial production is limited mostly to bottling, milk products, cement products, and ice and energy production. agricultural products include tomatoes, corn, watermelon, beans, green chili peppers, and melons. tourism acapulco is one of mexico ' s oldest coastal tourist destinations, reaching prominence in the 1950s as the place where hollywood stars and millionaires vacationed on the beach in an exotic locale. in modern times, tourists in acap