##cus were smaller than previously believed, and the animals may have had to move their whole bodies around to better access areas where they could browse vegetation. as such, they might have spent more time foraging to meet their minimum energy needs. the conclusions of cobley etal. are disputed by taylor, who analyzed the amount and positioning of intervertebral cartilage to determine the flexibility of the neck of apatosaurus and diplodocus. he found that the neck of apatosaurus was very flexible. physiology given the large body mass and long neck of sauropods like apatosaurus, physiologists have encountered problems determining how these animals breathed. beginning with the assumption that, like crocodilians, apatosaurus did not have a diaphragm, the dead - space volume ( the amount of unused air remaining in the mouth, trachea, and air tubes after each breath ) has been estimated at about for a specimen. paladino calculates its tidal volume ( the amount of air moved in or out during a single breath ) at with an avian respiratory system, if mammalian, and if reptilian. on this basis, its respiratory system would likely have been parabronchi, with multiple pulmonary air sacs as in avian lungs, and a flow - through lung. an avian respiratory system would need a lung volume of about compared with a mammalian requirement of, which would exceed the space available. the overall thoracic volume of apatosaurus has been estimated at, allowing for a, four - chambered heart and a lung capacity. that would allow about for the necessary tissue. evidence for the avian system in apatosaurus and other sauropods is also present in the pneumaticity of the vertebrae. though this plays a role in reducing the weight of the animal, wedel ( 2003 ) states they are also likely connected to air sacs, as in birds. james spotila et al. ( 1991 ) concludes that the large body size of sauropods would have made them unable to maintain high metabolic rates because they would not have been able to release enough heat. they assumed sauropods had a reptilian respiratory system. wedel says that an avian system would have allowed it to dump more heat. some scientists state that the heart would have had trouble sustaining sufficient blood pressure to oxygenate the brain. others suggest that the near - horizontal posture of the head and neck would have eliminated the problem of supplying blood to the brain because it