. gildas primarily features the saxons as barbarian raiders ; their invasions involved a slow and difficult process of military conquest. by ad 500, possibly the time described by gildas, anglo - saxons controlled the isle of wight, kent, lincolnshire, norfolk, suffolk, and coastal areas of northumberland and yorkshire. the rest of the former roman britain was still under the control of the local britons or remnants of the roman provincial administration. gildas also mentions depopulation of cities and this probably reflects historical facts. londinium, once a major city, was completely abandoned during the 5th century. according to bede bede follows gildas ' s account of ambrosius in his ecclesiastical history of the english people, but in his chronica majora he dates ambrosius ' s victory to the reign of the emperor zeno ( 474 – 491 ). bede ' s treatment of the 5th century history of great britain is not particularly valuable as a source. until about the year 418, bede could choose between several historical sources and often followed the writings of orosius. following the end of orosius ' s history, bede apparently lacked other available sources and relied extensively on gildas. entries from this period tend to be close paraphrases of gildas ' s account with mostly stylistic changes. bede ' s account of ambrosius aurelianus has been translated as following : bede does not mention the descendants of ambrosius aurelianus, nor their supposed degeneracy. according to nennius the historia brittonum, attributed to nennius, preserves several snippets of lore about ambrosius. despite the traditional attribution, the authorship of the work and the period of its writing are open questions for modern historians. there are several extant manuscript versions of the work, varying in details. the most important ones have been dated to between the 9th and the 11th century. some modern scholars think it unlikely that the work was composed by a single writer or compiler, suggesting that it may have taken centuries to reach its final form, though this theory is not conclusive. in chapter 31, we are told that vortigern ruled in fear of ambrosius. this is the first mention of ambrosius in the work. according to frank d. reno, this would indicate that ambrosius ' s influence was formidable, since vortigern considered him more of a threat than northern invaders and attempts to restore roman rule in britain. the chapter relates