the plan measured 19, 00 x 16, 70 m and it was not peripteral. the walls were solid, made from limestone, and there was a single door on the east side. thermon ( west greece ) : the doric temple of apollo thermios, was built in the middle of the 7th century bc. it was built on an older curvilinear building dating perhaps from the 10th century, on which a peristyle was added. the temple was narrow, and the number of pteron columns ( probably wooden ) was 5 x 15. there was a single row of inner columns. it measures 12. 13 x 38. 23 m at the stylobate, which was made from stones. corinth : a doric temple was built in the 6th century bc. the temple ' s stylobate measures 21. 36 x 53. 30 m, and the number of pteron columns was 6 x 15. there was a double row of inner columns. the style is similar to the temple of alcmeonidae at delphi. the corinthians were considered to be the inventors of the doric order. napes ( lesbos ) : an aeolic temple probably of apollo napaios was built in the 7th century bc. some special capitals with floral ornament have been found, which are called aeolic, and it seems that they were borrowed from the east. cyrene, libya : the oldest doric temple of apollo was built in. the number of pteron columns was 6 x 11, and it measures 16. 75 x 30. 05 m at the stylobate. there was a double row of sixteen inner columns on stylobates. the capitals were made from stone. naukratis : an ionic temple was built in the early 6th century bc. only some fragments have been found and the earlier ones, made from limestone, are identified among the oldest of the ionic order. syracuse, sicily : a doric temple was built at the beginning of the 6th century bc. the temple ' s stylobate measures 21. 47 x 55. 36 m and the number of pteron columns was 6 x 17. it was the first temple in greek west built completely out of stone. a second row of columns were added, obtaining the effect of an inner porch. selinus ( sicily ) : the doric temple c dates from 550 bc, and it was probably dedicated to apollo. the temple ' s styl