which was originally an important symbol of her near eastern precursor inanna - ishtar. ( in fact, the ancient greek word for " dove ", peristera, may be derived from a semitic phrase perah istar, meaning " bird of ishtar ". ) aphrodite frequently appears with doves in ancient greek pottery and the temple of aphrodite pandemos on the southwest slope of the athenian acropolis was decorated with relief sculptures of doves with knotted fillets in their beaks. votive offerings of small, white, marble doves were also discovered in the temple of aphrodite at daphni. in addition to her associations with doves, aphrodite was also closely linked with sparrows and she is described riding in a chariot pulled by sparrows in sappho ' s " ode to aphrodite ". according to myth, the dove was originally a nymph named peristera who helped aphrodite win in a flower - picking contest over her son eros ; for this eros turned her into a dove, but aphrodite took the dove under her wing and made it her sacred bird. because of her connections to the sea, aphrodite was associated with a number of different types of water fowl, including swans, geese, and ducks. aphrodite ' s other symbols included the sea, conch shells, and roses. the rose and myrtle flowers were both sacred to aphrodite. a myth explaining the origin of aphrodite ' s connection to myrtle goes that originally the myrtle was a maiden, myrina, a dedicated priestess of aphrodite. when her previous betrothed carried her away from the temple to marry her, myrina killed him, and aphrodite turned her into a myrtle, forever under her protection. her most important fruit emblem was the apple, and in myth, she turned melus, childhood friend and kin - in - law to adonis, into an apple after he killed himself, mourning over adonis ' death. likewise, melus ' s wife pelia was turned into a dove. she was also associated with pomegranates, possibly because the red seeds suggested sexuality or because greek women sometimes used pomegranates as a method of birth control. in greek art, aphrodite is often also accompanied by dolphins and nereids. in classical art a scene of aphrodite rising from the