included as diacritics for international use, and < > for mathematical use, together with the simple line characters \ | ( in addition to common / ). the @ symbol was not used in continental europe and the committee expected it would be replaced by an accented a in the french variation, so the @ was placed in position 40hex, right before the letter a. the control codes felt essential for data transmission were the start of message ( som ), end of address ( eoa ), end of message ( eom ), end of transmission ( eot ), " who are you? " ( wru ), " are you? " ( ru ), a reserved device control ( dc0 ), synchronous idle ( sync ), and acknowledge ( ack ). these were positioned to maximize the hamming distance between their bit patterns. character order ascii - code order is also called asciibetical order. collation of data is sometimes done in this order rather than " standard " alphabetical order ( collating sequence ). the main deviations in ascii order are : all uppercase come before lowercase letters ; for example, " z " precedes " a " digits and many punctuation marks come before letters an intermediate order converts uppercase letters to lowercase before comparing ascii values. character set character groups control characters ascii reserves the first 32 code points ( numbers 0 – 31 decimal ) and the last one ( number 127 decimal ) for control characters. these are codes intended to control peripheral devices ( such as printers ), or to provide meta - information about data streams, such as those stored on magnetic tape. despite their name, these code points do not represent printable characters although for debugging purposes, " placeholder " symbols ( such as those given in iso 2047 and its predecessors ) are assigned. for example, character 0x0a represents the " line feed " function ( which causes a printer to advance its paper ), and character 8 represents " backspace ". refers to control characters that do not include carriage return, line feed or white space as non - whitespace control characters. except for the control characters that prescribe elementary line - oriented formatting, ascii does not define any mechanism for describing the structure or appearance of text within a document. other schemes, such as markup languages, address page and document layout and formatting. the original ascii standard used only short descriptive phrases for each control