with turkey, pakistan, the united states, iran and israel. azerbaijan has placed a particular emphasis on its " special relationship " with turkey. azerbaijan has diplomatic relations with 158 countries so far and holds membership in 38 international organizations. it holds observer status in the non - aligned movement and world trade organization and is a correspondent at the international telecommunication union. on 9 may 2006 azerbaijan was elected to membership in the newly established human rights council by the united nations general assembly. the term of office began on 19 june 2006. azerbaijan was first elected as a non - permanent member of the un security council in 2011 with the support of 155 countries. foreign policy priorities of azerbaijan include, first of all, the restoration of its territorial integrity ; elimination of the consequences of occupation of nagorno - karabakh and seven other regions of azerbaijan surrounding nagorno - karabakh ; integration into european and euro - atlantic structure ; contribution to international security ; cooperation with international organizations ; regional cooperation and bilateral relations ; strengthening of defense capability ; promotion of security by domestic policy means ; strengthening of democracy ; preservation of ethnic and religious tolerance ; scientific, educational, and cultural policy and preservation of moral values ; economic and social development ; enhancing internal and border security ; and migration, energy, and transportation security policy. azerbaijan is an active member of international coalitions fighting international terrorism, and was one of the first countries to offer support after the september 11 attacks. the country is an active member of nato ' s partnership for peace program, contributing to peacekeeping efforts in kosovo, afghanistan and iraq. azerbaijan is also a member of the council of europe since 2001 and maintains good relations with the european union. the country may eventually apply for eu membership. on 1 july 2021, the us congress advanced legislation that will have an impact on the military aid that washington has sent to azerbaijan since 2012. this was due to the fact that the packages to armenia, instead, are significantly smaller. azerbaijan has been harshly criticized for bribing foreign officials and diplomats to promote its causes abroad and legitimize its elections at home, a practice termed caviar diplomacy. the azerbaijani laundromat money laundering operation involved the bribery of foreign politicians and journalists to serve the azerbaijani government ' s public relations interests. military the history of the modern azerbaijan army dates back to azerbaijan democratic republic in 1918 when the national army of the newly formed azerbaijan democratic republic was created on 26 june 1918. when azerbaijan gained independence after the dissolution of the soviet union, the armed forces of the republic of azerbaijan were created according to the law on