home to several first nations like plains indians and woodland cree. it was also a territory used by fur traders of the rival companies hudson ' s bay company and north west company. the dominion of canada bought the lands that would become alberta as part of the nwt in 1870. from the late 1800s to early 1900s, many immigrants arrived to prevent the prairies from being annexed by the us. growing wheat and cattle ranching also became very profitable. in 1905, the alberta act was passed, creating the province of alberta. massive oil reserves were discovered in 1947. the exploitation of oil sands began in 1967. alberta is renowned for its natural beauty, richness in fossils and for housing important nature reserves. alberta is home to six unesco designated world heritage sites : the canadian rocky mountain parks, dinosaur provincial park, head - smashed - in buffalo jump, waterton - glacier international peace park, wood buffalo national park and writing - on - stone provincial park. other popular sites include banff national park, elk island national park, jasper national park, waterton lakes national park, and drumheller. etymology alberta was named after princess louise caroline alberta ( 1848 – 1939 ), the fourth daughter of queen victoria. princess louise was the wife of john campbell, marquess of lorne, governor general of canada ( 1878 – 83 ). lake louise and mount alberta were also named in her honour. the name " alberta " is a feminine latinized form of albert, the name of princess louise ' s father, the prince consort (, masculine ) and its germanic cognates, ultimately derived from the proto - germanic language * aþalaberhtaz ( compound of " noble " + " bright / famous " ). geography alberta, with an area of, is the fourth - largest province after quebec, ontario, and british columbia. alberta ' s southern border is the 49th parallel north, which separates it from the u. s. state of montana. the 60th parallel north divides alberta from the northwest territories. the 110th meridian west separates it from the province of saskatchewan ; while on the west its boundary with british columbia follows the 120th meridian west south from the northwest territories at 60°n until it reaches the continental divide at the rocky mountains, and from that point follows the line of peaks marking the continental divide in a generally southeasterly direction until it reaches the montana border at 49°n. the province extends north to south and east to west at its maximum width. its highest point is at the summit of mount columbia in the rocky mountains along the southwest border