##hopenhauer considers the world from this angle — that is, insofar as it is representation. theory of perception in november 1813 goethe invited schopenhauer to help him on his theory of colours. although schopenhauer considered colour theory a minor matter, he accepted the invitation out of admiration for goethe. nevertheless, these investigations led him to his most important discovery in epistemology : finding a demonstration for the a priori nature of causality. kant openly admitted that it was hume ' s skeptical assault on causality that motivated the critical investigations in critique of pure reason and gave an elaborate proof to show that causality is a priori. after g. e. schulze had made it plausible that kant had not disproven hume ' s skepticism, it was up to those loyal to kant ' s project to prove this important matter. the difference between the approaches of kant and schopenhauer was this : kant simply declared that the empirical content of perception is " given " to us from outside, an expression with which schopenhauer often expressed his dissatisfaction. he, on the other hand, was occupied with the questions : how do we get this empirical content of perception ; how is it possible to comprehend subjective sensations " limited to my skin " as the objective perception of things that lie " outside " of me? causality is therefore not an empirical concept drawn from objective perceptions, as hume had maintained ; instead, as kant had said, objective perception presupposes knowledge of causality. by this intellectual operation, comprehending every effect in our sensory organs as having an external cause, the external world arises. with vision, finding the cause is essentially simplified due to light acting in straight lines. we are seldom conscious of the process that interprets the double sensation in both eyes as coming from one object, that inverts the impressions on the retinas, and that uses the change in the apparent position of an object relative to more distant objects provided by binocular vision to perceive depth and distance. schopenhauer stresses the importance of the intellectual nature of perception ; the senses furnish the raw material by which the intellect produces the world as representation. he set out his theory of perception for the first time in on vision and colors, and, in the subsequent editions of fourfold root, an extensive exposition is given in § 21. the world as will in book two of the world as will and representation, schopenhauer considers what the world is beyond the aspect of it that appears to us