in legal discourse, an author is the creator of an original work, whether that work is in written, graphic, or recorded medium. thus, a sculptor, painter, or composer, is an author of their respective sculptures, paintings, or compositions, even though in common parlance, an author is often thought of as the writer of a book, article, play, or other written work. in the case of a work for hire, " the employer or commissioning party is considered the author of the work ", even if they did not write or otherwise create the work, but merely instructed another individual to do so. typically, the first owner of a copyright is the person who created the work, i. e. the author. if more than one person created the work, then a case of joint authorship takes place. copyright laws differ around the world. the united states copyright office, for example, defines copyright as " a form of protection provided by the laws of the united states ( title 17, u. s. code ) to authors of ' original works of authorship. ' " some works are considered to be authorless. for example, the monkey selfie copyright dispute in the 2010s involved photographs taken by celebes crested macaques using equipment belonging to a nature photographer. the photographer asserted authorship of the photographs, which the united states copyright office denied, stating : " to qualify as a work of ' authorship ' a work must be created by a human being ". more recently, questions have arisen as to whether images or text created by a generative artificial intelligence have an author. legal significance of authorship holding the title of " author " over any " literary, dramatic, musical, artistic, [ or ] certain other intellectual works " gives rights to this person, the owner of the copyright, especially the exclusive right to engage in or authorize any production or distribution of their work. any person or entity wishing to use intellectual property held under copyright must receive permission from the copyright holder to use this work, and often will be asked to pay for the use of copyrighted material. the copyrights on intellectual work expire after a certain time. it enters the public domain, where it can be used without limit. copyright laws in many jurisdictions – mostly following the lead of the united states, in which the entertainment and publishing industries have very strong lobbying power – have been amended repeatedly since their inception, to extend the length of this fixed period where the work is exclusively controlled by the copyright holder. technically, someone owns their work from the time it