. tourism acapulco is one of mexico ' s oldest coastal tourist destinations, reaching prominence in the 1950s as the place where hollywood stars and millionaires vacationed on the beach in an exotic locale. in modern times, tourists in acapulco have been facing problems with corrupt local police who steal money by extortion and intimidate visitors with threats of jail. the city is divided into three tourist areas. traditional acapulco is the old part of the port, where hotels like hotel los flamingos, owned by personalities johnny weissmuller and john wayne are located, is on the northern end of the bay. anchored by attractions such as the beaches of caleta and caletilla, the cliff divers of la quebrada, and the city square, known as el zocalo. the heyday of this part of acapulco ran from the late 1930s until the 1960s, with development continuing through the 1980s. this older section of town now caters to a mostly middle - class, almost exclusively mexican clientele, while the glitzier newer section caters to the mexican upper classes, many of whom never venture into the older, traditional part of town. acapulco dorado had its development between the 1950s and the 1970s, and is about 25 minutes from the acapulco international airport. it is the area that presents the most tourist influx in the port, runs through much of the acapulco bay, from icacos, passing through costera miguel aleman avenue, which is the main one, to papagayo park. it has several hotels, acapulco diamante, also known as punta diamante, is the newest and most developed part of the port, with investment having created one of the greatest concentrations of luxury facilities in mexico, including exclusive hotels and resorts of international chains, residential complexes, luxury condominiums and private villas, spas, restaurants, shopping areas and a golf course. starting at the scenic highway in las brisas, it includes puerto marques and punta diamante and extends to barra vieja beach. it is 10 minutes from the acapulco international airport. in this area, all along boulevard de las naciones, almost all transportation is by car, limousine or golf cart. acapulco ' s reputation of a high - energy party town and the nightlife have long been draws of the city for tourists. from november to april, luxury liners stop here daily and include ships