an alphabet is a standardized set of basic written graphemes ( called letters ) representing phonemes, units of sounds that distinguish words, of certain spoken languages. not all writing systems represent language in this way ; in a syllabary, each character represents a syllable, and logographic systems use characters to represent words, morphemes, or other semantic units. the egyptians have created the first alphabet in a technical sense. the short uniliteral signs are used to write pronunciation guides for logograms, or a character that represents a word, or morpheme, and later on, being used to write foreign words. this was used up to the 5th century ad. the first fully phonemic script, the proto - sinaitic script, which developed into the phoenician alphabet, is considered to be the first alphabet and is the ancestor of most modern alphabets, abjads, and abugidas, including arabic, cyrillic, greek, hebrew, latin, and possibly brahmic. it was created by semitic - speaking workers and slaves in the sinai peninsula in modern - day egypt, by selecting a small number of hieroglyphs commonly seen in their egyptian surroundings to describe the sounds, as opposed to the semantic values of the canaanite languages. peter t. daniels distinguishes an abugida, a set of graphemes that represent consonantal base letters that diacritics modify to represent vowels, like in devanagari and other south asian scripts, an abjad, in which letters predominantly or exclusively represent consonants such as the original phoenician, hebrew or arabic, and an alphabet, a set of graphemes that represent both consonants and vowels. in this narrow sense of the word, the first true alphabet was the greek alphabet, which was based on the earlier phoenician abjad. alphabets are usually associated with a standard ordering of letters. this makes them useful for purposes of collation, which allows words to be sorted in a specific order, commonly known as the alphabetical order. it also means that their letters can be used as an alternative method of " numbering " ordered items, in such contexts as numbered lists and number placements. there are also names for letters in some languages. this is known as acrophony ; it is present in some modern scripts, such as greek, and many semitic scripts, such as arabic, hebrew, and syriac. it was used in some ancient alphabets, such as in phoenician. however, this