speaker but they might be more prevalent in some dialects than others. the iraqi and gulf arabic has the sound and writes it and with the persian letters and, as in " plum " ; " truffle ". early in the expansion of arabic, the separate emphatic phonemes and coalesced into a single phoneme. many dialects, such as egyptian, levantine, and much of the maghreb, subsequently lost fricatives, converting into. most dialects borrow " learned " words from the standard language using the same pronunciation as for inherited words. some dialects without interdental fricatives, particularly in egypt and the levant, render original in borrowed words as. another key distinguishing mark of arabic dialects is how they render the original velar and uvular plosives, ( proto - semitic ), and : retains its original pronunciation in widely scattered regions such as yemen, morocco, and urban areas of the maghreb. it is pronounced as a glottal stop in several prestige dialects, such as those spoken in cairo, beirut and damascus. it is rendered as a voiced velar plosive in the persian gulf, upper egypt, parts of the maghreb, and less urban parts of the levant ( e. g. jordan ). in iraqi arabic it sometimes retains its original pronunciation and is sometimes rendered as a voiced velar plosive, depending on the word. some traditionally christian villages in rural areas of the levant render the sound as, as do shii bahrainis. in some gulf dialects, it is palatalized to or. it is pronounced as a voiced uvular constrictive in sudanese arabic. many dialects with a modified pronunciation for maintain the pronunciation in certain words ( often with religious or educational overtones ) borrowed from the classical language. is pronounced as an affricate in iraq and much of the arabian peninsula. it is pronounced in most of north egypt and parts of yemen and oman, in morocco, tunisia, and the levant, and, in most words in much of the persian gulf. usually retains its original pronunciation but is palatalized to in many words in israel and the palestinian territories, iraq, and countries in the eastern part of the arabian peninsula. often a distinction is made between the suffixes ( ' you ', masc. ) and ( ' you ', fem. ), which become and, respectively. in sana ' a, omani, and bahrani is pronounced. pharyngealization of the emphatic consonants tends