shift realities every 36 hours and those who use the building to travel to other realities. the plot against america is an hbo miniseries where charles lindbergh wins the 1940 us presidential election as an anti - war candidate who moves the country toward fascism. the tv show sliders explores different possible alternate realities by having the protagonist " slide " into different parallel dimensions of the same planet earth. ss - gb ( tv series ) shows a world where the axis powers quickly win world war ii, killing churchill and installing a puppet government. however, british resistance fights back. in the various star trek tv shows and spin off media a mirror universe has been encountered where earth has an empire that subjugates other planets. doppelgangers of the main cast of many the tv shows appear in that reality. the watchmen series is set on a world where costumed heroes were initially welcomed but later outlawed. it is set 34 years after the events of the comic book on which the series shares a name. loki on streaming service disney + shows an agency which prevents alterations to the time line. alternative versions of loki from various realities appear. what if...? is a streaming series on disney +. each episode shows what would have happened if events featured in the mcu film universe happened differently. online fans of alternate history have made use of the internet from a very early point to showcase their own works and provide useful tools for those fans searching for anything alternate history, first in mailing lists and usenet groups, later in web databases and forums. the " usenet alternate history list " was first posted on 11 april 1991, to the usenet newsgroup rec. arts. sf - lovers. in may 1995, the dedicated newsgroup soc. history. what - if was created for showcasing and discussing alternate histories. its prominence declined with the general migration from unmoderated usenet to moderated web forums, most prominently alternatehistory. com, the self - described " largest gathering of alternate history fans on the internet " with over 10, 000 active members. in addition to these discussion forums, in 1997 uchronia : the alternate history list was created as an online repository, now containing over 2, 900 alternate history novels, stories, essays, and other printed materials in several different languages. uchronia was selected as the sci fi channel ' s " sci fi site of the week " twice. uchronia in spanish, french, german, portuguese, italian, catalan, and galician, the words,, and are native versions of alternate