the citadel identifies three separate types of warfare during the revolutionary war. the first was a colonial conflict in which objections to imperial trade regulation were as significant as taxation policy. the second was a civil war with all thirteen colonies split between american patriots, american loyalists, and those who preferred to remain neutral in the revolution and war. particularly in the south, many battles were fought between patriots and loyalists with no british involvement, leading to divisions that continued after independence was achieved. the third element was a global war between france, spain, the dutch republic, and britain, with america serving as one of several different war theaters. after entering the revolutionary war in 1778, france provided the americans money, weapons, soldiers, and naval assistance, while french troops fought under u. s. command in north america. while spain did not formally join the war in america, they provided access to the mississippi river and captured british possessions on the gulf of mexico that denied bases to the royal navy, retook menorca and besieged gibraltar in europe. although the dutch republic was no longer a major power prior to 1774, they still dominated the european carrying trade, and dutch merchants made large profits by shipping french - supplied munitions to the patriots. this ended when britain declared war in december 1780, and the conflict proved disastrous to dutch economy. the dutch were also excluded from the first league of armed neutrality formed by russia, sweden, and denmark in march 1780 that protected neutral ships from being stopped and searched for contraband by britain and france. while of limited effect, these interventions forced the british to divert men and resources away from north america. american strategy the second continental congress, meeting in philadelphia, stood to benefit if the american revolution evolved into a protracted war. their thirteen colonial state populations were largely prosperous and depended on local production for food and supplies rather than on imports from britain, which took six to twelve weeks to arrive by cross - atlantic shipping. the thirteen colonies were spread across most of north american atlantic seaboard, stretching 1, 000 miles. most colonial farms were remote from the seaports, and control of four or five major ports did not give britain control over american inland areas. each state had established internal distribution systems. each of the thirteen colonies also had a long - established system of local militia, which were combat - tested in support of british regulars thirteen years before to secure an expanded british empire. together, these militias denied france ' s claims to north america west of the mississippi river in the french and indian war. the thirteen colonial state legislatures independently funded and controlled their local