telephone company of canada ( officially chartered in 1880 ). in 1969, the building was carefully moved to the historic bell homestead national historic site in brantford, ontario, and was refurbished to become a telephone museum. the bell homestead, the henderson home telephone museum, and the national historic site ' s reception centre are all maintained by the bell homestead society ; the alexander graham bell memorial park, which features a broad neoclassical monument built in 1917 by public subscription. the monument depicts mankind ' s ability to span the globe through telecommunications ; the alexander graham bell museum ( opened in 1956 ), part of the alexander graham bell national historic site which was completed in 1978 in baddeck, nova scotia. many of the museum ' s artifacts were donated by bell ' s daughters ; in 1880, bell received the volta prize with a purse of 50, 000 french francs ( approximately us $ in today ' s dollars ) for the invention of the telephone from the french government. among the luminaries who judged were victor hugo and alexandre dumas, fils. the volta prize was conceived by napoleon iii in 1852, and named in honor of alessandro volta, with bell becoming the second recipient of the grand prize in its history. since bell was becoming increasingly affluent, he used his prize money to create endowment funds ( the ' volta fund ' ) and institutions in and around the united states capital of washington, d. c.. these included the prestigious ' volta laboratory association ' ( 1880 ), also known as the volta laboratory and as the ' alexander graham bell laboratory ', and which eventually led to the volta bureau ( 1887 ) as a center for studies on deafness which is still in operation in georgetown, washington, d. c. the volta laboratory became an experimental facility devoted to scientific discovery, and the very next year it improved edison ' s phonograph by substituting wax for tinfoil as the recording medium and incising the recording rather than indenting it, key upgrades that edison himself later adopted. the laboratory was also the site where he and his associate invented his " proudest achievement ", " the photophone ", the " optical telephone " which presaged fibre optical telecommunications while the volta bureau would later evolve into the alexander graham bell association for the deaf and hard of hearing ( the ag bell ), a leading center for the research and pedagogy of deafness. in partnership with gardiner greene hubbard, bell helped establish the publication science during the early 1880s. in 1898, bell was elected as the second president of the national geographic society, serving until 1903