traditional branches are the following independent agencies, each with separate powers and responsibilities : the constitutional court of armenia the central electoral commission of armenia the human rights defender of armenia the central bank of armenia the prosecutor general of armenia the audit chamber of armenia corruption transparency international ' s 2021 corruption perceptions index ranked armenia 58th out of 180 in the world with 49 points ( the same number of points as 2020 ), this has pushed the country up from being ranked at 60th in 2020. according to transparency international, armenia has improved significantly on the corruption perception index since 2012, especially since the 2018 revolution, the country has taken steps to counter corruption. further mentioning that " armenia has taken a gradual approach to reform, resulting in steady and positive improvements in anti - corruption. however, safeguarding judicial independence and ensuring checks and balances remain critical first steps in its anti - corruption efforts. the effectiveness of those efforts is additionally challenged by the current political and economic crisis as a result of the recent nagorno karabakh conflict and the subsequent protests against prime minister nikol pashinyan over a ceasefire deal ". in 2008, transparency international reduced its corruption perceptions index for armenia from 3. 0 in 2007 to 2. 9 out of 10 ( a lower score means more perceived corruption ) ; armenia slipped from 99th place in 2007 to 109th out of 180 countries surveyed ( on a par with argentina, belize, moldova, solomon islands, and vanuatu ). see also constitution of armenia constitutional economics elections in armenia foreign relations of armenia list of political parties in armenia politics of artsakh programs of political parties in armenia rule according to higher law notes references external links global integrity report : armenia has information on anti - corruption efforts petrosyan, david : " the political system of armenia : form and content " in the caucasus analytical digest no. 17 control chamber of the republic of armenia armenian language document national assembly of the republic of armenia | official web site | parliament. am