their composition of film scores. the renowned american - born greek soprano maria callas spent her teenage years in athens, where she settled in 1937. her professional opera career started in 1940 in athens, with the greek national opera. in 2018, the city ' s municipal olympia theatre was renamed to " olympia city music theatre ' maria callas ' " and in 2023, the municipality inaugurated the maria callas museum, housing it in a neoclassical building on 44 mitropoleos street. sports athens has a long tradition in sports and sporting events, serving as home to the most important clubs in greek sport and housing a large number of sports facilities. the city has also been host to sports events of international importance. athens has hosted the summer olympic games twice, in 1896 and 2004. the 2004 summer olympics required the development of the athens olympic stadium, which has since gained a reputation as one of the most beautiful stadiums in the world, and one of its most interesting modern monuments. the biggest stadium in the country, it hosted two finals of the uefa champions league, in 1994 and 2007. athens ' other major stadiums are the karaiskakis stadium located in piraeus, a sports and entertainment complex, host of the 1971 uefa cup winners ' cup final, and agia sophia stadium located in nea filadelfeia. athens has hosted the euroleague final three times, the first in 1985 and second in 1993, both at the peace and friendship stadium, most known as sef, a large indoor arena, and the third time in 2007 at the olympic indoor hall. events in other sports such as athletics, volleyball, water polo etc., have been hosted in the capital ' s venues. athens is home to three european multi - sport clubs : panathinaikos, originated in athens city centre, olympiacos, originated in the suburb of piraeus and aek athens, originated in the suburb of nea filadelfeia. in football, panathinaikos made it to the 1971 european cup final, olympiacos have dominated domestic competitions, while aek athens is the other member of the big three. these clubs also have basketball teams ; panathinaikos and olympiacos are among the top powers in european basketball, having won the euroleague six times and three respectively, whilst aek athens was the first greek team to win a european trophy in any team sport. other notable clubs within athens are athinaikos, panionios, atromitos, apollon, panellinios, egaleo f.