investment theory proposes that close social bonds, and associated emotional, cognitive, and neurohormonal mechanisms, evolved to facilitate long - term, high - cost altruism between those closely depending on one another for survival and reproductive success. such cooperative behaviors have sometimes been seen as arguments for left - wing politics, for example, by the russian zoologist and anarchist peter kropotkin in his 1902 book mutual aid : a factor of evolution and moral philosopher peter singer in his book a darwinian left. neurobiology jorge moll and jordan grafman, neuroscientists at the national institutes of health and labs - d ' or hospital network, provided the first evidence for the neural bases of altruistic giving in normal healthy volunteers, using functional magnetic resonance imaging. in their research, they showed that both pure monetary rewards and charitable donations activated the mesolimbic reward pathway, a primitive part of the brain that usually responds to food and sex. however, when volunteers generously placed the interests of others before their own by making charitable donations, another brain circuit was selectively activated : the subgenual cortex / septal region. these structures social attachment and bonding in other species. the experiment indicated that altruism isn ' t a higher moral faculty overpowering innate selfish desires, but a fundamental, ingrained, and enjoyable trait in the brain. one brain region, the subgenual anterior cingulate cortex / basal forebrain, contributes to learning altruistic behavior, especially in people with empathy. the same study identified giving to charity and of social bonding. bill harbaugh, a university of oregon economist, in an fmri scanner test conducted with his psychologist colleague dr. ulrich mayr, reached the same conclusions as jorge moll and jordan grafman about giving to charity, although they were able to divide the study group into two groups : " egoists " and " altruists ". one of their discoveries was that, though rarely, even some of the considered " egoists " sometimes gave more than expected because that would help others, leading to the conclusion that there are other factors in charity, such as a person ' s environment and values. psychology the international encyclopedia of the social sciences defines psychological altruism as " a motivational state to increase another ' s welfare ". psychological altruism is contrasted with psychological egoism, which refers to the motivation to increase one ' s welfare. there has been some debate on whether humans are capable of psychological altruism. some definitions specify a self