first, circa 140, which affected mostly rhodes and other islands ; the second, in 152, which hit cyzicus ( where the huge and newly built temple to hadrian was destroyed ), ephesus, and smyrna. antoninus ' financial help earned him praise by greek writers such as aelius aristides and pausanias. these cities received from antoninus the usual honorific accolades, such as when he commanded that all governors of asia should enter the province, when taking office, by way of ephesus. ephesus was specially favoured by antoninus, who confirmed and upheld its distinction of having two temples for the imperial cult ( neocorate ), therefore having first place in the list of imperial honor titles, surpassing both smyrna and pergamon. in his dealings with greek - speaking cities, antoninus followed the policy adopted by hadrian of ingratiating himself with local elites, especially with local intellectuals : philosophers, teachers of literature, rhetoricians and physicians were explicitly exempted from any duties involving private spending for civic purposes, a privilege granted by hadrian that antoninus confirmed by means of an edict preserved in the digest ( 27. 1. 6. 8 ). antoninus also created a chair for the teaching of rhetoric in athens. antoninus was known as an avid observer of rites of religion and of formal celebrations, both roman and foreign. he is known for having increasingly formalized the official cult offered to the great mother, which from his reign onwards included a bull sacrifice, a taurobolium, formerly only a private ritual, now being also performed for the sake of the emperor ' s welfare. antoninus also offered patronage to the worship of mithras, to whom he erected a temple in ostia. in 148, he presided over the celebrations of the 900th anniversary of the founding of rome. legal reforms antoninus tried to portray himself as a magistrate of the res publica, no matter how extended and ill - defined his competencies were. he is credited with the splitting of the imperial treasury, the fiscus. this splitting had to do with the division of imperial properties into two parts. firstly, the fiscus itself, or patrimonium, meaning the properties of the " crown ", the hereditary properties of each succeeding person that sat on the throne, transmitted to his successors in office, regardless of their previous membership in the imperial family. secondly, the res privata, the " private " properties tied to the personal maintenance of the emperor and his