. the efforts of prince alexander and afterwards of stambolov to destroy russian influence in the principality roused his indignation, but he vetoed all proposals to intervene by force of arms. in central asian affairs he followed the traditional policy of gradually extending russian domination without provoking conflict with the united kingdom ( see panjdeh incident ), and he never allowed the bellicose partisans of a forward policy to get out of hand. his reign cannot be regarded as an eventful period of russian history ; but under his hard rule the country made considerable progress. alexander and his wife regularly spent their summers at langinkoski manor along the kymi river near kotka on the finnish coast, where their children were immersed in a scandinavian lifestyle of relative modesty. alexander rejected foreign influence, german influence in particular, thus the adoption of local national principles was deprecated in all spheres of official activity, with a view to realizing his ideal of a russia homogeneous in language, administration and religion. these ideas conflicted with those of his father, who had german sympathies despite being a patriot ; alexander ii often used the german language in his private relations, occasionally ridiculed the slavophiles and based his foreign policy on the prussian alliance. some differences between father and son had first appeared during the franco - prussian war, when alexander ii supported the cabinet of berlin while the tsesarevich made no effort to conceal his sympathies for the french. these sentiments would resurface during 1875 – 1879, when the eastern question excited russian society. at first, the tsesarevich was more slavophile than the russian government. however, his phlegmatic nature restrained him from many exaggerations, and any popular illusions he may have imbibed were dispelled by personal observation in bulgaria where he commanded the left wing of the invading army. never consulted on political questions, alexander confined himself to military duties and fulfilled them in a conscientious and unobtrusive manner. after many mistakes and disappointments, the army reached constantinople and the treaty of san stefano was signed, but much that had been obtained by that important document had to be sacrificed at the congress of berlin. bismarck failed to do what was expected of him by the russian emperor. in return for the russian support which had enabled him to create the german empire, it was thought that he would help russia to solve the eastern question in accordance with russian interests, but to the surprise and indignation of the cabinet