, bloating, gastric distension, or acute skin irritation. as with other nsaids, combinations of aspirin and caffeine provide slightly greater pain relief than aspirin alone. effervescent formulations of aspirin relieve pain faster than aspirin in tablets, which makes them useful for the treatment of migraines. topical aspirin may be effective for treating some types of neuropathic pain. aspirin, either by itself or in a combined formulation, effectively treats certain types of a headache, but its efficacy may be questionable for others. secondary headaches, meaning those caused by another disorder or trauma, should be promptly treated by a medical provider. among primary headaches, the international classification of headache disorders distinguishes between tension headache ( the most common ), migraine, and cluster headache. aspirin or other over - the - counter analgesics are widely recognized as effective for the treatment of tension headaches. aspirin, especially as a component of an aspirin / paracetamol / caffeine combination, is considered a first - line therapy in the treatment of migraine, and comparable to lower doses of sumatriptan. it is most effective at stopping migraines when they are first beginning. fever like its ability to control pain, aspirin ' s ability to control fever is due to its action on the prostaglandin system through its irreversible inhibition of cox. although aspirin ' s use as an antipyretic in adults is well established, many medical societies and regulatory agencies, including the american academy of family physicians, the american academy of pediatrics, and the food and drug administration, strongly advise against using aspirin for the treatment of fever in children because of the risk of reye ' s syndrome, a rare but often fatal illness associated with the use of aspirin or other salicylates in children during episodes of viral or bacterial infection. because of the risk of reye ' s syndrome in children, in 1986, the us food and drug administration ( fda ) required labeling on all aspirin - containing medications advising against its use in children and teenagers. inflammation aspirin is used as an anti - inflammatory agent for both acute and long - term inflammation, as well as for the treatment of inflammatory diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis. heart attacks and strokes aspirin is an important part of the treatment of those who have had a heart attack. it