consider the theological differences to be crucial differences in doctrine, while others find them to be relatively minor. similarities total depravity – arminians agree with calvinists over the doctrine of total depravity. the differences come in the understanding of how god remedies this human depravity. differences nature of election – arminians hold that election to eternal salvation has the condition of faith attached. the calvinist doctrine of unconditional election states that salvation cannot be earned or achieved and is therefore not conditional upon any human effort, so faith is not a condition of salvation but the divinely apportioned means to it. in other words, arminians believe that they owe their election to their faith, whereas calvinists believe that they owe their faith to their election. nature of grace – arminians believe that, through grace, god restores free will concerning salvation to all humanity, and each individual, therefore, is able either to accept the gospel call through faith or resist it through unbelief. calvinists hold that god ' s grace to enable salvation is given only to the elect and irresistibly leads to salvation. extent of the atonement – arminians, along with four - point calvinists or amyraldians, hold to a universal atonement instead of the calvinist doctrine that atonement is limited to the elect only. both sides ( with the exception of hyper - calvinists ) believe the invitation of the gospel is universal and " must be presented to everyone [ they ] can reach without any distinction. " perseverance in faith – arminians believe that future salvation and eternal life is secured in christ and protected from all external forces but is conditional on remaining in christ and can be lost through apostasy. traditional calvinists believe in the doctrine of the perseverance of the saints, which says that because god chose some unto salvation and actually paid for their particular sins, he keeps them from apostasy and that those who do apostatize were never truly regenerated ( that is, born again ) or saved. non - traditional calvinists and other evangelicals advocate the similar but distinct doctrine of eternal security that teaches if a person was once saved, his or her salvation can never be in jeopardy, even if the person completely apostatizes. divergence with open theism the doctrine of open theism states that god is omnipresent, omnipotent, and omniscient, but differs on the nature of