stored before being passed out periodically through the cloacal vent. larvae and most aquatic adult amphibians excrete the nitrogen as ammonia in large quantities of dilute urine, while terrestrial species, with a greater need to conserve water, excrete the less toxic product urea. some tree frogs with limited access to water excrete most of their metabolic waste as uric acid. urinary bladder respiratory system the lungs in amphibians are primitive compared to those of amniotes, possessing few internal septa and large alveoli, and consequently having a comparatively slow diffusion rate for oxygen entering the blood. ventilation is accomplished by buccal pumping. most amphibians, however, are able to exchange gases with the water or air via their skin. to enable sufficient cutaneous respiration, the surface of their highly vascularised skin must remain moist to allow the oxygen to diffuse at a sufficiently high rate. because oxygen concentration in the water increases at both low temperatures and high flow rates, aquatic amphibians in these situations can rely primarily on cutaneous respiration, as in the titicaca water frog and the hellbender salamander. in air, where oxygen is more concentrated, some small species can rely solely on cutaneous gas exchange, most famously the plethodontid salamanders, which have neither lungs nor gills. many aquatic salamanders and all tadpoles have gills in their larval stage, with some ( such as the axolotl ) retaining gills as aquatic adults. reproduction for the purpose of reproduction most amphibians require fresh water although some lay their eggs on land and have developed various means of keeping them moist. a few ( e. g. fejervarya raja ) can inhabit brackish water, but there are no true marine amphibians. there are reports, however, of particular amphibian populations unexpectedly invading marine waters. such was the case with the black sea invasion of the natural hybrid pelophylax esculentus reported in 2010. several hundred frog species in adaptive radiations ( e. g., eleutherodactylus, the pacific platymantis, the australo - papuan microhylids, and many other tropical frogs ), however, do not need any water for breeding in the wild. they reproduce via direct development, an ecological and evolutionary adaptation that has allowed them to be completely independent from free - standing water. almost all of these frogs live in wet tropical rainforests and their eggs hatch