parliament. these were rejected in a referendum the following may. concurrent parliamentary elections left kocharyan ' s party in a very powerful position in the parliament. there were mounting calls for the president ' s resignation in early 2004 with thousands of demonstrators taking to the streets in support of demands for a referendum of confidence in him. the government of armenia ' s stated aim is to build a western - style parliamentary democracy. however, international observers have questioned the fairness of armenia ' s parliamentary and presidential elections and constitutional referendum between 1995 and 2018, citing polling deficiencies, lack of cooperation by the electoral commission, and poor maintenance of electoral lists and polling places. armenia is considered one of the most democratic nations of the commonwealth of independent states. the observance of human rights in armenia is uneven and is marked by shortcomings. police brutality allegedly still goes largely unreported, while observers note that defendants are often beaten to extract confessions and are denied visits from relatives and lawyers. public demonstrations usually take place without government interference, though one rally in november 2000 by an opposition party was followed by the arrest and imprisonment for a month of its organizer. freedom of religion is not always protected under existing law. nontraditional churches, especially the jehovah ' s witnesses, have been subjected to harassment, sometimes violently. all churches apart from the armenian apostolic church must register with the government, and proselytizing was forbidden by law, though since 1997 the government has pursued more moderate policies. the government ' s policy toward conscientious objection is in transition, as part of armenia ' s accession to the council of europe. armenia boasts a good record on the protection of national minorities, for whose representatives ( assyrians, kurds, russians and yazidis ) four seats are reserved in the national assembly. the government does not restrict internal or international travel. transition to a parliamentary republic in december 2015, the country held a referendum which approved transformation of armenia from a semi - presidential to a parliamentary republic. as a result, the president was stripped of his veto faculty and the presidency was downgraded to a figurehead position elected by parliament every seven years. the president is not allowed to be a member of any political party and re - election is forbidden. skeptics saw the constitutional reform as an attempt of third president serzh sargsyan to remain in control by becoming prime minister after fulfilling his second presidential term in 2018. in march 2018, the armenian parliament elected armen sarkissian as the new president of armenia. the controversial constitutional reform to