such as senebkay. an indigenous line of kings, the abydos dynasty, may have ruled the region from abydos at the time. new construction during the eighteenth dynasty began with a large chapel of ahmose i. the pyramid of ahmose i was also constructed at abydos — the only pyramid in the area ; very little of it remains today. thutmose iii built a far larger temple, about. he also made a processional way leading past the side of the temple to the cemetery beyond, featuring a great gateway of granite. seti i, during the nineteenth dynasty, founded a temple to the south of the town in honor of the ancestral pharaohs of the early dynasties ; this was finished by ramesses ii, who also built a lesser temple of his own. merneptah added the osireion, just to the north of the temple of seti. ahmose ii in the twenty - sixth dynasty rebuilt the temple again, and placed in it a large monolith shrine of red granite, finely wrought. the foundations of the successive temples were comprised within approximately. depth of the ruins discovered in modern times ; these needed the closest examination to discriminate the various buildings, and were recorded by more than 4, 000 measurements and 1, 000 levellings. the last building added was a new temple of nectanebo i, built in the thirtieth dynasty. from the ptolemaic times of the greek occupancy of egypt, that began three hundred years before the roman occupancy that followed, the structures began to decay and no later works are known. cult centre from earliest times, abydos was a cult centre, first of the local deity, khentiamentiu, and from the end of the old kingdom, the rising cult of osiris. a tradition developed that the early dynastic cemetery was the burial place of osiris and the tomb of djer was reinterpreted as that of osiris. decorations in tombs throughout egypt, such as the one displayed to the right, record pilgrimages to abydos by wealthy families. great osiris temple from the first dynasty to the twenty - sixth dynasty, nine or ten temples were successively built on one site at abydos. the first was an enclosure, about, enclosed by a thin wall of unbaked bricks. incorporating one wall of this first structure, the second temple of about square was built with walls about thick.