was diagnosed as the rendezvous radar switch being in the wrong position, causing the computer to process data from both the rendezvous and landing radars at the same time. software engineer don eyles concluded in a 2005 guidance and control conference paper that the problem was due to a hardware design bug previously seen during testing of the first uncrewed lm in apollo 5. having the rendezvous radar on ( so it was warmed up in case of an emergency landing abort ) should have been irrelevant to the computer, but an electrical phasing mismatch between two parts of the rendezvous radar system could cause the stationary antenna to appear to the computer as dithering back and forth between two positions, depending upon how the hardware randomly powered up. the extra spurious cycle stealing, as the rendezvous radar updated an involuntary counter, caused the computer alarms. landing when armstrong again looked outside, he saw that the computer ' s landing target was in a boulder - strewn area just north and east of a crater ( later determined to be west crater ), so he took semi - automatic control. armstrong considered landing short of the boulder field so they could collect geological samples from it, but could not since their horizontal velocity was too high. throughout the descent, aldrin called out navigation data to armstrong, who was busy piloting eagle. now above the surface, armstrong knew their propellant supply was dwindling and was determined to land at the first possible landing site. armstrong found a clear patch of ground and maneuvered the spacecraft towards it. as he got closer, now above the surface, he discovered his new landing site had a crater in it. he cleared the crater and found another patch of level ground. they were now from the surface, with only 90 seconds of propellant remaining. lunar dust kicked up by the lm ' s engine began to impair his ability to determine the spacecraft ' s motion. some large rocks jutted out of the dust cloud, and armstrong focused on them during his descent so he could determine the spacecraft ' s speed. a light informed aldrin that at least one of the probes hanging from eagle footpads had touched the surface a few moments before the landing and he said : " contact light! " armstrong was supposed to immediately shut the engine down, as the engineers suspected the pressure caused by the engine ' s own exhaust reflecting off the lunar surface could make it explode, but he forgot. three seconds later, eagle landed and armstrong shut the engine down. aldrin immediately said " okay, engine stop. ac