a challenge for students, regardless of age, and has considerable physiological and psychological impacts. management of test anxiety focuses on achieving relaxation and developing mechanisms to manage anxiety. the routine practice of slow, device - guided breathing ( dgb ) is a major component of behavioral treatments for anxiety conditions. performance and competitive performance anxiety and competitive anxiety ( competitive trait anxiety, competitive state anxiety ) happen when an individual ' s performance is measured against others. an important distinction between competitive and non - competitive anxiety is that competitive anxiety makes people view their performance as a threat. as a result, they experience a drop in their ordinary ability, whether physical or mental, due to that perceived stress. competitive anxiety is caused by a range of internal factors including high expectations, outside pressure, lack of experience, and external factors like the location of a competition. it commonly occurs in those participating in high pressure activities like sports and debates. some common symptoms of competitive anxiety include muscle tension, fatigue, weakness, sense of panic, apprehensiveness, and panic attacks. there are 4 major theories of how anxiety affects performance : drive theory, inverted u theory, reversal theory, and the zone of optimal functioning theory. drive theory believes that anxiety is positive and performance improves proportionally to the level of anxiety. this theory is not well accepted. the inverted u theory is based on the idea that performance peaks at a moderate stress level. it is called inverted u theory because the graph that plots performance against anxiety looks like an inverted " u ". reversal theory suggests that performance increases in relation to the individual ' s interpretation of their arousal levels. if they believed their physical arousal level would help them, their performance would increase, if they didn ' t, their performance would decrease. for example : athletes were shown to worry more when focusing on results and perfection rather than the effort and growth involved. the zone of optimal functioning theory proposes that there is a zone where positive and negative emotions are in a balance which lead to feelings of dissociation and intense concentration, optimizing the individual ' s performance levels. stranger, social, and intergroup anxiety humans generally require social acceptance and thus sometimes dread the disapproval of others. apprehension of being judged by others may cause anxiety in social environments. anxiety during social interactions, particularly between strangers, is common among young people. it may persist into adulthood and become social anxiety or social phobia. " stranger anxiety " in small children is not considered a phobia. in adults, an excessive fear of other people is not a developmentally common stage ; it is