##na borough, the majority of fairbanks ( including north pole and the military base ), and south anchorage typically have the strongest republican showing. elections alaska has had a long history of primary defeats for incumbent u. s. senators, with ernest gruening, mike gravel and lisa murkowski all being defeated for the nomination to their re - election. however, murkowski won re - election with a write - in campaign. despite this, alaska has had some long - serving congressmen, with ted stevens serving as u. s. senator for 40 years, and don young serving as the at - large representative for 49 years. in the 2020 election cycle, alaskan voters approved ballot measure 2. the measure passed by a margin of 1. 1 %, or about 4, 000 votes. the measure requires campaigns to disclose the original source and any intermediaries for campaign contributions over $ 2, 000. the measure also establishes non - partisan blanket primaries for statewide elections ( like in washington state and california ) and ranked - choice voting ( like in maine ). measure 2 makes alaska the third state with jungle primaries for all statewide races, the second state with ranked choice voting, and the only state with both. the first race to use the new system of elections was the 2022 special election to fill alaska ' s only u. s. house seat, left vacant by the death of don young, won by mary peltola, the first democrat to win the house seat since 1972, and the first alaskan native to be elected to the united states congress in history. see also index of alaska - related articles outline of alaska list of boroughs and census areas in alaska uss alaska, 4 ships notes references external links alaska ' s digital archives alaska inter - tribal council who owns / manages alaska? ( map ) carl j. sacarlasen diary extracts at dartmouth college library m. e. diemer alaska photographs at dartmouth college library alfred hulse brooks photographs and papers. yale collection of western americana, beinecke rare book and manuscript library. u. s. federal government alaska state guide from the library of congress energy & environmental data for alaska usgs real - time, geographic, and other scientific resources of alaska us census bureau alaska state facts alaska statehood subject guide from the eisenhower presidential library alaska statehood documents, dwight d. eisenhower presidential library alaska state government state of alaska website alaska state databases alaska department of natural resources, recorder ' s office arctic ocean former russian colonies states and territories established in 1959 states of the united states states of the west