virginia. on july 20 and 21, the army of the shenandoah and forces from the district of harpers ferry were added. units from the army of the northwest were merged into the army of the potomac between march 14 and may 17, 1862. the army of the potomac was renamed army of northern virginia on march 14. the army of the peninsula was merged into it on april 12, 1862. when virginia declared its secession in april 1861, robert e. lee chose to follow his home state, despite his desire for the country to remain intact and an offer of a senior union command. lee ' s biographer, douglas s. freeman, asserts that the army received its final name from lee when he issued orders assuming command on june 1, 1862. however, freeman does admit that lee corresponded with brigadier general joseph e. johnston, his predecessor in army command, before that date and referred to johnston ' s command as the army of northern virginia. part of the confusion results from the fact that johnston commanded the department of northern virginia ( as of october 22, 1861 ) and the name army of northern virginia can be seen as an informal consequence of its parent department ' s name. jefferson davis and johnston did not adopt the name, but it is clear that the organization of units as of march 14 was the same organization that lee received on june 1, and thus it is generally referred to today as the army of northern virginia, even if that is correct only in retrospect. on july 4 at harper ' s ferry, colonel thomas j. jackson assigned jeb stuart to command all the cavalry companies of the army of the shenandoah. he eventually commanded the army of northern virginia ' s cavalry. battles in one of the first highly visible battles, in july 1861, a march by union troops under the command of maj. gen. irvin mcdowell on the confederate forces led by gen. p. g. t. beauregard near washington was repulsed at the first battle of bull run ( also known as first manassas ). the union had the upper hand at first, nearly pushing confederate forces holding a defensive position into a rout, but confederate reinforcements under joseph e. johnston arrived from the shenandoah valley by railroad, and the course of the battle quickly changed. a brigade of virginians under the relatively unknown brigadier general from the virginia military institute, thomas j. jackson, stood its ground, which resulted in jackson receiving his famous nickname, " stonewall ". upon the strong urging of president lincoln to begin offensive operations, mcclellan