##tra - nuclear, tegmen not persistent, endosperm helobial, and loss of mitochondrial gene sdh3. taxonomy as circumscribed within the angiosperm phylogeny group system asparagales is the largest order within the monocotyledons, with 14 families, 1, 122 genera and about 25, 000 – 42, 000 species, thus accounting for about 50 % of all monocots and 10 – 15 % of the flowering plants ( angiosperms ). the attribution of botanical authority for the name asparagales belongs to johann heinrich friedrich link ( 1767 – 1851 ) who coined the word ' asparaginae ' in 1829 for a higher order taxon that included asparagus although adanson and jussieau had also done so earlier ( see history ). earlier circumscriptions of asparagales attributed the name to bromhead ( 1838 ), who had been the first to use the term ' asparagales '. history pre - darwinian the type genus, asparagus, from which the name of the order is derived, was described by carl linnaeus in 1753, with ten species. he placed asparagus within the hexandria monogynia ( six stamens, one carpel ) in his sexual classification in the species plantarum. the majority of taxa now considered to constitute asparagales have historically been placed within the very large and diverse family, liliaceae. the family liliaceae was first described by michel adanson in 1763, and in his taxonomic scheme he created eight sections within it, including the asparagi with asparagus and three other genera. the system of organising genera into families is generally credited to antoine laurent de jussieu who formally described both the liliaceae and the type family of asparagales, the asparagaceae, as lilia and asparagi, respectively, in 1789. jussieu established the hierarchical system of taxonomy ( phylogeny ), placing asparagus and related genera within a division of monocotyledons, a class ( iii ) of stamina perigynia and ' order ' asparagi, divided into three subfamilies. the use of the term ordo ( order ) at that time was closer to what we now understand as family, rather than order. in creating his scheme he used a modified form of linnaeus ' sexual classification but using the respective topography of stamens