statues of apollo may be two figures from the ionic sanctuary on the island of delos. such statues were found across the greek - speaking world, the preponderance of these were found at the sanctuaries of apollo with more than one hundred from the sanctuary of apollo ptoios, boeotia alone. significantly more rare are the life - sized bronze statues. one of the few originals which survived into the present day — so rare that its discovery in 1959 was described as " a miracle " by ernst homann - wedeking — is the masterpiece bronze, piraeus apollo. it was found in piraeus, a port city close to athens, and is believed to have come from north - eastern peloponnesus. it is the only surviving large - scale peloponnesian statue. classical sculpture the famous apollo of mantua and its variants are early forms of the apollo citharoedus statue type, in which the god holds the cithara, a sophisticated seven - stringed variant of the lyre, in his left arm. while none of the greek originals have survived, several roman copies from approximately the late 1st or early 2nd century exist, of which an example is the apollo barberini. hellenistic greece - rome apollo as a handsome beardless young man, is often depicted with a cithara ( as apollo citharoedus ) or bow in his hand, or reclining on a tree ( the apollo lykeios and apollo sauroctonos types ). the apollo belvedere is a marble sculpture that was rediscovered in the late 15th century ; for centuries it epitomized the ideals of classical antiquity for europeans, from the renaissance through the 19th century. the marble is a hellenistic or roman copy of a bronze original by the greek sculptor leochares, made between 330 and 320 bce. the life - size so - called " adonis " found in 1780 on the site of a villa suburbana near the via labicana in the roman suburb of centocelle is identified as an apollo by modern scholars. in the late 2nd century ce floor mosaic from el djem, roman thysdrus, he is identifiable as apollo helios by his effulgent halo, though now even a god ' s divine nakedness is concealed by his cloak, a mark of increasing conventions of modesty in the later empire. another haloed apollo in mosaic, from hadrumentum, is in the museum at sousse. the conventions of this representation, head