and un or u. n. for united nations. there are some house styles, however — american ones included — that remove the periods from almost all abbreviations. for example : the u. s. manual on uniform traffic control devices advises that periods should not be used with abbreviations on road signs, except for cardinal directions as part of a destination name. ( for example, " northwest blvd ", " w. jefferson ", and " ped xing " all follow this recommendation. ) ama style, used in many medical journals, uses no periods in abbreviations or acronyms, with almost no exceptions. thus eg, ie, vs, et al, dr, mr, mri, icu, and hundreds of others contain no periods. the only exceptions are ( an abbreviation of numero, number ), to avoid confusion with the word " no " ; initials within persons ' names ( such as " george r. smith " ) ; and " st. " within persons ' names when the person prefers it ( such as " emily r. st. clair " ) ( but not in city names such as st louis or st paul ). acronyms that were originally capitalized ( with or without periods ) but have since entered the vocabulary as generic words are no longer written with capital letters nor with any periods. examples are sonar, radar, lidar, laser, snafu, and scuba. today, spaces are generally not used between single - letter abbreviations of words in the same phrase, so one almost never encounters " u. s. " when an abbreviation appears at the end of a sentence, only one period is used : the capital of the united states is washington, d. c. plural forms there is a question about how to pluralize abbreviations, particularly acronyms. some writers tend to pluralize abbreviations by adding ( apostrophe s ), as in " two pc ' s have broken screens ", although this notation typically indicates possessive case. however, this style is not preferred by many style guides. for instance, kate turabian, writing about style in academic writings, allows for an apostrophe to form plural acronyms " only when an abbreviation contains internal periods or both capital and lowercase letters ". turabian would therefore prefer " dvds " and " urls " and " ph. d. ' s ", while the modern language association explicitly says, " do not use an apostrophe to form the plural of an abbreviation ". also