waves : after the initial conquest, in the 10th century and the 11th. the last were evacuated to sicily by the normans and the few remaining died out in the 14th century. during the middle ages, north africa was home to many great scholars, saints and sovereigns including judah ibn quraysh, the first grammarian to mention semitic and berber languages, the great sufi masters sidi boumediene ( abu madyan ) and sidi el houari, and the emirs abd al mu ' min and yaghmurasen. it was during this time that the fatimids or children of fatima, daughter of muhammad, came to the maghreb. these " fatimids " went on to found a long lasting dynasty stretching across the maghreb, hejaz and the levant, boasting a secular inner government, as well as a powerful army and navy, made up primarily of arabs and levantines extending from algeria to their capital state of cairo. the fatimid caliphate began to collapse when its governors the zirids seceded. in order to punish them the fatimids sent the arab banu hilal and banu sulaym against them. the resultant war is recounted in the epic taghribat. in al - taghribat the amazigh zirid hero khalifa al - zanati asks daily, for duels, to defeat the hilalan hero abu zayd al - hilali and many other arab knights in a string of victories. the zirids, however, were ultimately defeated ushering in an adoption of arab customs and culture. the indigenous amazigh tribes, however, remained largely independent, and depending on tribe, location and time controlled varying parts of the maghreb, at times unifying it ( as under the fatimids ). the fatimid islamic state, also known as fatimid caliphate made an islamic empire that included north africa, sicily, palestine, jordan, lebanon, syria, egypt, the red sea coast of africa, tihamah, hejaz and yemen. caliphates from northern africa traded with the other empires of their time, as well as forming part of a confederated support and trade network with other islamic states during the islamic era. the berber people historically consisted of several tribes. the two main branches were the botr and barnes tribes, who were divided into tribes, and again into sub - tribes. each region of the maghreb contained several tribes ( for example, sanhadja,