be restricted to the comparison of long sequences ". two additional amino acids are in some species coded for by codons that are usually interpreted as stop codons : in addition to the specific amino acid codes, placeholders are used in cases where chemical or crystallographic analysis of a peptide or protein cannot conclusively determine the identity of a residue. they are also used to summarise conserved protein sequence motifs. the use of single letters to indicate sets of similar residues is similar to the use of abbreviation codes for degenerate bases. unk is sometimes used instead of xaa, but is less standard. ter or * ( from termination ) is used in notation for mutations in proteins when a stop codon occurs. it corresponds to no amino acid at all. in addition, many nonstandard amino acids have a specific code. for example, several peptide drugs, such as bortezomib and mg132, are artificially synthesized and retain their protecting groups, which have specific codes. bortezomib is pyz – phe – boroleu, and mg132 is z – leu – leu – leu – al. to aid in the analysis of protein structure, photo - reactive amino acid analogs are available. these include photoleucine ( pleu ) and photomethionine ( pmet ). occurrence and functions in biochemistry proteinogenic amino acids amino acids are the precursors to proteins. they join by condensation reactions to form short polymer chains called peptides or longer chains called either polypeptides or proteins. these chains are linear and unbranched, with each amino acid residue within the chain attached to two neighboring amino acids. in nature, the process of making proteins encoded by dna / rna genetic material is called translation and involves the step - by - step addition of amino acids to a growing protein chain by a ribozyme that is called a ribosome. the order in which the amino acids are added is read through the genetic code from an mrna template, which is an rna copy of one of the organism ' s genes. twenty - two amino acids are naturally incorporated into polypeptides and are called proteinogenic or natural amino acids. of these, 20 are encoded by the universal genetic code. the remaining 2, selenocysteine and pyrrolysine, are incorporated into proteins by unique synthetic mechanisms. selenocysteine is incorporated when the mrna being translated includes a secis element, which causes the u