a voice - over narrated by a fictional man and a child ( voiced by the same actors as the beggar and his son in dodesukaden ). it is the only documentary in kurosawa ' s filmography ; the small crew included his frequent collaborator masaru sato, who composed the music. song of the horse is also unique in kurosawa ' s oeuvre in that it includes an editor ' s credit, suggesting that it is the only kurosawa film that he did not cut himself. unable to secure funding for further work and allegedly having health problems, kurosawa apparently reached the breaking point : on december 22, 1971, he slit his wrists and throat multiple times. the suicide attempt proved unsuccessful and the director ' s health recovered fairly quickly, with kurosawa now taking refuge in domestic life, uncertain if he would ever direct another film. in early 1973, the soviet studio mosfilm approached the film - maker to ask if he would be interested in working with them. kurosawa proposed an adaptation of russian explorer vladimir arsenyev ' s autobiographical work dersu uzala. the book, about a goldi hunter who lives in harmony with nature until destroyed by encroaching civilization, was one that he had wanted to make since the 1930s. in december 1973, the 63 - year - old kurosawa set off for the soviet union with four of his closest aides, beginning a year - and - a - half stay in the country. shooting began in may 1974 in siberia, with filming in exceedingly harsh natural conditions proving very difficult and demanding. the picture wrapped in april 1975, with a thoroughly exhausted and homesick kurosawa returning to japan and his family in june. dersu uzala had its world premiere in japan on august 2, 1975, and did well at the box office. while critical reception in japan was muted, the film was better reviewed abroad, winning the golden prize at the 9th moscow international film festival, as well as an academy award for best foreign language film. today, critics remain divided over the film : some see it as an example of kurosawa ' s alleged artistic decline, while others count it among his finest works. although proposals for television projects were submitted to him, he had no interest in working outside the film world. nevertheless, the hard - drinking director did agree to appear in a series of television ads for suntory whiskey, which aired in 1976. while fearing that he might never be able to make another film, the