for example, consider the data sample. the mean is, as is the median. however, when we consider a sample that cannot be arranged to increase arithmetically, such as, the median and arithmetic average can differ significantly. in this case, the arithmetic average is, while the median is. the average value can vary considerably from most values in the sample and can be larger or smaller than most. there are applications of this phenomenon in many fields. for example, since the 1980s, the median income in the united states has increased more slowly than the arithmetic average of income. generalizations weighted average a weighted average, or weighted mean, is an average in which some data points count more heavily than others in that they are given more weight in the calculation. for example, the arithmetic mean of and is, or equivalently. in contrast, a weighted mean in which the first number receives, for example, twice as much weight as the second ( perhaps because it is assumed to appear twice as often in the general population from which these numbers were sampled ) would be calculated as. here the weights, which necessarily sum to one, are and, the former being twice the latter. the arithmetic mean ( sometimes called the " unweighted average " or " equally weighted average " ) can be interpreted as a special case of a weighted average in which all weights are equal to the same number ( in the above example and in a situation with numbers being averaged ). continuous probability distributions if a numerical property, and any sample of data from it, can take on any value from a continuous range instead of, for example, just integers, then the probability of a number falling into some range of possible values can be described by integrating a continuous probability distribution across this range, even when the naive probability for a sample number taking one certain value from infinitely many is zero. in this context, the analog of a weighted average, in which there are infinitely many possibilities for the precise value of the variable in each range, is called the mean of the probability distribution. the most widely encountered probability distribution is called the normal distribution ; it has the property that all measures of its central tendency, including not just the mean but also the median mentioned above and the mode ( the three ms ), are equal. this equality does not hold for other probability distributions, as illustrated for the log - normal distribution here. angles particular care is needed when using cyclic data, such as phases or angles. taking the arithmetic mean of 1° and 359° yields a result of 180°. this is incorrect