theory of justice and natural law. albert places god as the pinnacle of justice and natural law. god legislates and divine authority is supreme. up until his time, it was the only work specifically devoted to natural law written by a theologian or philosopher. friendship albert mentions friendship in his work, de bono, as well as presenting his ideals and morals of friendship in the very beginning of tractatus ii. later in his life he published super ethica. with his development of friendship throughout his work it is evident that friendship ideals and morals took relevance as his life went on. albert comments on aristotle ' s view of friendship with a quote from cicero, who writes, " friendship is nothing other than the harmony between things divine and human, with goodwill and love ". albert agrees with this commentary but he also adds in harmony or agreement. albert calls this harmony, consensio, itself a certain kind of movement within the human spirit. albert fully agrees with aristotle in the sense that friendship is a virtue. albert relates the inherent metaphysical contentedness between friendship and moral goodness. albert describes several levels of goodness ; the useful ( utile ), the pleasurable ( delectabile ) and the authentic or unqualified good ( honestum ). then in turn there are three levels of friendship based on each of those levels, namely friendship based on usefulness ( amicitia utilis ), friendship based on pleasure ( amicitia delectabilis ), and friendship rooted in unqualified goodness ( amicitia honesti ; amicitia quae fundatur super honestum ). cultural references the iconography of the tympanum and archivolts of the late 13th - century portal of strasbourg cathedral was inspired by albert ' s writings. albert is frequently mentioned by dante, who made his doctrine of free will the basis of his ethical system. in his divine comedy, dante places albertus with his pupil thomas aquinas among the great lovers of wisdom ( spiriti sapienti ) in the heaven of the sun. in the concept of anxiety, søren kierkegaard wrote that albert, " arrogantly boasted of his speculation before the deity and suddenly became stupid. " kierkegaard cites gotthard oswald marbach whom he quotes as saying " albertus repente ex asino factus philosophus et ex philosopho asinus " [ albert was suddenly transformed from an ass into a philosopher and from a philosopher into an ass ]. in mary shelley ' s frankenstein, the