national tree ( whitewood tree ). clare waight keller designed meghan markle ' s wedding veil, which featured the distinctive flora of each commonwealth nation. to represent antigua and barbuda, agave karatto was included in the veil by clare waight keller. the european fallow deer, or dama dama, is the country ' s official mammal, despite the fact that it is a non - native species. in 1992, the government held a contest to design a new national dress for the country, and the winner of the competition was the artist heather doram. see also geology of antigua and barbuda outline of antigua and barbuda index of antigua and barbuda – related articles transport in antigua and barbuda references works cited further reading nicholson, desmond v., antigua, barbuda, and redonda : a historical sketch, st. johns, antigua : antigua and barbuda museum, 1991. dyde, brian, a history of antigua : the unsuspected isle, london : macmillan caribbean, 2000. gaspar, david barry – bondmen & rebels : a study of master - slave relations in antigua, with implications for colonial america. harris, david r. – plants, animals, and man in the outer leeward islands, west indies. an ecological study of antigua, barbuda, and anguilla. henry, paget – peripheral capitalism and underdevelopment in antigua. lazarus - black, mindie – legitimate acts and illegal encounters : law and society in antigua and barbuda. riley, j. h. – catalogue of a collection of birds from barbuda and antigua, british west indies. rouse, irving and birgit faber morse – excavations at the indian creek site, antigua, west indies. thomas hearne. southampton. external links antigua and barbuda, united states library of congress antigua and barbuda. the world factbook. central intelligence agency. antigua and barbuda from ucb libraries govpubs antigua and barbuda from the bbc news world bank ' s country data profile for antigua and barbuda archaeologyantigua. org – 2010march13 source of archaeological information for antigua and barbuda antigua & barbuda official business hub countries in the caribbean island countries commonwealth realms countries in north america countries and territories where english is an official language member states of the caribbean community member states of the commonwealth of nations member states of the organisation of eastern caribbean states member states of the united nations small island developing