##rgical laboratory ( now argonne national laboratory ) of the university of chicago. following the lighter neptunium, plutonium, and heavier curium, americium was the fourth transuranium element to be discovered. at the time, the periodic table had been restructured by seaborg to its present layout, containing the actinide row below the lanthanide one. this led to americium being located right below its twin lanthanide element europium ; it was thus by analogy named after the americas : " the name americium ( after the americas ) and the symbol am are suggested for the element on the basis of its position as the sixth member of the actinide rare - earth series, analogous to europium, eu, of the lanthanide series. " the new element was isolated from its oxides in a complex, multi - step process. first plutonium - 239 nitrate ( 239puno3 ) solution was coated on a platinum foil of about 0. 5 cm2 area, the solution was evaporated and the residue was converted into plutonium dioxide ( puo2 ) by calcining. after cyclotron irradiation, the coating was dissolved with nitric acid, and then precipitated as the hydroxide using concentrated aqueous ammonia solution. the residue was dissolved in perchloric acid. further separation was carried out by ion exchange, yielding a certain isotope of curium. the separation of curium and americium was so painstaking that those elements were initially called by the berkeley group as pandemonium ( from greek for all demons or hell ) and delirium ( from latin for madness ). initial experiments yielded four americium isotopes : 241am, 242am, 239am and 238am. americium - 241 was directly obtained from plutonium upon absorption of two neutrons. it decays by emission of a α - particle to 237np ; the half - life of this decay was first determined as years but then corrected to 432. 2 years. the times are half - lives the second isotope 242am was produced upon neutron bombardment of the already - created 241am. upon rapid β - decay, 242am converts into the isotope of curium 242cm ( which had been discovered previously ). the half - life of this decay was initially determined at 17 hours, which was close to the presently accepted value of 16. 02 h. the discovery of americium and curium in 1944 was closely