those closest to him. in later years i came into contact with the emperor on several occasions, and i felt not the slightest bit timid. in more ordinary cases tsar alexander iii could be at once kind, simple, and even almost homely. early life though he was destined to be a strongly counter - reforming emperor, alexander had little prospect of succeeding to the throne during the first two decades of his life, as he had an elder brother, nicholas, who seemed of robust constitution. even when nicholas first displayed symptoms of delicate health, the notion that he might die young was never taken seriously, and he was betrothed to princess dagmar of denmark, daughter of king christian ix of denmark and queen louise of denmark, and whose siblings included king frederick viii of denmark, queen alexandra of the united kingdom and king george i of greece. great solicitude was devoted to the education of nicholas as tsesarevich, whereas alexander received only the training of an ordinary grand duke of that period. this included acquaintance with french, english and german, and military drill. as tsarevich alexander became tsesarevich upon nicholas ' s sudden death in 1865. he had been very close to his older brother, and he was devastated by nicholas ' death. when he became tsar, he reflected that " no one had such an impact on my life as my dear brother and friend nixa [ nicholas ] " and lamented that " a terrible responsibility fell on my shoulders " when nicholas died. as tsesarevich, alexander began to study the principles of law and administration under konstantin pobedonostsev, then a professor of civil law at moscow state university and later ( from 1880 ) chief procurator of the holy synod of the orthodox church in russia. pobedonostsev instilled into the young man ' s mind the belief that zeal for russian orthodox thought was an essential factor of russian patriotism to be cultivated by every right - minded emperor. while he was heir apparent from 1865 to 1881 alexander did not play a prominent part in public affairs, but allowed it to become known that he had ideas which did not coincide with the principles of the existing government. on his deathbed, nicholas allegedly expressed the wish that his fiancee, princess dagmar of denmark, should marry alexander. alexander ' s parents encouraged the match. on 2 june 1866, alexander went to copenhagen to visit dagmar. when they were looking at photographs of the deceased nicholas, alexander proposed to dagmar. on in the grand church of