however, grand makes an unexpected recovery, and deaths from the plague start to decline. part five by late january the plague is in full retreat, and the townspeople begin to celebrate the imminent opening of the town gates. othon, however, does not escape death from the disease. cottard is distressed by the ending of the epidemic from which he has profited by shady dealings. two government employees approach him, and he flees. despite the epidemic ' s ending, tarrou contracts the plague and dies after a heroic struggle. rieux is later informed via telegram that his wife has also died. in february, the town gates open and people are reunited with their loved ones from other cities. rambert is reunited with his wife. cottard goes mad and shoots at people from his home, and is soon arrested after a brief skirmish with the police. grand begins working on his novel again. the narrator of the chronicle says that he is dr. rieux and states that he tried to present an objective view of the events. he reflects on the epidemic and declares he wrote the chronicle " to simply say what we learn in the midst of plagues : there are more things to admire in men than to despise ". critical analysis germaine bree has characterised the struggle of the characters against the plague as " undramatic and stubborn ", and in contrast to the ideology of " glorification of power " in the novels of andre malraux, whereas camus ' characters " are obscurely engaged in saving, not destroying, and this in the name of no ideology ". lulu haroutunian has discussed camus ' own medical history, including a bout with tuberculosis, and how it informs the novel. marina warner notes its larger philosophical themes of " engagement ", " paltriness and generosity ", " small heroism and large cowardice ", and " all kinds of profoundly humanist problems, such as love and goodness, happiness and mutual connection ". thomas l hanna and john loose have separately discussed themes related to christianity in the novel, with particular respect to father paneloux and dr rieux. louis r rossi briefly discusses the role of tarrou in the novel, and the sense of philosophical guilt behind his character. elwyn sterling has analysed the role of cottard and his final actions at the end of the novel. father paneloux has been subject to several literary analyses in the context of faith faced with great suffering. dr rieux has been described as a classic example of an idealist doctor. he has