azerbaijan with weapons, military equipment, and, if necessary, soldiers in case war with armenia over karabakh resumes. turkey has provided azerbaijan with infantry weapons, tactical vehicles ( jeeps, trucks, etc. ) professional training, military organization, technology transfer, licensed military hardware production, and other services. due to help from turkish specialists and instructors, thousands of azerbaijani officers have been trained to western standards. the military position as international importance of azerbaijan increased with an agreement between azerbaijan and turkey on the participation an azerbaijani peacekeeping platoon in the staff of the turkish battalion in kosovo. since 1992, azerbaijan and turkey have signed more than 100 military protocols, some of the major protocols include : cooperation of staff members national security cooperation in the topographical area forming and training of professional school of forces in baku carrying out of the material and technical purchasing military industry cooperation development of the 5th army corps also known as nakhchivan army corps in nakhchivan cooperation in the area of military history, military archives and museum work and military publication assistance on training, material and technical between the azerbaijan border guard and the turkish armed forces. long - term economical and military cooperation and application of the financial aid application of material and technical provision in may 2011, azerbaijan had discussed the purchase of long - range rockets from two chinese companies, the minister of the defence industry has said. other arms deals were signed with turkey. turkish defence minister vecdi gonul and yaver jamalov signed a protocol of intent on future joint production of two types of output – 107 - mm rockets and the national rifle, possibly the mehmetcik - 1. a protocol of intent was signed the same day with the mechanical and chemical industry corporation mkek on the joint production of 120 - mm mortar launchers. this project will come into force in a few months time. agreement has also been reached with turkish company aselsan on the production of some types of defence output in azerbaijan, specifically the latest types of weapons ' sights. these projects will probably happen in the near future too. recently, turkish defense industries secretariat told that an export version of the t - 155 firtina self - propelled howitser is almost done and could start production. t - 155 has been powered by a german mtu power pack, which restricts the sale to some countries like azerbaijan. the turkish manufacturer mkek, has announced that they have found an alternate supplier for the power pack where azerbaijan showed interest to buy the high tech, more capable 155mm 52 caliber from turkish authorities. united states section 907