. christie ' s autobiography makes no reference to the disappearance. two doctors diagnosed her with " an unquestionable genuine loss of memory ", yet opinion remains divided over the reason for her disappearance. some, including her biographer morgan, believe she disappeared during a fugue state. the author jared cade concluded that christie planned the event to embarrass her husband but did not anticipate the resulting public melodrama. christie biographer laura thompson provides an alternative view that christie disappeared during a nervous breakdown, conscious of her actions but not in emotional control of herself. public reaction at the time was largely negative, supposing a publicity stunt or an attempt to frame her husband for murder. second marriage and later life : 1927 – 1976 in january 1927, christie, looking " very pale ", sailed with her daughter and secretary to las palmas, canary islands, to " complete her convalescence ", returning three months later. christie petitioned for divorce and was granted a decree nisi against her husband in april 1928, which was made absolute in october 1928. archie married nancy neele a week later. christie retained custody of their daughter, rosalind, and kept the christie surname for her writing. reflecting on the period in her autobiography, christie wrote, " so, after illness, came sorrow, despair and heartbreak. there is no need to dwell on it. " in 1928, christie left england and took the ( simplon ) orient express to istanbul and then to baghdad. in iraq, she became friends with archaeologist leonard woolley and his wife, who invited her to return to their dig in february 1930. on that second trip, she met archaeologist max mallowan, 13 years her junior. in a 1977 interview, mallowan recounted his first meeting with christie, when he took her and a group of tourists on a tour of his expedition site in iraq. christie and mallowan married in edinburgh in september 1930. their marriage lasted until christie ' s death in 1976. she accompanied mallowan on his archaeological expeditions, and her travels with him contributed background to several of her novels set in the middle east. other novels ( such as peril at end house ) were set in and around torquay, where she was raised. christie drew on her experience of international train travel when writing her 1934 novel murder on the orient express. the pera palace hotel in istanbul, the eastern terminus of the railway, claims the book was written there and maintains christie ' s room as a memorial to the author. christie and mallowa