in the same place each rainy season. the assembled frogs may call in unison and frenzied activity ensues, the males scrambling to mate with the usually smaller number of females. there is a direct competition between males to win the attention of the females in salamanders and newts, with elaborate courtship displays to keep the female ' s attention long enough to get her interested in choosing him to mate with. some species store sperm through long breeding seasons, as the extra time may allow for interactions with rival sperm. life cycle most amphibians go through metamorphosis, a process of significant morphological change after birth. in typical amphibian development, eggs are laid in water and larvae are adapted to an aquatic lifestyle. frogs, toads and salamanders all hatch from the egg as larvae with external gills. metamorphosis in amphibians is regulated by thyroxine concentration in the blood, which stimulates metamorphosis, and prolactin, which counteracts thyroxine ' s effect. specific events are dependent on threshold values for different tissues. because most embryonic development is outside the parental body, it is subject to many adaptations due to specific environmental circumstances. for this reason tadpoles can have horny ridges instead of teeth, whisker - like skin extensions or fins. they also make use of a sensory lateral line organ similar to that of fish. after metamorphosis, these organs become redundant and will be reabsorbed by controlled cell death, called apoptosis. the variety of adaptations to specific environmental circumstances among amphibians is wide, with many discoveries still being made. eggs in the egg, the embryo is suspended in perivitelline fluid and surrounded by semi - permeable gelatinous capsules, with the yolk mass providing nutrients. as the larvae hatch, the capsules are dissolved by enzymes secreted from gland at the tip of the snout. the eggs of some salamanders and frogs contain unicellular green algae. these penetrate the jelly envelope after the eggs are laid and may increase the supply of oxygen to the embryo through photosynthesis. they seem to both speed up the development of the larvae and reduce mortality. in the wood frog ( rana sylvatica ), the interior of the globular egg cluster has been found to be up to warmer than its surroundings, which is an advantage in its cool northern habitat. the eggs may be deposited singly, in cluster or in long strands.