, some of whom are not human. as religious studies scholar graham harvey stated, while the " old animist " definition had been problematic, the term animism was nevertheless " of considerable value as a critical, academic term for a style of religious and cultural relating to the world. " hallowell and the ojibwe the new animism emerged largely from the publications of anthropologist irving hallowell, produced on the basis of his ethnographic research among the ojibwe communities of canada in the mid - 20th century. for the ojibwe encountered by hallowell, personhood did not require human - likeness, but rather humans were perceived as being like other persons, who for instance included rock persons and bear persons. for the ojibwe, these persons were each willful beings, who gained meaning and power through their interactions with others ; through respectfully interacting with other persons, they themselves learned to " act as a person ". hallowell ' s approach to the understanding of ojibwe personhood differed strongly from prior anthropological concepts of animism. he emphasized the need to challenge the modernist, western perspectives of what a person is, by entering into a dialogue with different worldwide views. hallowell ' s approach influenced the work of anthropologist nurit bird - david, who produced a scholarly article reassessing the idea of animism in 1999. seven comments from other academics were provided in the journal, debating bird - david ' s ideas. postmodern anthropology more recently, postmodern anthropologists are increasingly engaging with the concept of animism. modernism is characterized by a cartesian subject - object dualism that divides the subjective from the objective, and culture from nature. in the modernist view, animism is the inverse of scientism, and hence, is deemed inherently invalid by some anthropologists. drawing on the work of bruno latour, some anthropologists question modernist assumptions and theorize that all societies continue to " animate " the world around them. in contrast to tylor ' s reasoning, however, this " animism " is considered to be more than just a remnant of primitive thought. more specifically, the " animism " of modernity is characterized by humanity ' s " professional subcultures ", as in the ability to treat the world as a detached entity within a delimited sphere of activity. human beings continue to create personal relationships with elements of the aforementioned objective world, such as pets, cars, or teddy