grace, but allows humans the god - granted ability to resist or not resist it. the only " contribution " humans make is nonresistance to grace. " election of man election is conditional : arminius defined election as " the decree of god by which, of himself, from eternity, he decreed to justify in christ, believers, and to accept them unto eternal life. " god alone determines who will be saved and his determination is that all who believe jesus through faith will be justified. according to arminius, " god regards no one in christ unless they are engrafted in him by faith. " god predestines the elect to a glorious future : predestination is not the predetermination of who will believe, but rather the predetermination of the believer ' s future inheritance. the elect are therefore predestined to sonship through adoption, glorification, and eternal life. preservation of man related to eschatological considerations, jacobus arminius and the first remonstrants, including simon episcopius believed in everlasting fire where the wicked are thrown by god at judgment day. preservation is conditional : all believers have full assurance of salvation with the condition that they remain in christ. salvation is conditioned on faith, therefore perseverance is also conditioned. arminius believed the scriptures taught that believers are graciously empowered by christ and the holy spirit " to fight against satan, sin, the world and their own flesh, and to gain the victory over these enemies. " furthermore, christ and the spirit are ever present to aid and assist believers through various temptations. but this security was not unconditional but conditional — " provided they [ believers ] stand prepared for the battle, implore his help, and be not wanting to themselves, christ preserves them from falling. " possibility of apostasy arminius believed in the possibility for a believer to commit apostasy ( i. e., desert christ by cleaving again to this evil world, losing a good conscience, or by failing to hold on to sound doctrine ). however, over the period of time arminius wrote on this question, he sometimes expressed himself more cautiously out of consideration for the faith of his readers. for instance, arminius declared in 1599 that this matter required further study in the scriptures. arminius said also in his " declaration of sentiments " ( 1607 ), " i never taught that a true believer can,