in the hospital with tuberculosis. many themes of his childhood — the evacuation, his mother and her two children, the withdrawn father, the time in the hospital — feature prominently in his film mirror. in his school years, tarkovsky was a troublemaker and a poor student. he still managed to graduate, and from 1951 to 1952 studied arabic at the oriental institute in moscow, a branch of the academy of sciences of the soviet union. although he already spoke some arabic and was a successful student in his first semesters, he did not finish his studies and dropped out to work as a prospector for the academy of science institute for non - ferrous metals and gold. he participated in a year - long research expedition to the river kureyka near turukhansk in the krasnoyarsk province. during this time in the taiga, tarkovsky decided to study film. film school student upon returning from the research expedition in 1954, tarkovsky applied at the state institute of cinematography ( vgik ) and was admitted to the film - directing program. he was in the same class as irma raush ( irina ) whom he married in april 1957. the early khrushchev era offered good opportunities for young film directors. before 1953, annual film production was low and most films were directed by veteran directors. after 1953, more films were produced, many of them by young directors. the khrushchev thaw relaxed soviet social restrictions a bit and permitted a limited influx of european and north american literature, films and music. this allowed tarkovsky to see films of the italian neorealists, french new wave, and of directors such as kurosawa, bunuel, bergman, bresson, wajda ( whose film ashes and diamonds influenced tarkovsky ) and mizoguchi. tarkovsky ' s teacher and mentor was mikhail romm, who taught many film students who would later become influential film directors. in 1956, tarkovsky directed his first student short film, the killers, from a short story of ernest hemingway. the longer television film there will be no leave today followed in 1959. both films were a collaboration between the vgik students. classmate aleksandr gordon, who married tarkovsky ' s sister, in particular directed, wrote, edited, and acted in the two films with tarkovsky. an important influence on tarkovsky was the film director grigory chukhray, who was teaching at the vgik. impressed by the talent of his student, chukhray offered tarkovsky a position