north of the hamrin mountains in iraq, in western iran, northern syria, and in southeastern turkey ( in the eastern mediterranean region, southeastern anatolia region, and southern eastern anatolia region ). judeo - mesopotamian arabic, also known as iraqi judeo arabic and yahudic, is a variety of arabic spoken by iraqi jews of mosul. baghdad arabic is the arabic dialect spoken in baghdad, and the surrounding cities and it is a subvariety of mesopotamian arabic. baghdad jewish arabic is the dialect spoken by the iraqi jews of baghdad. south mesopotamian arabic ( basrawi dialect ) is the dialect spoken in southern iraq, such as basra, dhi qar and najaf. khuzestani arabic is the dialect spoken in the iranian province of khuzestan. this dialect is a mix of southern mesopotamian arabic and gulf arabic. khorasani arabic spoken in the iranian province of khorasan. kuwaiti arabic is a gulf arabic dialect spoken in kuwait. sudanese arabic is spoken by 17 million people in sudan and some parts of southern egypt. sudanese arabic is quite distinct from the dialect of its neighbor to the north ; rather, the sudanese have a dialect similar to the hejazi dialect. juba arabic spoken in south sudan and southern sudan gulf arabic, spoken by around four million people, predominantly in kuwait, bahrain, some parts of oman, eastern saudi arabia coastal areas and some parts of uae and qatar. also spoken in iran ' s bushehr and hormozgan provinces. although gulf arabic is spoken in qatar, most qatari citizens speak najdi arabic ( bedawi ). omani arabic, distinct from the gulf arabic of eastern arabia and bahrain, spoken in central oman. with recent oil wealth and mobility has spread over other parts of the sultanate. hadhrami arabic, spoken by around 8 million people, predominantly in hadhramaut, and in parts of the arabian peninsula, south and southeast asia, and east africa by hadhrami descendants. yemeni arabic spoken in yemen, and southern saudi arabia by 15 million people. similar to gulf arabic. najdi arabic, spoken by around 10 million people, mainly spoken in najd, central and northern saudi arabia. most qatari citizens speak najdi arabic ( bedawi ). hejazi arabic ( 6 million speakers ), spoken in hejaz, western saudi arabia saharan arabic spoken in some parts of algeria, niger and mali baharna arabic ( 800, 000 speakers ), spoken by bahrani