the world average of 1. 6 global hectares per person. in 2016, antigua and barbuda used 4. 3 global hectares of biocapacity per person – their ecological footprint of consumption. this means they use more biocapacity than antigua and barbuda contains. as a result, antigua and barbuda are running a biocapacity deficit. the citizenship by investment unit ( ciu ) is the government authority responsible for processing all applications for agent ' s licenses as well as all applications for citizenship by investment made by applicants and their family members. this unit was established by the prime minister and is known as the citizenship by investment unit. transport the transportation networks of antigua and barbuda are made up of both publicly operated and privately managed services. the roads in the countryside are paved, and their paths are winding and gradual in their ascents and descents ; they connect parishes to villages and communities. cars are driven on the left side of the road. antigua and barbuda has a speed limit of 40 miles per hour, and there are traffic signs posted along the main roads that make it easier to commute. additionally, gps coordinates have been posted throughout the country, which has made the process of navigation more manageable. on the yellow license plates of public transportation vehicles, the letters " bus " indicate that the vehicle is a bus, and the letters " tx " indicate that the vehicle is a taxi. taxi services are subject to government regulation, which results in the establishment of flat rates rather than the use of meters. it is required that taxi drivers keep a copy of the rates posted inside the cab at all times. taxis are not hard to come by on antigua ; in particular, you can find them at the airport and in the major hotels. the role of tour guide is one that is frequently taken on by taxi drivers. on the island of antigua, buses run continuously throughout the day from 5 : 30 a. m. until 6 : 00 p. m., connecting the capital city of st. john ' s with a number of the surrounding villages. on the other hand, buses do not make stops at the airport or in the tourist area to the north. although the timing of the bus ' departure is frequently up to the discretion of the driver, most buses operate according to a predetermined schedule. the routes that most buses take are typically displayed in the front windows of the vehicles, which are typically private minivans with seating for approximately 15 passengers each. both the east bus station on independence