call the reflection coefficient : the signed ratio of the reflected amplitude to the incident amplitude. then, if the plane of polarization of the incident ray was at 45° to the plane of incidence, the tangent of the corresponding angle for the reflected ray was obtainable from the ratio of the two reflection coefficients, and this angle could be measured. fresnel had measured it for a range of angles of incidence, for glass and water, and the agreement between the calculated and measured angles was better than 1. 5° in all cases. fresnel gave details of the " mechanical solution " in a memoir read to the academie des sciences on 7 january 1823. conservation of energy was combined with continuity of the tangential vibration at the interface. the resulting formulae for the reflection coefficients and reflectivities became known as the fresnel equations. the reflection coefficients for the s and p polarizations are most succinctly expressed as and where and are the angles of incidence and refraction ; these equations are known respectively as fresnel ' s sine law and fresnel ' s tangent law. by allowing the coefficients to be complex, fresnel even accounted for the different phase shifts of the s and p components due to total internal reflection. this success inspired james maccullagh and augustin - louis cauchy, beginning in 1836, to analyze reflection from metals by using the fresnel equations with a complex refractive index. the same technique is applicable to non - metallic opaque media. with these generalizations, the fresnel equations can predict the appearance of a wide variety of objects under illumination — for example, in computer graphics. circular and elliptical polarization, optical rotation ( 1822 ) in a memoir dated 9 december 1822, fresnel coined the terms linear polarization ( french : polarisation rectiligne ) for the simple case in which the perpendicular components of vibration are in phase or 180° out of phase, circular polarization for the case in which they are of equal magnitude and a quarter - cycle ( ±90° ) out of phase, and elliptical polarization for other cases in which the two components have a fixed amplitude ratio and a fixed phase difference. he then explained how optical rotation could be understood as a species of birefringence. linearly - polarized light could be resolved into two circularly - polarized components rotating in opposite directions. if these components propagated at slightly different speeds, the phase difference between them — and therefore the direction of their linearly - polarized