he watched, and learned, and designed computers on paper, waiting for the day he could afford a cpu. when mos technology released its $ 20 ( ) 6502 chip in 1976, wozniak wrote a version of basic for it, then began to design a computer for it to run on. the 6502 was designed by the same people who designed the 6800, as many in silicon valley left employers to form their own companies. wozniak ' s earlier 6800 paper - computer needed only minor changes to run on the new chip. by march 1, 1976, wozniak completed the basic design of his computer. wozniak originally offered the design to hp while working there, but was denied by the company on five occasions. when he demonstrated his computer at the homebrew computer club, his friend and fellow club regular steve jobs was immediately interested in its commercial potential. wozniak intended to share schematics of the machine for free, but jobs advised him to start a business together and sell bare printed circuit boards for the computer. wozniak, at first skeptical, was later convinced by jobs that even if they were not successful they could at least say to their grandchildren that they had had their own company. to raise the money they needed to build the first batch of the circuit boards, wozniak sold his hp scientific calculator while jobs sold his volkswagen van. after the company was formed, jobs and wozniak made one last trip to the homebrew computer club to give a presentation of the fully assembled " apple computer a ". paul terrell, who was starting a new computer shop in mountain view, california, called the byte shop, saw the presentation and was impressed by the machine. terrell told jobs that he would order 50 units of the apple i and pay $ 500 ( ) each on delivery, but only if they came fully assembledhe was not interested in buying bare printed circuit boards with no components. jobs took the purchase order from the byte shop to national electronic parts distributor cramer electronics, and ordered the components needed. when asked by the credit manager how he would pay for the parts, jobs replied, " i have this purchase order from the byte shop chain of computer stores for 50 of my computers and the payment terms are cod. if you give me the parts on net 30 - day terms i can build and deliver the computers in that time frame, collect my money from terrell at the byte shop and pay you. " to verify the