alan alexander milne ( ; 18 january 1882 – 31 january 1956 ) was an english writer best known for his books about the teddy bear winnie - the - pooh, as well as for children ' s poetry. milne was primarily a playwright before the huge success of winnie - the - pooh overshadowed all his previous work. milne served in both world wars, as a lieutenant in the royal warwickshire regiment in the first world war and as a captain in the home guard in the second world war. milne was the father of bookseller christopher robin milne, upon whom the character christopher robin is based. it was during a visit to london zoo, where christopher became enamoured with the tame and amiable bear winnipeg, that milne was inspired to write the story of winnie - the - pooh for his son. milne bequeathed the original manuscripts of the winnie - the - pooh stories to the wren library at trinity college, cambridge, his alma mater. early life and military career alan alexander milne was born in kilburn, london, to john vine milne, who was born in jamaica, and sarah marie milne ( nee heginbotham ), on 18 january 1882. he grew up at henley house school, 6 / 7 mortimer road ( now crescent ), kilburn, a small independent school run by his father. one of his teachers was h. g. wells, who taught there in 1889 – 90. milne attended westminster school and trinity college, cambridge, where he studied on a mathematics scholarship, graduating with a b. a. in mathematics in 1903. he edited and wrote for granta, a student magazine. he collaborated with his brother kenneth and their articles appeared over the initials akm. milne ' s work came to the attention of the leading british humour magazine punch, where milne was to become a contributor and later an assistant editor. considered a talented cricket fielder, milne played for two amateur teams that were largely composed of british writers : the allahakbarries and the authors xi. his teammates included fellow writers j. m. barrie, arthur conan doyle and p. g. wodehouse. milne joined the british army in world war i and served as an officer in the royal warwickshire regiment. he was commissioned into the 4th battalion, royal warwickshire regiment, on 1 february 1915 as a second lieutenant ( on probation ). his commission was confirmed on 20 december 1915. he served on the somme as a signals officer from july - november 1916, but caught trench fever and was invalided back to england. having recuperated, he worked