the title is known. artists and theologians have drawn upon the new testament apocrypha for such matters as the names of dismas and gestas and details about the three wise men. the first explicit mention of the perpetual virginity of mary is found in the pseudepigraphical infancy gospel of james. before the fifth century, the christian writings that were then under discussion for inclusion in the canon but had not yet been accepted were classified in a group known as the ancient antilegomenae. these were all candidates for the new testament and included several books which were eventually accepted, such as : the epistle to the hebrews, 2 peter, 3 john and the revelation of john ( apocalypse ). none of those accepted books can be considered apocryphal now, since all christendom accepts them as canonical. of the uncanonized ones, the early church considered some heretical but viewed others quite well. some christians, in an extension of the meaning, might also consider the non - heretical books to be " apocryphal " along the manner of martin luther : not canon, but useful to read. this category includes books such as the epistle of barnabas, the didache, and the shepherd of hermas which are sometimes referred to as the apostolic fathers. the gnostic tradition was a prolific source of apocryphal gospels. while these writings borrowed the characteristic poetic features of apocalyptic literature from judaism, gnostic sects largely insisted on allegorical interpretations based on a secret apostolic tradition. with them, these apocryphal books were highly esteemed. a well - known gnostic apocryphal book is the gospel of thomas, the only complete text of which was found in the egyptian town of nag hammadi in 1945. the gospel of judas, a gnostic gospel, also received much media attention when it was reconstructed in 2006. roman catholics, eastern orthodox, and protestants all agree on the canon of the new testament. the ethiopian orthodox have in the past also included i & ii clement and shepherd of hermas in their new testament canon. list of sixty the list of sixty, dating to around the 7th century, lists the sixty books of the bible. the unknown author also lists many apocryphal books that are not included amongst the sixty. these books are : adam enoch lamech twelve patriarchs prayer of joseph eldad and modad testament of moses assumption of moses psalms of solomon apocalypse of elijah ascension of isaiah apocalypse of ze