the latter is in substance a more didactic repetition of the former. albert ' s activity, however, was more philosophical than theological ( see scholasticism ). the philosophical works, occupying the first six and the last of the 21 volumes, are generally divided according to the aristotelian scheme of the sciences, and consist of interpretations and condensations of aristotle ' s relative works, with supplementary discussions upon contemporary topics, and occasional divergences from the opinions of the master. albert believed that aristotle ' s approach to natural philosophy did not pose any obstacle to the development of a christian philosophical view of the natural order. albert ' s knowledge of natural science was considerable and for the age remarkably accurate. his industry in every department was great : not only did he produce commentaries and paraphrases of the entire aristotelian corpus, including his scientific works, but albert also added to and improved upon them. his books on topics like botany, zoology, and minerals included information from ancient sources, but also results of his own empirical investigations. these investigations pushed several of the special sciences forward, beyond the reliance on classical texts. in the case of embryology, for example, it has been claimed that little of value was written between aristotle and albert, who managed to identify organs within eggs. furthermore, albert also effectively invented entire special sciences, where aristotle has not covered a topic. for example, prior to albert, there was no systematic study of minerals. for the breadth of these achievements, he was bestowed the name doctor universalis. much of albert ' s empirical contributions to the natural sciences have been superseded, but his general approach to science may be surprisingly modern. for example, in de mineralibus ( book ii, tractate ii, ch. 1 ) albert claims, " for it is [ the task ] of natural science not simply to accept what we are told but to inquire into the causes of natural things. " alchemy in the centuries since his death, many stories arose about albert as an alchemist and magician. " much of the modern confusion results from the fact that later works, particularly the alchemical work known as the secreta alberti or the experimenta alberti, were falsely attributed to albertus by their authors to increase the prestige of the text through association. " on the subject of alchemy and chemistry, many treatises relating to alchemy have been attributed to him, though in his authentic writings he had little to say on the subject, and then mostly through commentary on aristotle. for