echoes her early career writing scenarios and scripts for movies ; her novels have many narrative descriptions that resemble early hollywood movie scenarios. they often follow common film editing conventions, such as having a broad establishing shot description of a scene followed by close - up details, and her descriptions of women characters often take a " male gaze " perspective. contemporary reviews the first reviews rand received were for night of january 16th. reviews of the broadway production were largely positive, but rand considered even positive reviews to be embarrassing because of significant changes made to her script by the producer. although rand believed that we the living was not widely reviewed, over 200 publications published approximately 125 different reviews. overall, they were more positive than those she received for her later work. anthem received little review attention, both for its first publication in england and for subsequent re - issues. rand ' s first bestseller, the fountainhead, received far fewer reviews than we the living, and reviewers ' opinions were mixed. lorine pruette ' s positive review in the new york times, which called the author " a writer of great power " who wrote " brilliantly, beautifully and bitterly ", was one that rand greatly appreciated. there were other positive reviews, but rand dismissed most of them for either misunderstanding her message or for being in unimportant publications. some negative reviews said the novel was too long ; others called the characters unsympathetic and rand ' s style " offensively pedestrian ". atlas shrugged was widely reviewed, and many of the reviews were strongly negative. atlas shrugged received positive reviews from a few publications, but rand scholar mimi reisel gladstein later wrote that " reviewers seemed to vie with each other in a contest to devise the cleverest put - downs ", with reviews including comments that it was " written out of hate " and showed " remorseless hectoring and prolixity ". whittaker chambers wrote what was later called the novel ' s most " notorious " review for the conservative magazine national review. he accused rand of supporting a godless system ( which he related to that of the soviets ), claiming, " from almost any page of atlas shrugged, a voice can be heard... commanding : ' to a gas chamber — go!. rand ' s nonfiction received far fewer reviews than her novels. the tenor of the criticism for her first nonfiction book, for the new intellectual, was similar to that for atlas shrugged. philosopher sidney hook likened her certainty to " the way philosophy is written in the soviet union ", and author gore vidal