proposed constitution, claiming that the senate as proposed was too powerful, similar to the anti - reformist colonial upper houses and the british house of lords. they feared that federation would further entrench the power of the conservative forces. however, the first labour leader and prime minister chris watson was a supporter of federation. historian celia hamilton, examining new south wales, argues for the central role of irish catholics. before 1890, they opposed henry parkes, the main liberal leader, and of free trade, seeing them both as the ideals of protestant englishmen who represented landholding and large business interests. in the strike of 1890 the leading catholic, sydney ' s archbishop patrick francis moran was sympathetic toward unions, but catholic newspapers were negative. after 1900, says hamilton, irish catholics were drawn to the labour party because its stress on equality and social welfare fitted with their status as manual labourers and small farmers. in the 1910 elections labour gained in the more catholic areas and the representation of catholics increased in labour ' s parliamentary ranks. early decades at the federal level the federal parliament in 1901 was contested by each state labour party. in total, they won 15 of the 75 seats in the house of representatives, collectively holding the balance of power, and the labour members now met as the federal parliamentary labour party ( informally known as the caucus ) on 8 may 1901 at parliament house, melbourne, the meeting place of the first federal parliament. the caucus decided to support the incumbent protectionist party in minority government, while the free trade party formed the opposition. it was some years before there was any significant structure or organisation at a national level. labour under chris watson doubled its vote at the 1903 federal election and continued to hold the balance of power. in april 1904, however, watson and alfred deakin fell out over the issue of extending the scope of industrial relations laws concerning the conciliation and arbitration bill to cover state public servants, the fallout causing deakin to resign. free trade leader george reid declined to take office, which saw watson become the first labour prime minister of australia, and the world ' s first labour head of government at a national level ( anderson dawson had led a short - lived labour government in queensland in december 1899 ), though his was a minority government that lasted only four months. he was aged only 37, and is still the youngest prime minister in australia ' s history. george reid of the free trade party adopted a strategy of trying to reorient the party system along labour vs. non - labour lines prior to the 1906 federal election and renamed his