upon another. however, human consciousness holds an awareness of, and sympathy for, the will of other beings to live. an ethical human strives to escape from this contradiction so far as possible. though we cannot perfect the endeavour we should strive for it : the will - to - live constantly renews itself, for it is both an evolutionary necessity and a spiritual phenomenon. life and love are rooted in this same principle, in a personal spiritual relationship to the universe. ethics themselves proceed from the need to respect the wish of other beings to exist as one does towards oneself. even so, schweitzer found many instances in world religions and philosophies in which the principle was denied, not least in the european middle ages, and in the indian brahminic philosophy. for schweitzer, mankind had to accept that objective reality is ethically neutral. it could then affirm a new enlightenment through spiritual rationalism, by giving priority to volition or ethical will as the primary meaning of life. mankind had to choose to create the moral structures of civilization : the world - view must derive from the life - view, not vice versa. respect for life, overcoming coarser impulses and hollow doctrines, leads the individual to live in the service of other people and of every living creature. in contemplation of the will - to - life, respect for the life of others becomes the highest principle and the defining purpose of humanity. such was the theory which schweitzer sought to put into practice in his own life. according to some authors, schweitzer ' s thought, and specifically his development of reverence for life, was influenced by indian religious thought and in particular the jain principle of ahimsa, or non - violence. albert schweitzer noted the contribution of indian influence in his book indian thought and its development : further on ahimsa and the reverence for life in the same book, he elaborates on the ancient indian didactic work of the tirukkural, which he observed that, like the buddha and the bhagavad gita, " stands for the commandment not to kill and not to damage ". translating several couplets from the work, he remarked that the kural insists on the idea that " good must be done for its own sake " and said, " there hardly exists in the literature of the world a collection of maxims in which we find so much lofty wisdom. " later life after the birth of their daughter ( rhena sc