and bastard children by swift ' s rival daniel defoe. mandeville ' s modest defence of publick stews bernard mandeville ' s modest defence of publick stews asked to introduce public and state - controlled bordellos. the 1726 paper acknowledges women ' s interests and — while not being a completely satirical text — has also been discussed as an inspiration for jonathan swift ' s title. mandeville had by 1705 already become famous for the fable of the bees and deliberations on private vices and public benefits. john locke ' s first treatise of government john locke commented : " be it then as sir robert says, that anciently, it was usual for men to sell and castrate their children. let it be, that they exposed them ; add to it, if you please, for this is still greater power, that they begat them for their tables to fat and eat them : if this proves a right to do so, we may, by the same argument, justifie adultery, incest and sodomy, for there are examples of these too, both ancient and modern ; sins, which i suppose, have the principle aggravation from this, that they cross the main intention of nature, which willeth the increase of mankind, and the continuation of the species in the highest perfection, and the distinction of families, with the security of the marriage bed, as necessary thereunto ". ( first treatise, sec. 59 ). economic themes robert phiddian ' s article " have you eaten yet? the reader in a modest proposal " focuses on two aspects of a modest proposal : the voice of swift and the voice of the proposer. phiddian stresses that a reader of the pamphlet must learn to distinguish between the satirical voice of jonathan swift and the apparent economic projections of the proposer. he reminds readers that " there is a gap between the narrator ' s meaning and the text ' s, and that a moral - political argument is being carried out by means of parody ". while swift ' s proposal is obviously not a serious economic proposal, george wittkowsky, author of " swift ' s modest proposal : the biography of an early georgian pamphlet ", argues that to understand the piece fully it is important to understand the economics of swift ' s time. wittowsky argues that not enough critics have taken the time to focus directly on the mercantilism and theories of labour in 18th - century england. " if one regards the modest proposal simply as a criticism of