the anime industry has several annual awards that honor the year ' s best works. major annual awards in japan include the ofuji noburo award, the mainichi film award for best animation film, the animation kobe awards, the japan media arts festival animation awards, the seiyu awards for voice actors, the tokyo anime award and the japan academy prize for animation of the year. in the united states, anime films compete in the crunchyroll anime awards. there were also the american anime awards, which were designed to recognize excellence in anime titles nominated by the industry, and were held only once in 2006. anime productions have also been nominated and won awards not exclusively for anime, like the academy award for best animated feature or the golden bear. working conditions in recent years, the anime industry has been accused by both japanese and foreign media of underpaying and overworking its animators. in response the japanese prime minister fumio kishida promised to improve the working conditions and salary of all animators and creators working in the industry. a few anime studios such as mappa have taken actions to improve the working conditions of their employees. there has also been a slight increase in production costs and animator pays during the covid - 19 pandemic. on april 27, 2023, nippon anime film culture association ( nafca ) was officially founded. the association aims to solve problems in the industry, including the improvement of conditions of the workers. globalization and cultural impact anime has become commercially profitable in western countries, as demonstrated by early commercially successful western adaptations of anime, such as astro boy and speed racer. early american adaptions in the 1960s made japan expand into the continental european market, first with productions aimed at european and japanese children, such as heidi, vicky the viking and barbapapa, which aired in various countries. italy, spain, and france grew a particular interest in japan ' s output, due to its cheap selling price and productive output. as of 2014, italy imported the most anime outside japan. anime and manga were introduced to france in the late 1970s and became massively popular in spite of a moral panic led by french politicians in the 1980s and 1990s. these mass imports influenced anime popularity in south american, arabic and german markets. the beginning of 1980 saw the introduction of japanese anime series into the american culture. in the 1990s, japanese animation slowly gained popularity in america. media companies such as viz and mixx began publishing and releasing animation into the american market. the 1988 film akira is largely credited with popularizing anime in