del valles, could go to both places with his car from la pedrera. for the floors of casa mila, gaudi used a model of floor forms of square timbers with two colors, and the hydraulic pavement hexagonal pieces of blue and sea motifs that had originally been designed for the batllo house. the wax was designed in gray by john bertrand under the supervision of gaudi who " touched up with their own fingers, " in the words of the manufacturer josep bay. loft like in casa batllo, gaudi shows the application of the catenary arch as a support structure for the roof, a form which he had already used shortly after graduating in the wood frameworks of mataro ' s cooperative known as " l ' obrera mataronense. " in this case, gaudi used the catalan technique of timbrel, imported from italy in the fourteenth century. the attic, where the laundry rooms were located, was a clear room under a catalan vault roof supported by 270 parabolic vaults of different heights and spaced by about 80 cm. the roof resembles both the ribs of a huge animal and a palm, giving the roof - deck a very unconventional shape similar to a landscape of hills and valleys. the shape and location of the courtyards makes the arches higher when the space is narrowed and lower when the space expands. the builder bayo explained its construction : " first the face of a wide wall was filled with mortar and plastered. then canaleta indicated the opening of each arch and bayo put a nail at each starting point of the arch at the top of the wall. from these nails was dangled a chain so that the lowest point coincided with the deflection of the arch. then the profile displayed on the wall by the chain was drawn and on this profile the carpenter marked and placed the corresponding centering, and the timbrel vault was started with three rows of plane bricks. gaudi wanted to add a longitudinal axis of bricks connecting all vaults at their keystones ". roof and chimneys the work of gaudi on the rooftop of la pedrera brought his experience at palau guell together with solutions that were clearly more innovative – this time creating shapes and volumes with more body, more prominence, and less polychromasia. on the rooftop there are six skylights / staircase exits ( four of which were covered with broken pottery and some that ended in a double cross typical of gaudi ), twenty - eight chimneys in several groupings, two half - hidden vents whose function is to