##orbas phorbas was a savage giant king of phlegyas who was described as having swine - like features. he wished to plunder delphi for its wealth. he seized the roads to delphi and started harassing the pilgrims. he captured the old people and children and sent them to his army to hold them for ransom. and he challenged the young and sturdy men to a match of boxing, only to cut their heads off when they would get defeated by him. he hung the chopped - off heads to an oak tree. finally, apollo came to put an end to this cruelty. he entered a boxing contest with phorbas and killed him with a single blow. other stories in the first olympic games, apollo defeated ares and became the victor in wrestling. he outran hermes in the race and won first place. apollo divides months into summer and winter. he rides on the back of a swan to the land of the hyperboreans during the winter months, and the absence of warmth in winter is due to his departure. during his absence, delphi was under the care of dionysus, and no prophecies were given during winters. periphas periphas was an attican king and a priest of apollo. he was noble, just and rich. he did all his duties justly. because of this people were very fond of him and started honouring him to the same extent as zeus. at one point, they worshipped periphas in place of zeus and set up shrines and temples for him. this annoyed zeus, who decided to annihilate the entire family of periphas. but because he was a just king and a good devotee, apollo intervened and requested his father to spare periphas. zeus considered apollo ' s words and agreed to let him live. but he metamorphosed periphas into an eagle and made the eagle the king of birds. when periphas ' wife requested zeus to let her stay with her husband, zeus turned her into a vulture and fulfilled her wish. molpadia and parthenos molpadia and parthenos were the sisters of rhoeo, a former lover of apollo. one day, they were put in charge of watching their father ' s ancestral wine jar but they fell asleep while performing this duty. while they were asleep, the wine jar was broken by the swine their family kept. when the sisters woke up and saw what had happened, they threw themselves off a cliff in fear of their father