##egativity of astatine on the allred – rochow scale ( 1. 9 ) being less than that of hydrogen ( 2. 2 ). however, official iupac stoichiometric nomenclature is based on an idealized convention of determining the relative electronegativities of the elements by the mere virtue of their position within the periodic table. according to this convention, astatine is handled as though it is more electronegative than hydrogen, irrespective of its true electronegativity. the electron affinity of astatine, at 233 kj mol−1, is 21 % less than that of iodine. in comparison, the value of cl ( 349 ) is 6. 4 % higher than f ( 328 ) ; br ( 325 ) is 6. 9 % less than cl ; and i ( 295 ) is 9. 2 % less than br. the marked reduction for at was predicted as being due to spin – orbit interactions. the first ionization energy of astatine is about 899 kj mol−1, which continues the trend of decreasing first ionization energies down the halogen group ( fluorine, 1681 ; chlorine, 1251 ; bromine, 1140 ; iodine, 1008 ). compounds less reactive than iodine, astatine is the least reactive of the halogens ; the chemical properties of tennessine, the next - heavier group 17 element, have not yet been investigated, however. astatine compounds have been synthesized in nano - scale amounts and studied as intensively as possible before their radioactive disintegration. the reactions involved have been typically tested with dilute solutions of astatine mixed with larger amounts of iodine. acting as a carrier, the iodine ensures there is sufficient material for laboratory techniques ( such as filtration and precipitation ) to work. like iodine, astatine has been shown to adopt odd - numbered oxidation states ranging from −1 to + 7. only a few compounds with metals have been reported, in the form of states of sodium, palladium, silver, thallium, and lead. some characteristic properties of silver and sodium astatide, and the other hypothetical alkali and alkaline earth astatides, have been estimated by extrapolation from other metal halides. the formation of an astatine compound with hydrogen – usually referred to as hydrogen astatide – was noted by the pioneers of astatine chemistry. as mentioned, there are