disease does not strongly differentiate between the cause and effect of symptoms. purported scientific basis many within the scientific community consider attempts to rationalize acupuncture in science to be quackery and pseudoscience. academics massimo pigliucci and maarten boudry describe it as a " borderlands science " lying between science and pseudoscience. rationalizations of traditional medicine it is a generally held belief within the acupuncture community that acupuncture points and meridians structures are special conduits for electrical signals, but no research has established any consistent anatomical structure or function for either acupuncture points or meridians. human tests to determine whether electrical continuity was significantly different near meridians than other places in the body have been inconclusive. scientific research has not supported the existence of qi, meridians, or yin and yang. a nature editorial described tcm as " fraught with pseudoscience ", with the majority of its treatments having no logical mechanism of action. quackwatch states that " tcm theory and practice are not based upon the body of knowledge related to health, disease, and health care that has been widely accepted by the scientific community. tcm practitioners disagree among themselves about how to diagnose patients and which treatments should go with which diagnoses. even if they could agree, the tcm theories are so nebulous that no amount of scientific study will enable tcm to offer rational care. " academic discussions of acupuncture still make reference to pseudoscientific concepts such as qi and meridians despite the lack of scientific evidence. release of endorphins or adenosine some modern practitioners support the use of acupuncture to treat pain, but have abandoned the use of qi, meridians, yin, yang and other mystical energies as an explanatory frameworks. the use of qi as an explanatory framework has been decreasing in china, even as it becomes more prominent during discussions of acupuncture in the us. many acupuncturists attribute pain relief to the release of endorphins when needles penetrate, but no longer support the idea that acupuncture can affect a disease. some studies suggest acupuncture causes a series of events within the central nervous system, and that it is possible to inhibit acupuncture ' s analgesic effects with the opioid antagonist naloxone. mechanical deformation of the skin by acupuncture needles appears to result in the release of