dispute involving the " three - chapter controversy ". in lombard territory, churchmen were at least sure to avoid imperial religious persecution. in the view of pierre riche, the disappearance of 220 bishops ' seats indicates that the lombard migration was a crippling catastrophe for the church. yet according to walter pohl the regions directly occupied by alboin suffered less devastation and had a relatively robust survival rate for towns, whereas the occupation of territory by autonomous military bands interested mainly in raiding and looting had a more severe impact, with the bishoprics in such places rarely surviving. siege of ticinum the first attested instance of strong resistance to alboin ' s migration took place at the town of ticinum ( pavia ), which he started to besiege in 569 and captured only after three years. the town was of strategic importance, sitting at the confluence of the rivers po and ticino and connected by waterways to ravenna, the capital of byzantine italy and the seat of the praetorian prefecture of italy. its fall cut direct communications between the garrisons stationed on the alpes maritimae and the adriatic coast. careful to maintain the initiative against the byzantines, by 570 alboin had taken their last defences in northern italy except for the coastal areas of liguria and venetia and a few isolated inland centres such as augusta praetoria ( aosta ), segusio ( susa ), and the island of amacina in the larius lucus ( lake como ). during alboin ' s kingship the lombards crossed the apennines and plundered tuscia, but historians are not in full agreement as to whether this took place under his guidance and if this constituted anything more than raiding. according to herwig wolfram, it was probably only in 578 – 579 that tuscany was conquered, but jorg jarnut and others believe this began in some form under alboin, although it was not completed by the time of his death. alboin ' s problems in maintaining control over his people worsened during the siege of ticinum. the nature of the lombard monarchy made it difficult for a ruler to exert the same degree of authority over his subjects as had been exercised by theodoric over his goths, and the structure of the army gave great authority to the military commanders or duces, who led each band ( fara ) of warriors. additionally, the difficulties encountered by alboin in building a solid political entity resulted from a