the dominance of α - amino acids in biology is the β - amino acid beta alanine ( 3 - aminopropanoic acid ), which is used in plants and microorganisms in the synthesis of pantothenic acid ( vitamin b5 ), a component of coenzyme a. in mammalian nutrition amino acids are not typical component of food : animals eat proteins. the protein is broken down into amino acids in the process of digestion. they are then used to synthesize new proteins, other biomolecules, or are oxidized to urea and carbon dioxide as a source of energy. the oxidation pathway starts with the removal of the amino group by a transaminase ; the amino group is then fed into the urea cycle. the other product of transamidation is a keto acid that enters the citric acid cycle. glucogenic amino acids can also be converted into glucose, through gluconeogenesis. of the 20 standard amino acids, nine ( his, ile, leu, lys, met, phe, thr, trp and val ) are called essential amino acids because the human body cannot synthesize them from other compounds at the level needed for normal growth, so they must be obtained from food. semi - essential and conditionally essential amino acids, and juvenile requirements in addition, cysteine, tyrosine, and arginine are considered semiessential amino acids, and taurine a semi - essential aminosulfonic acid in children. some amino acids are conditionally essential for certain ages or medical conditions. essential amino acids may also vary from species to species. the metabolic pathways that synthesize these monomers are not fully developed. non - protein functions many proteinogenic and non - proteinogenic amino acids have biological functions beyond being precursors to proteins and peptides. in humans, amino acids also have important roles in diverse biosynthetic pathways. defenses against herbivores in plants sometimes employ amino acids. examples : standard amino acids tryptophan is a precursor of the neurotransmitter serotonin. tyrosine ( and its precursor phenylalanine ) are precursors of the catecholamine neurotransmitters dopamine, epinephrine and norepinephrine and various trace amines. phenylalanine is a precursor of phenethylamine and tyrosine in humans. in plants, it is a precursor of various phen