plead guilty or not guilty, and the entering of their plea. united kingdom in england, wales, and northern ireland, arraignment is the first of 11 stages in a criminal trial, and involves the clerk of the court reading out the indictment. in england and wales, the police cannot legally detain anyone for more than 24 hours without charging them unless an officer with the rank of superintendent ( or above ) authorises detention for a further 12 hours ( i. e. 36 hours total ), or a judge ( who will be a magistrate ) authorises detention by the police before charge for up to a maximum of 96 hours ; for terrorism - related offences a person can be held by the police for up to 28 days before charge. if they are not released after being charged, they should be brought before a court as soon as practicable. in scotland, the police cannot detain anyone for more than 12 hours without charging them unless an officer of the rank of superintendent ( or above ) authorises detention for a further 12 hours ( i. e. up to 24 hours in total ) ; for terrorism - related offences a person can be held by the police for up to 14 days before charge. if they are not released after being charged, they should be brought before a court as soon as practicable. united states the sixth amendment to the united states constitution grants criminal defendants the right to be notified of the charges against them. under the united states ' federal rules of criminal procedure, arraignment shall consist of an open reading of the indictment ( and delivery of a copy ) to the defendant and a call for them to plead. in federal courts, arraignment takes place in two stages. the first is called the " initial arraignment " and must take place within 48 hours of an individual ' s arrest, within 72 hours if the individual was arrested on the weekend and not able to go before a judge until monday. during this stage, the defendant is informed of the pending legal charges and is informed of his or her right to retain counsel. the presiding judge also decides at what amount, if any, to set bail. during the second stage, the post - indictment arraignment, the defendant is allowed to enter a plea. in new york, a person arrested without a warrant and kept in custody must be brought before a local criminal court for arraignment " without unnecessary delay ". a delay of more than 24 hours is rebuttably presumed to be unnecessary. in california, ar