peaks underwent erosion, a layer of marine flysch sediments was deposited in the foreland basin, and the sediments became involved in younger folds as the orogeny progressed. coarse sediments from the continual uplift and erosion were later deposited in foreland areas north of the alps. these regions in switzerland and bavaria are well - developed, containing classic examples of flysch, which is sedimentary rock formed during mountain building. the alpine orogeny occurred in ongoing cycles through to the paleogene causing differences in folded structures, with a late - stage orogeny causing the development of the jura mountains. a series of tectonic events in the triassic, jurassic and cretaceous periods caused different paleogeographic regions. the alps are subdivided by different lithology ( rock composition ) and nappe structures according to the orogenic events that affected them. the geological subdivision differentiates the western, eastern alps, and southern alps : the helveticum in the north, the penninicum and austroalpine system in the centre and, south of the periadriatic seam, the southern alpine system. according to geologist stefan schmid, because the western alps underwent a metamorphic event in the cenozoic era while the austroalpine peaks underwent an event in the cretaceous period, the two areas show distinct differences in nappe formations. flysch deposits in the southern alps of lombardy probably occurred in the cretaceous or later. peaks in france, italy and switzerland lie in the " houilliere zone ", which consists of basement with sediments from the mesozoic era. high " massifs " with external sedimentary cover are more common in the western alps and were affected by neogene period thin - skinned thrusting whereas the eastern alps have comparatively few high peaked massifs. similarly the peaks in eastern switzerland extending to western austria ( helvetic nappes ) consist of thin - skinned sedimentary folding that detached from former basement rock. in simple terms, the structure of the alps consists of layers of rock of european, african, and oceanic ( tethyan ) origin. the bottom nappe structure is of continental european origin, above which are stacked marine sediment nappes, topped off by nappes derived from the african plate. the matterhorn is an example of the ongoing orogeny and shows evidence of great folding. the tip of the mountain consists of gneisses from the african plate ; the base of the peak, below the glaciated area, consists of european basement rock. the sequence of tethyan marine sediments and their oceanic