, with bedrooms for the guests ' servants and stables for their horses. the monks of the abbey lived in a house built against the north wall of the church. the whole of the southern and western areas of the abbey were devoted to workshops, stables and farm - buildings including stables, ox - sheds, goatstables, piggeries, and sheep - folds, as well as the servants ' and labourers ' quarters. in the eastern part of the abbey there was a group of buildings representing in layout, two complete miniature monasteries. that is, each had a covered cloister surrounded by the usual buildings such as the church, the refectory, the dormitory and so on. a detached building belonging to each contained a bathroom and a kitchen. one of the miniature complexes was called the " oblati ". these were the buildings for the novices. the other complex was a hospital or infirmary for the care of sick monks. this infirmary complex included a physician ' s residence, a physic garden, a drug store, and a chamber for the critically ill. there was also a room for bloodletting and purging. the physic garden occupied the north east corner of the abbey. in the southernmost area of the abbey was the workshop containing utilities for shoemakers, saddlers ( or shoemakers, sellarii ), cutlers and grinders, trencher - makers, tanners, curriers, fullers, smiths and goldsmiths. the tradesmen ' s living quarters were at the rear of the workshop. here, there were also farm buildings, a large granary and threshing - floor, mills, and malthouse. at the south - east corner of the abbey were hen and duck houses, a poultry - yard, and the dwelling of the keeper. nearby was the kitchen garden which complemented the physic garden and a cemetery orchard. every large monastery had priories. a priory was a smaller structure or entities which depended on the monastery. some were small monasteries accommodating five or ten monks. others were no more than a single building serving as residence or a farm offices. the outlying farming establishments belonging to the monastic foundations were known as " villae " or " granges ". they were usually staffed by lay - brothers, sometimes under the supervision of a monk. benedictine abbeys in england many of today ' s cathedrals in england were originally benedictine monasteries. these included canterbury, chester, durham, ely, gloucester, norwich, peterborough, rochester, winchester,