old testament and new testament as a major factor ; this legacy came to characterize english - language bibles in great britain and the americas, unlike in europe where protestant bibles are printed with 80 books in three sections : the old testament, apocrypha, and new testament. in the present - day, " english bibles with the apocrypha are becoming more popular again ", usually being printed as intertestamental books. the revised common lectionary, in use by most mainline protestants including methodists and moravians, lists readings from the apocrypha in the liturgical calendar, although alternate old testament scripture lessons are provided. the status of the deuterocanonicals remains unchanged in catholic and orthodox christianity, though there is a difference in number of these books between these two branches of christianity. some authorities began using term deuterocanonical to refer to this traditional intertestamental collection as books of " the second canon ". these books are often seen as helping to explain the theological and cultural transitions which took place between the old and new testaments. they are also sometimes called " intertestamental " by religious groups who do not recognize hellenistic judaism as belonging with either jewish or christian testaments. slightly varying collections of apocryphal, deuterocanonical or intertestamental books of the bible form part of the catholic, eastern orthodox and oriental orthodox canons. the deuterocanonical or intertestamental books of the catholic church include tobit, judith, baruch, sirach, 1 maccabees, 2 maccabees, wisdom and additions to esther, daniel, and baruch. the book of enoch is included in the biblical canon of the oriental orthodox churches of ethiopia and eritrea. the epistle of jude alludes to a story in the book of enoch, and some believe the use of this book also appears in the four gospels and 1 peter. however, while jesus and his disciples sometimes used phrases also featured in some of the apocryphal books, the book of enoch was never referenced by jesus. the genuineness and inspiration of enoch were believed in by the writer of the epistle of barnabas, irenaeus, tertullian and clement of alexandria and many others of the early church. the epistles of paul and the gospels also show influences from the book of jubilees, which is part of the ethiopian canon, as well as the assumption of moses and the testaments of the twelve patriarchs, which