of deaths. under jackson, the integrity of the federal union was challenged when south carolina threatened to nullify a high protective tariff set by the federal government. he threatened the use of military force to enforce the tariff, but the crisis was defused when it was amended. in 1832, he vetoed a bill by congress to reauthorize the second bank of the united states, arguing that it was a corrupt institution that benefited the wealthy. after a lengthy struggle, he and his allies dismantled the bank. in 1835, jackson became the only president to pay off the national debt. he also survived the first assassination attempt on a sitting president. in one of his final presidential acts, he recognized the republic of texas. in his retirement, jackson stayed active in politics. he supported the presidencies of martin van buren and james k. polk, as well as the annexation of texas, which was accomplished shortly before his death. jackson ' s legacy remains controversial, and opinions on him are frequently polarized. supporters characterize him as a defender of democracy and the constitution, while critics point to his reputation as a demagogue who ignored the law when it suited him. scholars and historians have consistently ranked jackson ' s presidency as significantly above - average, although his reputation among experts has declined since the late 20th century. early life and education andrew jackson was born on march 15, 1767, in the waxhaws region of the carolinas. his parents were scots - irish colonists andrew jackson and elizabeth hutchinson, presbyterians who had emigrated from ulster, ireland, in 1765. jackson ' s father was born in carrickfergus, county antrim, around 1738, and his ancestors had crossed into northern ireland from scotland after the battle of the boyne in 1690. jackson had two older brothers who came with his parents from ireland, hugh ( born 1763 ) and robert ( born 1764 ). jackson ' s exact birthplace is unclear. jackson ' s father died at the age of 29 in a logging accident while clearing land in february 1767, three weeks before his son andrew was born. afterwards, elizabeth and her three sons moved in with her sister and brother - in - law, jane and james crawford. jackson later stated that he was born on the crawford plantation, which is in lancaster county, south carolina, but second - hand evidence suggests that he might have been born at another uncle ' s home in north carolina. when jackson was young, elizabeth thought he might become a minister and paid to have him schooled by a local clergyman. he learned to read,