of an abscess is not enough to address community - acquired methicillin - resistant staphylococcus aureus ( mrsa ), and in those cases, traditional antibiotics may be ineffective. alternative antibiotics effective against community - acquired mrsa often include clindamycin, doxycycline, minocycline, and trimethoprim - sulfamethoxazole. the american college of emergency physicians advises that typical cases of abscess from mrsa get no benefit from having antibiotic treatment in addition to the standard treatment. if the condition is thought to be cellulitis rather than an abscess, consideration should be given to the possibility of the strep species as a cause, that are still sensitive to traditional anti - staphylococcus agents such as dicloxacillin or cephalexin. this would be in the case of people that are able to tolerate penicillin. antibiotic therapy alone without surgical drainage of the abscess is seldom effective due to antibiotics often being unable to get into the abscess and their ineffectiveness at low ph levels. culturing the wound is not needed if standard follow - up care can be provided after the incision and drainage. performing a wound culture is unnecessary because it rarely gives information which can be used to guide treatment. packing in north america, after drainage, an abscess cavity is usually packed, often with special iodoform - treated cloth. this is done to absorb and neutralize any remaining exudate as well as to promote draining and prevent premature closure. prolonged draining is thought to promote healing. the hypothesis is that though the heart ' s pumping action can deliver immune and regenerative cells to the edge of an injury, an abscess is by definition a void in which no blood vessels are present. packing is thought to provide a wicking action that continuously draws beneficial factors and cells from the body into the void that must be healed. discharge is then absorbed by cutaneous bandages and further wicking promoted by changing these bandages regularly. however, evidence from emergency medicine literature reports that packing wounds after draining, especially smaller wounds, causes pain to the person and does not decrease the rate of recurrence, nor bring faster healing, or fewer physician visits. loop drainage more recently, several north american hospitals have opted for less - invasive loop drainage over standard drainage and wound packing. in one study of 143 pediatric outcomes, a failure rate of 1. 4 % was reported in the loop group