possessed fewer teeth, but gorgosaurus had 62. unlike most theropods, albertosaurus and other tyrannosaurids were heterodont, with teeth of different forms depending on their position in the mouth. the premaxillary teeth at the tip of the upper jaw, four per side, were much smaller than the rest, more closely packed, and d - shaped in cross section. like with tyrannosaurus rex, the maxillary ( cheek ) teeth of albertosaurus were adapted in general form to resist lateral forces exerted by a struggling prey animal. the bite force of albertosaurus was less formidable, however, with the maximum force, by the back teeth, reaching 3, 413 newtons. above the eyes were short bony crests that may have been brightly coloured in life and possibly used, by males in particular, in courtship to attract a mate. in 2001, william abler observed that albertosaurus tooth serrations resemble a crack in the tooth ending in a round void called an ampulla. tyrannosaurid teeth were used as holdfasts for pulling flesh off a body, so when a tyrannosaur pulled back on a piece of meat, the tension could cause a purely crack - like serration to spread through the tooth. however, the presence of the ampulla distributed these forces over a larger surface area and lessened the risk of damage to the tooth under strain. the presence of incisions ending in voids has parallels in human engineering. guitar makers use incisions ending in voids to, as abler describes, " impart alternating regions of flexibility and rigidity " to wood that they work on. the use of a drill to create an " ampulla " of sorts and prevent the propagation of cracks through material is also used to protect aircraft surfaces. abler demonstrated that a plexiglass bar with incisions called " kerfs " and drilled holes was more than 25 % stronger than one with only regularly placed incisions. unlike tyrannosaurs, more ancient predators, like phytosaurs and dimetrodon, had no adaptations to prevent the crack - like serrations of their teeth from spreading when subjected to the forces of feeding. classification and systematics albertosaurus is a member of the theropod family tyrannosauridae, specifically the subfamily albertosaurinae. its closest relative is the slightly older gorgosaurus libratus ( sometimes called albertosaurus libratus ; see below ). these two species are