alaska is a sparsely inhabited region stretching some inland from the bering sea. most of the population lives along the coast. kodiak island is also located in southwest. the massive yukon – kuskokwim delta, one of the largest river deltas in the world, is here. portions of the alaska peninsula are considered part of the southwest, with the aleutian islands often ( but not always ) being grouped in as well. aleutian islands while primarily part of southwest alaska when grouped economically, the aleutian islands are sometimes recognized as an alternate group from the rest of the region due to the geographic separation from the continent. more than 300 small volcanic islands make up this chain, which stretches more than into the pacific ocean. some of these islands fall in the eastern hemisphere, but the international date line was drawn west of 180° to keep the whole state, and thus the entire north american continent, within the same legal day. two of the islands, attu and kiska, were occupied by japanese forces during world war ii. land ownership according to an october 1998 report by the united states bureau of land management, approximately 65 % of alaska is owned and managed by the u. s. federal government as public lands, including a multitude of national forests, national parks, and national wildlife refuges. of these, the bureau of land management manages, or 23. 8 % of the state. the arctic national wildlife refuge is managed by the united states fish and wildlife service. it is the world ' s largest wildlife refuge, comprising. of the remaining land area, the state of alaska owns, its entitlement under the alaska statehood act. a portion of that acreage is occasionally ceded to the organized boroughs presented above, under the statutory provisions pertaining to newly formed boroughs. smaller portions are set aside for rural subdivisions and other homesteading - related opportunities. these are not very popular due to the often remote and roadless locations. the university of alaska, as a land grant university, also owns substantial acreage which it manages independently. another are owned by 12 regional, and scores of local, native corporations created under the alaska native claims settlement act ( ancsa ) of 1971. regional native corporation doyon, limited often promotes itself as the largest private landowner in alaska in advertisements and other communications. provisions of ancsa allowing the corporations ' land holdings to be sold on the open market starting in 1991 were repealed before they could take effect. effectively, the corporations hold title ( including subsurface title in many cases, a