her hearing after a near - fatal bout of scarlet fever close to her fifth birthday, she had learned to read lips but her father, gardiner greene hubbard, bell ' s benefactor and personal friend, wanted her to work directly with her teacher. the telephone by 1874, bell ' s initial work on the harmonic telegraph had entered a formative stage, with progress made both at his new boston " laboratory " ( a rented facility ) and at his family home in canada a big success. while working that summer in brantford, bell experimented with a " phonautograph ", a pen - like machine that could draw shapes of sound waves on smoked glass by tracing their vibrations. bell thought it might be possible to generate undulating electrical currents that corresponded to sound waves. bell also thought that multiple metal reeds tuned to different frequencies like a harp would be able to convert the undulating currents back into sound. but he had no working model to demonstrate the feasibility of these ideas. in 1874, telegraph message traffic was rapidly expanding and in the words of western union president william orton, had become " the nervous system of commerce ". orton had contracted with inventors thomas edison and elisha gray to find a way to send multiple telegraph messages on each telegraph line to avoid the great cost of constructing new lines. when bell mentioned to gardiner hubbard and thomas sanders that he was working on a method of sending multiple tones on a telegraph wire using a multi - reed device, the two wealthy patrons began to financially support bell ' s experiments. patent matters would be handled by hubbard ' s patent attorney, anthony pollok. in march 1875, bell and pollok visited the scientist joseph henry, who was then director of the smithsonian institution, and asked henry ' s advice on the electrical multi - reed apparatus that bell hoped would transmit the human voice by telegraph. henry replied that bell had " the germ of a great invention ". when bell said that he did not have the necessary knowledge, henry replied, " get it! " that declaration greatly encouraged bell to keep trying, even though he did not have the equipment needed to continue his experiments, nor the ability to create a working model of his ideas. however, a chance meeting in 1874 between bell and thomas a. watson, an experienced electrical designer and mechanic at the electrical machine shop of charles williams, changed all that. with financial support from sanders and hubbard, bell hired thomas watson as his assistant, and the two of them experimented with acoustic telegraphy. on june 2, 1875, watson accidentally plucked one of the reeds