of the alchemy as a practical tradition or protoscience. this interpretation further forwarded the view that alchemy is an art primarily concerned with spiritual enlightenment or illumination, as opposed to the physical manipulation of apparatus and chemicals, and claims that the obscure language of the alchemical texts were an allegorical guise for spiritual, moral or mystical processes. in the 19th - century revival of alchemy, the two most seminal figures were mary anne atwood and ethan allen hitchcock, who independently published similar works regarding spiritual alchemy. both forwarded a completely esoteric view of alchemy, as atwood claimed : " no modern art or chemistry, notwithstanding all its surreptitious claims, has any thing in common with alchemy. " atwood ' s work influenced subsequent authors of the occult revival including eliphas levi, arthur edward waite, and rudolf steiner. hitchcock, in his remarks upon alchymists ( 1855 ) attempted to make a case for his spiritual interpretation with his claim that the alchemists wrote about a spiritual discipline under a materialistic guise in order to avoid accusations of blasphemy from the church and state. in 1845, baron carl reichenbach, published his studies on odic force, a concept with some similarities to alchemy, but his research did not enter the mainstream of scientific discussion. in 1946, louis cattiaux published the message retrouve, a work that was at once philosophical, mystical and highly influenced by alchemy. in his lineage, many researchers, including emmanuel and charles d ' hooghvorst, are updating alchemical studies in france and belgium. women several women appear in the earliest history of alchemy. michael maier names four women who were able to make the philosophers ' stone : mary the jewess, cleopatra the alchemist, medera, and taphnutia. zosimos ' sister theosebia ( later known as euthica the arab ) and isis the prophetess also played roles in early alchemical texts. the first alchemist whose name we know was mary the jewess ( ). early sources claim that mary ( or maria ) devised a number of improvements to alchemical equipment and tools as well as novel techniques in chemistry. her best known advances were in heating and distillation processes. the laboratory water - bath, known eponymously ( especially in france ) as the bain - marie, is said to have been invented or at least improved by her. essentially a double - boiler, it