were marred by a string of injuries, especially back injuries, which caused her ranking to erode gradually. as a personality kournikova was among the most common search strings for both articles and images in her prime. 2004 – present : exhibitions and world team tennis kournikova has not played on the wta tour since 2003, but still plays exhibition matches for charitable causes. in late 2004, she participated in three events organized by elton john and by fellow tennis players serena williams and andy roddick. in january 2005, she played in a doubles charity event for the indian ocean tsunami with john mcenroe, andy roddick, and chris evert. in november 2005, she teamed up with martina hingis, playing against lisa raymond and samantha stosur in the wtt finals for charity. kournikova is also a member of the st. louis aces in the world team tennis ( wtt ), playing doubles only. in september 2008, kournikova showed up for the 2008 nautica malibu triathlon held at zuma beach in malibu, california. the race raised funds for children ' s hospital los angeles. she won that race for women ' s k - swiss team. on 27 september 2008, kournikova played exhibition mixed doubles matches in charlotte, north carolina, partnering with tim wilkison and karel novacek. kournikova and wilkison defeated jimmy arias and chanda rubin, and then kournikova and novacek defeated rubin and wilkison. on 12 october 2008, anna kournikova played one exhibition match for the annual charity event, hosted by billie jean king and elton john, and raised more than $ 400, 000 for the elton john aids foundation and atlanta aids partnership fund. she played doubles with andy roddick ( they were coached by david chang ) versus martina navratilova and jesse levine ( coached by billie jean king ) ; kournikova and roddick won. kournikova was one of " four former world no. 1 players " who participated in " legendary night ", held on 2 may 2009, at the turning stone event center in verona, new york, the others being john mcenroe ( who had been no. 1 in both singles and doubles ), tracy austin and jim courier ( both of whom who had been no. 1 in singles but not doubles ). the exhibition included a mixed doubles match in which mcenroe and kournikova defeated courier and austin. in 2008, she was