the number - one position on other billboard us charts, including billboard adult contemporary and hot dance club play ). nevertheless, arrival finally became a true breakthrough release for abba on the us album market where it peaked at number 20 on the billboard 200 chart and was certified gold by riaa. european and australian tour in january 1977, abba embarked on their first major tour. the group ' s status had changed dramatically and they were clearly regarded as superstars. they opened their much anticipated tour in oslo, norway, on 28 january, and mounted a lavishly produced spectacle that included a few scenes from their self - written mini - operetta the girl with the golden hair. the concert attracted huge media attention from across europe and australia. they continued the tour through western europe, visiting gothenburg, copenhagen, berlin, cologne, amsterdam, antwerp, essen, hanover, and hamburg and ending with shows in the united kingdom in manchester, birmingham, glasgow and two sold - out concerts at london ' s royal albert hall. tickets for these two shows were available only by mail application and it was later revealed that the box - office received 3. 5 million requests for tickets, enough to fill the venue 580 times. along with praise ( " abba turn out to be amazingly successful at reproducing their records ", wrote creem ), there were complaints that " abba performed slickly... but with a zero personality coming across from a total of 16 people on stage " ( melody maker ). one of the royal albert hall concerts was filmed as a reference for the filming of the australian tour for what became abba : the movie, though it is not exactly known how much of the concert was filmed. after the european leg of the tour, in march 1977, abba played 11 dates in australia before a total of 160, 000 people. the opening concert in sydney at the sydney showground on 3 march to an audience of 20, 000 was marred by torrential rain with lyngstad slipping on the wet stage during the concert. however, all four members would later recall this concert as the most memorable of their career. upon their arrival in melbourne, a civic reception was held at the melbourne town hall and abba appeared on the balcony to greet an enthusiastic crowd of 6, 000. in melbourne, the group gave three concerts at the sidney myer music bowl with 14, 500 at each including the australian prime minister malcolm fraser and his family. at the first melbourne concert, an additional 16, 000 people gathered outside the fenced -