; but if he signed the charter, he would lose his anti - bank constituents. after the recharter bill was passed, jackson vetoed it on july 10, 1832, arguing that the country should not surrender the will of the majority to the desires of the wealthy. election of 1832 the 1832 presidential election demonstrated the rapid development of political parties during jackson ' s presidency. the democratic party ' s first national convention, held in baltimore, nominated jackson ' s choice for vice president, martin van buren. the national republican party, which had held its first convention in baltimore earlier in december 1831, nominated clay, now a senator from kentucky, and john sergeant of pennsylvania. an anti - masonic party, with a platform built around opposition to freemasonry, supported neither jackson nor clay, who both were masons. the party nominated william wirt of maryland and amos ellmaker of pennsylvania. in addition to the votes jackson would lose because of the bank veto, clay hoped that jackson ' s indian removal act would alienate voters in the east ; but jackson ' s losses were offset by the act ' s popularity in the west and southwest. clay had also expected that jackson would lose votes because of his stand on internal improvements. jackson had vetoed the maysville road bill, which funded an upgrade of a section of the national road in clay ' s state of kentucky ; as part of his justification, jackson claimed it was unconstitutional to fund internal improvements using national funds for local projects. clay ' s strategy failed. jackson was able to mobilize the democratic party ' s strong political networks. the northeast supported jackson because he was in favor of maintaining a stiff tariff ; the west supported him because the indian removal act reduced the number of native americans in the region and made available more public land. except for south carolina, which passed the ordinance of nullification during the election month and refused to support any party by giving its votes to the future governor of virginia john b. floyd, the south supported jackson for implementing the indian removal act, as well as for his willingness to compromise by signing the tariff of 1832. jackson won the election by a landslide, receiving 55 percent of the popular vote and 219 electoral votes. removal of deposits and censure jackson saw his victory as a mandate to continue his war on the bank ' s control over the national economy. in 1833, jackson signed an executive order ending the deposit of treasury receipts in the bank. when secretary of the treasury mclane refused to execute the order, jackson replaced him with william j. duane,