albert camus (, ; ; 7 november 1913 – 4 january 1960 ) was an algerian - french philosopher, author, dramatist, journalist, and political activist. he was the recipient of the 1957 nobel prize in literature at the age of 44, the second - youngest recipient in history. his works include the stranger, the plague, the myth of sisyphus, the fall, and the rebel. camus was born in french algeria to pieds noirs parents. he spent his childhood in a poor neighbourhood and later studied philosophy at the university of algiers. he was in paris when the germans invaded france during world war ii in 1940. camus tried to flee but finally joined the french resistance where he served as editor - in - chief at combat, an outlawed newspaper. after the war, he was a celebrity figure and gave many lectures around the world. he married twice but had many extramarital affairs. camus was politically active ; he was part of the left that opposed joseph stalin and the soviet union because of their totalitarianism. camus was a moralist and leaned towards anarcho - syndicalism. he was part of many organisations seeking european integration. during the algerian war ( 1954 – 1962 ), he kept a neutral stance, advocating for a multicultural and pluralistic algeria, a position that was rejected by most parties. philosophically, camus ' s views contributed to the rise of the philosophy known as absurdism. some consider camus ' s work to show him to be an existentialist, even though he himself firmly rejected the term throughout his lifetime. life early years and education albert camus was born on 7 november 1913 in a working - class neighbourhood in mondovi ( present - day drean ), in french algeria. his mother, catherine helene camus ( nee sintes ), was french with balearic spanish ancestry. he never knew his father, lucien camus, a poor french agricultural worker killed in action while serving with zouaves, in october 1914, during world war i. camus, his mother and other relatives lived without many basic material possessions during his childhood in the belcourt section of algiers. camus was a second - generation french inhabitant of algeria, a french territory from 1830 until 1962. his paternal grandfather, along with many others of his generation, had moved to algeria for a better life during the first decades of the 19th century. hence, he was called — a slang term for people of french and other european descent born in algeria. his identity