languages maintain the native berber numeral system, with many using arabic loans for higher numbers and some from any numeral beyond two. in some berber languages, the roots for one and two are also borrowed from arabic. some south cushitic numerals are borrowed from nilotic languages, other cushitic numerals have been borrowed from ethiopian semitic languages. cognates afroasiatic languages share a vocabulary of proto - afroasiatic origin to varying extents. writing in 2004, john huehnergard notes the great difficulty in establishing cognate sets across the family. identifying cognates is difficult because the languages in question are often separated by thousands of years of development and many languages within the family have long been in contact with each other, raising the possibility of loanwords. work is also hampered because of the poor state of documentation of many languages. there are two etymological dictionaries of afroasiatic, one by christopher ehret, and one by vladimir orel and olga stolbova, both from 1995. both works provide highly divergent reconstructions and have been heavily criticized by other scholars. andrzej zaborski refers to orel and stolbova ' s reconstructions as " controversial ", and ehret ' s as " not acceptable to many scholars ". tom guldemann argues that much comparative work in afroasiatic suffers from not attempting first to reconstruct smaller units within the individual branches, but instead comparing words in the individual languages. nevertheless, both dictionaries agree on some items and some proposed cognates are uncontroversial. such cognates tend to rely on relatively simple sound correspondences. abbreviations : pec = ' proto - eastern cushtic '. see also afroasiatic phonetic notation languages of africa languages of asia nostratic languages borean languages notes citations works cited external links afro - asiatic at the linguist list multitree project : genealogical trees attributed to delafosse 1914, greenberg 1950 – 1955, greenberg 1963, fleming 1976, hodge 1976, orel & stolbova 1995, diakonoff 1996 – 1998, ehret 1995 – 2000, hayward 2000, militarev 2005, blench 2006, and fleming 2006 afro - asiatic and semitic genealogical trees, presented by alexander militarev at his talk " genealogical classification of afro - asiatic languages according to the latest data " at the conference on the 70th anniversary of v. m. illich - svitych, moscow, 2004 ;