the stock being cultivated. " the reported output from global aquaculture operations in 2019 was over 120 million tonnes valued at us $ 274 billion. however, there are issues with the reliability of the reported figures. further, in current aquaculture practice, products from several kilograms of wild fish are used to produce one kilogram of a piscivorous fish like salmon. plant and insect - based feeds are also being developed to help reduce wild fish been used for aquaculture feed. particular kinds of aquaculture include fish farming, shrimp farming, oyster farming, mariculture, pisciculture, algaculture ( such as seaweed farming ), and the cultivation of ornamental fish. particular methods include aquaponics and integrated multi - trophic aquaculture, both of which integrate fish farming and aquatic plant farming. the fao describes aquaculture as one of the industries most directly affected by climate change and its impacts. some forms of aquaculture have negative impacts on the environment, such as through nutrient pollution or disease transfer to wild populations. overview harvest stagnation in wild fisheries and overexploitation of popular marine species, combined with a growing demand for high - quality protein, encouraged aquaculturists to domesticate other marine species. at the outset of modern aquaculture, many were optimistic that a " blue revolution " could take place in aquaculture, just as the green revolution of the 20th century had revolutionized agriculture. although land animals had long been domesticated, most seafood species were still caught from the wild. concerned about the impact of growing demand for seafood on the world ' s oceans, prominent ocean explorer jacques cousteau wrote in 1973 : " with earth ' s burgeoning human populations to feed, we must turn to the sea with new understanding and new technology. " about 430 ( 97 % ) of the species cultured were domesticated during the 20th and 21st centuries, of which an estimated 106 came in the decade to 2007. given the long - term importance of agriculture, to date, only 0. 08 % of known land plant species and 0. 0002 % of known land animal species have been domesticated, compared with 0. 17 % of known marine plant species and 0. 13 % of known marine animal species. domestication typically involves about a decade of scientific research. domesticating aquatic species involves fewer risks to humans than do land animals, which took a large toll in human lives. most major human diseases originated in domesticated animals, including diseases such as smallpox and diphtheria, that