often resembling the " pre – vatican ii " tridentine rite. between these extremes are a variety of styles of worship, often involving a robed choir and the use of the organ to accompany the singing and to provide music before and after the service. anglican churches tend to have pews or chairs, and it is usual for the congregation to kneel for some prayers but to stand for hymns and other parts of the service such as the gloria, collect, gospel reading, creed and either the preface or all of the eucharistic prayer. anglicans may genuflect or cross themselves in the same way as roman catholics. other more traditional anglicans tend to follow the 1662 book of common prayer, and retain the use of the king james bible. this is typical in many anglican cathedrals and particularly in royal peculiars such as the savoy chapel and the queen ' s chapel. these services reflect older anglican liturgies and differ from the traditional anglican communion in that they are in favour of women priests and the ability of clergy to marry. these anglican church services include classical music instead of songs, hymns from the new english hymnal ( usually excluding modern hymns such as " lord of the dance " ), and are generally non - evangelical and formal in practice. until the mid - 20th century the main sunday service was typically morning prayer, but the eucharist has once again become the standard form of sunday worship in many anglican churches ; this again is similar to roman catholic practice. other common sunday services include an early morning eucharist without music, an abbreviated eucharist following a service of morning prayer, and a service of evening prayer, sometimes in the form of sung evensong, usually celebrated between 3 and 6 pm. the late - evening service of compline was revived in parish use in the early 20th century. many anglican churches will also have daily morning and evening prayer, and some have midweek or even daily celebration of the eucharist. an anglican service ( whether or not a eucharist ) will include readings from the bible that are generally taken from a standardised lectionary, which provides for much of the bible ( and some passages from the apocrypha ) to be read out loud in the church over a cycle of one, two, or three years ( depending on which eucharistic and office lectionaries are used, respectively ). the sermon ( or homily ) is typically about ten to twenty minutes in length, often comparably short to sermons in evangelical churches. even