is the combining power of an element. it is determined by the number of bonds it can form to other atoms or groups. the outermost electron shell of an atom in its uncombined state is known as the valence shell, and the electrons in that shell are called valence electrons. the number of valence electrons determines the bonding behavior with other atoms. atoms tend to chemically react with each other in a manner that fills ( or empties ) their outer valence shells. for example, a transfer of a single electron between atoms is a useful approximation for bonds that form between atoms with one - electron more than a filled shell, and others that are one - electron short of a full shell, such as occurs in the compound sodium chloride and other chemical ionic salts. many elements display multiple valences, or tendencies to share differing numbers of electrons in different compounds. thus, chemical bonding between these elements takes many forms of electron - sharing that are more than simple electron transfers. examples include the element carbon and the organic compounds. the chemical elements are often displayed in a periodic table that is laid out to display recurring chemical properties, and elements with the same number of valence electrons form a group that is aligned in the same column of the table. ( the horizontal rows correspond to the filling of a quantum shell of electrons. ) the elements at the far right of the table have their outer shell completely filled with electrons, which results in chemically inert elements known as the noble gases. states quantities of atoms are found in different states of matter that depend on the physical conditions, such as temperature and pressure. by varying the conditions, materials can transition between solids, liquids, gases and plasmas. within a state, a material can also exist in different allotropes. an example of this is solid carbon, which can exist as graphite or diamond. gaseous allotropes exist as well, such as dioxygen and ozone. at temperatures close to absolute zero, atoms can form a bose – einstein condensate, at which point quantum mechanical effects, which are normally only observed at the atomic scale, become apparent on a macroscopic scale. this super - cooled collection of atoms then behaves as a single super atom, which may allow fundamental checks of quantum mechanical behavior. identification while atoms are too small to be seen, devices such as the scanning tunneling microscope ( stm ) enable their visualization at the surfaces of solids. the microscope uses the quantum tunneling phenomenon, which allows particles to pass through a