a bow and arrows and fitted a strong shield to his arm. after zeus urged apollo to join the war, he went to the battlefield. seeing several of his nymphs and aristaeus drowning in a river, he took them to safety and healed them. he taught aristaeus more useful healing arts and sent him back to help the army of dionysus. theban war during the war between the sons of oedipus, apollo favored amphiaraus, a seer and one of the leaders in the war. though saddened that the seer was fated to be doomed in the war, apollo made amphiaraus ' last hours glorious by " lighting his shield and his helm with starry gleam ". when hypseus tried to kill the hero with a spear, apollo directed the spear towards the charioteer of amphiaraus instead. then apollo himself replaced the charioteer and took the reins in his hands. he deflected many spears and arrows away from them. he also killed many of the enemy warriors like melaneus, antiphus, aetion, polites and lampus. at last, when the moment of departure came, apollo expressed his grief with tears in his eyes and bid farewell to amphiaraus, who was soon engulfed by the earth. slaying of giants apollo killed the giants python and tityos, who had assaulted his mother leto. gigantomachy during the gigantomachy, apollo and heracles blinded the giant ephialtes by shooting him in his eyes, apollo shooting his left and heracles his right. he also killed porphyrion, the king of giants, using his bow and arrows. aloadae the aloadae, namely otis and ephialtes, were twin giants who decided to wage war upon the gods. they attempted to storm mt. olympus by piling up mountains, and threatened to fill the sea with mountains and inundate dry land. they even dared to seek the hand of hera and artemis in marriage. angered by this, apollo killed them by shooting them with arrows. according to another tale, apollo killed them by sending a deer between them ; as they tried to kill it with their javelins, they accidentally stabbed each other and died. phorbas phorbas was a savage giant king of phlegyas who was described as having swine - like features. he wished to plunder delphi for its wealth. he seized the roads to delphi and started harassing the pilgrims.