was noted for its strict observance of the rule of saint benedict. however, reforms resulted in many departures from this precedent. the cluniac reforms brought focus to the traditions of monastic life, encouraging art and the caring of the poor. the reforms quickly spread by the founding of new abbey complexes and by adoption of the reforms by existing abbeys. by the twelfth century, the abbey of cluny was the head of an order consisting of 314 monasteries. the church at the abbey was commenced in 1089 ad by hugh of cluny, the sixth abbot. it was finished and consecrated by pope innocent ii around 1132 ad. the church was regarded as one of the wonders of the middle ages. at in length, it was the largest church in christendom until the completion of st peter ' s basilica at rome. the church consisted of five naves, a narthex ( ante - church ) which was added in 1220 ad, and several towers. together with the conventual buildings, it covered an area of twenty - five acres. in the dechristianization of france during the french revolution in 1790 ad, the abbey church was bought by the town and almost entirely destroyed. english cluniac houses the first english house of the cluniac order was built at lewes, sussex. it was founded by william de warenne, 1st earl of surrey in about 1077 ad. all but one of the cluniac houses in britain were known as priories, symbolizing their subordination to the abbot of cluny. all the cluniac houses in england and scotland were french colonies, governed by french priors who travelled to the abbey of cluny to consult or be consulted ( unless the abbot of cluny chose to come to britain, which happened rarely ). the priory at paisley was an exception. in 1245 ad it was raised to the status of an abbey, answerable only to the pope. abbeys of the augustinian canons the augustinian ( or " austin " ) canons were an order of regular clergy within the hierarchy of the catholic church. they held a position between monks and secular canons. they were known as " black canons " because of the colour of their habits. in 1105 ad, the first house of the order was established at st botolph ' s priory, colchester, essex. the canons built very long naves to accommodate large congregations. the choirs were also long. sometimes, as at llanthony priory and christchurch,