they are frequently clustered at the end of the plant stem. the asparagales are generally distinguished from the liliales by the lack of markings on the tepals, the presence of septal nectaries in the ovaries, rather than the bases of the tepals or stamen filaments, and the presence of secondary growth. they are generally geophytes, but with linear leaves, and a lack of fine reticular venation. the seeds characteristically have the external epidermis either obliterated ( in most species bearing fleshy fruit ), or if present, have a layer of black carbonaceous phytomelanin in species with dry fruits ( nuts ). the inner part of the seed coat is generally collapsed, in contrast to liliales whose seeds have a well developed outer epidermis, lack phytomelanin, and usually display a cellular inner layer. the orders which have been separated from the old liliales are difficult to characterize. no single morphological character appears to be diagnostic of the order asparagales. the flowers of asparagales are of a general type among the lilioid monocots. compared to liliales, they usually have plain tepals without markings in the form of dots. if nectaries are present, they are in the septa of the ovaries rather than at the base of the tepals or stamens. those species which have relatively large dry seeds have a dark, crust - like ( crustose ) outer layer containing the pigment phytomelan. however, some species with hairy seeds ( e. g. eriospermum, family asparagaceae s. l. ), berries ( e. g. maianthemum, family asparagaceae s. l. ), or highly reduced seeds ( e. g. orchids ) lack this dark pigment in their seed coats. phytomelan is not unique to asparagales ( i. e. it is not a synapomorphy ) but it is common within the order and rare outside it. the inner portion of the seed coat is usually completely collapsed. in contrast, the morphologically similar seeds of liliales have no phytomelan, and usually retain a cellular structure in the inner portion of the seed coat. most monocots are unable to thicken their stems once they have formed, since they lack the cylindrical meristem present in other angiosperm groups