in england the abuse was rife in the 8th century, as may be gathered from the acts of the council of cloveshoe. these lay abbacies were not merely a question of overlordship, but implied the concentration in lay hands of all the rights, immunities and jurisdiction of the foundations, i. e. the more or less complete secularization of spiritual institutions. the lay abbot took his recognized rank in the feudal hierarchy, and was free to dispose of his fief as in the case of any other. the enfeoffment of abbeys differed in form and degree. sometimes the monks were directly subject to the lay abbot ; sometimes he appointed a substitute to perform the spiritual functions, known usually as dean ( ), but also as abbot (,, ). when the great reform of the 11th century had put an end to the direct jurisdiction of the lay abbots, the honorary title of abbot continued to be held by certain of the great feudal families, as late as the 13th century and later, with the head of the community retaining the title of dean. the connection of the lesser lay abbots with the abbeys, especially in the south of france, lasted longer ; and certain feudal families retained the title of ( ) for centuries, together with certain rights over the abbey lands or revenues. the abuse was not confined to the west. john, patriarch of antioch at the beginning of the 12th century, informs us that in his time most monasteries had been handed over to laymen,, for life, or for part of their lives, by the emperors. giraldus cambrensis reported ( itinerary, ii. iv ) the common customs of lay abbots in the late 12th - century church of wales : in conventual cathedrals, where the bishop occupied the place of the abbot, the functions usually devolving on the superior of the monastery were performed by a prior. modern practices in the roman catholic church, abbots continue to be elected by the monks of an abbey to lead them as their religious superior in those orders and monasteries that make use of the term ( some orders of monks, as the carthusians for instance, have no abbots, only priors ). a monastery must have been granted the status of an abbey by the pope, and such monasteries are normally raised to this level after showing a degree of stability — a certain number of monks in vows, a certain number of years of establishment, a certain firmness to the foundation in economic, vocational and legal aspects. prior