##ment of the highest possible level of sexual and reproductive health ". historically, abortions have been attempted using herbal medicines, sharp tools, forceful massage, or other traditional methods. around 73 million abortions are performed each year in the world, with about 45 % done unsafely. abortion rates changed little between 2003 and 2008, before which they decreased for at least two decades as access to family planning and birth control increased., 37 % of the world ' s women had access to legal abortions without limits as to reason. countries that permit abortions have different limits on how late in pregnancy abortion is allowed. abortion rates are similar between countries that restrict abortion and countries that broadly allow it, though this is partly because countries which restrict abortion tend to have higher unintended pregnancy rates. globally, there has been a widespread trend towards greater legal access to abortion since 1973, but there remains debate with regard to moral, religious, ethical, and legal issues. those who oppose abortion often argue that an embryo or fetus is a person with a right to life, and thus equate it with murder. those who support its legality often argue that it is a woman ' s reproductive right. others favor legal and accessible abortion as a public health measure. abortion laws and views of the procedure are different around the world. in some countries abortion is legal and women have the right to make the choice about abortion. in some areas, abortion is legal only in specific cases such as rape, fetal defects, poverty, risk to a woman ' s health, or incest. types induced approximately 205 million pregnancies occur each year worldwide. over a third are unintended and about a fifth end in induced abortion. most abortions result from unintended pregnancies. in the united kingdom, 1 to 2 % of abortions are done due to genetic problems in the fetus. a pregnancy can be intentionally aborted in several ways. the manner selected often depends upon the gestational age of the embryo or fetus, which increases in size as the pregnancy progresses. specific procedures may also be selected due to legality, regional availability, and doctor or a woman ' s personal preference. reasons for procuring induced abortions are typically characterized as either therapeutic or elective. an abortion is medically referred to as a therapeutic abortion when it is performed to save the life of the pregnant woman ; to prevent harm to the woman ' s physical or mental health ; to terminate a pregnancy where indications are that the child will have a significantly increased chance of