turkish tribes and disintegration of roman control over the region. ecclesiastical history the bishopric of abydus appears in all the notitiae episcopatuum of the patriarchate of constantinople from the mid - 7th century until the time of andronikos iii palaiologos ( 1341 ), first as a suffragan of cyzicus and then from 1084 as a metropolitan see without suffragans. the earliest bishop mentioned in extant documents is marcian, who signed the joint letter of the bishops of hellespontus to emperor leo i in 458, protesting about the murder of proterius of alexandria. a letter of peter the fuller ( 471 – 488 ) mentions a bishop of abydus called pamphilus. ammonius signed the decretal letter of the council of constantinople in 518 against severus of antioch and others. isidore was at the third council of constantinople ( 680 – 681 ), john at the trullan council ( 692 ), theodore at the second council of nicaea ( 787 ). an unnamed bishop of abydus was a counsellor of emperor nikephoros ii in 969. seals attest theodosius as bishop of abydos in the 11th century, and john as metropolitan bishop of abydos in the 11 / 12th century. abydos remained a metropolitan see until the city fell to the turks in the 14th century. the diocese is currently a titular see of the patriarchate of constantinople, and gerasimos papadopoulos was titular bishop of abydos from 1962 until his death in 1995. simeon kruzhkov was bishop of abydos from may to september 1998. kyrillos katerelos was consecrated bishop of abydos in 2008. in 1222, during the latin occupation, the papal legate giovanni colonna united the dioceses of abydos and madytos and placed the see under direct papal authority. no longer a residential bishopric, abydus is today listed by the catholic church as a titular see. see also list of ancient greek cities references notes citations bibliography external links ancient greek archaeological sites in turkey former populated places in turkey greek colonies in mysia milesian colonies members of the delian league populated places established in the 7th century bc populated places of the byzantine empire roman towns and cities in turkey populated places in ancient mysia history of canakkale province