. foucault warns of the risks of keeping the author ' s name in mind during interpretation, because it could affect the value and meaning with which one handles an interpretation. literary critics barthes and foucault suggest that readers should not rely on or look for the notion of one overarching voice when interpreting a written work, because of the complications inherent with a writer ' s title of " author. " they warn of the dangers interpretations could suffer from when associating the subject of inherently meaningful words and language with the personality of one authorial voice. instead, readers should allow a text to be interpreted in terms of the language as " author. " relationship with publisher self - publishing self - publishing is a model where the author takes full responsibility and control of arranging financing, editing, printing, and distribution of their own work. in other words, the author also acts as the publisher of their work. traditional publishing with commissioned publishing, the publisher makes all the publication arrangements and the author covers all expenses. the author of a work may receive a percentage calculated on a wholesale or a specific price or a fixed amount on each book sold. publishers, at times, reduced the risk of this type of arrangement, by agreeing only to pay this after a certain number of copies had sold. in canada, this practice occurred during the 1890s, but was not commonplace until the 1920s. established and successful authors may receive advance payments, set against future royalties, but this is no longer common practice. most independent publishers pay royalties as a percentage of net receipts – how net receipts are calculated varies from publisher to publisher. under this arrangement, the author does not pay anything towards the expense of publication. the costs and financial risk are all carried by the publisher, who will then take the greatest percentage of the receipts. see compensation for more. vanity publishing vanity publishers normally charge a flat fee for arranging publication, offer a platform for selling, and then take a percentage of the sale of every copy of a book. the author receives the rest of the money made. most materials published this way are for niche groups and not for large audiences. vanity publishing, or subsidy publishing, is stigmatized in the professional world. in 1983, bill henderson defined vanity publishers as people who would " publish anything for which an author will pay, usually at a loss for the author and a nice profit for the publisher. " in subsidy publishing, the book sales are not the publishers ' main source of income, but instead the fees that the authors are charged to initially produce the book are.