he was still recovering from an ankle injury and also suffering from back and leg pain and lack of match play. agassi withdrew from the australian open because of the ankle injury, and his back injury and other pains forced him to withdraw from several other events, eventually skipping the entire clay - court season including the french open. this caused his ranking to drop out of the top 10 for the last time. agassi returned for the grass - court season, playing a tune - up, and then wimbledon. he was defeated in the third round by world no. 2 ( and eventual runner - up ) rafael nadal. against conventions, agassi, the losing player, was interviewed on court after the match. at wimbledon, agassi announced his plans to retire following the us open. agassi played only two events during the summer hard - court season with his best result being a quarterfinal loss at the countrywide classic in los angeles to fernando gonzalez of chile, which resulted in him being unseeded at the us open. agassi had a short, but dramatic, run in his final us open. because of extreme back pain, agassi was forced to receive anti - inflammatory injections after every match. after a four - set win against andrei pavel, agassi faced eighth - seeded marcos baghdatis in the second round who had earlier advanced to the 2006 australian open final and wimbledon semi - finals. agassi won in five sets as the younger baghdatis succumbed to muscle cramping in the final set. in his last match, agassi fell to 112th - ranked big - serving benjamin becker of germany in four sets. agassi received a four - minute standing ovation from the crowd after the match and delivered a retirement speech. rivalries agassi vs. sampras the rivalry has been called the greatest of the generation of players competing in the 1990s, as sampras and agassi were the most successful players of that decade. they also had very contrasting playing styles, with sampras being considered the greatest server and agassi the greatest serve returner at the time. agassi and sampras met 34 times on the tour level with agassi trailing 14 – 20. the 1990 us open was their first meeting in a grand slam tournament final. agassi was favored as he was ranked no. 4 at the time, compared to the no. 12 ranking of sampras and because agassi had defeated sampras