the transition from a mixture of ammonia and dihydrogen molecules to metallic ammonium may occur at pressures just below 25 gpa. under standard conditions, ammonium can form a metallic amalgam with mercury. other " pseudo - alkali metals " include the alkylammonium cations, in which some of the hydrogen atoms in the ammonium cation are replaced by alkyl or aryl groups. in particular, the quaternary ammonium cations ( ) are very useful since they are permanently charged, and they are often used as an alternative to the expensive cs + to stabilise very large and very easily polarisable anions such as. tetraalkylammonium hydroxides, like alkali metal hydroxides, are very strong bases that react with atmospheric carbon dioxide to form carbonates. furthermore, the nitrogen atom may be replaced by a phosphorus, arsenic, or antimony atom ( the heavier nonmetallic pnictogens ), creating a phosphonium ( ) or arsonium ( ) cation that can itself be substituted similarly ; while stibonium ( ) itself is not known, some of its organic derivatives are characterised. cobaltocene and derivatives cobaltocene, co ( c5h5 ) 2, is a metallocene, the cobalt analogue of ferrocene. it is a dark purple solid. cobaltocene has 19 valence electrons, one more than usually found in organotransition metal complexes, such as its very stable relative, ferrocene, in accordance with the 18 - electron rule. this additional electron occupies an orbital that is antibonding with respect to the co – c bonds. consequently, many chemical reactions of co ( c5h5 ) 2 are characterized by its tendency to lose this " extra " electron, yielding a very stable 18 - electron cation known as cobaltocenium. many cobaltocenium salts coprecipitate with caesium salts, and cobaltocenium hydroxide is a strong base that absorbs atmospheric carbon dioxide to form cobaltocenium carbonate. like the alkali metals, cobaltocene is a strong reducing agent, and decamethylcobaltocene is stronger still due to the combined inductive effect of the ten methyl groups. cobalt may be substituted by its heavier congener rhodium to give rhodocene, an even stronger reducing agent. iridocene ( involving iridium ) would presumably be still more potent, but is not very well - studied