lines are used for freight only and there is no passenger service. a rail line between khaf, iran and herat, western afghanistan, intended for both freight and passengers, is under construction as of 2019. about of the line will lie on the afghan side. private vehicle ownership has increased substantially since the early 2000s. taxis are yellow and consist of both cars and auto rickshaws. in rural afghanistan, villagers often use donkeys, mules or horses to transport or carry goods. camels are primarily used by the kochi nomads. bicycles are popular throughout afghanistan. culture afghans have both common cultural features and those that differ between the regions of afghanistan, each with distinctive cultures partly as a result of geographic obstacles that divide the country. family is the mainstay of afghan society and families are often headed by a patriarch. in the southern and eastern region, the people live according to the pashtun culture by following pashtunwali ( the pashtun way ). key tenets of pashtunwali include hospitality, the provision of sanctuary to those seeking refuge, and revenge for the shedding of blood. the pashtuns are largely connected to the culture of central asia and the iranian plateau. the remaining afghans are culturally persian and turkic. some non - pashtuns who live in proximity with pashtuns have adopted pashtunwali in a process called pashtunization, while some pashtuns have been persianized. those who have lived in pakistan and iran over the last 30 years have been further influenced by the cultures of those neighboring nations. the afghan people are known to be strongly religious. afghans, particularly pashtuns, are noted for their tribal solidarity and high regard for personal honor. there are various afghan tribes, and an estimated 2 – 3 million nomads. afghan culture is deeply islamic, but pre - islamic practices persist. one example is bacha bazi, a term for activities involving sexual relations between older men and adolescents or boys. child marriage is prevalent ; the legal age for marriage is 16. the most preferred marriage in afghan society is to one ' s parallel cousin, and the groom is often expected to pay a bride price. in the villages, families typically occupy mudbrick houses, or compounds with mudbrick or stone walled houses. villages typically have a headman ( malik ), a master for water distribution ( mirab ) and a religious teacher ( mullah ). men would typically work on the fields, joined by