accessible seating and gave the doj the opportunity to clarify previously unclear rules. the agreement now is a blueprint for all stadiums and other public facilities regarding accessibility. paralyzed veterans of america v. ellerbe becket architects and engineers one of the first major ada lawsuits, paralyzed veterans of america v. ellerbe becket architects and engineers ( pva 1996 ) was focused on the wheelchair accessibility of a stadium project that was still in the design phase, mci center ( now known as capital one arena ) in washington, d. c. previous to this case, which was filed only five years after the ada was passed, the doj was unable or unwilling to provide clarification on the distribution requirements for accessible wheelchair locations in large assembly spaces. while section 4. 33. 3 of adaag makes reference to lines of sight, no specific reference is made to seeing over standing patrons. the mci center, designed by ellerbe becket architects & engineers, was designed with too few wheelchair and companion seats, and the ones that were included did not provide sight lines that would enable the wheelchair user to view the playing area while the spectators in front of them were standing. this case and another related case established precedent on seat distribution and sight lines issues for ada enforcement that continues to present day. toyota motor manufacturing, kentucky, inc. v. williams toyota motor manufacturing, kentucky, inc. v. williams, was a case in which the supreme court interpreted the meaning of the phrase " substantially impairs " as used in the americans with disabilities act. it reversed a sixth court of appeals decision to grant a partial summary judgment in favor of the respondent, ella williams, that qualified her inability to perform manual job - related tasks as a disability. the court held that the " major life activity " definition in evaluating the performance of manual tasks focuses the inquiry on whether williams was unable to perform a range of tasks central to most people in carrying out the activities of daily living. the issue is not whether williams was unable to perform her specific job tasks. therefore, the determination of whether an impairment rises to the level of a disability is not limited to activities in the workplace solely, but rather to manual tasks in life in general. when the supreme court applied this standard, it found that the court of appeals had incorrectly determined the presence of a disability because it relied solely on her inability to perform specific manual work tasks, which was insufficient in proving the presence of a disability. the court of appeals should have taken into account the evidence presented that williams retained the ability