dutch east india company became the world ' s first stock exchange by trading in its own shares. the bank of amsterdam started operations in 1609, acting as a full - service bank for dutch merchant bankers and as a reserve bank. beginning during this period, amsterdam also became involved in the trade in african slaves. the city was a major destination port for dutch slave ships beginning in the 17th century, which lasted until the united netherlands abolished the dutch involvement in the trade in 1814 under pressure by the british government. amsterdam was also a member of the society of suriname, an organization founded to oversee the management of surinam, a dutch slave colony. on 1 july 2021, the mayor of amsterdam, femke halsema, apologized for the city ' s involvement in the african slave trade, which had contributed to the city ' s wealth. decline and modernization amsterdam ' s prosperity declined during the 18th and early 19th centuries. the wars of the dutch republic with england ( latterly, great britain ) and france took their toll on the city. during the napoleonic wars, amsterdam ' s significance reached its lowest point, with holland being absorbed into the french empire. however, the later establishment of the united kingdom of the netherlands in 1815 marked a turning point. the end of the 19th century is sometimes called amsterdam ' s second golden age. new museums, a railway station, and the were built ; in this same time, the industrial revolution reached the city. the amsterdam – rhine canal was dug to give amsterdam a direct connection to the rhine, and the north sea canal was dug to give the port a shorter connection to the north sea. both projects dramatically improved commerce with the rest of europe and the world. in 1906, joseph conrad gave a brief description of amsterdam as seen from the seaside, in the mirror of the sea. 20th century – present shortly before the first world war, the city started to expand again, and new suburbs were built. even though the netherlands remained neutral in this war, amsterdam suffered a food shortage, and heating fuel became scarce. the shortages sparked riots in which several people were killed. these riots are known as the aardappeloproer ( potato rebellion ). people started looting stores and warehouses in order to get supplies, mainly food. on 1 january 1921, after a flood in 1916, the depleted municipalities of durgerdam, holysloot, zunderdorp and schellingwoude, all lying north of amsterdam, were, at their own request, annexed to the city. between the wars, the city continued