different ethnicity. peasant parties rarely had any power before world war i but some became influential in the interwar era, especially in bulgaria and czechoslovakia. for a while, in the 1920s and the 1930s, there was a green international ( international agrarian bureau ) based on the peasant parties in bulgaria, czechoslovakia, poland, and serbia. it functioned primarily as an information center that spread the ideas of agrarianism and combating socialism on the left and landlords on the right and never launched any significant activities. europe bulgaria in bulgaria, the bulgarian agrarian national union ( bzns ) was organized in 1899 to resist taxes and build cooperatives. bzns came to power in 1919 and introduced many economic, social, and legal reforms. however, conservative forces crushed bzns in a 1923 coup and assassinated its leader, aleksandar stamboliyski ( 1879 – 1923 ). bzns was made into a communist puppet group until 1989, when it reorganized as a genuine party. czechoslovakia in czechoslovakia, the republican party of agricultural and smallholder people often shared power in parliament as a partner in the five - party petka coalition. the party ' s leader, antonin svehla ( 1873 – 1933 ), was prime minister several times. it was consistently the strongest party, forming and dominating coalitions. it moved beyond its original agrarian base to reach middle - class voters. the party was banned by the national front after the second world war. france in france, the hunting, fishing, nature, tradition party is a moderate conservative, agrarian party, reaching a peak of 4. 23 % in the 2002 french presidential election. it would later on become affiliated to france ' s main conservative party, union for a popular movement. more recently, the resistons! movement of jean lassalle espoused agrarianism. hungary in hungary, the first major agrarian party, the small - holders party was founded in 1908. the party became part of the government in the 1920s but lost influence in the government. a new party, the independent smallholders, agrarian workers and civic party was established in 1930 with a more radical program representing larger scale land redistribution initiatives. they implemented this program together with the other coalition parties after wwii. however, after 1949 the party was outlawed when a one - party system was introduced. they became part of the government again 1990 – 1994, and 1998 - 2002 after which they lost political support. the ruling fidesz party has an agrarian faction, and promotes agrarian interest since 2010 with the emphasis now placed on supporting larger family farms versus