##uable richness. despite its wealth, it was mostly a wooden - built city, with few masonry buildings but was defended by a mercenary force estimated at 20, 000 men and more than 2000 pieces of artillery. its greatest weakness was the unpopularity of the government of sultan mahmud shah, who favoured muslims, arousing dissatisfaction amongst other merchants. afonso made a bold approach to the city, his ships decorated with banners, firing cannon volleys. he declared himself lord of all the navigation, demanded the sultan release the prisoners and pay for damages, and demanded consent to build a fortified trading post. the sultan eventually freed the prisoners, but was unimpressed by the small portuguese contingent. afonso then burned some ships at the port and four coastal buildings as a demonstration. the city being divided by the malacca river, the connecting bridge was a strategic point, so at dawn on 25 july, the portuguese landed and fought a tough battle, facing poisoned arrows, taking the bridge in the evening. after fruitlessly waiting for the sultan ' s reaction, they returned to the ships and prepared a junk ( offered by chinese merchants ), filling it with men, artillery and sandbags. commanded by antonio de abreu, it sailed upriver at high tide to the bridge. the day after, all had landed. after a fierce fight during which the sultan appeared with an army of war elephants, the defenders were dispersed and the sultan fled. afonso waited for the reaction of the sultan. merchants approached, asking for portuguese protection. they were given banners to mark their premises, a sign that they would not be looted. on 15 august, the portuguese attacked again, but the sultan had fled the city. under strict orders, they looted the city, but respected the banners. afonso prepared malacca ' s defenses against a malay counterattack, building a fortress, assigning his men to shifts and using stones from the mosque and the cemetery. despite the delays caused by heat and malaria, it was completed in november 1511, its surviving door now known as " a famosa " ( ' the famous ' ). it was possibly then that afonso had a large stone engraved with the names of the participants in the conquest. to quell disagreements over the order of the names, he had it set facing the wall, with the single inscription lapidem quem reprobaverunt aedificantes ( latin for " the stone the builders rejected ", from david ' s prophecy, psalm 118 : 22 – 23