alessandro di cristofano di lorenzo del bronzino allori ( florence, 31 may 153522 september 1607 ) was an italian painter of the late mannerist florentine school. biography in 1540, after the death of his father, allori was brought up and trained in art by a close friend, often referred to as his ' uncle ', the mannerist painter agnolo bronzino, whose name he sometimes assumed in his pictures. allori supplemented this training with a study trip to rome, between 1554 and 1560, and with anatomical research which included the dissection of human corpses, provided by the hospital of santa maria nuova. in the prime of his career, allori headed one of the " two most important workshops in florence in the second half of the 16th century " ( the other being headed by santi di tito ). he served as first consul of the accademia del disegno in 1573, and was made head of the arazzeria medicea, florence ' s state - owned tapestry workshop, in 1581. allori also worked, under the guidance of giorgio vasari, among the team of artists who decorated the studiolo of francesco i. he contributed two painted panels, depicting a banquet of cleopatra and a landscape with figures diving for pearls. s. j. freedberg derides allori as derivative, claiming he illustrates " the ideal of maniera by which art ( and style ) are generated out of pre - existing art. " the cold and polished appearance of his painted figures makes them resemble statues as much as living beings. the art historian simona lecchini giovannoni is more positive, remarking that allori lends life and immediacy to his paintings through his minute and realistic depictions of vegetal motifs ( especially flowers ), household articles, and textiles of all kinds ; the " grandiose, introverted figures " are thus enabled to " approach the spectator, not with dialogue and sentiment, but through the tangible evidence of objects and details ". among his collaborators was giovanni maria butteri and his main pupil was giovanni bizzelli. cristofano dell ' altissimo, cesare dandini, aurelio lomi, john mosnier, alessandro pieroni, giovanni battista vanni, and monanni also were his pupils. he was the father of the painter cristofano allori ( 1577 – 1621 ). in some ways, allori is the last of the line of prominent