: a campus opened in 2014 houses 500 engineers who work on apple silicon and a campus opened in 2021 where 6, 000 people work in technical support, supply chain management, online store curation, and apple maps data management. the company also has several other locations in boulder, colorado, culver city, california, herzliya ( israel ), london, new york, pittsburgh, san diego, and seattle that each employ hundreds of people. litigation apple has been a participant in various legal proceedings and claims since it began operation. in particular, apple is known for and promotes itself as actively and aggressively enforcing its intellectual property interests. some litigation examples include apple v. samsung, apple v. microsoft, motorola mobility v. apple inc., and apple corps v. apple computer. apple has also had to defend itself against charges on numerous occasions of violating intellectual property rights. most have been dismissed in the courts as shell companies known as patent trolls, with no evidence of actual use of patents in question. on december 21, 2016, nokia announced that in the u. s. and germany, it has filed a suit against apple, claiming that the latter ' s products infringe on nokia ' s patents. most recently, in november 2017, the united states international trade commission announced an investigation into allegations of patent infringement in regards to apple ' s remote desktop technology ; aqua connect, a company that builds remote desktop software, has claimed that apple infringed on two of its patents. in january 2022, ericsson sued apple over payment of royalty of 5g technology. finances apple is the world ' s largest technology company by revenue, the world ' s largest technology company by total assets, and the world ' s second - largest mobile phone manufacturer after samsung. in its fiscal year ending in september 2011, apple inc. reported a total of $ 108 billion in annual revenues — a significant increase from its 2010 revenues of $ 65 billion — and nearly $ 82 billion in cash reserves. on march 19, 2012, apple announced plans for a $ 2. 65 - per - share dividend beginning in fourth quarter of 2012, per approval by their board of directors. the company ' s worldwide annual revenue in 2013 totaled $ 170 billion. in may 2013, apple entered the top ten of the fortune 500 list of companies for the first time, rising 11 places above its 2012 ranking to take the sixth position., apple has around us $ 234 billion of cash and marketable securities, of which 90 % is located outside the united states for tax purposes.