transverse component, he did not also need to assume a longitudinal component. it was enough to suppose that light waves are purely transverse, hence always polarized in the sense of having a particular transverse orientation, and that the " unpolarized " state of natural or " direct " light is due to rapid and random variations in that orientation, in which case two coherent portions of " unpolarized " light will still interfere because their orientations will be synchronized. it is not known exactly when fresnel made this last step, because there is no relevant documentation from 1820 or early 1821 ( perhaps because he was too busy working on lighthouse - lens prototypes ; see below ). but he first published the idea in a paper on " calcul des teintes … " ( " calculation of the tints … " ), serialized in arago ' s annales for may, june, and july 1821. in the first installment, fresnel described " direct " ( unpolarized ) light as " the rapid succession of systems of waves polarized in all directions ", and gave what is essentially the modern explanation of chromatic polarization, albeit in terms of the analogy between polarization and the resolution of forces in a plane, mentioning transverse waves only in a footnote. the introduction of transverse waves into the main argument was delayed to the second installment, in which he revealed the suspicion that he and ampere had harbored since 1816, and the difficulty it raised. he continued : according to this new view, he wrote, " the act of polarization consists not in creating these transverse movements, but in decomposing them into two fixed perpendicular directions and in separating the two components ". while selectionists could insist on interpreting fresnel ' s diffraction integrals in terms of discrete, countable rays, they could not do the same with his theory of polarization. for a selectionist, the state of polarization of a beam concerned the distribution of orientations over the population of rays, and that distribution was presumed to be static. for fresnel, the state of polarization of a beam concerned the variation of a displacement over time. that displacement might be constrained but was not static, and rays were geometric constructions, not countable objects. the conceptual gap between the wave theory and selectionism had become unbridgeable. the other difficulty posed by pure transverse waves, of course, was the apparent implication that the aether was an elastic solid, except that, unlike other elastic solids, it was incapable