azerbaijan : anatomy of a rivalry ( edinburgh university press, 2019 ). cornell, svante e. azerbaijan since independence ( routledge, 2015 ). dragadze, tamara. " islam in azerbaijan : the position of women " in muslim women ' s choices ( routledge, 2020 ) pp. 152 – 163. elliott, mark. azerbaijan with georgia ( trailblazers publications, 1999 ). ergun, ayca. " citizenship, national identity, and nation - building in azerbaijan : between the legacy of the past and the spirit of independence. " nationalities papers ( 2021 ) : 1 – 18. online goltz, thomas. azerbaijan diary : a rogue reporter ' s adventures in an oil - rich, war - torn, post - soviet republic. m e sharpe ( 1998 ). habibov, nazim, betty jo barrett, and elena chernyak. " understanding women ' s empowerment and its determinants in post - communist countries : results of azerbaijan national survey. " women ' s studies international forum. vol. 62. pergamon, 2017. olukbasi, suha. azerbaijan : a political history. i. b. tauris ( 2011 ). focus on post - soviet era. external links general information azerbaijan international heydar aliyev foundation azerbaijan. the world factbook. central intelligence agency. azerbaijan at university of colorado at boulder country profile from bbc key development forecasts for azerbaijan from international futures visions of azerbaijan journal of the european azerbaijan society major government resources president of azerbaijan website azerbaijan state statistical committee united nations office in azerbaijan major news media network news azerbaijan azerbaijan today trend news agency news. az tourism azerbaijan tourism portal travel in azerbaijan in visions of azerbaijan journal caucasus countries in asia countries in europe west asian countries landlocked countries south caucasus republics member states of the commonwealth of independent states member states of the council of europe member states of the organisation of islamic cooperation member states of the united nations states and territories established in 1991 1991 establishments in asia 1991 establishments in europe countries and territories where azerbaijani is an official language transcontinental countries members of the international organization of turkic culture member states of the organization of turkic states