on love ). translated by emil l. fackenheim. persian works avicenna ' s most important persian work is the danishnama - i ' alai (, " the book of knowledge for [ prince ] ' ala ad - daulah " ). avicenna created new scientific vocabulary that had not previously existed in persian. the danishnama covers such topics as logic, metaphysics, music theory and other sciences of his time. it has been translated into english by parwiz morewedge in 1977. the book is also important in respect to persian scientific works. andar danesh - e rag (, " on the science of the pulse " ) contains nine chapters on the science of the pulse and is a condensed synopsis. persian poetry from avicenna is recorded in various manuscripts and later anthologies such as nozhat al - majales. see also al - qumri ( possibly avicenna ' s teacher ) abdol hamid khosro shahi ( iranian theologian ) mummia ( persian medicine ) eastern philosophy iranian philosophy islamic philosophy contemporary islamic philosophy science in the medieval islamic world list of scientists in medieval islamic world sufi philosophy science and technology in iran ancient iranian medicine list of pre - modern iranian scientists and scholars namesakes of ibn sina ibn sina academy of medieval medicine and sciences in aligarh avicenna bay in antarctica avicenna ( crater ) on the far side of the moon avicenna cultural and scientific foundation avicenne hospital in paris, france avicenna international college in budapest, hungary avicenna mausoleum ( complex dedicated to avicenna ) in hamadan, iran avicenna research institute in tehran, iran avicenna tajik state medical university in dushanbe, tajikistan bu - ali sina university in hamedan, iran ibn sina peak – named after the scientist, on the kyrgyzstan – tajikistan border ibn sina foundation in houston, texas ibn sina hospital, baghdad, iraq ibn sina hospital, istanbul, turkey ibn sina medical college hospital, dhaka, bangladesh ibn sina university hospital of rabat - sale at mohammed v university in rabat, morocco ibne sina hospital, multan, punjab, pakistan international ibn sina clinic, dushanbe, tajikistan references citations sources further reading encyclopedic articles ( pdf version ) avicenna entry by sajjad h. rizvi in the internet encyclopedia of philosophy primary literature for an old list of other extant works, c. brockelmann ' s