##rup to the north. accelerating growth since the early 2000s, brought the inner urban area to roughly 260, 000 inhabitants by 2014. the rapid growth is expected to continue until at least 2030 when aarhus municipality has set an ambitious target for 375, 000 inhabitants. geography aarhus is located at the bay of aarhus facing the kattegat sea in the east with the peninsulas of mols and helgenæs across the bay to the northeast. mols and helgenæs are both part of the larger regional peninsula of djursland. a number of larger cities and towns is within easy reach from aarhus by road and rail, including randers ( by road north ), grena ( northeast ), horsens ( south ) and silkeborg ( east ). topography at aarhus ' s location, the bay of aarhus provides a natural harbour with a depth of quite close to the shore. aarhus was founded at the mouth of a brackish water fjord, but the original fjord no longer exists, as it has gradually narrowed into what is now the aarhus river and the brabrand lake, due to natural sedimentation. the land around aarhus was once covered by forests, remains of which exist in parts of marselisborg forest to the south and riis skov to the north. several lakes extend west from the inner city as the landscape merges with the larger region of søhøjlandet with heights exceeding at himmelbjerget between skanderborg and silkeborg. the highest natural point in aarhus municipality is jelshøj at 128 metres above sea level, in the southern district of højbjerg. the hilltop is home to a bronze age barrow shrouded in local myths and legends. the hilly area around aarhus consists of a morainal plateau from the last ice age, broken by a complex system of tunnel valleys. the most prominent valleys of this network are the aarhus valley in the south, stretching inland east – west with the aarhus river, brabrand lake, arslev lake and tastrup lake, and the ega valley to the north, with the stream of egaen, ega engsø, the bog of geding - kasted mose and geding lake. most parts of the two valleys have been drained and subsequently farmed, but in the early 2000s some of the drainage was removed and parts of the wetlands were restored for environmental reasons. the valley system also includes the stream of lyngbygard a in the west and valleys to the south