won her first wta doubles title, in tokyo, beating mary joe fernandez and arantxa sanchez vicario in the final. at the end of the season, she was ranked no. 10 in doubles. at the start of the 1999 season, kournikova advanced to the fourth round in singles at the australian open before losing to mary pierce. in the doubles kournikova won her first grand slam title, partnering with martina hingis to defeat lindsay davenport and natasha zvereva in the final. at the tier i family circle cup, kournikova reached her second wta tour final, but lost to martina hingis. she then defeated jennifer capriati, lindsay davenport and patty schnyder on her route to the bausch & lomb championships semi - finals, losing to ruxandra dragomir. at the french open, kournikova reached the fourth round before losing to eventual champion steffi graf. once the grass - court season commenced in england, kournikova lost to nathalie tauziat in the semi - finals in eastbourne. at wimbledon, kournikova lost to venus williams in the fourth round. she also reached the final in mixed doubles, partnering with jonas bjorkman, but they lost to leander paes and lisa raymond. kournikova again qualified for year - end wta tour championships, but lost to mary pierce in the first round, and ended the season as world no. 12. while kournikova had a successful singles season, she was even more successful in doubles. after their victory at the australian open, she and martina hingis won tournaments in indian wells, rome, eastbourne and the wta tour championships, and reached the final of the french open where they lost to serena and venus williams. partnering with elena likhovtseva, kournikova also reached the final in stanford. on 22 november 1999 she reached the world no. 1 ranking in doubles, and ended the season at this ranking. kournikova and hingis were presented with the wta award for doubles team of the year. kournikova opened her 2000 season winning the gold coast open doubles tournament partnering with julie halard. she then reached the singles semi - finals at the medibank international sydney, losing to lindsay davenport. at the australian open, she reached the fourth round in singles and the semi - finals in doubles. that season, kournikova reached eight semi - finals ( sydney, scottsdale,