replacing its sister ship, the lph, which had recovered apollo 10 on may 26. hornet was then at her home port of long beach, california. on reaching pearl harbor on july 5, hornet embarked the sikorsky sh - 3 sea king helicopters of hs - 4, a unit which specialized in recovery of apollo spacecraft, specialized divers of udt detachment apollo, a 35 - man nasa recovery team, and about 120 media representatives. to make room, most of hornets air wing was left behind in long beach. special recovery equipment was also loaded, including a boilerplate command module used for training. on july 12, with apollo 11 still on the launch pad, hornet departed pearl harbor for the recovery area in the central pacific, in the vicinity of. a presidential party consisting of nixon, borman, secretary of state william p. rogers and national security advisor henry kissinger flew to johnston atoll on air force one, then to the command ship uss arlington in marine one. after a night on board, they would fly to hornet in marine one for a few hours of ceremonies. on arrival aboard hornet, the party was greeted by the commander - in - chief, pacific command ( cincpac ), admiral john s. mccain jr., and nasa administrator thomas o. paine, who flew to hornet from pago pago in one of hornets carrier onboard delivery aircraft. weather satellites were not yet common, but us air force captain hank brandli had access to top - secret spy satellite images. he realized that a storm front was headed for the apollo recovery area. poor visibility which could make locating the capsule difficult, and strong upper - level winds which " would have ripped their parachutes to shreds " according to brandli, posed a serious threat to the safety of the mission. brandli alerted navy captain willard s. houston jr., the commander of the fleet weather center at pearl harbor, who had the required security clearance. on their recommendation, rear admiral donald c. davis, commander of manned spaceflight recovery forces, pacific, advised nasa to change the recovery area, each man risking his career. a new location was selected northeast. this altered the flight plan. a different sequence of computer programs was used, one never before attempted. in a conventional entry, trajectory event p64 was followed by p67. for a skip - out re - entry, p65 and p66 were employed to handle the exit and entry parts of the skip. in this case, because they were extending the re - entry but not actually skipping