the launch site. dignitaries included the chief of staff of the united states army, general william westmoreland, four cabinet members, 19 state governors, 40 mayors, 60 ambassadors and 200 congressmen. vice president spiro agnew viewed the launch with former president lyndon b. johnson and his wife lady bird johnson. around 3, 500 media representatives were present. about two - thirds were from the united states ; the rest came from 55 other countries. the launch was televised live in 33 countries, with an estimated 25 million viewers in the united states alone. millions more around the world listened to radio broadcasts. president richard nixon viewed the launch from his office in the white house with his nasa liaison officer, apollo astronaut frank borman. saturn v as - 506 launched apollo 11 on july 16, 1969, at 13 : 32 : 00 utc ( 9 : 32 : 00 edt ). at 13. 2 seconds into the flight, the launch vehicle began to roll into its flight azimuth of 72. 058°. full shutdown of the first - stage engines occurred about 2 minutes and 42 seconds into the mission, followed by separation of the s - ic and ignition of the s - ii engines. the second stage engines then cut off and separated at about 9 minutes and 8 seconds, allowing the first ignition of the s - ivb engine a few seconds later. apollo 11 entered a near - circular earth orbit at an altitude of by, twelve minutes into its flight. after one and a half orbits, a second ignition of the s - ivb engine pushed the spacecraft onto its trajectory toward the moon with the trans - lunar injection ( tli ) burn at 16 : 22 : 13 utc. about 30 minutes later, with collins in the left seat and at the controls, the transposition, docking, and extraction maneuver was performed. this involved separating columbia from the spent s - ivb stage, turning around, and docking with eagle still attached to the stage. after the lm was extracted, the combined spacecraft headed for the moon, while the rocket stage flew on a trajectory past the moon. this was done to avoid the third stage colliding with the spacecraft, the earth, or the moon. a slingshot effect from passing around the moon threw it into an orbit around the sun. on july 19 at 17 : 21 : 50 utc, apollo 11 passed behind the moon and fired its service propulsion engine to enter lunar orbit. in the thirty orbits that followed, the crew saw passing views of their landing site in the southern sea