the articles of confederation and perpetual union was an agreement among the 13 states of the united states, formerly the thirteen colonies, that served as the nation ' s first frame of government. it was debated by the second continental congress at independence hall in philadelphia between july 1776 and november 1777, and finalized by the congress on november 15, 1777. it came into force on march 1, 1781, after being ratified by all 13 colonial states. a guiding principle of the articles was the establishment and preservation of the independence and sovereignty of the states. the articles consciously established a weak central government, affording it only those powers the former colonies had recognized as belonging to king and parliament. the document provided clearly written rules for how the states ' league of friendship, known as the perpetual union, would be organized. while waiting for all states to ratify, the congress observed the articles as it conducted business, directing the war effort, conducting diplomacy with foreign states, addressing territorial issues and dealing with native american relations. little changed procedurally once the articles of confederation went into effect, as ratification did little more than constitutionalize what the continental congress had been doing. that body was renamed the congress of the confederation ; but most americans continued to call it the continental congress, since its organization remained the same. as the confederation congress attempted to govern the continually growing u. s. states, its delegates discovered that the limitations placed upon the central government ( such as in assembling delegates, raising funds, and regulating commerce ) rendered it ineffective at doing so. as the government ' s weaknesses became apparent, especially after shays ' rebellion, some prominent political thinkers in the fledgling union began asking for changes to the articles. their hope was to create a stronger government. initially, in september 1786, some states met to address interstate protectionist trade barriers between them. shortly thereafter, as more states became interested in meeting to revise the articles, a meeting was set in philadelphia on may 25, 1787. this became the constitutional convention. delegates quickly agreed that the defects of the frame of government could not be remedied by altering the articles, and so went beyond their mandate by replacing it with a new constitution. on march 4, 1789, the government under the articles was replaced with the federal government under the constitution. the new constitution provided for a much stronger federal government by establishing a chief executive ( the president ), courts, and taxing powers. background and context the political push to increase cooperation among the then - loyal colonies began with the albany congress in 1754 and benjamin franklin ' s proposed albany