2018 ) has argued that the cartesian idea of an experiencing subject facing off with an inert physical world is incoherent at its very foundation and that this incoherence is consistent with rather than belied by darwinism. human reason ( and its rigorous extension in the natural sciences ) fits an evolutionary niche just as echolocation does for bats and infrared vision does for pit vipers, and is epistemologically on a par with, rather than superior to, such capabilities. the meaning or aliveness of the " objects " we encounter, rocks, trees, rivers, and other animals, thus depends for its validity not on a detached cognitive judgment, but purely on the quality of our experience. the animist experience, or the wolf ' s or raven ' s experience, thus become licensed as equally valid worldviews to the modern western scientific one ; they are indeed more valid, since they are not plagued with the incoherence that inevitably arises when " objective existence " is separated from " subjective experience. " socio - political impact harvey opined that animism ' s views on personhood represented a radical challenge to the dominant perspectives of modernity, because it accords " intelligence, rationality, consciousness, volition, agency, intentionality, language, and desire " to non - humans. similarly, it challenges the view of human uniqueness that is prevalent in both abrahamic religions and western rationalism. art and literature animist beliefs can also be expressed through artwork. for instance, among the maori communities of new zealand, there is an acknowledgement that creating art through carving wood or stone entails violence against the wood or stone person and that the persons who are damaged therefore have to be placated and respected during the process ; any excess or waste from the creation of the artwork is returned to the land, while the artwork itself is treated with particular respect. harvey, therefore, argued that the creation of art among the maori was not about creating an inanimate object for display, but rather a transformation of different persons within a relationship. harvey expressed the view that animist worldviews were present in various works of literature, citing such examples as the writings of alan garner, leslie silko, barbara kingsolver, alice walker, daniel quinn, linda hogan, david abram, patricia grace, chinua achebe, ursula le guin, louise erdrich, and marge piercy. animist worldviews have also been identified in the animated films of hayao miyazaki