kings, due to his blatant trivialization of the " sins of jeroboam ", which the previous kings of israel were plagued by, and his subsequent marriage with a pagan princess, the nationwide institution of baal worship, the persecution of yahweh ' s prophets and naboth ' s shocking murder. these offenses and atrocities stirred up populist resentment from figures such as elijah and micaiah. indeed, he is referred to by the author of kings as being " more evil than all the kings before him ". nonetheless, there were achievements that the author took note of, including his ability to fortify numerous israelite cities and build an ivory palace. adherents of the yahwist religion found their principal champion in elijah. his denunciation of the royal dynasty of israel and his emphatic insistence on the worship of yahweh and yahweh alone, illustrated by the contest between yahweh and baal on mount carmel, form the keynote to a period that culminated in the accession of jehu, an event in which elijah ' s chosen disciple elisha was the leading figure and the omride dynasty was brutally defeated. in rabbinic literature ahab was one of the three or four wicked kings of israel singled out by tradition as being excluded from the future world of bliss ( sanh. x. 2 ; tosef., sanh. xii. 11 ). midrash konen places him in the fifth department of gehenna, as having the heathen under his charge. though held up as a warning to sinners, ahab is also described as displaying noble traits of character ( sanh. 102b ; yer. sanh. xi. 29b ). talmudic literature represents him as an enthusiastic idolater who left no hilltop in the land of israel without an idol before which he bowed, and to which he or his wife, jezebel, brought his weight in gold as a daily offering. so defiant in his apostasy was he that he had inscribed on all the doors of the city of samaria the words, " ahab hath abjured the living god of israel. " nevertheless, he paid great respect to the representatives of learning, " to the torah given in twenty - two letters, " for which reason he was permitted to reign for twenty - two successive years. he generously supported the students of the law out of his royal treasury, in consequence of which half his sins were forgiven him. a type of worldliness