the summer of 1931, derleth worked in a local canning factory and collaborated with childhood friend mark schorer ( later chairman of the university of california, berkeley english department ). they rented a cabin, writing gothic and other horror stories and selling them to weird tales magazine. derleth won a place on the o ' brien roll of honor for five alone, published in place of hawks, but was first published in pagany magazine. as a result of his early work on the sac prairie saga, derleth was awarded the prestigious guggenheim fellowship ; his sponsors were helen c. white, nobel prize - winning novelist sinclair lewis and poet edgar lee masters of spoon river anthology fame. in the mid - 1930s, derleth organized a ranger ' s club for young people, served as clerk and president of the local school board, served as a parole officer, organized a local men ' s club and a parent - teacher association. he also lectured in american regional literature at the university of wisconsin and was a contributing editor of outdoors magazine. with longtime friend donald wandrei, derleth founded arkham house in 1939. its initial objective was to publish the works of h. p. lovecraft, with whom derleth had corresponded since his teenage years. at the same time, he began teaching a course in american regional literature at the university of wisconsin. in 1941, he became literary editor of the capital times newspaper in madison, a post he held until his resignation in 1960. his hobbies included fencing, swimming, chess, philately and comic - strips ( derleth reportedly used the funding from his guggenheim fellowship to bind his comic book collection, most recently valued in the millions of dollars, rather than to travel abroad as the award intended. ). derleth ' s true avocation, however, was hiking the terrain of his native wisconsin lands, and observing and recording nature with an expert eye. derleth once wrote of his writing methods, " i write very swiftly, from 750, 000 to a million words yearly, very little of it pulp material. " in 1948, he was elected president of the associated fantasy publishers at the 6th world science fiction convention in toronto. he was married april 6, 1953, to sandra evelyn winters. they divorced six years later. derleth retained custody of the couple ' s two children, april rose derleth and walden william derleth. april earned a bachelor of arts degree in english from the university of wisconsin - madison in 1977. she became majority stockholder,