the same rough texture as some of his subjects. his straightforward, abrupt manner savoured sometimes of gruffness, while his direct, unadorned method of expressing himself harmonized well with his rough - hewn, immobile features and somewhat sluggish movements. his education was not such as to soften these peculiarities. alexander was extremely strong. he tore packs of cards in half with his bare hands to entertain his children. when the austrian ambassador in st. petersburg said that austria would mobilize two or three army corps against russia, he twisted a silver fork into a knot and threw it onto the plate of the ambassador. he said, " that is what i am going to do to your two or three army corps. " unlike his extroverted wife, alexander disliked social functions and avoided st. petersburg. at palace balls, he was impatient for the events to end. he would order each musician of the orchestra to leave and turn off the lights until the guests left. alexander was afraid of horses. in his childhood, he had had an unpleasant experience on a bad - tempered mount. his wife once convinced him to go on a carriage ride with her. as he reluctantly entered the carriage, the ponies reared back. he immediately left the carriage and no amount of pleading from his wife could convince him to get back in. an account from the memoirs of the artist alexander benois gives one impression of alexander iii : after a performance of the ballet tsar kandavl at the mariinsky theatre, i first caught sight of the emperor. i was struck by the size of the man, and although cumbersome and heavy, he was still a mighty figure. there was indeed something of the muzhik [ russian peasant ] about him. the look of his bright eyes made quite an impression on me. as he passed where i was standing, he raised his head for a second, and to this day i can remember what i felt as our eyes met. it was a look as cold as steel, in which there was something threatening, even frightening, and it struck me like a blow. the tsar ' s gaze! the look of a man who stood above all others, but who carried a monstrous burden and who every minute had to fear for his life and the lives of those closest to him. in later years i came into contact with the emperor on several occasions, and i felt not the slightest bit timid. in more ordinary cases tsar alexander iii could be at once kind, simple, and even almost homely.