sample in a non - destructive way. with proper focusing both can be made area - specific. another such method is electron energy loss spectroscopy ( eels ), which measures the energy loss of an electron beam within a transmission electron microscope when it interacts with a portion of a sample. spectra of excited states can be used to analyze the atomic composition of distant stars. specific light wavelengths contained in the observed light from stars can be separated out and related to the quantized transitions in free gas atoms. these colors can be replicated using a gas - discharge lamp containing the same element. helium was discovered in this way in the spectrum of the sun 23 years before it was found on earth. origin and current state baryonic matter forms about 4 % of the total energy density of the observable universe, with an average density of about 0. 25 particles / m3 ( mostly protons and electrons ). within a galaxy such as the milky way, particles have a much higher concentration, with the density of matter in the interstellar medium ( ism ) ranging from 105 to 109 atoms / m3. the sun is believed to be inside the local bubble, so the density in the solar neighborhood is only about 103 atoms / m3. stars form from dense clouds in the ism, and the evolutionary processes of stars result in the steady enrichment of the ism with elements more massive than hydrogen and helium. up to 95 % of the milky way ' s baryonic matter are concentrated inside stars, where conditions are unfavorable for atomic matter. the total baryonic mass is about 10 % of the mass of the galaxy ; the remainder of the mass is an unknown dark matter. high temperature inside stars makes most " atoms " fully ionized, that is, separates all electrons from the nuclei. in stellar remnants — with exception of their surface layers — an immense pressure make electron shells impossible. formation electrons are thought to exist in the universe since early stages of the big bang. atomic nuclei forms in nucleosynthesis reactions. in about three minutes big bang nucleosynthesis produced most of the helium, lithium, and deuterium in the universe, and perhaps some of the beryllium and boron. ubiquitousness and stability of atoms relies on their binding energy, which means that an atom has a lower energy than an unbound system of the nucleus and electrons. where the temperature is much higher than ionization potential, the matter exists in the form of plasma — a gas of positively charged ions ( possibly, bare nuclei ) and electrons