##odynamic calculations predict that as ( v ) concentrations should be greater than as ( iii ) concentrations in all but strongly reducing conditions, i. e. where so42− reduction is occurring. however, abiotic redox reactions of arsenic are slow. oxidation of as ( iii ) by dissolved o2 is a particularly slow reaction. for example, johnson and pilson ( 1975 ) gave half - lives for the oxygenation of as ( iii ) in seawater ranging from several months to a year. in other studies, as ( v ) / as ( iii ) ratios were stable over periods of days or weeks during water sampling when no particular care was taken to prevent oxidation, again suggesting relatively slow oxidation rates. cherry found from experimental studies that the as ( v ) / as ( iii ) ratios were stable in anoxic solutions for up to 3 weeks but that gradual changes occurred over longer timescales. sterile water samples have been observed to be less susceptible to speciation changes than non - sterile samples. oremland found that the reduction of as ( v ) to as ( iii ) in mono lake was rapidly catalyzed by bacteria with rate constants ranging from 0. 02 to 0. 3 - day−1. wood preservation in the us as of 2002, us - based industries consumed 19, 600 metric tons of arsenic. ninety percent of this was used for treatment of wood with chromated copper arsenate ( cca ). in 2007, 50 % of the 5, 280 metric tons of consumption was still used for this purpose. in the united states, the voluntary phasing - out of arsenic in production of consumer products and residential and general consumer construction products began on 31 december 2003, and alternative chemicals are now used, such as alkaline copper quaternary, borates, copper azole, cyproconazole, and propiconazole. although discontinued, this application is also one of the most concerning to the general public. the vast majority of older pressure - treated wood was treated with cca. cca lumber is still in widespread use in many countries, and was heavily used during the latter half of the 20th century as a structural and outdoor building material. although the use of cca lumber was banned in many areas after studies showed that arsenic could leach out of the wood into the surrounding soil ( from playground equipment, for instance ), a risk is also presented by the burning of older cca timber. the direct or indirect ingestion of wood ash from burnt cca lumber has