occupied this land of questionable ownership. after a while, our frontier having been advanced, and our military positions pushed forward, it was regarded as a remote nook of our empire and a part of a roman province. " the alemanni were first mentioned by cassius dio describing the campaign of caracalla in 213. at that time, they apparently dwelt in the basin of the main, to the south of the chatti. cassius dio portrays the alemanni as victims of this treacherous emperor. they had asked for his help, according to dio, but instead he colonized their country, changed their place names, and executed their warriors under a pretext of coming to their aid. when he became ill, the alemanni claimed to have put a hex on him. caracalla, it was claimed, tried to counter this influence by invoking his ancestral spirits. in retribution, caracalla then led the legio ii traiana fortis against the alemanni, who lost and were pacified for a time. the legion was as a result honored with the name germanica. the fourth - century fictional historia augusta, life of antoninus caracalla, relates ( 10. 5 ) that caracalla then assumed the name alemannicus, at which helvius pertinax jested that he should really be called geticus maximus, because in the year before he had murdered his brother, geta. through much of his short reign, caracalla was known for unpredictable and arbitrary operations launched by surprise after a pretext of peace negotiations. if he had any reasons of state for such actions, they remained unknown to his contemporaries. whether or not the alemanni had been previously neutral, they were certainly further influenced by caracalla to become thereafter notoriously implacable enemies of rome. this mutually antagonistic relationship is perhaps the reason why the roman writers persisted in calling the alemanni ” barbari, " meaning " savages. " the archaeology, however, shows that they were largely romanized, lived in roman - style houses and used roman artifacts, the alemannic women having adopted the roman fashion of the tunica even earlier than the men. most of the alemanni were probably at the time, in fact, resident in or close to the borders of germania superior. although dio is the earliest writer to mention them, ammianus marcellinus used the name to refer to germans on the limes germanicus in the time of