in the world, the freedom house classified the freedoms of press and speech in albania as partly free from political interference and manipulation. radio televizioni shqiptar ( rtsh ) is the national broadcaster corporation of albania operating numerous television and radio stations in the country. the three major private broadcaster corporations are top channel, televizioni klan and vizion plus whose content are distributed throughout albania and beyond its territory in kosovo and other albanian - speaking territories. albanian cinema has its roots in the 20th century and developed after the country ' s declaration of independence. the first movie theater exclusively devoted to showing motion pictures was built in 1912 in shkoder. during the peoples republic of albania, albanian cinema developed rapidly with the inauguration of the kinostudio shqiperia e re in tirana. in 1953, the albanian - soviet epic film, the great warrior skanderbeg, was released chronicling the life and fight of the medieval albanian hero skanderbeg. it went on to win the international prize at the 1954 cannes film festival. in 2003, the tirana international film festival was established, the largest film festival in the country. the durres amphitheatre is host to the durres international film festival, the second largest film festival. technology after the fall of communism in 1991, human resources in sciences and technology in albania have drastically decreased. as of various reports, during 1991 to 2005 approximately 50 % of the professors and scientists of the universities and science institutions in the country have left albania. in 2009, the government approved the national strategy for science, technology and innovation in albania covering the period 2009 to 2015. it aims to triple public spending on research and development to 0. 6 % of gdp and augment the share of gde from foreign sources, including the framework programmes for research of the european union, to the point where it covers 40 % of research spending, among others. albania was ranked 83rd in the global innovation index in 2023. telecommunication represents one of the fastest growing and dynamic sectors in albania. vodafone albania, telekom albania and albtelecom are the three large providers of mobile and internet in albania. as of the electronic and postal communications authority ( akep ) in 2018, the country had approximately 2. 7 million active mobile users with almost 1. 8 million active broadband subscribers. vodafone albania alone served more than 931, 000 mobile users, telekom albania had about 605, 000 users and albtelecom had more