- occurrence of certain, usually similar, consonants in verbal roots can be found in all afroasiatic branches, though they are only weakly attested in chadic and omotic. the most widespread constraint is against two different labial consonants ( other than w ) occurring together in a root, a constraint which can be found in all branches but omotic. another widespread constraint is against two non - identical lateral obstruents, which can be found in egyptian, chadic, semitic, and probably cushitic. such rules do not always apply for nouns, numerals, or denominal verbs, and do not affect prefixes or suffixes added to the root. roots that may have contained sequences that were possible in proto - afroasiatic but are disallowed in the daughter languages are assumed to have undergone consonant dissimilation or assimilation. a set of constraints, developed originally by joseph greenberg on the basis of arabic, has been claimed to be typical for afroasiatic languages. greenberg divided semitic consonants into four types : " back consonants " ( glottal, pharyngeal, uvular, laryngeal, and velar consonants ), " front consonants " ( dental or alveolar consonants ), liquid consonants, and labial consonants. he showed that, generally, any consonant from one of these groups could combine with consonants from any other group, but could not be used together with consonants from the same group. additionally, he showed that proto - semitic restricted a sequence of two identical consonants in the first and second position of the triliteral root. these rules also have a number of exceptions : velar consonants can occur with pharyngeals or laryngeals ; dental consonants can co - occur with sibilants ; however, there are no proto - semitic verbal roots with d and a sibilant, and roots with d and a sibilant are uncommon. in all attested cases of a dental and a sibilant, the sibilant occurs in first position and the dental in second. similar exceptions can be demonstrated for the other aa branches that have these restrictions to their root formation. james p. allen has demonstrated that slightly different rules apply to egyptian : for instance, egyptian allows two identical consonants in some roots, and disallows velars from occurring with pharyngeals. vowel systems there is a large variety of vocalic systems in aa, and attempts to reconstruct the vocalic system of proto - afroasiatic vary considerably. all branches of afro