take pictures at various determined intervals. by studying these images, they can detect solar system objects by their movements relative to the background stars, which remain fixed. once a movement per unit time is observed, astronomers compensate for the parallax caused by earth ' s motion during this time and the heliocentric distance to this object is calculated. using this distance and other photographs, more information about the object, including its orbital elements, can be obtained. 50000 quaoar and 90377 sedna are two solar system objects discovered in this way by michael e. brown and others at caltech using the palomar observatory ' s samuel oschin telescope of and the palomar - quest large - area ccd camera. the ability of astronomers to track the positions and movements of such celestial bodies is crucial to the understanding of the solar system and its interrelated past, present, and future with others in the universe. statistics a fundamental aspect of astrometry is error correction. various factors introduce errors into the measurement of stellar positions, including atmospheric conditions, imperfections in the instruments and errors by the observer or the measuring instruments. many of these errors can be reduced by various techniques, such as through instrument improvements and compensations to the data. the results are then analyzed using statistical methods to compute data estimates and error ranges. computer programs xparallax viu ( free application for windows ) astrometrica ( application for windows ) astrometry. net ( online blind astrometry ) see also references further reading external links mpc guide to minor body astrometry astrometry department of the u. s. naval observatory usno astrometric catalog and related products planet - like body discovered at fringes of our solar system ( 2004 - 03 - 15 ) mike brown ' s caltech home page scientific paper describing sedna ' s discovery the hipparcos space astrometry mission — on esa astronomical sub - disciplines astrological aspects measurement