as deserving of its protection as the human residents ". foreign relations it is well known that ashoka sent dutas or emissaries to convey messages or letters, written or oral ( rather both ), to various people. the vith rock edict about " oral orders " reveals this. it was later confirmed that it was not unusual to add oral messages to written ones, and the content of ashoka ' s messages can be inferred likewise from the xiiith rock edict : they were meant to spread his dhammavijaya, which he considered the highest victory and which he wished to propagate everywhere ( including far beyond india ). there is obvious and undeniable trace of cultural contact through the adoption of the kharosthi script, and the idea of installing inscriptions might have travelled with this script, as achaemenid influence is seen in some of the formulations used by ashoka in his inscriptions. this indicates to us that ashoka was indeed in contact with other cultures, and was an active part in mingling and spreading new cultural ideas beyond his own immediate walls. hellenistic world in his rock edicts, ashoka states that he had encouraged the transmission of buddhism to the hellenistic kingdoms to the west and that the greeks in his dominion were converts to buddhism and recipients of his envoys : it is possible, but not certain, that ashoka received letters from greek rulers and was acquainted with the hellenistic royal orders in the same way as he perhaps knew of the inscriptions of the achaemenid kings, given the presence of ambassadors of hellenistic kings in india ( as well as the dutas sent by ashoka himself ). dionysius is reported to have been such a greek ambassador at the court of ashoka, sent by ptolemy ii philadelphus, who himself is mentioned in the edicts of ashoka as a recipient of the buddhist proselytism of ashoka. some hellenistic philosophers, such as hegesias of cyrene, who probably lived under the rule of king magas, one of the supposed recipients of buddhist emissaries from asoka, are sometimes thought to have been influenced by buddhist teachings. the greeks in india even seem to have played an active role in the propagation of buddhism, as some of the emissaries of ashoka, such as dharmaraksita, are described in pali sources as leading greek ( yona ) buddhist monks, active in spreading buddhism ( the mahavamsa, xii ). some greeks ( yavana ) may have played an