solution of the problem. music musical analysis – a process attempting to answer the question " how does this music work? " musical analysis is a study of how the composers use the notes together to compose music. those studying music will find differences with each composer ' s musical analysis, which differs depending on the culture and history of music studied. an analysis of music is meant to simplify the music for you. schenkerian analysis schenkerian analysis is a collection of music analysis that focuses on the production of the graphic representation. this includes both analytical procedure as well as the notational style. simply put, it analyzes tonal music which includes all chords and tones within a composition. philosophy philosophical analysis – a general term for the techniques used by philosophers philosophical analysis refers to the clarification and composition of words put together and the entailed meaning behind them. philosophical analysis dives deeper into the meaning of words and seeks to clarify that meaning by contrasting the various definitions. it is the study of reality, justification of claims, and the analysis of various concepts. branches of philosophy include logic, justification, metaphysics, values and ethics. if questions can be answered empirically, meaning it can be answered by using the senses, then it is not considered philosophical. non - philosophical questions also include events that happened in the past, or questions science or mathematics can answer. analysis is the name of a prominent journal in philosophy. psychotherapy psychoanalysis – seeks to elucidate connections among unconscious components of patients ' mental processes transactional analysis transactional analysis is used by therapists to try to gain a better understanding of the unconscious. it focuses on understanding and intervening human behavior. policy policy analysis – the use of statistical data to predict the effects of policy decisions made by governments and agencies policy analysis includes a systematic process to find the most efficient and effective option to address the current situation. qualitative analysis – the use of anecdotal evidence to predict the effects of policy decisions or, more generally, influence policy decisions signal processing finite element analysis – a computer simulation technique used in engineering analysis independent component analysis link quality analysis – the analysis of signal quality path quality analysis fourier analysis statistics in statistics, the term analysis may refer to any method used for data analysis. among the many such methods, some are : analysis of variance ( anova ) – a collection of statistical models and their associated procedures which compare means by splitting the overall observed variance into different parts boolean analysis – a method to find deterministic dependencies between variables in a sample,