and its continued presence in psychology as well as contemporary culture. among the volumes jung wrote on alchemy, his magnum opus is volume 14 of his collected works, mysterium coniunctionis. literature alchemy has had a long - standing relationship with art, seen both in alchemical texts and in mainstream entertainment. literary alchemy appears throughout the history of english literature from shakespeare to j. k. rowling, and also the popular japanese manga fullmetal alchemist. here, characters or plot structure follow an alchemical magnum opus. in the 14th century, chaucer began a trend of alchemical satire that can still be seen in recent fantasy works like those of the late sir terry pratchett. visual artists had a similar relationship with alchemy. while some of them used alchemy as a source of satire, others worked with the alchemists themselves or integrated alchemical thought or symbols in their work. music was also present in the works of alchemists and continues to influence popular performers. in the last hundred years, alchemists have been portrayed in a magical and spagyric role in fantasy fiction, film, television, novels, comics and video games. science one goal of alchemy, the transmutation of base substances into gold, is now known to be impossible by chemical means but possible by physical means. although not financially worthwhile, gold was synthesized in particle accelerators as early as 1941. see also alchemical symbol corentin louis kervran § biological transmutation cupellation historicism history of chemistry list of alchemists list of alchemical substances chemistry nuclear transmutation outline of alchemy porta alchemica renaissance magic spagyric superseded theories in science synthesis of precious metals western esotericism notes references citations sources used bibliography introductions and textbooks ( focus on technical aspects ) ( focus on technical aspects ) ( general overview ) ( greek and byzantine alchemy ) ( focus on technical aspects ) ( greek and byzantine alchemy ) ( the second part of volume 1 was never published ; the other volumes deal with the modern period and are not relevant for alchemy ) ( general overview, focus on esoteric aspects ) ( general overview, written in a highly accessible style ) greco - egyptian alchemy texts marcellin berthelot and charles - emile ruelle ( eds. ), collection des anciens alchimistes grecs ( caag ), 3 vols., 1887 – 1888, vol 1 :