illustrated by his reckless behavior in battle. while alexander worried that his father would leave him " no great or brilliant achievement to be displayed to the world ", he also downplayed his father ' s achievements to his companions. alexander ' s mother olympia similarly had huge ambitions, and encouraged her son to believe it was his destiny to conquer the persian empire. she instilled a sense of destiny in him, and plutarch tells how his ambition " kept his spirit serious and lofty in advance of his years ". according to plutarch, alexander also had a violent temper and rash, impulsive nature, and this could influence his decision making. although alexander was stubborn and did not respond well to orders from his father, he was open to reasoned debate. he had a calmer side — perceptive, logical, and calculating. he had a great desire for knowledge, a love for philosophy, and was an avid reader. this was no doubt in part due to aristotle ' s tutelage ; alexander was intelligent and quick to learn. his intelligent and rational side was amply demonstrated by his ability and success as a general. he had great self - restraint in " pleasures of the body ", in contrast with his lack of self - control with alcohol. alexander was erudite and patronized both arts and sciences. however, he had little interest in sports or the olympic games ( unlike his father ), seeking only the homeric ideals of honour ( time ) and glory ( kudos ). he had great charisma and force of personality, characteristics which made him a great leader. his unique abilities were further demonstrated by the inability of any of his generals to unite macedonia and retain the empire after his death — only alexander had the ability to do so. during his final years, and especially after the death of hephaestion, alexander began to exhibit signs of megalomania and paranoia. his extraordinary achievements, coupled with his own ineffable sense of destiny and the flattery of his companions, may have combined to produce this effect. his delusions of grandeur are readily visible in his will and in his desire to conquer the world, in as much as he is by various sources described as having boundless ambition, an epithet, the meaning of which has descended into a historical cliche. he appears to have believed himself a deity, or at least sought to deify himself. olympias always insisted to him that he was the son of zeus, a theory apparently confirmed to him by the oracle of amun