act like a human being have been launched or are underway. japan japanese robotics have been leading the field since the 1970s. waseda university initiated the wabot project in 1967, and in 1972 completed the wabot - 1, the first android, a full - scale humanoid intelligent robot. its limb control system allowed it to walk with the lower limbs, and to grip and transport objects with hands, using tactile sensors. its vision system allowed it to measure distances and directions to objects using external receptors, artificial eyes and ears. and its conversation system allowed it to communicate with a person in japanese, with an artificial mouth. in 1984, wabot - 2 was revealed, and made a number of improvements. it was capable of playing the organ. wabot - 2 had ten fingers and two feet, and was able to read a score of music. it was also able to accompany a person. in 1986, honda began its humanoid research and development program, to create humanoid robots capable of interacting successfully with humans. the intelligent robotics lab, directed by hiroshi ishiguro at osaka university, and the kokoro company demonstrated the actroid at expo 2005 in aichi prefecture, japan and released the telenoid r1 in 2010. in 2006, kokoro developed a new der 2 android. the height of the human body part of der2 is 165 cm. there are 47 mobile points. der2 can not only change its expression but also move its hands and feet and twist its body. the " air servosystem " which kokoro developed originally is used for the actuator. as a result of having an actuator controlled precisely with air pressure via a servosystem, the movement is very fluid and there is very little noise. der2 realized a slimmer body than that of the former version by using a smaller cylinder. outwardly der2 has a more beautiful proportion. compared to the previous model, der2 has thinner arms and a wider repertoire of expressions. once programmed, it is able to choreograph its motions and gestures with its voice. the intelligent mechatronics lab, directed by hiroshi kobayashi at the tokyo university of science, has developed an android head called saya, which was exhibited at robodex 2002 in yokohama, japan. there are several other initiatives around the world involving humanoid research and development at this time, which will hopefully introduce a broader spectrum of realized technology in the near future. now saya is working at the science university of tokyo as a guide. the