anglicanism. the original book of 1549 ( revised in 1552 ) was one of the instruments of the english reformation, replacing the various " uses " or rites in latin that had been used in different parts of the country with a single compact volume in the language of the people, so that " now from henceforth all the realm shall have but one use ". suppressed under queen mary i, it was revised in 1559, and then again in 1662, after the restoration of charles ii. this version was made mandatory in england and wales by the act of uniformity and was in standard use until the mid - 20th century. with british colonial expansion from the 17th century onwards, anglican churches were planted around the globe. these churches at first used and then revised the book of common prayer until they, like their parent church, produced prayer books which took into account the developments in liturgical study and practice in the 19th and 20th centuries, which come under the general heading of the liturgical movement. worship anglican worship services are open to all visitors. anglican worship originates principally in the reforms of thomas cranmer, who aimed to create a set order of service like that of the pre - reformation church but less complex in its seasonal variety and said in english rather than latin. this use of a set order of service is not unlike the catholic tradition. traditionally, the pattern was that laid out in the book of common prayer. although many anglican churches now use a wide range of modern service books written in the local language, the structures of the book of common prayer are largely retained. churches which call themselves anglican will have identified themselves so because they use some form or variant of the book of common prayer in the shaping of their worship. anglican worship, however, is as diverse as anglican theology. a contemporary " low - church " service may differ little from the worship of many mainstream non - anglican protestant churches. the service is constructed around a sermon focused on biblical exposition and opened with one or more bible readings and closed by a series of prayers ( both set and extemporised ) and hymns or songs. a " high church " or anglo - catholic service, by contrast, is usually a more formal liturgy celebrated by clergy in distinctive vestments and may be almost indistinguishable from a roman catholic service, often resembling the " pre – vatican ii " tridentine rite. between these extremes are a variety of styles of worship, often involving a robed choir and the use of the organ to accompany the singing and to provide music before and after the service.