of third president serzh sargsyan to remain in control by becoming prime minister after fulfilling his second presidential term in 2018. in march 2018, the armenian parliament elected armen sarkissian as the new president of armenia. the controversial constitutional reform to reduce presidential power was implemented, while the authority of the prime minister was strengthened. in may 2018, parliament elected opposition leader nikol pashinyan as the new prime minister. his predecessor serzh sargsyan resigned two weeks earlier following widespread anti - government demonstrations. in june 2021, early parliamentary elections were held. nikol pashinyan ' s civil contract party won 71 seats, while 29 went to the armenia alliance headed by former president robert kocharyan. the i have honor alliance, which formed around another former president, serzh sargsyan, won seven seats. after the election, armenia ' s acting prime minister nikol pashinyan was officially appointed to the post of prime minister by the country ' s president armen sarkissian. in january 2022, armenian president armen sarkissian resigned from office, stating that the constitution does no longer give the president sufficient powers or influence. on 3 march 2022, vahagn khachaturyan was elected as the fifth president of armenia in the second round of parliamentary vote. government | president | vahagn khachaturyan | independent | 13 march 2022 | - | prime minister | nikol pashinyan | civil contract | 8 may 2018 | } legislative branch the unicameral national assembly of armenia ( azgayin zhoghov ) is the legislative branch of the government of armenia. before the 2015 armenian constitutional referendum, it was initially made of 131 members, elected for five - year terms : 41 members in single - seat constituencies and 90 by proportional representation. the proportional - representation seats in the national assembly are assigned on a party - list basis among those parties that receive at least 5 % of the total of the number of the votes. following the 2015 referendum, the number of mps was reduced from the original 131 members to 101 and single - seat constituencies were removed. political parties and elections the electoral threshold is currently set at 5 % for single parties and 7 % for blocs. latest national elections latest presidential elections independent agencies independent of three traditional branches are the following independent agencies, each with separate powers and responsibilities : the constitutional court of armenia the central electoral commission of armenia the human rights defender of armenia the central bank of armenia the prosecutor general of armenia the audit chamber of armenia corruption transparency international