and ate them. ancient egyptians might have farmed fish ( especially gilt - head bream ) from lake bardawil about 1, 500 bce ( about 3, 500 bp ), and they traded them with canaan. gim cultivation is the oldest aquaculture in korea. early cultivation methods used bamboo or oak sticks, which were replaced by newer methods that utilized nets in the 19th century. floating rafts have been used for mass production since the 1920s. japanese cultivated seaweed by providing bamboo poles and, later, nets and oyster shells to serve as anchoring surfaces for spores. romans bred fish in ponds and farmed oysters in coastal lagoons before 100 ce. in central europe, early christian monasteries adopted roman aquacultural practices. aquaculture spread in europe during the middle ages since away from the seacoasts and the big rivers, fish had to be salted so they did not rot. improvements in transportation during the 19th century made fresh fish easily available and inexpensive, even in inland areas, making aquaculture less popular. the 15th - century fishponds of the trebon basin in the czech republic are maintained as a unesco world heritage site. hawaiians constructed oceanic fish ponds. a remarkable example is the " menehune " fishpond dating from at least 1, 000 years ago, at alekoko. legend says that it was constructed by the mythical menehune dwarf people. in the first half of the 18th century, german stephan ludwig jacobi experimented with external fertilization of brown trouts and salmon. he wrote an article " von der kunstlichen erzeugung der forellen und lachse " ( on the artificial production of trout and salmon ) summarizing his findings, and is regarded as the founder of artificial fish rearing in europe. by the latter decades of the 18th century, oyster farming had begun in estuaries along the atlantic coast of north america. the word aquaculture appeared in an 1855 newspaper article in reference to the harvesting of ice. it also appeared in descriptions of the terrestrial agricultural practise of sub - irrigation in the late 19th century before becoming associated primarily with the cultivation of aquatic plant and animal species. in 1859, stephen ainsworth of west bloomfield, new york, began experiments with brook trout. by 1864, seth green had established a commercial fish - hatching operation at caledonia springs, near rochester, new york. by 1866, with the involvement of dr. w. w. fletcher of concord, massachusetts, artificial fish hatcheries were underway in both canada