commune. she later said that loveday was made to drink the blood of a sacrificed cat, and that they were required to cut themselves with razors every time they used the pronoun " i ". loveday drank from a local polluted stream, soon developing a liver infection resulting in his death in february 1923. returning to london, may told her story to the press. john bull proclaimed crowley " the wickedest man in the world " and " a man we ' d like to hang ", and although crowley deemed many of their accusations against him to be slanderous, he was unable to afford the legal fees to sue them. as a result, john bull continued its attack, with its stories being repeated in newspapers throughout europe and in north america. the fascist government of benito mussolini learned of crowley ' s activities, and in april 1923 he was given a deportation notice forcing him to leave italy ; without him, the abbey closed. later life tunisia, paris, and london : 1923 – 1929 crowley and hirsig went to tunis, where, dogged by continuing poor health, he unsuccessfully tried again to give up heroin, and began writing what he termed his " autohagiography ", the confessions of aleister crowley. they were joined in tunis by the thelemite norman mudd, who became crowley ' s public relations consultant. employing a local boy, mohammad ben brahim, as his servant, crowley went with him on a retreat to nefta, where they performed sex magic together. in january 1924, crowley travelled to nice, france, where he met with frank harris, underwent a series of nasal operations, and visited the institute for the harmonious development of man and had a positive opinion of its founder, george gurdjieff. destitute, he took on a wealthy student, alexander zu zolar, before taking on another american follower, dorothy olsen. crowley took olsen back to tunisia for a magical retreat in nefta, where he also wrote to man ( 1924 ), a declaration of his own status as a prophet entrusted with bringing thelema to humanity. after spending the winter in paris, in early 1925 crowley and olsen returned to tunis, where he wrote the heart of the master ( 1938 ) as an account of a vision he experienced in a trance. in march olsen became pregnant, and hirsig was called to take care of her ; she miscarried, following which crowley took olsen back to france. hirsig later distanced herself from crowley, who then denounced