increase in the risk of preterm birth in future pregnancies. the studies supporting this did not control for factors not related to abortion or miscarriage, and hence the causes of this correlation have not been determined, although multiple possibilities have been suggested. some purported risks of abortion are promoted primarily by anti - abortion groups, but lack scientific support. for example, the question of a link between induced abortion and breast cancer has been investigated extensively. major medical and scientific bodies ( including the who, national cancer institute, american cancer society, royal college of obgyn and american congress of obgyn ) have concluded that abortion does not cause breast cancer. in the past even illegality has not automatically meant that the abortions were unsafe. referring to the u. s., historian linda gordon states : " in fact, illegal abortions in this country have an impressive safety record. " according to rickie solinger, authors jerome bates and edward zawadzki describe the case of an illegal abortionist in the eastern u. s. in the early 20th century who was proud of having successfully completed 13, 844 abortions without any fatality. in 1870s new york city the famous abortionist / midwife madame restell ( anna trow lohman ) appears to have lost very few women among her more than 100, 000 patients — a lower mortality rate than the childbirth mortality rate at the time. in 1936, the prominent professor of obstetrics and gynecology frederick j. taussig wrote that a cause of increasing mortality during the years of illegality in the u. s. was that mental health current evidence finds no relationship between most induced abortions and mental health problems other than those expected for any unwanted pregnancy. a report by the american psychological association concluded that a woman ' s first abortion is not a threat to mental health when carried out in the first trimester, with such women no more likely to have mental - health problems than those carrying an unwanted pregnancy to term ; the mental - health outcome of a woman ' s second or greater abortion is less certain. some older reviews concluded that abortion was associated with an increased risk of psychological problems ; however, later reviews of the medical literature found that they did not use an appropriate control group. when a control group is utilized, receiving abortion is not associated with adverse psychological outcomes. however, women seeking abortion who are denied access to abortion have an increase in anxiety after the denial. although some studies show negative mental - health outcomes in women who choose abortions after the first trimester because