carries a pistol and a lucky rabbit ' s foot, and he dresses in a military uniform, and has been described as " impervious to thought ". meigs seizes control of project x and accidentally destroys it, demolishing the country ' s last railroad bridge across the mississippi river and killing himself, his men, and dr. stadler. dave mitchum is a state - hired superintendent of the colorado division of taggart transcontinental. he is partially responsible for the taggart tunnel disaster. chick morrison holds the position of " morale conditioner " in the government. he quits when society begins to collapse and flees to a stronghold in tennessee. his fellow looters consider it unlikely that he will survive. horace bussby mowen is the president of the amalgamated switch and signal company, inc. of connecticut. he is a businessman who sees nothing wrong with the moral code that is destroying society and would never dream of saying he is in business for any reason other than the good of society. dagny taggart hires mowen to produce switches made of rearden metal. he is reluctant to build anything with this unproven technology, and has to be cajoled into accepting the contract. when pressured by public opinion, he discontinues production of the switches, forcing dagny to find an alternative source. midas mulligan is a wealthy banker who mysteriously disappeared in protest after he was given a court order to lend money to an incompetent applicant. when the order came down, he liquidated his entire business, paid off his depositors, and joined galt ' s strike. he is the legal owner of the land where galt ' s gulch is located. mulligan ' s birth name was michael, but he had it legally changed after a news article called him " midas " in a derogatory fashion, which mulligan took as a compliment. judge narragansett is an american jurist who ruled in favor of midas mulligan during the case brought against him by the incompetent loan applicant. when narragansett ' s ruling was reversed on appeal, he retired and joined the strike. at the end of the novel, he is seen editing the united states constitution, crossing out the contradicting amendments of it and adding an amendment to prohibit congress from passing laws that restrain freedom of trade. ben nealy is a railroad contractor whom dagny taggart hires to replace the track on the rio norte line with rearden metal