trends there are several characteristics that tend to unite anthropological work. one of the central characteristics is that anthropology tends to provide a comparatively more holistic account of phenomena and tends to be highly empirical. the quest for holism leads most anthropologists to study a particular place, problem or phenomenon in detail, using a variety of methods, over a more extensive period than normal in many parts of academia. in the 1990s and 2000s, calls for clarification of what constitutes a culture, of how an observer knows where his or her own culture ends and another begins, and other crucial topics in writing anthropology were heard. these dynamic relationships, between what can be observed on the ground, as opposed to what can be observed by compiling many local observations remain fundamental in any kind of anthropology, whether cultural, biological, linguistic or archaeological. biological anthropologists are interested in both human variation and in the possibility of human universals ( behaviors, ideas or concepts shared by virtually all human cultures ). they use many different methods of study, but modern population genetics, participant observation and other techniques often take anthropologists " into the field, " which means traveling to a community in its own setting, to do something called " fieldwork. " on the biological or physical side, human measurements, genetic samples, nutritional data may be gathered and published as articles or monographs. along with dividing up their project by theoretical emphasis, anthropologists typically divide the world up into relevant time periods and geographic regions. human time on earth is divided up into relevant cultural traditions based on material, such as the paleolithic and the neolithic, of particular use in archaeology. further cultural subdivisions according to tool types, such as olduwan or mousterian or levalloisian help archaeologists and other anthropologists in understanding major trends in the human past. anthropologists and geographers share approaches to culture regions as well, since mapping cultures is central to both sciences. by making comparisons across cultural traditions ( time - based ) and cultural regions ( space - based ), anthropologists have developed various kinds of comparative method, a central part of their science. commonalities between fields because anthropology developed from so many different enterprises ( see history of anthropology ), including but not limited to fossil - hunting, exploring, documentary film - making, paleontology, primatology, antiquity dealings and curatorship, philology, etymology, genetics, regional analysis, ethnology, history, philosophy, and religious studies, it is difficult to characterize the entire field in a brief article, although attempts to write histories of the