is mainly used in compounds to mean ' combine, unite, join together, meet ', examples being ( combined / united ), ( composition ), ( unite / combine / join together ), ( union / alliance / association ), ( combine / unify ), and ( mutual agreement ). there is an idea of reciprocity, ( to get to know one another ), ( talk / discussion / negotiation ), and ( meet by appointment ). ( ) is often used to describe a feeling or emotive action, as in ( ' i feel x ', as in terms of thinking but with less cognitive reasoning ), and ( feeling / sensation ) ; it is used to mean energy or force, as in ( electricity ) and ( magnetism ) ; it can also refer to qualities or aspects of people or things, as in ( spirit / trait / temperament ). the characters aeteological history can be traced back to the much older chinese character of ( ) that is used extensively in traditional chinese medicine and acupunture. the term in aikido is found in many other japanese martial arts such as, judo and kendo, and in various non - martial arts, such as japanese calligraphy ( ), flower arranging ( ) and tea ceremony ( or ). therefore, from a purely literal interpretation, aikido is the " way of combining forces " or " way of unifying energy ", in which the term refers to the martial arts principle or tactic of blending with an attacker ' s movements for the purpose of controlling their actions with minimal effort. one applies by understanding the rhythm and intent of the attacker to find the optimal position and timing to apply a counter - technique. history aikido was created by ( 1883 – 1969 ), referred to by some aikido practitioners as ( great teacher ). the term aikido was coined in the 20th century. ueshiba envisioned aikido not only as the synthesis of his martial training, but as an expression of his personal philosophy of universal peace and reconciliation. during ueshiba ' s lifetime and continuing today, aikido has evolved from the that ueshiba studied into a variety of expressions by martial artists throughout the world. initial development ueshiba developed aikido primarily during the late 1920s through the 1930s through the synthesis of the older martial arts that he had studied. the core martial art from which aikido derives is daito - ryu aiki - jujutsu, which ueshiba studied directly with takeda so