12 bc ), but the pannonians gave up that same year. agrippa returned to campania in italy, where he fell ill and died soon after. after her father ' s death, she spent the rest of her childhood in augustus ' household where access to her was strictly controlled. some of the currency issued in 13 – 12 bc, the aurei and denarii, make it clear that her brothers gaius and lucius were augustus ' intended heirs. their father was no longer available to assume the reins of power if the emperor were to die, and augustus had to make it clear who his intended heirs were in case anything should happen. lucius ' and gaius ' military and political careers would steadily advance until their deaths in ad 2 and 4, respectively. the death of her brothers meant that augustus had to find other heirs. although he initially considered agrippina ' s second cousin germanicus a potential heir for a time, livia convinced augustus to adopt tiberius, livia ' s son from her first marriage with tiberius claudius nero. although augustus adopted tiberius, it was on condition that tiberius first adopt germanicus so that germanicus would become second in the line of succession. it was a corollary to the adoption, probably in the next year, that agrippina was married to germanicus. by her husband germanicus, she had nine children : nero julius caesar, drusus julius caesar, tiberius julius caesar, a child of unknown name ( normally referenced as ignotus ), gaius the elder, the emperor caligula ( gaius the younger ), the empress agrippina the younger, julia drusilla, and julia livilla. only six of her children came of age ; tiberius and ignotus died as infants, and gaius the elder in his early childhood. marriage her husband ' s career in the military began in ad 6, with the batonian war in pannonia and dalmatia. throughout germanicus ' military career, agrippina is known to have traveled with her husband and their children. germanicus ' career advanced steadily as he advanced in ranks following the cursus honorum until, in ad 12, he was made consul. the following year, he was given command over gaul and the forces on the rhine, totaling eight legions. on 18 may ad 14, her one - year - old son gaius was sent by augustus from rome to join her in gaul. she was pregnant at the time and, while germanicus was collecting taxes across gaul, she remained at an unspecified