have been the younger as patroclus is usually seen as his elder. in plato ' s symposium, the participants in a dialogue about love assume that achilles and patroclus were a couple ; phaedrus argues that achilles was the younger and more beautiful one so he was the beloved and patroclus was the lover. however, ancient greek had no words to distinguish heterosexual and homosexual, and it was assumed that a man could both desire handsome young men and have sex with women. many pairs of men throughout history have been compared to achilles and patroclus to imply a homosexual relationship. death the death of achilles, even if considered solely as it occurred in the oldest sources, is a complex one, with many different versions. starting with the oldest account, in the iliad book xxii, hector predicts with his last dying breath that paris and apollo will slay him at the scaean gates leading to troy ( with an arrow to the heel according to statius ). in book xxiii, the sad spirit of dead patroclus visits achilles just as he drifts off into slumber, requesting that his bones be placed with those of achilles in his golden vase, a gift of his mother. in the odyssey book xi, odysseus sails to the underworld and converses with the shades. one of these is achilles, who when greeted as " blessed in life, blessed in death ", responds that he would rather be a slave to the worst of masters than be king of all the dead. but achilles then asks odysseus of his son ' s exploits in the trojan war, and odysseus tells him of neoptolemus ' actions. in the odyssey book xxiv we read dead king agamemnon ' s ghostly account of his death : achilles ' funeral pyre bleached bones had been mixed with those of patroclus and put into his mother ' s golden vase. also, the bones of antilocus, who had become closer to achilles than any other following patroclus ' death, were separately enclosed. and, the customary funeral games of a hero were performed, and a massive tomb or mound was built on the hellespont for approaching seagoers to celebrate. achilles was represented in the aethiopis as living after his death in the island of leuke at the mouth of the river danube. another version of achilles ' death is that he fell deeply in love with one of the trojan princesses, polyx