active during dawn and dusk ) chinchillas, two threatened members of the rodent order, inhabit the andes ' alpine regions. the andean condor, the largest bird of its kind in the western hemisphere, occurs throughout much of the andes but generally in very low densities. other animals found in the relatively open habitats of the high andes include the huemul, cougar, foxes in the genus pseudalopex, and, for birds, certain species of tinamous ( notably members of the genus nothoprocta ), andean goose, giant coot, flamingos ( mainly associated with hypersaline lakes ), lesser rhea, andean flicker, diademed sandpiper - plover, miners, sierra - finches and diuca - finches. lake titicaca hosts several endemics, among them the highly endangered titicaca flightless grebe and titicaca water frog. a few species of hummingbirds, notably some hillstars, can be seen at altitudes above, but far higher diversities can be found at lower altitudes, especially in the humid andean forests ( " cloud forests " ) growing on slopes in colombia, ecuador, peru, bolivia and far northwestern argentina. these forest - types, which includes the yungas and parts of the choco, are very rich in flora and fauna, although few large mammals exist, exceptions being the threatened mountain tapir, spectacled bear and yellow - tailed woolly monkey. birds of humid andean forests include mountain toucans, quetzals and the andean cock - of - the - rock, while mixed species flocks dominated by tanagers and furnariids commonly are seen – in contrast to several vocal but typically cryptic species of wrens, tapaculos and antpittas. a number of species such as the royal cinclodes and white - browed tit - spinetail are associated with polylepis, and consequently also threatened. human activity the andes mountains form a north - south axis of cultural influences. a long series of cultural development culminated in the expansion of the inca civilization and inca empire in the central andes during the 15th century. the incas formed this civilization through imperialistic militarism as well as careful and meticulous governmental management. the government sponsored the construction of aqueducts and roads in addition to preexisting installations. some of these constructions are still in existence today. devastated by european diseases and by civil war, the incas were defeated in 153