reproduced, and are generally regarded either as meaningless or considered to have had little if any scientific merit. frank tipler has argued that physics can explain immortality, although such arguments are not falsifiable and, in karl popper ' s views, they do not qualify as science. after 25 years of parapsychological research susan blackmore came to the conclusion that, according to her experiences, there is not enough empirical evidence for many of these cases. mediumship mediums purportedly act as a vessel for communications from spirits in other realms. mediumship is not specific to one culture or religion ; it can be identified in several belief systems, most notably spiritualism. while the practice gained popularity in europe and north america in the 19th century, evidence of mediumship dates back thousands of years in asia. mediums who claim to have contact with deceased people include tyler henry and pascal voggenhuber. near death research research also includes the study of the near death experience. scientists who have worked in this area include elisabeth kubler - ross, raymond moody, sam parnia, michael sabom, bruce greyson, peter fenwick, jeffrey long, susan blackmore, charles tart, william james, ian stevenson, michael persinger, pim van lommel, penny sartori, walter van laack among others. past life regression past life regression is a method that uses hypnosis to recover what practitioners believe are memories of past lives or incarnations. the technique used during past - life regression involves the subject answering a series of questions while hypnotized to reveal identity and events of alleged past lives, a method similar to that used in recovered memory therapy and one that, similarly, often misrepresents memory as a faithful recording of previous events rather than a constructed set of recollections. however, medical experts and practitioners do not agree that the past life memories gained from past life regressions are truly from past lives ; experts generally regard claims of recovered memories of past lives as fantasies or delusions or a type of confabulation, because the use of hypnosis and suggestive questions can tend to leave the subject particularly likely to hold distorted or false memories. philosophy modern philosophy there is a view based on the philosophical question of personal identity, termed open individualism by daniel kolak, that concludes that individual conscious experience is illusory, and because consciousness continues after death in all conscious beings, you do not die. this position has allegedly been supported by physicists such as erwin schrod