of acacia plants, in conjunction with their home security qualities, makes them a reasonable alternative to constructed fences and walls. perfume acacia farnesiana is used in the perfume industry due to its strong fragrance. the use of acacia as a fragrance dates back centuries. symbolism and ritual egyptian mythology has associated the acacia tree with characteristics of the tree of life, such as in the myth of osiris and isis. several parts ( mainly bark, root, and resin ) of acacia species are used to make incense for rituals. acacia is used in incense mainly in india, nepal, and china including in its tibet region. smoke from acacia bark is thought to keep demons and ghosts away and to put the gods in a good mood. roots and resin from acacia are combined with rhododendron, acorus, cytisus, salvia, and some other components of incense. both people and elephants like an alcoholic beverage made from acacia fruit. according to easton ' s bible dictionary, the acacia tree may be the " burning bush " ( exodus 3 : 2 ) which moses encountered in the desert. also, when god gave moses the instructions for building the tabernacle, he said to " make an ark " and " a table of acacia wood " ( exodus 25 : 10 & 23, revised standard version ). also, in the christian tradition, christ ' s crown of thorns is thought to have been woven from acacia. acacia was used for zulu warriors ' iziqu ( or isiku ) beads, which passed on through robert baden - powell to the scout movement ' s wood badge training award. in russia, italy, and other countries, it is customary to present women with yellow mimosas ( among other flowers ) on international women ' s day ( march 8 ). these " mimosas " may be from a. dealbata ( silver wattle ). in 1918, may gibbs, the popular australian children ' s author, wrote the book ' wattle babies ', in which a third - person narrator describes the lives of imaginary inhabitants of the australian forests ( the ' bush ' ). the main characters are the wattle babies, who are tiny people that look like acacia flowers and who interact with various forest creatures. gibbs wrote " wattle babies are the sunshine of the bush. in winter, when the sky is grey and all the world seems cold, they put on their yellowest clothes and come out, for they have such cheerful hearts. " gibbs was referring to the fact that an abundance of acacias flower in