at the end of a word. thus in sanskrit, a default vowel consonant such as क does not take on a final consonant sound. instead, it keeps its vowel. for writing two consonants without a vowel in between, instead of using diacritics on the first consonant to remove its vowel, another popular method of special conjunct forms is used in which two or more consonant characters are merged to express a cluster, such as devanagari : कल kla. ( some fonts display this as क followed by ल, rather than forming a conjunct. this expedient is used by iscii and south asian scripts of unicode. ) thus a closed syllable such as kal requires two aksharas to write. the rong script used for the lepcha language goes further than other indic abugidas, in that a single akshara can represent a closed syllable : not only the vowel, but any final consonant is indicated by a diacritic. for example, the syllable [ sok ] would be written as something like s, here with an underring representing and an overcross representing the diacritic for final. most other indic abugidas can only indicate a very limited set of final consonants with diacritics, such as or, if they can indicate any at all. ethiopic in ethiopic or ge ' ez script, fidels ( individual " letters " of the script ) have " diacritics " that are fused with the consonants to the point that they must be considered modifications of the form of the letters. children learn each modification separately, as in a syllabary ; nonetheless, the graphic similarities between syllables with the same consonant are readily apparent, unlike the case in a true syllabary. though now an abugida, the ge ' ez script, until the advent of christianity ( ca. ad 350 ), had originally been what would now be termed an abjad. in the ge ' ez abugida ( or fidel ), the base form of the letter ( also known as fidel ) may be altered. for example, ha ( base form ), hu ( with a right - side diacritic that does not alter the letter ), hi ( with a subdiacritic that compresses the consonant, so it is the same height ), hə or ( where the letter is modified with a kink in the left arm ). canadian