to pass only advisory resolutions. these lambeth conferences have been held roughly every ten years since 1878 ( the second such conference ) and remain the most visible coming - together of the whole communion. the lambeth conference of 1998 included what has been seen by philip jenkins and others as a " watershed in global christianity ". the 1998 lambeth conference considered the issue of the theology of same - sex attraction in relation to human sexuality. at this 1998 conference for the first time in centuries the christians of developing regions, especially, africa, asia, and latin america, prevailed over the bishops of more prosperous countries ( many from the us, canada, and the uk ) who supported a redefinition of anglican doctrine. seen in this light 1998 is a date that marked the shift from a west - dominated christianity to one wherein the growing churches of the two - thirds world are predominant. controversies one effect of the anglican communion ' s dispersed authority has been the conflicts arising over divergent practices and doctrines in parts of the communion. disputes that had been confined to the church of england could be dealt with legislatively in that realm, but as the communion spread out into new nations and disparate cultures, such controversies multiplied and intensified. these controversies have generally been of two types : liturgical and social. anglo - catholicism the first such controversy of note concerned that of the growing influence of the catholic revival manifested in the tractarian and so - called ritualist controversies of the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. this controversy produced the free church of england and, in the united states and canada, the reformed episcopal church. social changes later, rapid social change and the dissipation of british cultural hegemony over its former colonies contributed to disputes over the role of women, the parameters of marriage and divorce, and the practices of contraception and abortion. in the late 1970s, the continuing anglican movement produced a number of new church bodies in opposition to women ' s ordination, prayer book changes, and the new understandings concerning marriage. same - sex unions and lgbt clergy more recently, disagreements over homosexuality have strained the unity of the communion as well as its relationships with other christian denominations, leading to another round of withdrawals from the anglican communion. some churches were founded outside the anglican communion in the late 20th and early 21st centuries, largely in opposition to the ordination of openly homosexual bishops and other clergy and are usually referred to as belonging to the anglican realignment movement, or else as " orthodox " anglicans. these disagreements were especially noted when the episcopal church ( us ) consecrated an