, with a high content of saturated hydrocarbons, are more easily biodegraded by microorganisms than direct distillation bitumen, with a low content of saturated hydrocarbons and a high content of aromatic hydrocarbons. concrete encapsulation of radwaste is presently considered a safer alternative by the nuclear industry and the waste management organisations. other uses roofing shingles and roll roofing account for most of the remaining bitumen consumption. other uses include cattle sprays, fence - post treatments, and waterproofing for fabrics. bitumen is used to make japan black, a lacquer known especially for its use on iron and steel, and it is also used in paint and marker inks by some exterior paint supply companies to increase the weather resistance and permanence of the paint or ink, and to make the color darker. bitumen is also used to seal some alkaline batteries during the manufacturing process. production about 40, 000, 000 tons were produced in 1984. it is obtained as the " heavy " ( i. e., difficult to distill ) fraction. material with a boiling point greater than around 500 °c is considered asphalt. vacuum distillation separates it from the other components in crude oil ( such as naphtha, gasoline and diesel ). the resulting material is typically further treated to extract small but valuable amounts of lubricants and to adjust the properties of the material to suit applications. in a de - asphalting unit, the crude bitumen is treated with either propane or butane in a supercritical phase to extract the lighter molecules, which are then separated. further processing is possible by " blowing " the product : namely reacting it with oxygen. this step makes the product harder and more viscous. bitumen is typically stored and transported at temperatures around. sometimes diesel oil or kerosene are mixed in before shipping to retain liquidity ; upon delivery, these lighter materials are separated out of the mixture. this mixture is often called " bitumen feedstock ", or bfs. some dump trucks route the hot engine exhaust through pipes in the dump body to keep the material warm. the backs of tippers carrying asphalt, as well as some handling equipment, are also commonly sprayed with a releasing agent before filling to aid release. diesel oil is no longer used as a release agent due to environmental concerns. oil sands naturally occurring crude bitumen impregnated in sedimentary rock is the prime feed stock for petroleum production from " oil sands "