##tology, antiquity dealings and curatorship, philology, etymology, genetics, regional analysis, ethnology, history, philosophy, and religious studies, it is difficult to characterize the entire field in a brief article, although attempts to write histories of the entire field have been made. some authors argue that anthropology originated and developed as the study of " other cultures ", both in terms of time ( past societies ) and space ( non - european / non - western societies ). for example, the classic of urban anthropology, ulf hannerz in the introduction to his seminal exploring the city : inquiries toward an urban anthropology mentions that the " third world " had habitually received most of attention ; anthropologists who traditionally specialized in " other cultures " looked for them far away and started to look " across the tracks " only in late 1960s. now there exist many works focusing on peoples and topics very close to the author ' s " home ". it is also argued that other fields of study, like history and sociology, on the contrary focus disproportionately on the west. in france, the study of western societies has been traditionally left to sociologists, but this is increasingly changing, starting in the 1970s from scholars like isac chiva and journals like terrain ( " fieldwork " ), and developing with the center founded by marc auge ( le centre d ' anthropologie des mondes contemporains, the anthropological research center of contemporary societies ). since the 1980s it has become common for social and cultural anthropologists to set ethnographic research in the north atlantic region, frequently examining the connections between locations rather than limiting research to a single locale. there has also been a related shift toward broadening the focus beyond the daily life of ordinary people ; increasingly, research is set in settings such as scientific laboratories, social movements, governmental and nongovernmental organizations and businesses. see also christian anthropology, a sub - field of theology philosophical anthropology, a sub - field of philosophy lists notes references works cited further reading dictionaries and encyclopedias fieldnotes and memoirs histories. textbooks and key theoretical works external links open encyclopedia of anthropology. organisations ( aio ) behavioural sciences humans