be modeled as a sister group of the austronesian peoples with significant admixture ( ca. 30 % ) from a deeply diverging eastern eurasian source ( modeled by the authors as sharing some genetic drift with the onge, a modern andamanese hunter - gatherer group ) and which is ancestral to modern austroasiatic - speaking groups of southeast asia such as the mlabri and the nicobarese, and partially to the austroasiatic munda - speaking groups of south asia ( e. g. the juang ). significant levels of austroasiatic ancestry were also found in austronesian - speaking groups of sumatra and borneo. austroasiatic - speaking groups in southern china ( such as the wa and blang in yunnan ) predominatly carry the same mainland southeast asian neolithic farmer ancestry, but with additional geneflow from northern and southern east asian lineages that can be associated with the spread of tibeto - burman and kra - dai languages, respectively. larena et al. 2021 could reproduce the genetic evidence for the origin of basal east asians in mainland southeast asia, which are estimated to have formed about 50kya years ago, and expanded through multiple migration waves southwards and northwards. early austroasiatic speakers are estimated to have originated from an lineage, which split from ancestral east asians between 25, 000 and 15, 000 years ago, and were among the first wave to replace distinct australasian - related groups in insular southeast asia. east asian - related ancestry became dominant in insular southeast asia already between 15, 000 years to 12, 000 years ago, and may be associated with austroasiatic groups, which however got again replaced by later austronesian groups some 10, 000 to 7, 000 years ago. early austroasiatic people were found to be best represented by the mlabri people in modern - day thailand. proposals for austroasiatic substratum among later austronesian languages in western indonesia, noteworthy among the dayak languages, is strengthened by genetic data, suggesting austroasiatic speakers were assimilated by austronesian speakers. migration into india according to chaubey et al., " austro - asiatic speakers in india today are derived from dispersal from southeast asia, followed by extensive sex - specific admixture with local indian populations. " according to riccio et al., the munda peoples are likely descended from austroasiatic migrants from southeast asia. according to zhang et al., austroasiatic migrations from southeast asia into india took place after the last