largest of the colleges, offering journalism courses since 1946, with approximately 1, 700 students as of 2014. dmjx has been an independent institution since 1974, conducting research and teaching at undergraduate level, and in 2004, master ' s courses in journalism was established in a collaboration with aarhus university. the latter is offered through the centre for university studies in journalism, granting degrees through the university. the royal academy of music in aarhus ( det jyske musikkonservatorium ) is a conservatoire, established under the auspices of the danish ministry of culture in 1927. in 2010, it merged administratively with the royal academy of music in aalborg, which was founded in 1930. under the patronage of his royal highness crown prince frederik, it offers graduate level studies in areas such as music teaching, and solo and professional musicianship. via university college was established in january 2008 and is one of eight new regional organisations offering bachelor courses of all kinds, throughout the central denmark region. it offers over 50 higher educations, taught in danish or sometimes in english, with vocational education and it participates in various research and development projects. aarhus school of architecture ( arkitektskolen aarhus ) was founded in 1965. along with the royal danish academy of fine arts of copenhagen, it is responsible for the education of architects in denmark. with an enrolment of approximately 900 students, it teaches in five main departments : architecture and aesthetics, urban and landscape, architectonic heritage, design and architectural design. transport aarhus has two ring roads ; ring 1, roughly encircling the central district of aarhus c, and the outlying ring 2. six major intercity motorways radiate from the city centre, connecting with nearby cities grena, randers, viborg, silkeborg, skanderborg and odder. in the inner city, motorised traffic is highly regulated, larger parts are pedestrianised and in the 2000s, a system of roads prioritised for cyclists have been implemented, connecting to suburban areas. the main railway station in aarhus is aarhus central station located in the city centre. dsb has connections to destinations throughout denmark and also services to flensburg and hamburg in germany. aarhus letbane is a local electric light rail or tram system that opened in december 2017, connecting the central station and the inner city with the university hospital in skejby and also replaced local railway services to grenaa and odder in late 2018. it is the first electric light rail system in denmark and more routes are planned to open in coming years.