throughout the election, and just as jackson was preparing to head to washington for his inauguration, she fell ill. she did not live to see her husband become president, dying of a stroke or heart attack a few days later. jackson believed that the abuse from adams ' supporters had hastened her death, stating at her funeral : " may god almighty forgive her murderers, as i know she forgave them. i never can. " presidency ( 1829 – 1837 ) inauguration jackson arrived in washington on february 11. his first concern was forming his cabinet. he chose van buren as secretary of state, his friend john eaton as secretary of war, samuel d. ingham as secretary of treasury, john branch as secretary of navy, john m. berrien as attorney general, and william t. barry as postmaster general. jackson was inaugurated on march 4, 1829, becoming the first president - elect to take the oath of office on the east portico of the u. s. capitol. embittered by his defeat, adams refused to attend. in his inaugural address, jackson promised to protect the sovereignty of the states, respect the limits of the presidency, reform the government by removing disloyal or incompetent appointees, and observe a fair policy toward native americans. jackson invited the public to the white house, which was promptly overrun by well - wishers who caused minor damage to its furnishings. the spectacle earned him the nickname " king mob ". reforms and rotation in office jackson ' s administration believed that adams ' s had been corrupt and one of jackson ' s first acts as president was to initiate investigations into all executive departments. the investigations revealed that $ 280, 000 ( ) was stolen from the treasury, and the reduction in costs to the department of the navy saved it $ 1 million ( ). one of the people caught in his investigation was the treasury auditor tobias watkins, a personal friend of adams ' who was found guilty of embezzlement. jackson asked congress to tighten laws on embezzlement and tax evasion, and he pushed for an improved government accounting system. jackson implemented a principle he called " rotation in office " by enforcing the tenure of office act, an 1820 law that limited appointed office tenure and authorized the president to remove and appoint political party associates. the previous custom had been for the president to leave the existing appointees in office, replacing them through attrition. during his first year in office, jackson removed about 10 % of all federal employees and replaced them with loyal democrats. he argued that rotation