to tai or to anything else. the clocks at different institutions are regularly compared against each other. the international bureau of weights and measures ( bipm, france ), combines these measurements to retrospectively calculate the weighted average that forms the most stable time scale possible. this combined time scale is published monthly in " circular t ", and is the canonical tai. this time scale is expressed in the form of tables of differences utc − utc ( k ) ( equal to tai − tai ( k ) ) for each participating institution k. the same circular also gives tables of tai − ta ( k ), for the various unsynchronised atomic time scales. errors in publication may be corrected by issuing a revision of the faulty circular t or by errata in a subsequent circular t. aside from this, once published in circular t, the tai scale is not revised. in hindsight, it is possible to discover errors in tai and to make better estimates of the true proper time scale. since the published circulars are definitive, better estimates do not create another version of tai ; it is instead considered to be creating a better realisation of terrestrial time ( tt ). history early atomic time scales consisted of quartz clocks with frequencies calibrated by a single atomic clock ; the atomic clocks were not operated continuously. atomic timekeeping services started experimentally in 1955, using the first caesium atomic clock at the national physical laboratory, uk ( npl ). it was used as a basis for calibrating the quartz clocks at the royal greenwich observatory and to establish a time scale, called greenwich atomic ( ga ). the united states naval observatory began the a. 1 scale on 13 september 1956, using an atomichron commercial atomic clock, followed by the nbs - a scale at the national bureau of standards, boulder, colorado on 9 october 1957. the international time bureau ( bih ) began a time scale, tm or am, in july 1955, using both local caesium clocks and comparisons to distant clocks using the phase of vlf radio signals. the bih scale, a. 1, and nbs - a were defined by an epoch at the beginning of 1958 the procedures used by the bih evolved, and the name for the time scale changed : a3 in 1964 and ta ( bih ) in 1969. the si second was defined in terms of the caesium atom in 1967. from 1971 to 1975 the general conference on weights and measures and the international committee for weights and measures made a series of decisions that designated the