, romanos was betrayed by general andronikos doukas, son of the caesar ( romanos ' s stepson ), who pronounced him dead and rode off with a large part of the byzantine forces at a critical moment. the byzantines were wholly routed. emperor romanos himself was captured in battle and presented to alp arslan. it is reported that upon seeing the roman emperor, the sultan leaped from his throne, commanded romanos to kiss the ground, and stepped on his neck. he repeatedly berated the emperor, including for spurning his emissaries and offers of peace. romanos remained unrepentant, asserting that he had merely done what was " possible for a man, and which kings are bound to do, and i have fallen short in nothing. but god has fulfilled his will. and now, do what you wish and abandon recriminations. " purportedly declaring romanos " too trivial... to kill ", arslan then led him about the camp to sell the prisoner to one of his men. the seljuk soldiers initially refused to spend any money on buying the emperor, until one man traded a dog for him. next, wishing to test romanos, alp arslan asked romanos what he would do if their situation were reversed and arslan was imprisoned by the byzantines. romanos bluntly answered " the worst! " his honesty impressed arslan, who then decided to spare romanos ' s life and instead ransom him back to his homeland. after agreeing on a ransom, alp arslan sent romanos to constantinople with a turkish escort, carrying a banner above the disgraced emperor that read : " there is no god but allah and muhammad is his messenger ". the reason alp arslan spared romanos was likely to avoid a two - front war. the fatimids were launching devastating raids on the seljuk domains during this period, arslan may have worried that executing the roman emperor might escalate his conflict with the byzantines. romanos himself had told the sultan that " killing me will not be of any use to you ". after hearing of the overthrow of byzantine emperor romanos iv diogenes and realizing the great tribute and concessions promised to him would be denied, sultan alp arslan pledged : " i shall consume with the sword all those people who venerate the cross, and all the lands of the christians shall be enslaved. " alp arslan and his successor malik shah urged turkish tribes to