favor of britannia metal, a pewter - like alloy which is then plated in copper, nickel silver, and finally, 24 - karat gold. due to a metal shortage during world war ii, oscars were made of painted plaster for three years. following the war, the academy invited recipients to redeem the plaster figures for gold - plated metal ones. the only addition to the oscar since it was created is a minor streamlining of the base. the original oscar mold was cast in 1928 at the c. w. shumway & sons foundry in batavia, illinois, which also contributed to casting the molds for the vince lombardi trophy and emmy award statuettes. from 1983 to 2015, approximately 50 oscars in a tin alloy with gold plating were made each year in chicago by illinois manufacturer r. s. owens & company. it would take between three and four weeks to manufacture 50 statuettes. in 2016, the academy returned to bronze as the core metal of the statuettes, handing manufacturing duties to walden, new york – based polich tallix fine art foundry, now owned and operated by uap urban art projects. while based on a digital scan of an original 1929 oscar, the statuettes retain their modern - era dimensions and black pedestal. cast in liquid bronze from 3d - printed ceramic molds and polished, they are then electroplated in 24 - karat gold by brooklyn, new york – based epner technology. the time required to produce 50 such statuettes is roughly three months. r. s. owens is expected to continue producing other awards for the academy and service existing oscars that need replating. naming the origin of the nickname of the trophy has been disputed as multiple people have taken credit for naming the trophy " oscar ". bette davis, in her 1962 autobiography, claimed she named it in 1936 after her first husband, harmon oscar nelson, of whom the statue ' s rear end reminded her. but the term had been in use at least two years before, and in a 1974 biography written by whitney stine with commentary from davis, davis wrote " i relinquish once and for all any claim that i was the one — so, academy of motion picture arts and sciences, the honor is all yours. " margaret herrick, librarian and president of the academy, may have said she named it after her supposed uncle oscar in 1921. the only corroboration was a 1938 clipping from the los angeles examiner, in which herrick told a story of her and her