braudel directed from 1970 until his death. in 1970, the 6th section and the annales relocated to the fmsh building. fmsh set up elaborate international networks to spread the annales gospel across europe and the world. in 2013, it began publication of an english language edition, with all the articles translated. the scope of topics covered by the journal is vast and experimental — there is a search for total history and new approaches. the emphasis is on social history, and very long - term trends, often using quantification and paying special attention to geography and to the intellectual world view of common people, or " mentality " ( mentalite ). little attention is paid to political, diplomatic, or military history, or to biographies of famous men. instead the annales focused attention on the synthesizing of historical patterns identified from social, economic, and cultural history, statistics, medical reports, family studies, and even psychoanalysis. origins the annales was founded and edited by marc bloch and lucien febvre in 1929, while they were teaching at the university of strasbourg and later in paris. these authors, the former a medieval historian and the latter an early modernist, quickly became associated with the distinctive annales approach, which combined geography, history, and the sociological approaches of the annee sociologique ( many members of which were their colleagues at strasbourg ) to produce an approach which rejected the predominant emphasis on politics, diplomacy and war of many 19th and early 20th - century historians as spearheaded by historians whom febvre called les sorbonnistes. instead, they pioneered an approach to a study of long - term historical structures ( la longue duree ) over events and political transformations. geography, material culture, and what later annalistes called mentalites, or the psychology of the epoch, are also characteristic areas of study. the goal of the annales was to undo the work of the sorbonnistes, to turn french historians away from the narrowly political and diplomatic toward the new vistas in social and economic history. co - founder marc bloch ( 1886 – 1944 ) was a quintessential modernist who studied at the elite ecole normale superieure, and in germany, serving as a professor at the university of strasbourg until he was called to the sorbonne in paris in 1936 as professor of economic history. bloch ' s interests were highly interdisciplinary, influenced by the geography of paul vidal de la blache ( 1845 – 1918 ) and the sociology of emile durkheim ( 1858 – 1917 )