as anti - gingival treatments. they have been found effective in reducing halitosis, and are being used in several commercial mouthwashes. fluoride ( anticavity ) anti - cavity mouthwashes use sodium fluoride to protect against tooth decay. fluoride - containing mouthwashes are used as prevention for dental caries for individuals who are considered at higher risk for tooth decay, whether due to xerostomia related to salivary dysfunction or side effects of medication, to not drinking fluoridated water, or to being physically unable to care for their oral needs ( brushing and flossing ), and as treatment for those with dentinal hypersensitivity, gingival recession / root exposure. flavoring agents and xylitol flavoring agents include sweeteners such as sorbitol, sucralose, sodium saccharin, and xylitol, which stimulate salivary function due to their sweetness and taste and helps restore the mouth to a neutral level of acidity. xylitol rinses double as a bacterial inhibitor, and have been used as substitute for alcohol to avoid dryness of mouth associated with alcohol. hydrogen peroxide hydrogen peroxide can be used as an oxidizing mouthwash ( e. g. peroxyl, 1. 5 % ). it kills anaerobic bacteria, and also has a mechanical cleansing action when it froths as it comes into contact with debris in mouth. it is often used in the short term to treat acute necrotising ulcerative gingivitis. side effects can occur with prolonged use, including hypertrophy of the lingual papillae. lactoperoxidase ( saliva substitute ) enzymes and non - enzymatic proteins, such as lactoperoxidase, lysozyme, and lactoferrin, have been used in mouthwashes ( e. g., biotene ) to reduce levels of oral bacteria, and, hence, of the acids produced by these bacteria. lidocaine / xylocaine oral lidocaine is useful for the treatment of mucositis symptoms ( inflammation of mucous membranes ) induced by radiation or chemotherapy. there is evidence that lidocaine anesthetic mouthwash has the potential to be systemically absorbed, when it was tested in patients with oral mucositis who underwent a bone marrow transplant. methyl salicylate methyl salicylate functions as an antiseptic,