a shadow ( family plot ), sitting at a table in a photograph ( dial m for murder ), and riding a bus ( north by northwest, to catch a thief ). representation of women hitchcock ' s portrayal of women has been the subject of much scholarly debate. bidisha wrote in the guardian in 2010 : " there ' s the vamp, the tramp, the snitch, the witch, the slink, the double - crosser and, best of all, the demon mommy. don ' t worry, they all get punished in the end. " in a widely cited essay in 1975, laura mulvey introduced the idea of the male gaze ; the view of the spectator in hitchcock ' s films, she argued, is that of the heterosexual male protagonist. " the female characters in his films reflected the same qualities over and over again ", roger ebert wrote in 1996 : " they were blonde. they were icy and remote. they were imprisoned in costumes that subtly combined fashion with fetishism. they mesmerised the men, who often had physical or psychological handicaps. sooner or later, every hitchcock woman was humiliated. " the victims in the lodger are all blondes. in the 39 steps, madeleine carroll is put in handcuffs. ingrid bergman, whom hitchcock directed three times ( spellbound, notorious, and under capricorn ), is dark blonde. in rear window, lisa ( grace kelly ) risks her life by breaking into lars thorwald ' s apartment. in to catch a thief, francie ( also kelly ) offers to help a man she believes is a burglar. in vertigo and north by northwest respectively, kim novak and eva marie saint play the blonde heroines. in psycho, janet leigh ' s character steals $ 40, 000 and is murdered by norman bates, a reclusive psychopath. tippi hedren, a blonde, appears to be the focus of the attacks in the birds. in marnie, the title character, again played by hedren, is a thief. in topaz, french actresses dany robin as stafford ' s wife and claude jade as stafford ' s daughter are blonde heroines, the mistress was played by brunette karin dor. hitchcock ' s last blonde heroine was barbara harris as a phony psychic turned amateur sleuth in family plot ( 1976 ), his final film. in the same film, the diamond smuggler played by karen black wears a long blonde wig in several scenes. hitchcock ' s films often feature characters struggling