young and eugene cernan — did so twice., under the u. s. definition, 558 people qualify as having reached space, above altitude. of eight x - 15 pilots who exceeded in altitude, only one, joseph a. walker, exceeded 100 kilometers ( about 62. 1 miles ) and he did it two times, becoming the first person in space twice. space travelers have spent over 41, 790 man - days ( 114. 5 man - years ) in space, including over 100 astronaut - days of spacewalks., the man with the longest cumulative time in space is gennady padalka, who has spent 879 days in space. peggy a. whitson holds the record for the most time in space by a woman, at 675 days. terminology in 1959, when both the united states and soviet union were planning, but had yet to launch humans into space, nasa administrator t. keith glennan and his deputy administrator, hugh dryden, discussed whether spacecraft crew members should be called astronauts or cosmonauts. dryden preferred " cosmonaut ", on the grounds that flights would occur in and to the broader cosmos, while the " astro " prefix suggested flight specifically to the stars. most nasa space task group members preferred " astronaut ", which survived by common usage as the preferred american term. when the soviet union launched the first man into space, yuri gagarin in 1961, they chose a term which anglicizes to " cosmonaut ". astronaut a professional space traveler is called an astronaut. the first known use of the term " astronaut " in the modern sense was by neil r. jones in his 1930 short story " the death ' s head meteor ". the word itself had been known earlier ; for example, in percy greg ' s 1880 book across the zodiac, " astronaut " referred to a spacecraft. in les navigateurs de l ' infini ( 1925 ) by j. - h. rosny aine, the word astronautique ( astronautics ) was used. the word may have been inspired by " aeronaut ", an older term for an air traveler first applied in 1784 to balloonists. an early use of " astronaut " in a non - fiction publication is eric frank russell ' s poem " the astronaut ", appearing in the november 1934 bulletin of the british interplanetary society. the first known formal use of the term astronautics in the scientific community was the establishment of the annual international astronautical congress in 1950, and the subsequent