areas of many common shapes. the areas of irregular ( and thus arbitrary ) polygons can be calculated using the " surveyor ' s formula " ( shoelace formula ). relation of area to perimeter the isoperimetric inequality states that, for a closed curve of length l ( so the region it encloses has perimeter l ) and for area a of the region that it encloses, and equality holds if and only if the curve is a circle. thus a circle has the largest area of any closed figure with a given perimeter. at the other extreme, a figure with given perimeter l could have an arbitrarily small area, as illustrated by a rhombus that is " tipped over " arbitrarily far so that two of its angles are arbitrarily close to 0° and the other two are arbitrarily close to 180°. for a circle, the ratio of the area to the circumference ( the term for the perimeter of a circle ) equals half the radius r. this can be seen from the area formula πr2 and the circumference formula 2πr. the area of a regular polygon is half its perimeter times the apothem ( where the apothem is the distance from the center to the nearest point on any side ). fractals doubling the edge lengths of a polygon multiplies its area by four, which is two ( the ratio of the new to the old side length ) raised to the power of two ( the dimension of the space the polygon resides in ). but if the one - dimensional lengths of a fractal drawn in two dimensions are all doubled, the spatial content of the fractal scales by a power of two that is not necessarily an integer. this power is called the fractal dimension of the fractal. area bisectors there are an infinitude of lines that bisect the area of a triangle. three of them are the medians of the triangle ( which connect the sides ' midpoints with the opposite vertices ), and these are concurrent at the triangle ' s centroid ; indeed, they are the only area bisectors that go through the centroid. any line through a triangle that splits both the triangle ' s area and its perimeter in half goes through the triangle ' s incenter ( the center of its incircle ). there are either one, two, or three of these for any given triangle. any line through the midpoint of a parallel