sul are large world producers, with lesser quantities mined in minas gerais and bahia states. the largest amethyst geode found to date was the empress of uruguay, found in artigas, uruguay in 2007. it stands at a height of 3. 27 meters, lays open along its length, and weighs 2. 5 tons. amethyst is also found and mined in south korea. the large opencast amethyst vein at maissau, lower austria, was historically important, but is no longer included among significant producers. much fine amethyst comes from russia, especially near mursinka in the ekaterinburg district, where it occurs in drusy cavities in granitic rocks. amethyst was historically mined in many localities in south india, though these are no longer significant producers. one of the largest global amethyst producers is zambia in southern africa, with an annual production around 1000 tons. amethyst occurs at many localities in the united states. the most important production is at four peaks, gila and maricopa counties, arizona, and jackson ' s crossroads, wilkes county, georgia. smaller occurrences have been reported in the red feather lakes, near fort collins, colorado ; amethyst mountain, texas ; yellowstone national park ; delaware county, pennsylvania ; haywood county, north carolina ; deer hill and stow, maine, and in the lake superior region of minnesota, wisconsin, and michigan. amethyst is relatively common in the canadian provinces of ontario and nova scotia. the largest amethyst mine in north america is located in thunder bay, ontario. amethyst is the official state gemstone of south carolina. several south carolina amethysts are on display at the smithsonian museum of natural history. history amethyst was used as a gemstone by the ancient egyptians and was largely employed in antiquity for intaglio engraved gems. the ancient greeks believed amethyst gems could prevent intoxication, while medieval european soldiers wore amethyst amulets as protection in battle in the belief that amethysts heal people and keep them cool - headed. beads of amethyst were found in anglo - saxon graves in england. anglican bishops wear an episcopal ring often set with an amethyst, an allusion to the description of the apostles as " not drunk " at pentecost in acts 2 : 15. a large geode, or " amethyst - grotto ", from near santa cruz in southern brazil was presented at a 1902 exhibition in