affected by these forms ; thus it does not sense color as color or light as light until after it has been affected by the form of color or light. now the affectation received by the sentient organ from the form of color or of light is a certain change ; and change must take place in time ; ….. and it is in the time during which the form extends from the sentient organ ' s surface to the cavity of the common nerve, and in ( the time ) following that, that the sensitive faculty, which exists in the whole of the sentient body will perceive color as color … thus the last sentient ' s perception of color as such and of light as such takes place at a time following that in which the form arrives from the surface of the sentient organ to the cavity of the common nerve. color constancy alhazen explained color constancy by observing that the light reflected from an object is modified by the object ' s color. he explained that the quality of the light and the color of the object are mixed, and the visual system separates light and color. in book ii, chapter 3 he writes : again the light does not travel from the colored object to the eye unaccompanied by the color, nor does the form of the color pass from the colored object to the eye unaccompanied by the light. neither the form of the light nor that of the color existing in the colored object can pass except as mingled together and the last sentient can only perceive them as mingled together. nevertheless, the sentient perceives that the visible object is luminous and that the light seen in the object is other than the color and that these are two properties. other contributions the kitab al - manazir ( book of optics ) describes several experimental observations that alhazen made and how he used his results to explain certain optical phenomena using mechanical analogies. he conducted experiments with projectiles and concluded that only the impact of perpendicular projectiles on surfaces was forceful enough to make them penetrate, whereas surfaces tended to deflect oblique projectile strikes. for example, to explain refraction from a rare to a dense medium, he used the mechanical analogy of an iron ball thrown at a thin slate covering a wide hole in a metal sheet. a perpendicular throw breaks the slate and passes through, whereas an oblique one with equal force and from an equal distance does not. he also used this result to explain how intense, direct light hurts the eye, using a mechanical analogy : alhazen associated '