##uncture needles. tin, copper, gold and silver are also possibilities, though they are considered less likely, or to have been used in fewer cases. if acupuncture was practised during the shang dynasty ( 1766 to 1122 bc ), organic materials like thorns, sharpened bones, or bamboo may have been used. once methods for producing steel were discovered, it would replace all other materials, since it could be used to create a very fine, but sturdy needles. lu and needham noted that all the ancient materials that could have been used for acupuncture and which often produce archaeological evidence, such as sharpened bones, bamboo or stones, were also used for other purposes. an article in rheumatology said that the absence of any mention of acupuncture in documents found in the tomb of mawangdui from 198 bc suggest that acupuncture was not practised by that time. belief systems several different and sometimes conflicting belief systems emerged regarding acupuncture. this may have been the result of competing schools of thought. some ancient texts referred to using acupuncture to cause bleeding, while others mixed the ideas of blood - letting and spiritual ch ' i energy. over time, the focus shifted from blood to the concept of puncturing specific points on the body, and eventually to balancing yin and yang energies as well. according to david ramey, no single " method or theory " was ever predominantly adopted as the standard. at the time, scientific knowledge of medicine was not yet developed, especially because in china dissection of the deceased was forbidden, preventing the development of basic anatomical knowledge. it is not certain when specific acupuncture points were introduced, but the autobiography of bian que from around 400 – 500 bc references inserting needles at designated areas. bian que believed there was a single acupuncture point at the top of one ' s skull that he called the point " of the hundred meetings. " texts dated to be from 156 – 186 bc document early beliefs in channels of life force energy called meridians that would later be an element in early acupuncture beliefs. ramey and buell said the " practice and theoretical underpinnings " of modern acupuncture were introduced in the yellow emperor ' s classic ( huangdi neijing ) around 100 bc. it introduced the concept of using acupuncture to manipulate the flow of life energy ( qi ) in a network of meridian ( channels ) in the body. the network concept was made up of