seats in the stadium ; being honoured with a new type of coinage, depicting images of caligula and his sisters on opposite faces ; having their names added to motions, including loyalty oaths ( e. g., " i will not value my life or that of my children less highly than i do the safety of the emperor and his sisters " ) and consular motions ( e. g., " good fortune attend to the emperor and his sisters ) ". around the time that tiberius died, agrippina had become pregnant. domitius had acknowledged the paternity of the child. on december 15, ad 37, in the early morning, in antium, agrippina gave birth to a son. agrippina and domitius named their son lucius domitius ahenobarbus, after domitius ' recently deceased father. this child would grow up to become the emperor nero. nero was agrippina ' s only natural child. suetonius states that domitius was congratulated by friends on the birth of his son, whereupon he replied " i don ' t think anything produced by me and agrippina could possibly be good for the state or the people ". caligula and his sisters were accused of having incestuous relationships. on june 10, ad 38, drusilla died, possibly of a fever, rampant in rome at the time. he was particularly fond of drusilla, claiming to treat her as he would his own wife, even though drusilla had a husband. following her death caligula showed no special love or respect toward the surviving sisters and was said to have gone insane. in 39, agrippina and livilla, with their maternal cousin, drusilla ' s widower marcus aemilius lepidus, were involved in a failed plot to murder caligula, a plot known as the plot of the three daggers, which was to make lepidus the new emperor. lepidus, agrippina and livilla were accused of being lovers. not much is known concerning this plot and the reasons behind it. at the trial of lepidus, caligula felt no compunction about denouncing them as adulteresses, producing handwritten letters discussing how they were going to kill him. the three were found guilty as accessories to the crime. exile lepidus was executed. according to the fragmentary inscriptions of the arval brethren, agrippina was forced to carry the urn of lepid