for him and he was buried beside the grave of muhammad. appearance the historian al - tabari, in regards to abu bakr ' s appearance, records the following interaction between aisha and her paternal nephew, abd allah ibn abd al - rahman ibn abi bakr : when she was in her howdah and saw a man from among the arabs passing by, she said, " i have not seen a man more like abu bakr than this one. " we said to her, " describe abu bakr. " she said, " a slight, white man, thin - bearded and bowed. his waist wrapper would not hold but would fall down around his loins. he had a lean face, sunken eyes, a bulging forehead, and trembling knuckles. " referencing another source, al - tabari further describes him as being " white mixed with yellowness, of good build, slight, bowed, thin, tall like a male palm tree, hook - nosed, lean - faced, sunken - eyed, thin - shanked, and strong - thighed. he used to dye himself with henna and black dye. " legacy though the period of his caliphate covers only two years, two months and fifteen days, it included successful invasions of the two most powerful empires of the time : the sassanid empire and byzantine empire. abu bakr had the distinction of being the first caliph in the history of islam and also the first caliph to nominate a successor. he was the only caliph in the history of islam who refunded to the state treasury at the time of his death the entire amount of the allowance that he had drawn during the period of his caliphate. he has the distinction of purchasing the land for al - masjid al - nabawi. sunni view sunni muslims view abu bakr as one of the best men of all the human beings after the prophets. they also consider abu bakr as one of the ten promised paradise ( al - ‘ ashara al - mubashshara ) whom muhammad had testified were destined for paradise. he is regarded as the " successor of allah ' s messenger " ( khalifa rasulullah ), and first of the rightly guided caliphs — i. e. rashidun — and as the rightful successor to muhammad. abu bakr had always been the closest friend and confidant of muhammad throughout his life, being beside muhammad at every major event. it was abu bakr ' s wisdom that muhammad always honored. abu bakr is regarded among the best of muhammad ' s followers ; as