stw ), and then to british touring car championship ( btcc ) the year after that. the federation internationale de l ' automobile ( fia ), having difficulty regulating the quattro four - wheel drive system, and the impact it had on the competitors, would eventually ban all four - wheel drive cars from competing in the series in 1998, but by then, audi switched all their works efforts to sports car racing. by 2000, audi would still compete in the us with their rs4 for the scca speed world gt challenge, through dealer / team champion racing competing against corvettes, vipers, and smaller bmws ( where it is one of the few series to permit 4wd cars ). in 2003, champion racing entered an rs6. once again, the quattro four - wheel drive was superior, and champion audi won the championship. they returned in 2004 to defend their title, but a newcomer, cadillac with the new omega chassis cts - v, gave them a run for their money. after four victories in a row, the audis were sanctioned with several negative changes that deeply affected the car ' s performance. namely, added ballast weights, and champion audi deciding to go with different tyres, and reducing the boost pressure of the turbocharger. in 2004, after years of competing with the tt - r in the revitalised dtm series, with privateer team abt racing / christian abt taking the 2002 title with laurent aiello, audi returned as a full factory effort to touring car racing by entering two factory - supported joest racing a4 dtm cars. 24 hours of le mans audi began racing prototype sportscars in 1999, debuting at the le mans 24 hour. two car concepts were developed and raced in their first season - the audi r8r ( open - cockpit ' roadster ' prototype ) and the audi r8c ( closed - cockpit ' coupe ' gt - prototype ). the r8r scored a credible podium on its racing debut at le mans and was the concept which audi continued to develop into the 2000 season due to favourable rules for open - cockpit prototypes. however, most of the competitors ( such as bmw, toyota, mercedes and nissan ) retired at the end of 1999. the factory - supported joest racing team won at le mans three times in a row with the audi r8 ( 2000 – 2002 ), as well as winning every race in the american le mans series in its first year. audi also sold the car to customer teams such as champion racing. in 2003