connection with representations of figures with the head of a cock, a lion, or an ass, and the tail of a serpent was formerly taken in the light of what irenaeus says about the followers of basilides : incantations by mystic names were characteristic of the hybrid gnosticism planted in spain and southern gaul at the end of the fourth century and at the beginning of the fifth, which jerome connects with basilides and which ( according to his epist., lxxv. ) used the name abrasax. it is therefore not unlikely that some gnostics used amulets, though the confident assertions of modern writers to this effect rest on no authority. isaac de beausobre properly calls attention to the significant silence of clement in the two passages in which he instructs the christians of alexandria on the right use of rings and gems, and the figures which may legitimately be engraved on them ( paed. 241 ff. ; 287 ff. ). but no attempt to identify the figures on existing gems with the personages of gnostic mythology has had any success, and abrasax is the only gnostic term found in the accompanying legends that is not known to belong to other religions or mythologies. the present state of the evidence therefore suggests that their engravers and the basilidians received the mystic name from a common source now unknown. magical papyri having due regard to the magic papyri, in which many of the unintelligible names of the abrasax - stones reappear, besides directions for making and using gems with similar figures and formulas for magical purposes, it can scarcely be doubted that many of these stones are pagan amulets and instruments of magic. the magic papyri reflect the same ideas as the abrasax - gems and often bear hebraic names of god. the following example is illustrative : " i conjure you by iao sabaoth adonai abrasax, and by the great god, iaeo ". the patriarchs are sometimes addressed as deities ; for which fact many instances may be adduced. in the group " iakoubia, iaosabaoth adonai abrasax ", the first name seems to be composed of jacob and ya. similarly, entities considered angels in judaism are invoked as gods alongside abrasax : thus " i conjure you... by the god michael, by the god souriel, by the god gabriel, by the god raphael, by the god abras