##ly referred to as a therapeutic abortion when it is performed to save the life of the pregnant woman ; to prevent harm to the woman ' s physical or mental health ; to terminate a pregnancy where indications are that the child will have a significantly increased chance of mortality or morbidity ; or to selectively reduce the number of fetuses to lessen health risks associated with multiple pregnancy. an abortion is referred to as an elective or voluntary abortion when it is performed at the request of the woman for non - medical reasons. confusion sometimes arises over the term elective because " elective surgery " generally refers to all scheduled surgery, whether medically necessary or not. spontaneous miscarriage, also known as spontaneous abortion, is the unintentional expulsion of an embryo or fetus before the 24th week of gestation. a pregnancy that ends before 37 weeks of gestation resulting in a live - born infant is a " premature birth " or a " preterm birth ". when a fetus dies in utero after viability, or during delivery, it is usually termed " stillborn ". premature births and stillbirths are generally not considered to be miscarriages, although usage of these terms can sometimes overlap. studies of pregnant women in the us and china have shown that between 40 % and 60 % of embryos do not progress to birth. the vast majority of miscarriages occur before the woman is aware that she is pregnant, and many pregnancies spontaneously abort before medical practitioners can detect an embryo. between 15 % and 30 % of known pregnancies end in clinically apparent miscarriage, depending upon the age and health of the pregnant woman. 80 % of these spontaneous abortions happen in the first trimester. the most common cause of spontaneous abortion during the first trimester is chromosomal abnormalities of the embryo or fetus, accounting for at least 50 % of sampled early pregnancy losses. other causes include vascular disease ( such as lupus ), diabetes, other hormonal problems, infection, and abnormalities of the uterus. advancing maternal age and a woman ' s history of previous spontaneous abortions are the two leading factors associated with a greater risk of spontaneous abortion. a spontaneous abortion can also be caused by accidental trauma ; intentional trauma or stress to cause miscarriage is considered induced abortion or feticide. methods medical medical abortions are those induced by abortifacient pharmaceuticals. medical abortion became an alternative method of abortion with the availability of prostaglandin analogs in the 1970s and the