it on her 1970 album whales & nightingales. collins, who had a history of alcohol abuse, claimed that the song was able to " pull her through " to recovery. it was recorded in st. paul ' s, the chapel at columbia university, chosen for the acoustics. she chose an a cappella arrangement that was close to edwin othello excell ' s, accompanied by a chorus of amateur singers who were friends of hers. collins connected it to the vietnam war, to which she objected : " i didn ' t know what else to do about the war in vietnam. i had marched, i had voted, i had gone to jail on political actions and worked for the candidates i believed in. the war was still raging. there was nothing left to do, i thought... but sing ' amazing grace '. " gradually and unexpectedly, the song began to be played on the radio, and then be requested. it rose to number 15 on the billboard hot 100, remaining on the charts for 15 weeks, as if, she wrote, her fans had been " waiting to embrace it ". in the uk, it charted 8 times between 1970 and 1972, peaking at number 5 and spending a total of 75 weeks on popular music charts. her rendition also reached number 5 in new zealand and number 12 in ireland in 1971. in 1972, the royal scots dragoon guards, the senior scottish regiment of the british army, recorded an instrumental version featuring a bagpipe soloist accompanied by a pipe band. the tempo of their arrangement was slowed to allow for the bagpipes, but it was based on collins ' s : it began with a bagpipe solo introduction similar to her lone voice, then it was accompanied by the band of bagpipes and horns, whereas in her version she is backed up by a chorus. it became an international hit, spending five weeks at number - one in the uk singles chart, topping the rpm national singles chart in canada for three weeks, and also peaking at number 11 on the billboard hot 100 in the us. it is also a controversial instrumental, as it combined pipes with a military band. the pipe major of the royal scots dragoon guards was summoned to edinburgh castle and chastised for demeaning the bagpipes. aretha franklin and rod stewart also recorded " amazing grace " around the same time, and both of their renditions were popular. all four versions were marketed to distinct types of audiences, thereby assuring its place as a pop song. johnny cash recorded it on his 1975