to the complexion is very decided. blondes prefer dark persons, or brunettes ; but the latter seldom prefer the former. the reason is, that fair hair and blue eyes are in themselves a variation from the type, almost an abnormity, analogous to white mice, or at least to grey horses. in no part of the world, not even in the vicinity of the pole, are they indigenous, except in europe, and are clearly of scandinavian origin. i may here express my opinion in passing that the white colour of the skin is not natural to man, but that by nature he has a black or brown skin, like our forefathers the hindus ; that consequently a white man has never originally sprung from the womb of nature, and that thus there is no such thing as a white race, much as this is talked of, but every white man is a faded or bleached one. forced into the strange world, where he only exists like an exotic plant, and like this requires in winter the hothouse, in the course of thousands of years man became white. the gipsies, an indian race which immigrated only about four centuries ago, show the transition from the complexion of the hindu to our own. therefore in sexual love nature strives to return to dark hair and brown eyes as the primitive type ; but the white colour of the skin has become a second nature, though not so that the brown of the hindu repels us. finally, each one also seeks in the particular parts of the body the corrective of his own defects and aberrations, and does so the more decidedly the more important the part is. schopenhauer also maintained a marked metaphysical and political anti - judaism. he argued that christianity constituted a revolt against what he styled the materialistic basis of judaism, exhibiting an indian - influenced ethics reflecting the aryan - vedic theme of spiritual self - conquest. he saw this as opposed to the ignorant drive toward earthly utopianism and superficiality of a worldly " jewish " spirit : [ judaism ] is, therefore, the crudest and poorest of all religions and consists merely in an absurd and revolting theism. it amounts to this that the κυριος [ ' lord ' ], who has created the world, desires to be worshipped and adored ; and so above all he is jealous, is envious of his colleagues, of all the other gods ; if sacrifices are made to them he is furious and his jews have a bad time... it is most deplorable