- law nikephoros melissenos in asia minor but refused to fight his kinsman. this did not, however, lead to a demotion, as alexios was needed to counter the expected invasion of the normans of southern italy, led by robert guiscard. conspiracy and revolt of the komnenoi against botaneiates while byzantine troops were assembling for the expedition, the doukas faction at court approached alexios and convinced him to join a conspiracy against nikephoros iii. the mother of alexios, anna dalassene, was to play a prominent role in this coup d ' etat of 1081, along with the current empress, maria of alania. first married to michael vii doukas and secondly to nikephoros iii botaneiates, she was preoccupied with the future of her son by michael vii, constantine doukas. nikephoros iii intended to leave the throne to one of his close relatives, and this resulted in maria ' s ambivalence and alliance with the komnenoi, though the real driving force behind this political alliance was anna dalassene. the empress was already closely connected to the komnenoi through maria ' s cousin irene ' s marriage to isaac komnenos, so the komnenoi brothers were able to see her under the pretense of a friendly family visit. furthermore, to aid the conspiracy maria had adopted alexios as her son, though she was only five years older than he. maria was persuaded to do so on the advice of her own " alans " and her eunuchs, who had been instigated by isaac komnenos. given anna ' s tight hold on her family, alexios must have been adopted with her implicit approval. as a result, alexios and constantine, maria ' s son, were now adoptive brothers, and both isaac and alexios took an oath that they would safeguard his rights as emperor. by secretly giving inside information to the komnenoi, maria was an invaluable ally. as stated in the alexiad, isaac and alexios left constantinople in mid - february 1081 to raise an army against botaneiates. however, when the time came, anna quickly and surreptitiously mobilized the remainder of the family and took refuge in the hagia sophia. from there she negotiated with the emperor for the safety of family members left in the capital, while protesting her sons ' innocence of hostile actions.