been philosophers and they have thought, most of them have tried to mask it... and the ethics which they have proposed to their disciples has always pursued the same goal. it has been a matter of eliminating the ambiguity by making oneself pure inwardness or pure externality, by escaping from the sensible world or being engulfed by it, by yielding to eternity or enclosing oneself in the pure moment. " ethics cannot be based on the authoritative certainty given by mathematics and logic, or prescribed directly from the empirical findings of science. she states : " since we do not succeed in fleeing it, let us, therefore, try to look the truth in the face. let us try to assume our fundamental ambiguity. it is in the knowledge of the genuine conditions of our life that we must draw our strength to live and our reason for acting ". other continental philosophers suggest that concepts such as life, nature, and sex are ambiguous. corey anton has argued that we cannot be certain what is separate from or unified with something else : language, he asserts, divides what is not, in fact, separate. following ernest becker, he argues that the desire to ' authoritatively disambiguate ' the world and existence has led to numerous ideologies and historical events such as genocide. on this basis, he argues that ethics must focus on ' dialectically integrating opposites ' and balancing tension, rather than seeking a priori validation or certainty. like the existentialists and phenomenologists, he sees the ambiguity of life as the basis of creativity. literature and rhetoric in literature and rhetoric, ambiguity can be a useful tool. groucho marx ' s classic joke depends on a grammatical ambiguity for its humor, for example : " last night i shot an elephant in my pajamas. how he got in my pajamas, i ' ll never know ". songs and poetry often rely on ambiguous words for artistic effect, as in the song title " don ' t it make my brown eyes blue " ( where " blue " can refer to the color, or to sadness ). in the narrative, ambiguity can be introduced in several ways : motive, plot, character. f. scott fitzgerald uses the latter type of ambiguity with notable effect in his novel the great gatsby. mathematical notation mathematical notation is a helpful tool that eliminates a lot of misunderstandings associated with natural language in physics and other sciences. nonetheless, there are still some inherent ambiguities due to lexical, syntactic, and semantic reasons that persist in mathematical notation. names