19 – 30, for a total of 12 months. the military expenditure was 4. 3 % of the gross domestic product ( gdp ) in 2012. algeria has the second largest military in north africa with the largest defence budget in africa ( $ 10 billion ). most of algeria ' s weapons are imported from russia, with whom they are a close ally. in 2007, the algerian air force signed a deal with russia to purchase 49 mig - 29smt and 6 mig - 29ubt at an estimated cost of $ 1. 9 billion. russia is also building two 636 - type diesel submarines for algeria. human rights algeria has been categorised by the us government funded freedom house as " not free " since it began publishing such ratings in 1972, with the exception of 1989, 1990, and 1991, when the country was labelled " partly free. " in december 2016, the euro - mediterranean human rights monitor issued a report regarding violation of media freedom in algeria. it clarified that the algerian government imposed restrictions on freedom of the press ; expression ; and right to peaceful demonstration, protest and assembly as well as intensified censorship of the media and websites. due to the fact that the journalists and activists criticise the ruling government, some media organisations ' licenses are cancelled. independent and autonomous trade unions face routine harassment from the government, with many leaders imprisoned and protests suppressed. in 2016, a number of unions, many of which were involved in the 2010 – 2012 algerian protests, have been deregistered by the government. homosexuality is illegal in algeria. public homosexual behavior is punishable by up to two years in prison. despite this, about 26 % of algerians think that homosexuality should be accepted, according to the survey conducted by the bbc news arabic - arab barometer in 2019. algeria showed largest lgbt acceptance compared to other arab countries where the survey was conducted. human rights watch has accused the algerian authorities of using the covid - 19 pandemic as an excuse to prevent pro - democracy movements and protests in the country, leading to the arrest of youths as part of social distancing. administrative divisions algeria is divided into 58 provinces ( wilayas ), 553 districts ( dairas ) and 1, 541 municipalities ( baladiyahs ). each province, district, and municipality is named after its seat, which is usually the largest city. the administrative divisions have changed several times since independence. when introducing new provinces, the numbers of old provinces are kept, hence the non - alphabetical order. with their official numbers,