predicted. ‡ for the elements whose highest occupied orbital is a 6d orbital, only some electronic configurations have been confirmed. ( ds, rg and cn are still missing ). these are the real - valued orbitals commonly used in chemistry. only the orbitals where are eigenstates of the orbital angular momentum operator,. the columns with are combinations of two eigenstates. see comparison in the following picture : qualitative understanding of shapes the shapes of atomic orbitals can be qualitatively understood by considering the analogous case of standing waves on a circular drum. to see the analogy, the mean vibrational displacement of each bit of drum membrane from the equilibrium point over many cycles ( a measure of average drum membrane velocity and momentum at that point ) must be considered relative to that point ' s distance from the center of the drum head. if this displacement is taken as being analogous to the probability of finding an electron at a given distance from the nucleus, then it will be seen that the many modes of the vibrating disk form patterns that trace the various shapes of atomic orbitals. the basic reason for this correspondence lies in the fact that the distribution of kinetic energy and momentum in a matter - wave is predictive of where the particle associated with the wave will be. that is, the probability of finding an electron at a given place is also a function of the electron ' s average momentum at that point, since high electron momentum at a given position tends to " localize " the electron in that position, via the properties of electron wave - packets ( see the heisenberg uncertainty principle for details of the mechanism ). this relationship means that certain key features can be observed in both drum membrane modes and atomic orbitals. for example, in all of the modes analogous to s orbitals ( the top row in the animated illustration below ), it can be seen that the very center of the drum membrane vibrates most strongly, corresponding to the antinode in all s orbitals in an atom. this antinode means the electron is most likely to be at the physical position of the nucleus ( which it passes straight through without scattering or striking it ), since it is moving ( on average ) most rapidly at that point, giving it maximal momentum. a mental " planetary orbit " picture closest to the behavior of electrons in s orbitals, all of which have no angular momentum, might perhaps be that of a keplerian orbit with the orbital eccentricity of 1 but a finite major axis, not physically possible ( because particles were to