, which became a critical and commercial success. it was followed by cristiani ' s sin dejar rastros in 1918, but one day after its premiere, the film was confiscated by the government. after working on it for three years, lotte reiniger released the german feature - length silhouette animation die abenteuer des prinzen achmed in 1926, the oldest extant animated feature. in 1937, walt disney studios premiered their first animated feature, snow white and the seven dwarfs, still one of the highest - grossing traditional animation features. the fleischer studios followed this example in 1939 with gulliver ' s travels with some success. partly due to foreign markets being cut off by the second world war, disney ' s next features pinocchio, fantasia ( both 1940 ), fleischer studios ' second animated feature mr. bug goes to town ( 1941 – 1942 ) and disney ' s feature films cinderella ( 1950 ), alice in wonderland ( 1951 ) and lady and the tramp ( 1955 ) failed at the box office. for decades afterward, disney would be the only american studio to regularly produce animated features, until ralph bakshi became the first to also release more than a handful features. sullivan - bluth studios began to regularly produce animated features starting with an american tail in 1986. although relatively few titles became as successful as disney ' s features, other countries developed their own animation industries that produced both short and feature theatrical animations in a wide variety of styles, relatively often including stop motion and cutout animation techniques. russia ' s soyuzmultfilm animation studio, founded in 1936, produced 20 films ( including shorts ) per year on average and reached 1, 582 titles in 2018. china, czechoslovakia / czech republic, italy, france, and belgium were other countries that more than occasionally released feature films, while japan became a true powerhouse of animation production, with its own recognizable and influential anime style of effective limited animation. television animation became very popular on television since the 1950s, when television sets started to become common in most developed countries. cartoons were mainly programmed for children, on convenient time slots, and especially us youth spent many hours watching saturday - morning cartoons. many classic cartoons found a new life on the small screen and by the end of the 1950s, the production of new animated cartoons started to shift from theatrical releases to tv series. hanna - barbera productions was especially prolific and had huge hit series, such as the flintstones ( 1960 – 1966 ) ( the first prime time animated series ), scoo