and culture ". eventually, other tribes began to perceive the trojans and their leader tror ( thor in old norse ) as gods. gylfaginning in gylfaginning, snorri sturluson describes how during the creation of the world, the gods made the earth and surrounded it with the sea. they made the sky from the skull of ymir and settled the on the shores of the earth. they set down the brows of ymir, forming midgard, and in the centre of the world they built asgard, which he identifies as troy : after asgard is made, the gods then built a hof named glaðsheimr at iðavollr, in the centre of the burg, with a high seat for odin and twelve seats for other gods. it is described as like gold both on the inside and the outside, and as the best of all buildings in the world. they also built vingolf for the female gods, which is described as both a hall and a horgr, and a forge with which they crafted objects from gold. after ragnarok, some gods such as vali and baldr will meet at iðavollr where asgard once stood and discuss matters together. there they will also find in the grass the golden chess pieces that the æsir had once owned. later, the section describes how an unnamed jotunn came to the gods with his stallion, svaðilfari and offered help in building a burg for the gods in three winters, asking in return for the sun, moon, and marriage with freyja. despite freyja ' s opposition, together the gods agree to fulfill his request if he completes his work in just one winter. as time goes on, the gods grow desperate as it becomes apparent that the jotunn will construct the burg on time. to their surprise, his stallion contributes much of the progress, swiftly moving boulders and rocks. to deal with the problem, loki comes up with a plan whereupon he changes his appearance to that of a mare, and distracts svaðilfari to slow down construction. without the help of his stallion, the builder realises he cannot complete his task in time and goes into a rage, revealing his identity as a jotunn. thor then kills the builder with mjollnir, before any harm to the gods is done. the chapter does not explicitly name asgard as the fortress but they are commonly identified by scholars. in gyl