page bought boleskine in 1971, and part of the band ' s film the song remains the same was filmed in the grounds. he sold it in 1992. though david bowie makes but a fleeting reference to crowley in the lyrics of his song " quicksand " ( 1971 ), it has been suggested that the lyrics of bowie ' s no. 1 hit single " let ' s dance " ( 1983 ) may substantially paraphrase crowley ' s 1923 poem " lyric of love to leah ". ozzy osbourne and his lyricist bob daisley wrote a song titled " mr. crowley " ( 1980 ). a prophetic quote about the coming of the new aeon borrowed from crowley ' s work magick in theory and practice ( 1911 ) has been featured as the opening introduction to the video game blood omen : legacy of kain ( 1996 ). crowley began to receive scholarly attention from academics in the late 1990s. bibliography references footnotes sources further reading crowley, aleister., john. symonds, and kenneth. grant. the confessions of aleister crowley : an autohagiography. 1989. london : arkana. external links aleister crowley collection at the harry ransom center, university of texas " aleister crowley and the abbey of thelema in cefalu " at wondersofsicily. com, with photos perdurabo ( where is aleister crowley? ) – film on the abbey of thelema by carlos atanes 1875 births 1947 deaths 19th - century english poets 20th - century english novelists alumni of trinity college, cambridge atlantis proponents english bisexual writers bisexual sportsmen bisexual poets bisexual novelists bisexual dramatists and playwrights british psychedelic drug advocates burials in new jersey ceremonial magicians channellers british critics of christianity deaths from bronchitis english astrologers english astrological writers english autobiographers english dramatists and playwrights english expatriates in india english expatriates in switzerland english freemasons english male dramatists and playwrights english male novelists english mountain climbers english occultists english occult writers english spiritual writers english thelemites founders of new religious movements free love advocates goetia hermetic order of the golden dawn hermetic qabalists lgbt climbers english lgbt poets english lgbt novelists english lgbt dramatists and playwrights english lgbt sportspeople members of ordo templi orientis 20th - century mystics obscenity controversies in literature people educated at eastbourne college people educated at malvern college people educated at tonbridge