areas in and around the red light district. de wallen ( red - light district ) de wallen, also known as walletjes or rosse buurt, is a designated area for legalised prostitution and is amsterdam ' s largest and best - known red - light district. this neighbourhood has become a famous attraction for tourists. it consists of a network of canals, streets, and alleys containing several hundred small, one - room apartments rented by sex workers who offer their services from behind a window or glass door, typically illuminated with red lights. in recent years, the city government has been closing and repurposing the famous red - light district windows in an effort to clean up the area and reduce the amount of party and sex tourism. retail shops in amsterdam range from large high - end department stores such as founded in 1870 to small speciality shops. amsterdam ' s high - end shops are found in the streets p. c. hooftstraat and cornelis schuytstraat, which are located in the vicinity of the vondelpark. one of amsterdam ' s busiest high streets is the narrow, medieval kalverstraat in the heart of the city. other shopping areas include the negen straatjes and haarlemmerdijk and haarlemmerstraat. negen straatjes are nine narrow streets within the grachtengordel, the concentric canal system of amsterdam. the negen straatjes differ from other shopping districts with the presence of a large diversity of privately owned shops. the haarlemmerstraat and haarlemmerdijk were voted best shopping street in the netherlands in 2011. these streets have as the negen straatjes a large diversity of privately owned shops. however, as the negen straatjes are dominated by fashion stores, the haarlemmerstraat and haarlemmerdijk offer a wide variety of stores, just to name some specialities : candy and other food - related stores, lingerie, sneakers, wedding clothing, interior shops, books, italian deli ' s, racing and mountain bikes, skatewear, etc. the city also features a large number of open - air markets such as the albert cuyp market, westerstraat - markt, ten katemarkt, and dappermarkt. some of these markets are held daily, like the albert cuypmarkt and the dappermarkt. others, like the westers