of the waning moon and contrasts and complements, at the same time, apollo ' s solar nature. athena as a deity of knowledge and great power, apollo was seen being the male counterpart of athena. being zeus ' favorite children, they were given more powers and duties. apollo and athena often took up the role of protectors of cities, and were patrons of some of the important cities. athena was the principal goddess of athens, apollo was the principal god of sparta. as patrons of arts, apollo and athena were companions of the muses, the former a much more frequent companion than the latter. apollo was sometimes called the son of athena and hephaestus. in the trojan war, as zeus ' executive, apollo is seen holding the aegis like athena usually does. apollo ' s decisions were usually approved by his sister athena, and they both worked to establish the law and order set forth by zeus. apollo in the oresteia in aeschylus ' oresteia trilogy, clytemnestra kills her husband, king agamemnon because he had sacrificed their daughter iphigenia to proceed forward with the trojan war. apollo gives an order through the oracle at delphi that agamemnon ' s son, orestes, is to kill clytemnestra and aegisthus, her lover. orestes and pylades carry out the revenge, and consequently orestes is pursued by the erinyes or furies ( female personifications of vengeance ). apollo and the furies argue about whether the matricide was justified ; apollo holds that the bond of marriage is sacred and orestes was avenging his father, whereas the erinyes say that the bond of blood between mother and son is more meaningful than the bond of marriage. they invade his temple, and he drives them away. he says that the matter should be brought before athena. apollo promises to protect orestes, as orestes has become apollo ' s supplicant. apollo advocates orestes at the trial, and ultimately athena rules in favor of apollo. roman apollo the roman worship of apollo was adopted from the greeks. as a quintessentially greek god, apollo had no direct roman equivalent, although later roman poets often referred to him as phoebus. there was a tradition that the delphic oracle was consulted as early as the period of the kings of rome during the reign of tarquinius superbus. on the occasion of a pestilence in the 430s