he was commanded to eat with the other monks. in the west the rule of st benedict appointed him a separate table, at which he might entertain guests and strangers. because this permission opened the door to luxurious living, synods of aachen ( 816 – 819 ), decreed that the abbot should dine in the refectory, and be content with the ordinary fare of the monks, unless he had to entertain a guest. these ordinances proved, however, generally ineffectual to secure strictness of diet, and contemporaneous literature abounds with satirical remarks and complaints concerning the inordinate extravagance of the tables of the abbots. when the abbot condescended to dine in the refectory, his chaplains waited upon him with the dishes, a servant, if necessary, assisting them. when abbots dined in their own private hall, the rule of st benedict charged them to invite their monks to their table, provided there was room, on which occasions the guests were to abstain from quarrels, slanderous talk and idle gossiping. the ordinary attire of the abbot was according to rule to be the same as that of the monks. but by the 10th century the rule was commonly set aside, and we find frequent complaints of abbots dressing in silk, and adopting sumptuous attire. some even laid aside the monastic habit altogether, and assumed a secular dress. with the increase of wealth and power, abbots had lost much of their special religious character, and become great lords, chiefly distinguished from lay lords by celibacy. thus we hear of abbots going out to hunt, with their men carrying bows and arrows ; keeping horses, dogs and huntsmen ; and special mention is made of an abbot of leicester, c. 1360, who was the most skilled of all the nobility in hare hunting. in magnificence of equipage and retinue the abbots vied with the first nobles of the realm. they rode on mules with gilded bridles, rich saddles and housings, carrying hawks on their wrist, followed by an immense train of attendants. the bells of the churches were rung as they passed. they associated on equal terms with laymen of the highest distinction, and shared all their pleasures and pursuits. this rank and power was, however, often used most beneficially. for instance, we read of richard whiting, the last abbot of glastonbury, judicially murdered by henry viii,