##duc. geoffrey identifies this otherwise unknown location with caer - caradog ( salisbury ). ambrosius wants a permanent memorial for the slain and assigns the task to merlin. the result is the so - called giants ' ring. its location in the vicinity of salisbury has led to its identification with stonehenge, though geoffrey never uses that term. stonehenge is closer to amesbury than salisbury. the ring formation of the monument could equally apply to avebury, the largest stone circle in europe. in other texts in welsh legend and texts, ambrosius appears as emrys wledig ( emperor ambrose ). the term " wledig " is a title used by senior royal and military commanders who have achieved notable success. the term is mostly used for famous figures such as cunedda, though a few obscure figures have been given the title. for example, the roman emperor magnus maximus is known as " macsen wledig " when he appears in welsh folklore. in robert de boron ' s merlin he is called simply pendragon and his younger brother is named uter, which he changes to uterpendragon after the death of the elder sibling. this is probably a confusion that entered oral tradition from wace ' s roman de brut. wace usually only refers to li roi ( " the king " ) without naming him, and someone has taken an early mention of uther ' s epithet pendragon as the name of his brother. richard carew ' s survey of cornwall ( 1602 ) drew on an earlier french writer, nicholas gille, who mentions moigne, brother of aurelius and uther, who was duke of cornwall, and " gouerner of the realme " under emperor honorius. possible identification with other figures riothamus leon fleuriot has suggested ambrosius is identical to riothamus, a brythonic leader who fought a major battle against the goths in france around the year 470. fleuriot argues that ambrosius led the britons in the battle, in which he was defeated and forced to retreat to burgundy. fleuriot proposed that he then returned to britain to continue the war against the saxons. place - name evidence it has been suggested that the place - name amesbury in wiltshire might preserve the name of ambrosius, and that perhaps amesbury was the seat of his power base in the later fifth century. scholars such as shimon applebaum have found a number of place names through the midland dialect