their place in the world ; " it is inscribed in the lincoln memorial. lincoln said : reconstruction reconstruction preceded the war ' s end, as lincoln and his associates considered the reintegration of the nation, and the fates of confederate leaders and freed slaves. when a general asked lincoln how the defeated confederates were to be treated, lincoln replied, " let ' em up easy. " lincoln was determined to find meaning in the war in its aftermath, and did not want to continue to outcast the southern states. his main goal was to keep the union together, so he proceeded by focusing not on whom to blame, but on how to rebuild the nation as one. lincoln led the moderates in reconstruction policy and was opposed by the radicals, under rep. thaddeus stevens, sen. charles sumner and sen. benjamin wade, who otherwise remained lincoln ' s allies. determined to reunite the nation and not alienate the south, lincoln urged that speedy elections under generous terms be held. his amnesty proclamation of december 8, 1863, offered pardons to those who had not held a confederate civil office and had not mistreated union prisoners, if they were willing to sign an oath of allegiance. as southern states fell, they needed leaders while their administrations were restored. in tennessee and arkansas, lincoln respectively appointed johnson and frederick steele as military governors. in louisiana, lincoln ordered general nathaniel p. banks to promote a plan that would reestablish statehood when 10 percent of the voters agreed, and only if the reconstructed states abolished slavery. democratic opponents accused lincoln of using the military to ensure his and the republicans ' political aspirations. the radicals denounced his policy as too lenient, and passed their own plan, the 1864 wade – davis bill, which lincoln vetoed. the radicals retaliated by refusing to seat elected representatives from louisiana, arkansas, and tennessee. lincoln ' s appointments were designed to harness both moderates and radicals. to fill chief justice taney ' s seat on the supreme court, he named the radicals ' choice, salmon p. chase, who lincoln believed would uphold his emancipation and paper money policies. after implementing the emancipation proclamation, lincoln increased pressure on congress to outlaw slavery throughout the nation with a constitutional amendment. he declared that such an amendment would " clinch the whole matter " and by december 1863 an amendment was brought to congress. the senate passed it on april 8, 1864, but the first vote in the house of representatives fell short of the required two - thirds majority. passage became part of lincoln ' s reelection platform, and after his