by allowing them to hear more clearly. they amplify any and all sound waves through use of a microphone, amplifier, and speaker. there is a wide variety of hearing aids available, including digital, in - the - ear, in - the - canal, behind - the - ear, and on - the - body aids. assistive listening devices assistive listening devices include fm, infrared, and loop assistive listening devices. this type of technology allows people with hearing difficulties to focus on a speaker or subject by getting rid of extra background noises and distractions, making places like auditoriums, classrooms, and meetings much easier to participate in. the assistive listening device usually uses a microphone to capture an audio source near to its origin and broadcast it wirelessly over an fm ( frequency modulation ) transmission, ir ( infra red ) transmission, il ( induction loop ) transmission, or other transmission methods. the person who is listening may use an fm / ir / il receiver to tune into the signal and listen at his / her preferred volume. amplified telephone equipment this type of assistive technology allows users to amplify the volume and clarity of their phone calls so that they can easily partake in this medium of communication. there are also options to adjust the frequency and tone of a call to suit their individual hearing needs. additionally, there is a wide variety of amplified telephones to choose from, with different degrees of amplification. for example, a phone with 26 to 40 decibel is generally sufficient for mild hearing loss, while a phone with 71 to 90 decibel is better for more severe hearing loss. augmentative and alternative communication augmentative and alternative communication ( aac ) is an umbrella term that encompasses methods of communication for those with impairments or restrictions on the production or comprehension of spoken or written language. aac systems are extremely diverse and depend on the capabilities of the user. they may be as basic as pictures on a board that are used to request food, drink, or other care ; or they can be advanced speech generating devices, based on speech synthesis, that are capable of storing hundreds of phrases and words. cognitive impairments assistive technology for cognition ( atc ) is the use of technology ( usually high tech ) to augment and assist cognitive processes such as attention, memory, self - regulation, navigation, emotion recognition and management, planning, and sequencing activity. systematic reviews of the field have found that the number of atc are growing rapidly, but have focused on memory and planning, that there