have a reserved meaning. over time this interpretation has been co - opted and has eventually been changed. in modern usage, an esc sent to the terminal usually indicates the start of a command sequence usually in the form of a so - called " ansi escape code " ( or, more properly, a " control sequence introducer " ) from ecma - 48 ( 1972 ) and its successors, beginning with esc followed by a " [ " ( left - bracket ) character. in contrast, an esc sent from the terminal is most often used as an out - of - band character used to terminate an operation or special mode, as in the teco and vi text editors. in graphical user interface ( gui ) and windowing systems, esc generally causes an application to abort its current operation or to exit ( terminate ) altogether. end of line the inherent ambiguity of many control characters, combined with their historical usage, created problems when transferring " plain text " files between systems. the best example of this is the newline problem on various operating systems. teletype machines required that a line of text be terminated with both " carriage return " ( which moves the printhead to the beginning of the line ) and " line feed " ( which advances the paper one line without moving the printhead ). the name " carriage return " comes from the fact that on a manual typewriter the carriage holding the paper moves while the typebars that strike the ribbon remain stationary. the entire carriage had to be pushed ( returned ) to the right in order to position the paper for the next line. dec operating systems ( os / 8, rt - 11, rsx - 11, rsts, tops - 10, etc. ) used both characters to mark the end of a line so that the console device ( originally teletype machines ) would work. by the time so - called " glass ttys " ( later called crts or " dumb terminals " ) came along, the convention was so well established that backward compatibility necessitated continuing to follow it. when gary kildall created cp / m, he was inspired by some of the command line interface conventions used in dec ' s rt - 11 operating system. until the introduction of pc dos in 1981, ibm had no influence in this because their 1970s operating systems used ebcdic encoding instead of ascii, and they were oriented toward punch - card input and line printer output on which the concept of " carriage return " was meaningless. ibm ' s pc dos ( also marketed as ms -