use of torture in examining slaves by certain limitations. thus he prohibited the application of torture to children under fourteen years, though this rule had exceptions. however, it must be stressed that antoninus extended, by means of a rescript, the use of torture as a means of obtaining evidence to pecuniary cases, when it had been applied up until then only in criminal cases. also, already at the time torture of free men of low status ( humiliores ) had become legal, as proved by the fact that antoninus exempted town councillors expressly from it, and also free men of high rank ( honestiores ) in general. one highlight during his reign occurred in 148, with the nine - hundredth anniversary of the foundation of rome being celebrated by the hosting of magnificent games in rome. it lasted a number of days, and a host of exotic animals were killed, including elephants, giraffes, tigers, rhinoceroses, crocodiles and hippopotamuses. while this increased antoninus ' s popularity, the frugal emperor had to debase the roman currency. he decreased the silver purity of the denarius from 89 % to 83. 5, the actual silver weight dropping from 2. 88 grams to 2. 68 grams. diplomatic mission to china the first group of people claiming to be an ambassadorial mission of romans to china was recorded in 166 ad by the hou hanshu. harper ( 2017 ) states that the embassy was likely to be a group of merchants, as many roman merchants traveled to india and some might have gone beyond, while there are no records of official ambassadors of rome travelling as far east. the group came to emperor huan of han china and claimed to be an embassy from " andun " ( ; for anton - inus ), " king of daqin " ( rome ). as antoninus pius died in 161, leaving the empire to his adoptive son marcus aurelius ( antoninus ), and the envoy arrived in 166, confusion remains about who sent the mission, given that both emperors were named " antoninus ". the roman mission came from the south ( therefore probably by sea ), entering china by the frontier province of jiaozhi at rinan or tonkin ( present - day northern vietnam ). it brought presents of rhinoceros horns, ivory, and tortoise shell, probably acquired in south asia. the text specifically states that it was the first time there had been direct contact between the two countries. furthermore, a piece