shape that combine into one as the main stream, the gran valira river, leaves the country for spain ( at andorra ' s lowest point of ). andorra ' s land area is. environment phytogeographically, andorra belongs to the atlantic european province of the circumboreal region within the boreal kingdom. according to the wwf, the territory of andorra belongs to the ecoregion of pyrenees conifer and mixed forests. andorra had a 2018 forest landscape integrity index mean score of 4. 45 / 10, ranking it 127th globally out of 172 countries. important bird area the whole country has been recognised as a single important bird area ( iba ) by birdlife international, because it is important for forest and mountain birds and supports populations of red - billed choughs, citril finches and rock buntings. climate andorra has alpine, continental and oceanic climates, depending on altitude. its higher elevation means there is, on average, more snow in winter and it is slightly cooler in summer. the diversity of landmarks, the different orientation of the valleys and the irregularity relief typical of the mediterranean climates make the country have a great diversity of microclimates that hinder the general dominance of the high mountain climate. the great differences of altitude in the minimum and maximum points, together with the influence of a mediterranean climate, develop the climate of the andorran pyrenees. when in precipitation, a global model characterized by convective and abundant rains can be defined during spring and summer, which can last until autumn ( may, june and august are usually the rainiest months ). in winter, however, it is less rainy, except in the highlands, subject to the influence of fronts from the atlantic, which explains the great amount of snowfall in the andorran mountains. the temperature regime is characterized, broadly, by a temperate summer and a long and cold winter, in accordance with the mountainous condition of the principality. economy tourism, the mainstay of andorra ' s economy, accounts for roughly 80 % of gdp. an estimated 10. 2 million tourists visit annually, attracted by andorra ' s duty - free status and by its summer and winter resorts. one of the main sources of income in andorra is tourism from ski resorts which total over of ski ground. the sport brings in over 7 million visitors annually and an estimated 340 million euros per year, sustaining 2, 000 direct and 10, 000 indirect jobs at present since 2007. the banking sector, with its tax haven