the remaining 5 % is distributed to all qualifying alaskans. to qualify for the permanent fund dividend, one must have lived in the state for a minimum of 12 months, maintain constant residency subject to allowable absences, and not be subject to court judgments or criminal convictions which fall under various disqualifying classifications or may subject the payment amount to civil garnishment. the permanent fund is often considered to be one of the leading examples of a basic income policy in the world. cost of living the cost of goods in alaska has long been higher than in the contiguous 48 states. federal government employees, particularly united states postal service ( usps ) workers and active - duty military members, receive a cost of living allowance usually set at 25 % of base pay because, while the cost of living has gone down, it is still one of the highest in the country. rural alaska suffers from extremely high prices for food and consumer goods compared to the rest of the country, due to the relatively limited transportation infrastructure. agriculture and fishing due to the northern climate and short growing season, relatively little farming occurs in alaska. most farms are in either the matanuska valley, about northeast of anchorage, or on the kenai peninsula, about southwest of anchorage. the short 100 - day growing season limits the crops that can be grown, but the long sunny summer days make for productive growing seasons. the primary crops are potatoes, carrots, lettuce, and cabbage. the tanana valley is another notable agricultural locus, especially the delta junction area, about southeast of fairbanks, with a sizable concentration of farms growing agronomic crops ; these farms mostly lie north and east of fort greely. this area was largely set aside and developed under a state program spearheaded by hammond during his second term as governor. delta - area crops consist predominantly of barley and hay. west of fairbanks lies another concentration of small farms catering to restaurants, the hotel and tourist industry, and community - supported agriculture. alaskan agriculture has experienced a surge in growth of market gardeners, small farms and farmers ' markets in recent years, with the highest percentage increase ( 46 % ) in the nation in growth in farmers ' markets in 2011, compared to 17 % nationwide. the peony industry has also taken off, as the growing season allows farmers to harvest during a gap in supply elsewhere in the world, thereby filling a niche in the flower market. alaska, with no counties, lacks county fairs. however, a small assortment of state and local fairs ( with the alaska state fair in