##s. as with the preceding example of snowmelt, the process of melting of sea ice is thus another example of a positive feedback. both positive feedback loops have long been recognized as important for global warming. cryoconite, powdery windblown dust containing soot, sometimes reduces albedo on glaciers and ice sheets. the dynamical nature of albedo in response to positive feedback, together with the effects of small errors in the measurement of albedo, can lead to large errors in energy estimates. because of this, in order to reduce the error of energy estimates, it is important to measure the albedo of snow - covered areas through remote sensing techniques rather than applying a single value for albedo over broad regions. small - scale effects albedo works on a smaller scale, too. in sunlight, dark clothes absorb more heat and light - coloured clothes reflect it better, thus allowing some control over body temperature by exploiting the albedo effect of the colour of external clothing. solar photovoltaic effects albedo can affect the electrical energy output of solar photovoltaic devices. for example, the effects of a spectrally responsive albedo are illustrated by the differences between the spectrally weighted albedo of solar photovoltaic technology based on hydrogenated amorphous silicon ( a - si : h ) and crystalline silicon ( c - si ) - based compared to traditional spectral - integrated albedo predictions. research showed impacts of over 10 % for vertically ( 90° ) mounted systems, but such effects were substantially lower for systems with lower surface tilts. spectral albedo strongly affects the performance of bifacial solar cells where rear surface performance gains of over 20 % have been observed for c - si cells installed above healthy vegetation. an analysis on the bias due to the specular reflectivity of 22 commonly occurring surface materials ( both human - made and natural ) provided effective albedo values for simulating the performance of seven photovoltaic materials mounted on three common photovoltaic system topologies : industrial ( solar farms ), commercial flat rooftops and residential pitched - roof applications. trees forests generally have a low albedo because the majority of the ultraviolet and visible spectrum is absorbed through photosynthesis. for this reason, the greater heat absorption by trees could offset some of the carbon benefits of afforestation ( or offset the negative climate impacts of deforestation ). in other words : the climate change mitigation effect of carbon sequestration by forests is partially counterbalanced in that reforestation can decrease the