a gcmg in 1923. he received recognition for his public services from the german emperor, the sultan of turkey, the shah of persia, and other potentates. in 1906, aga khan was a founding member and first president of the all india muslim league, a political party that pushed for the creation of an independent muslim nation in the north - west regions of india, then under british colonial rule, and later established the country of pakistan in 1947. during the three round table conferences ( india ) in london from 1930 to 1932, he played an important role in bringing about indian constitutional reforms. in 1934, he was made a member of the privy council and served as a member of the league of nations ( 1934 – 37 ), becoming the president of the league of nations in 1937. imamat under the leadership of sir sultan muhammad shah, aga khan iii, the first half of the 20th century was a period of significant development for the isma ' ili community. numerous institutions for social and economic development were established in the indian subcontinent and in east africa. ismailis have marked the jubilees of their imams with public celebrations, which are symbolic affirmations of the ties that link the ismaʿili imam and its followers. although the jubilees have no religious significance, they serve to reaffirm the imamat ' s worldwide commitment to the improvement of the quality of human life, especially in developing countries. the jubilees of sir sultan mahomed shah, aga khan iii, are well remembered. during his 72 years of imamat ( 1885 – 1957 ), the community celebrated his golden ( 1937 ), diamond ( 1946 ), and platinum ( 1954 ) jubilees. to show their appreciation and affection, the isma ' iliyya weighed their imam in gold, diamonds, and, symbolically, platinum, respectively, the proceeds of which were used to further develop major social welfare and development institutions in asia and africa. in india and later in pakistan, social development institutions were established, in the words of aga khan iii, " for the relief of humanity ". they included institutions such as the diamond jubilee trust and platinum jubilee investments limited, which in turn assisted the growth of various types of cooperative societies. diamond jubilee high school for girls was established throughout the remote northern areas of what is now pakistan. in addition, scholarship programmes, established at the time of the golden jubilee to give assistance to needy students, were progressively expanded. in east africa, major social welfare and economic development institutions were established. those involved