during may 1978, the group went to the united states for a promotional campaign, performing alongside andy gibb on olivia newton - john ' s tv show. recording sessions for the single " summer night city " were an uphill struggle, but upon release the song became another hit for the group. the track would set the stage for abba ' s foray into disco with their next album. on 9 january 1979, the group performed " chiquitita " at the music for unicef concert held at the united nations general assembly to celebrate unicef ' s year of the child. abba donated the copyright of this worldwide hit to the unicef ; see music for unicef concert. the single was released the following week, and reached number - one in ten countries. north american and european tours in mid - january 1979, ulvaeus and faltskog announced they were getting divorced. the news caused interest from the media and led to speculation about the band ' s future. abba assured the press and their fan base they were continuing their work as a group and that the divorce would not affect them. nonetheless, the media continued to confront them with this in interviews. to escape the media swirl and concentrate on their writing, andersson and ulvaeus secretly travelled to compass point studios in nassau, bahamas, where for two weeks they prepared their next album ' s songs. the group ' s sixth studio album, voulez - vous, was released in april 1979, with its title track recorded at the famous criteria studios in miami, florida, with the assistance of recording engineer tom dowd among others. the album topped the charts across europe and in japan and mexico, hit the top 10 in canada and australia and the top 20 in the us. while none of the singles from the album reached number one on the uk chart, the lead single, " chiquitita ", and the fourth single, " i have a dream ", both ascended to number two, and the other two, " does your mother know " and " angeleyes " ( with " voulez - vous ", released as a double a - side ) both made the top 5. all four singles reached number one in belgium, although the last three did not chart in sweden or norway. " chiquitita ", which was featured in the music for unicef concert after which abba decided to donate half of the royalties from the song to unicef, topped the singles charts in the netherlands, switzerland, finland, spain, mexico, south africa, rhodesia