internal and international destinations. there are daily bus connections between yerevan and tbilisi and yerevan and tehran. approximately three times daily, buses depart from yerevan central bus station to stepanakert, the capital of the partially recognized state of artsakh. there are also scheduled bus routes which connect yerevan with kyiv, moscow, saint petersburg as well as several other cities across russia. it is also possible to connect to chisinau moldova, minsk belarus and other cities in eastern europe from yerevan through connecting bus routes via georgia and ukraine. in addition, there is a once a week bus service to istanbul via georgia. in june 2019, a new bus route from baghdad to yerevan via iran began. local connections the armenian bus network connects all major cities, towns, and villages throughout the country. in larger cities and towns such as yerevan, gyumri, vanadzor and armavir, bus stations are equipped with a waiting room and a ticket office, in other towns bus stations may not have shelters. most of the routes are operated by gazelle minivans with a capacity of 15 passengers, some routes are operated by soviet bus producer liaz ( russia ). yerevan itself has a large integrated bus network, with a newly acquired bus fleet, passengers are able to connect from one end of the city to the other. wi - fi is available on most city buses. despite this, buses often have difficulty meeting the demand for capacity, mainly in yerevan, where vehicles are typically overcrowded. there are no night services between 11 p. m. and 6 a. m. there is no ticket system in the country, passengers pay in cash to drivers. passengers on the national bus network pay before boarding, passengers on the yerevan bus network pay after the ride, while leaving the vehicle. timetables and fares are published on transport for armenia. from yeritasardakan metro station in downtown yerevan, travelers can take the 201 airport shuttle, which goes directly to zvartnots international airport, which takes approximately 20 minutes from the city center. roadways since independence, armenia has been developing its internal highway network. the " north - south road corridor investment program " is a major infrastructure project which aims at connecting the southern border of armenia with its northern by means of a 556 km - long meghri - yerevan - bavra highway. it is a major us $ 1. 5 billion infrastructure project funded by the asian development bank, european investment bank and the eurasian development bank. when completed, the highway will provide access to european countries via