), antic hay ( 1923 ), those barren leaves ( 1925 ), and point counter point ( 1928 ). brave new world ( 1932 ) was his fifth novel and first dystopian work. in the 1920s, he was also a contributor to vanity fair and british vogue magazines. contact with the bloomsbury set during the first world war, huxley spent much of his time at garsington manor near oxford, home of lady ottoline morrell, working as a farm labourer. while at the manor, he met several bloomsbury group figures, including bertrand russell, alfred north whitehead, and clive bell. later, in crome yellow ( 1921 ), he caricatured the garsington lifestyle. jobs were very scarce, but in 1919, john middleton murry was reorganising the athenaeum and invited huxley to join the staff. he accepted immediately, and quickly married the belgian refugee maria nys ( 1899 – 1955 ), also at garsington. they lived with their young son in italy part of the time during the 1920s, where huxley would visit his friend d. h. lawrence. following lawrence ' s death in 1930 ( he and maria were present at his death in provence ), huxley edited lawrence ' s letters ( 1932 ). very early in 1929, in london, huxley met gerald heard, a writer and broadcaster, philosopher and interpreter of contemporary science. works of this period included novels about the dehumanising aspects of scientific progress, ( his magnum opus brave new world ), and on pacifist themes ( eyeless in gaza ). in brave new world, set in a dystopian london, huxley portrays a society operating on the principles of mass production and pavlovian conditioning. huxley was strongly influenced by f. matthias alexander, on whom he based a character in eyeless in gaza. during this period, huxley began to write and edit non - fiction works on pacifist issues, including ends and means ( 1937 ), an encyclopedia of pacifism, and pacifism and philosophy, and was an active member of the peace pledge union. life in the united states in 1937, huxley moved to hollywood with his wife maria, son matthew huxley, and friend gerald heard. cyril connolly wrote, of the two intellectuals ( huxley and heard ) in the late 1930s, " all european avenues had been exhausted in the search for a way forward – politics, art, science – pitching them both toward the us in