at least 10 years, unless it furnished no suitable candidate, when a liberty was allowed of electing from another monastery, well instructed himself, and able to instruct others, one also who had learned how to command by having practised obedience. in some exceptional cases an abbot was allowed to name his own successor. cassian speaks of an abbot in egypt doing this ; and in later times we have another example in the case of st bruno. popes and sovereigns gradually encroached on the rights of the monks, until in italy the pope had usurped the nomination of all abbots, and the king in france, with the exception of cluny, premontre and other houses, chiefs of their order. the election was for life, unless the abbot was canonically deprived by the chiefs of his order, or when he was directly subject to them, by the pope or the bishop, and also in england it was for a term of 8 – 12 years. the ceremony of the formal admission of a benedictine abbot in medieval times is thus prescribed by the consuetudinary of abingdon. the newly elected abbot was to put off his shoes at the door of the church, and proceed barefoot to meet the members of the house advancing in a procession. after proceeding up the nave, he was to kneel and pray at the topmost step of the entrance of the choir, into which he was to be introduced by the bishop or his commissary, and placed in his stall. the monks, then kneeling, gave him the kiss of peace on the hand, and rising, on the mouth, the abbot holding his staff of office. he then put on his shoes in the vestry, and a chapter was held, and the bishop or his delegate preached a suitable sermon. general information before the late modern era, the abbot was treated with the utmost reverence by the brethren of his house. when he appeared either in church or chapter all present rose and bowed. his letters were received kneeling, as were those of the pope and the king. no monk might sit in his presence, or leave it without his permission, reflecting the hierarchical etiquette of families and society. the highest place was assigned to him, both in church and at table. in the east he was commanded to eat with the other monks. in the west the rule of st benedict appointed him a separate table, at which he might entertain guests and strangers. because this permission opened the door to luxurious living, synods of aachen ( 816