alcaeus of mytilene ( ;, alkaios ho mutilenaios ; – bc ) was a lyric poet from the greek island of lesbos who is credited with inventing the alcaic stanza. he was included in the canonical list of nine lyric poets by the scholars of hellenistic alexandria. he was a contemporary of sappho, with whom he may have exchanged poems. he was born into the aristocratic governing class of mytilene, the main city of lesbos, where he was involved in political disputes and feuds. biography the broad outlines of the poet ' s life are well known. he was born into the aristocratic, warrior class that dominated mytilene, the strongest city - state on the island of lesbos and, by the end of the seventh century bc, the most influential of all the north aegean greek cities, with a strong navy and colonies securing its trade - routes in the hellespont. the city had long been ruled by kings born to the penthilid clan but, during the poet ' s life, the penthilids were a spent force and rival aristocrats and their factions contended with each other for supreme power. alcaeus and his older brothers were passionately involved in the struggle but experienced little success. their political adventures can be understood in terms of three tyrants who came and went in succession : melanchrus – he was overthrown sometime between 612 bc and 609 bc by a faction that, in addition to the brothers of alcaeus, included pittacus ( later renowned as one of the seven sages of greece ) ; alcaeus at that time was too young to be actively involved ; myrsilus – it is not known when he came to power but some verses by alcaeus ( frag. 129 ) indicate that the poet, his brothers and pittacus made plans to overthrow him and that pittacus subsequently betrayed them ; alcaeus and his brothers fled into exile where the poet later wrote a drinking song in celebration of the news of the tyrant ' s death ( frag. 332 ) ; pittacus – the dominant political figure of his time, he was voted supreme power by the political assembly of mytilene and appears to have governed well ( 590 - 580 bc ), even allowing alcaeus and his faction to return home in peace. sometime before 600 bc, mytilene fought athens for control of sigeion and alcaeus was old enough to participate in the fighting.