divine nakedness is concealed by his cloak, a mark of increasing conventions of modesty in the later empire. another haloed apollo in mosaic, from hadrumentum, is in the museum at sousse. the conventions of this representation, head tilted, lips slightly parted, large - eyed, curling hair cut in locks grazing the neck, were developed in the 3rd century bce to depict alexander the great. some time after this mosaic was executed, the earliest depictions of christ would also be beardless and haloed. modern reception apollo often appears in modern and popular culture due to his status as the god of music, dance and poetry. postclassical art and literature dance and music apollo has featured in dance and music in modern culture. percy bysshe shelley composed a " hymn of apollo " ( 1820 ), and the god ' s instruction of the muses formed the subject of igor stravinsky ' s apollon musagete ( 1927 – 1928 ). in 1978, the canadian band rush released an album with songs " apollo : bringer of wisdom " / " dionysus : bringer of love ". books apollo has been portrayed in modern literature, such as when charles handy, in gods of management ( 1978 ) uses greek gods as a metaphor to portray various types of organizational culture. apollo represents a ' role ' culture where order, reason, and bureaucracy prevail. in 2016, author rick riordan published the first book in the trials of apollo series, publishing four other books in the series in 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020. film apollo has been depicted in modern films — for instance, by keith david in the 1997 animated feature film hercules, by luke evans in the 2010 action film clash of the titans, and by dimitri lekkos in the 2010 film percy jackson & the olympians : the lightning thief. video games apollo has appeared in many modern video games. apollo appears as a minor character in santa monica studio ' s 2010 action - adventure game god of war iii with his bow being used by peirithous. he also appears in the 2014 hi - rez studios multiplayer online battle arena game smite as a playable character. psychology and philosophy in the philosophical discussion of the arts, a distinction is sometimes made between the apollonian and dionysian impulses, where the former is concerned with imposing intellectual order and the latter with chaotic creativity. friedrich nietzsche argued that a fusion of the two was most desirable. psychologist carl jung ' s apollo archetype represents what he saw as the disposition in people to