the tale has been often dismissed as a fable and paul was conscious of the risk of disbelief. for this reason, he insists that he saw the skull cup personally during the 740s in the royal palace of ticinum in the hands of king ratchis. the use of skull cups has been noticed among nomadic peoples and, in particular, among the lombards ' neighbors, the avars. skull cups are believed to be part of a shamanistic ritual, where drinking from the cup was considered a way to assume the dead man ' s powers. in this context, stefano gasparri and wilfried menghen see in cunimund ' s skull cup the sign of nomadic cultural influences on the lombards : by drinking from his enemy ' s skull alboin was taking his vital strength. as for the offering of the skull to rosamund, that may have been a ritual request of complete submission of the queen and her people to the lombards, and thus a cause of shame or humiliation. alternatively, it may have been a rite to appease the dead through the offering of a libation. in the latter interpretation, the queen ' s answer reveals her determination not to let the wound opened by the killing of her father be healed through a ritual act, thus openly displaying her thirst for revenge. the episode is read in a radically different way by walter goffart. according to him, the whole story assumes an allegorical meaning, with paul intent on telling an edifying story of the downfall of the hero and his expulsion from the promised land, because of his human weakness. in this story, the skull cup plays a key role as it unites original sin and barbarism. goffart does not exclude the possibility that paul had really seen the skull, but believes that by the 740s the connection between sin and barbarism as exemplified by the skull cup had already been established. death in her plan to kill her husband rosamund found an ally in helmichis, the king ' s foster brother and spatharius ( arms bearer ). according to paul the queen then recruited the king ' s cubicularius ( bedchamberlain ), peredeo, into the plot, after having seduced him. when alboin retired for his midday rest on 28 june, care was taken to leave the door open and unguarded. alboin ' s sword was also removed, leaving him defenceless when peredeo entered his room and killed him. alboin ' s remains were allegedly