are also galleries which host guest exhibitions. cer modern cer modern is the modern - arts museum of ankara, inaugurated on 1 april 2010. it is situated in the renovated building of the historic tcdd cer atolyeleri, formerly a workshop of the turkish state railways. the museum incorporates the largest exhibition hall in turkey. the museum holds periodic exhibitions of modern and contemporary art as well as hosting other contemporary arts events. war of independence museum the war of independence museum ( kurtulus savası muzesi ) is located on ulus square. it was originally the first parliament building ( tbmm ) of the republic of turkey. the war of independence was planned and directed here as recorded in various photographs and items presently on exhibition. in another display, wax figures of former presidents of the republic of turkey are on exhibit. mehmet akif literature museum library the mehmet akif literature museum library is an important literary museum and archive opened in 2011 and dedicated to mehmet akif ersoy ( 1873 – 1936 ), the poet of the turkish national anthem. tcdd open air steam locomotive museum the tcdd open air steam locomotive museum is an open - air museum which traces the history of steam locomotives. ankara aviation museum ankara aviation museum ( hava kuvvetleri muzesi komutanlıgı ) is located near the istanbul road in etimesgut. the museum opened to the public in september 1998. it is home to various missiles, avionics, aviation materials and aircraft that have served in the turkish air force ( e. g. combat aircraft such as the f - 86 sabre, f - 100 super sabre, f - 102 delta dagger, f - 104 starfighter, f - 5 freedom fighter, f - 4 phantom ; and cargo planes such as the transall c - 160. ) also a hungarian mig - 21, a pakistani mig - 19, and a bulgarian mig - 17 are on display at the museum. metu science and technology museum the metu science and technology museum ( odtu bilim ve teknoloji muzesi ) is located inside the middle east technical university campus. sports as with all other cities of turkey, football is the most popular sport in ankara. the city has two football clubs competing in the turkish super lig : ankaragucu, founded in 1910, is the oldest club in ankara and is associated with ankara ' s military arsenal manufacturing company mke. they were the turkish cup winners in 1972 and 1981.