poets made use of the story, which was a favourite subject in ancient works of art. there is a well - known small marble group in the british museum illustrative of the story, in gallery 83 / 84. two paintings by the 16th century painter titian ( death of actaeon and diana and actaeon ). acteon, an operatic pastorale by marc - antoine charpentier. percy bysshe shelley suggests a parallel between his alter - ego and actaeon in his elegy for john keats, adonais, stanza 31 ( ' [ he ] had gazed on nature ' s naked loveliness / actaeon - like, and now he fled astray /... / and his own thoughts, along that rugged way, / pursued, like raging hounds, their father and their prey. ' ) the aria " oft she visits this lone mountain " from purcell ' s dido and aeneas, first performed in 1689 or earlier. giordano bruno, gli eroici furori. in canto v of giambattista marino ' s poem the protagonist goes to theater to see a tragedy representing the myth of actaeon. this episode foreshadows the protagonist ' s violent death at the end of the book. in act i scene 2 of jacques offenbach ' s orpheus in the underworld, actaeon is diana ( artemis ) ' s lover, and it is jupiter who turns him into a stag, which puts diana off hunting. his story is relinquished at this point, in favour of the other plots. ted hughes wrote a version of the story in his tales from ovid. diane and acteon pas de deux from marius petipa ' s ballet, le roi candaule, to the music by riccardo drigo and cesare pugni, later incorporated into the second act of la esmeralda ( ballet ). in twelfth night by william shakespeare, orsino compares his unrequited love for olivia to the fate of actaeon. " o, when mine eyes did see olivia first, methought she purged the air of pestilence, that instant was i turned into a hart, and my desires like fell and cruel hounds e ' er since pursue me. " act 1 scene 1. in christopher marlowe ' s play edward ii, courtier piers gaveston seeks to entertain his lover, king edward ii of england, by presenting a play based on the actaeon myth. in gave