last supper ). the milan exhibition that opened in january 1987 with a set of 22 silk - screens, was the last exhibition for both the artist and the gallerist. the series of the last supper was seen by some as " arguably his greatest ", but by others as " wishy - washy, religiose " and " spiritless ". it is the largest series of religious - themed works by any american artist. artist maurizio cattelan describes that it is difficult to separate daily encounters from the art of andy warhol : " that ' s probably the greatest thing about warhol : the way he penetrated and summarized our world, to the point that distinguishing between him and our everyday life is basically impossible, and in any case useless. " warhol was an inspiration towards cattelan ' s magazine and photography compilations, such as permanent food, charley, and toilet paper. in the period just before his death, warhol was working on cars, a series of paintings for mercedes - benz. drawings " though he is often associated with printmaking — specifically silkscreen — warhol was also an incredibly talented illustrator and draughtsman, and drawing was an integral part of his practice throughout his career. his early drawings on paper bare a resemblance to both continuous line and blind contour drawing techniques, giving his work a sense of ease and immediacy. while working primarily within commercial advertisement, he pioneered the blotted line technique, which synthesized graphite drawing on paper with elements of printmaking. warhol continued his practice of drawing through the last years of his life and career, and the work from this later period exemplifies a long and storied career ' s worth of honed skill and technique. " art market the value of andy warhol ' s work has been on an endless upward trajectory since his death in 1987. in 2014, his works accumulated $ 569 million at auction, which accounted for more than a sixth of the global art market. however, there have been some dips. according to art dealer dominique levy, " the warhol trade moves something like a seesaw being pulled uphill : it rises and falls, but each new high and low is above the last one. " she attributes this to the consistent influx of new collectors intrigued by warhol. " at different moments, you ' ve had different groups of collectors entering the warhol market, and that resulted in peaks in demand, then satisfaction and a slow down, " before the process repeats another demographic or the next