part of the armenian kingdom of cilicia. anazarbus was one of a chain of armenian fortifications stretching through cilicia. the castle of sis ( modern kozan, adana ) lies to the north while tumlu castle and yilankale are to the south, and the fortresses of amouda and sarvandikar are to the east. the mamluk empire of egypt finally destroyed the city in 1374. remains the crusaders are probably responsible for the construction of an impressive donjon atop the center of the outcrop. most of the remaining fortifications, including the curtain walls, massive horseshoe - shaped towers, undercrofts, cisterns, and free - standing structures date from the armenian periods of occupation, which began with the arrival of the rubenid baron t oros i,. within the fortress are two armenian chapels and the magnificent ( but severely damaged ) three - aisle church built by t oros i to celebrate his conquests. the church was once surrounded by a continuous, well - executed dedicatory inscription in armenian. the present wall of the lower city is of late construction. it encloses a mass of ruins conspicuous in which are a fine triumphal arch, the colonnades of two streets, a gymnasium, etc. a stadium and a theatre lie outside the walls to the south. the remains of the acropolis fortifications are very interesting, including roads and ditches hewn in the rock. there are no notable structures in the upper town. for picturesqueness the site is not equaled in cilicia, and it is worthwhile to trace the three fine aqueducts to their sources. a necropolis on the escarpment to the south of the curtain wall can also be seen complete with signs of illegal modern excavations. a modest turkish farming village ( dilekkaya ) lies to the southwest of the ancient city. a small outdoor museum with some of the artifacts collected in the area can be viewed for a small fee. also nearby are some beautiful mosaics discovered in a farmers field. a visit in december 2002 showed that the three aqueducts mentioned above have been nearly completely destroyed. only small, isolated sections are left standing with the largest portion lying in a pile of rubble that stretches the length of where the aqueducts once stood. a powerful earthquake that struck the area in 1945 is thought to be responsible for the destruction. in 2013, excavations uncovered the first known colonnaded double - lane road of the ancient world, 34 meters wide and 2700 meters