in china. fried rice is offered with different combinations of meat ( pork, chicken and shrimp are the most popular ) and vegetables. ginger beef ( ) — tender beef cut in chunks, mixed with ginger and chinese mixed vegetables. ginger fried beef ( ) — tender beef cut in strings, battered, deep fried, then re - fried in a wok mixed with a sweet sauce, a variation of a popular northern chinese dish. hulatang — a traditional chinese soup with hot spices, often called " spicy soup " on menus. hot and sour soup — the north american soups tend to have starch added as a thickener. kung pao chicken — a spicy sichuan dish that is served with peanuts, scallions, and sichuan peppers. some versions in north america may include zucchini and bell peppers. lo mein ( " stirred noodles " ) — frequently made with eggs and flour, making them chewier than a recipe simply using water. thick, spaghetti - shaped noodles are pan fried with vegetables ( mainly bok choy and chinese cabbage or napa ) and meat. sometimes this dish is referred to as chow mein ( which literally means " stir - fried noodles " in cantonese ). mei fun — noodles usually simmered in broth with other ingredients such as fish balls, beef balls, and / or slices of fishcake. moo shu pork — the original version uses more typically chinese ingredients ( including wood ear fungi and daylily buds ) and thin flour pancakes, while the american version often uses vegetables more familiar to americans, and thicker pancakes. this dish is quite popular in chinese restaurants in the united states, but not as popular in china. orange chicken — chopped, battered, fried chicken with a sweet orange flavored chili sauce that is thickened and glazed. the traditional version consists of stir - fried chicken in a light, slightly sweet soy sauce flavored with dried orange peels. wonton soup — in most american chinese restaurants, only wonton dumplings in broth are served, while versions found in china may come with noodles. ( in canton, it can be a full meal in itself, consisting of thin egg noodles and several pork and prawn wontons in a pork or chicken soup broth or noodle broth ). especially in takeout restaurants, wonton are often made with thicker dough skins, to withstand the rigors of delivery. regional variations new york city the new york metropolitan area is home to the largest chinese population outside of asia, which also constitutes the largest metropolitan asian