and thus he was spared. his mother tried to interfere in his affairs and influence his decision, especially she wanted to control his communication and movements. in the earlier part of his reign, ahmed i showed decision and vigor, which were belied by his subsequent conduct. the wars in hungary and persia, which attended his accession, terminated unfavourably for the empire. its prestige was further tarnished in the treaty of zsitvatorok, signed in 1606, whereby the annual tribute paid by austria was abolished. following the crushing defeat in the ottoman – safavid war ( 1603 – 18 ) against the neighbouring rivals safavid empire, led by shah abbas the great, georgia, azerbaijan and other vast territories in the caucasus were ceded back to persia per the treaty of nasuh pasha in 1612, territories that had been temporarily conquered in the ottoman – safavid war ( 1578 – 90 ). the new borders were drawn per the same line as confirmed in the peace of amasya of 1555. relations with morocco during his reign the ruler of morocco was mulay zidan whose father and predecessor ahmad al - mansur had paid a tribute of vassalage as a vassal of the ottomans until his death. the saadi civil wars had interrupted this tribute of vassalage, but mulay zidan proposed to submit to it in order to protect himself from algiers, and so he resumed paying the tribute to the ottomans. ottoman - safavid war : 1604 – 06 the ottoman – safavid war had begun shortly before the death of ahmed ' s father mehmed iii. upon ascending the throne, ahmed i appointed cigalazade yusuf sinan pasha as the commander of the eastern army. the army marched from constantinople on 15 june 1604, which was too late, and by the time it had arrived on the eastern front on 8 november 1604, the safavid army had captured yerevan and entered the kars eyalet, and could only be stopped in akhaltsikhe. despite the conditions being favourable, sinan pasha decided to stay for the winter in van, but then marched to erzurum to stop an incoming safavid attack. this caused unrest within the army and the year was practically wasted for the ottomans. in 1605, sinan pasha marched to take tabriz, but the army was undermined by kose sefer pasha, the beylerbey of erzurum, marching independently from sinan pasha and consequently being taken prisoner by the safavids. the