leslie s. hiscott directed the first two films, and henry edwards took over for the third. tony randall tony randall portrayed poirot in the alphabet murders, a 1965 film also known as the abc murders. this was more a satire of poirot than a straightforward adaptation and was greatly changed from the original. much of the story, set in modern times, was played for comedy, with poirot investigating the murders while evading the attempts by hastings ( robert morley ) and the police to get him out of england and back to belgium. albert finney albert finney played poirot in 1974 in the cinematic version of murder on the orient express. as of now, finney is the only actor to receive an academy award nomination for playing poirot, though he did not win. peter ustinov peter ustinov played poirot six times, starting with death on the nile ( 1978 ). he reprised the role in evil under the sun ( 1982 ) and appointment with death ( 1988 ). christie ' s daughter rosalind hicks observed ustinov during a rehearsal and said, " that ' s not poirot! he isn ' t at all like that! " ustinov overheard and remarked " he is now! " he appeared again as poirot in three television films : thirteen at dinner ( 1985 ), dead man ' s folly ( 1986 ), and murder in three acts ( 1986 ). earlier adaptations were set during the time in which the novels were written, but these television films were set in the contemporary era. the first of these was based on lord edgware dies and was made by warner bros. it also starred faye dunaway, with david suchet as inspector japp, just before suchet began to play poirot. david suchet considers his performance as japp to be " possibly the worst performance of [ his ] career ". kenneth branagh kenneth branagh played poirot in film adaptations of murder on the orient express in 2017, death on the nile in 2022, and a haunting in venice, based on the novel hallowe ' en party, in 2023. branagh directed all three and co - produced them alongside ridley scott. they were written by michael green. other anatoly ravikovich, zagadka endkhauza ( end house mystery ) ( 1989 ; based on " peril at end house " ) television david suchet david suchet starred as poirot in the itv series agatha christie ' s poiro