wrist, medial rotation of the arm and shoulder, and downward pressure on the elbow. common in knife and other weapon take - aways. is a throw during which ' s hand is folded back past the shoulder, locking the shoulder joint. is a supinating wristlock - throw that stretches the extensor digitorum. is a loosely used umbrella term for various types of mechanically unrelated techniques ; generally do not use joint locks like other techniques., throws in which moves through the space occupied by. the classic form superficially resembles a " clothesline " technique., a throw in which, beginning with, moving forward, sweeps one hand low ( " earth " ) and the other high ( " heaven " ), which unbalances so that he or she easily topples over., aikido ' s version of the hip throw ; drops their hips lower than those of, then flips over the resultant fulcrum. or, a throw that locks the arms against each other ( the kanji for " 10 " is a cross - shape : ). is a throw in which sweeps ' s arm back until it locks the shoulder joint, then uses forward pressure to throw them. implementations aikido makes use of body movement ( ) to blend the movement of with the movement of. for example, an " entering " ( ) technique consists of movements inward towards, while a technique uses a pivoting motion. additionally, an technique takes place in front of, whereas an technique takes place to their side ; a technique is applied with motion to the front of, and a version is applied with motion towards the rear of, usually by incorporating a turning or pivoting motion. finally, most techniques can be performed while in a seated posture ( ). techniques where both and are standing are called, techniques where both start off in are called, and techniques performed with standing and sitting are called ( ). from these few basic techniques, there are numerous of possible implementations. for example, can be applied to an opponent moving forward with a strike ( perhaps with an type of movement to redirect the incoming force ), or to an opponent who has already struck and is now moving back to reestablish distance ( perhaps an version ). specific aikido are typically referred to with the formula " attack - technique ( - modifier ) " ;, for example, refers to any technique executed when is holding one wrist. this could be further specified as ( referring to any forward - moving technique from that grab ). are strikes