croatian ), and день всех усопших верных or день поминовения всех усопших ( den ' vsekh usopshikh vernykh ; den ' pominoveniya vsekh usopshih ) ( russian ) in the or and in. background in the catholic church, " the faithful " refers essentially to baptized catholics ; " all souls " commemorates the church penitent of souls in purgatory, whereas " all saints " commemorates the church triumphant of saints in heaven. in the liturgical books of the latin church it is called the commemoration of all the faithful departed ( ). the catholic church teaches that the purification of the souls in purgatory can be assisted by the actions of the faithful on earth. its teaching is based also on the practice of prayer for the dead mentioned as far back as 2 maccabees 12 : 42 – 46. the theological basis for the feast is the doctrine that the souls which, on departing from the body, are not perfectly cleansed from venial sins, or have not fully atoned for past transgressions, are debarred from the beatific vision, and that the faithful on earth can help them by prayers, alms, deeds, and especially by the sacrifice of the holy mass. religious observance by denomination byzantine ( greek ) catholic and eastern orthodox saturday of souls ( or soul saturday ) is a day set aside for the commemoration of the dead within the liturgical year of the eastern orthodox and byzantine catholic churches. saturday is a traditional day of prayer for the dead, because christ lay dead in the tomb on saturday. these days are devoted to prayer for departed relatives and others among the faithful who would not be commemorated specifically as saints. the divine services on these days have special hymns added to them to commemorate the departed. there is often a panikhida ( memorial service ) either after the divine liturgy on saturday morning or after vespers on friday evening, for which koliva ( a dish made of boiled wheatberries or rice and honey ) is prepared and placed on the panikhida table. after the service, the priest blesses the koliva. it is then eaten as a memorial by all present. radonitsa another memorial day in the east, radonitsa, does not fall on a saturday, but on either monday or tuesday of the second