stated that it was used to make beer for royal rituals. main sites temple of seti i the temple of seti i was built on entirely new ground half a mile to the south of the long series of temples just described. this surviving building is best known as the great temple of abydos, being nearly complete and an impressive sight. a principal purpose of the temple was to serve as a memorial to king seti i, as well as to show reverence for the early pharaohs, which is incorporated within as part of the " rite of the ancestors ". the long list of the pharaohs of the principal dynasties — recognized by seti — are carved on a wall and known as the " abydos king list " ( showing the cartouche name of many dynastic pharaohs of egypt from the first, narmer or menes, until seti ' s time ). there were significant names deliberately left off of the list. so rare, as an almost complete list of pharaoh names, the table of abydos, rediscovered by william john bankes, has been called the " rosetta stone " of egyptian archaeology, analogous to the rosetta stone for egyptian writing, beyond the narmer palette. there were also seven chapels built for the worship of the pharaoh and principal deities. these included three chapels for the " state " deities ptah, re - horakhty, and ( centrally positioned ) amun and the challenge for the abydos triad of osiris, isis and horus. the rites recorded in the deity chapels represent the first complete form known of the daily ritual, which was performed daily in temples across egypt throughout the pharaonic period. at the back of the temple is an enigmatic structure known as the osireion, which served as a cenotaph for seti - osiris, and is thought to be connected with the worship of osiris as an " osiris tomb ". it is possible that from those chambers was led out the great hypogeum for the celebration of the osiris mysteries, built by merenptah. the temple was originally long, but the forecourts are scarcely recognizable, and the part still in good condition is about long and wide, including the wing at the side. magazines for food and offerings storage were built to either side of the forecourts, as well as a small palace for the king and his retinue, to the southeast of the first forecourt ( gha