to denote the quantum numbers p and σ of the previous section and the sign of the energy, e ( k ), and ak denotes the corresponding annihilation operators. of course, since we are dealing with fermions, we have to have the operators satisfy canonical anti - commutation relations. however, if one now writes down the hamiltonian then one sees immediately that the expectation value of h need not be positive. this is because e ( k ) can have any sign whatsoever, and the combination of creation and annihilation operators has expectation value 1 or 0. so one has to introduce the charge conjugate antiparticle field, with its own creation and annihilation operators satisfying the relations where k has the same p, and opposite σ and sign of the energy. then one can rewrite the field in the form where the first sum is over positive energy states and the second over those of negative energy. the energy becomes where e0 is an infinite negative constant. the vacuum state is defined as the state with no particle or antiparticle, i. e., and. then the energy of the vacuum is exactly e0. since all energies are measured relative to the vacuum, h is positive definite. analysis of the properties of ak and bk shows that one is the annihilation operator for particles and the other for antiparticles. this is the case of a fermion. this approach is due to vladimir fock, wendell furry and robert oppenheimer. if one quantizes a real scalar field, then one finds that there is only one kind of annihilation operator ; therefore, real scalar fields describe neutral bosons. since complex scalar fields admit two different kinds of annihilation operators, which are related by conjugation, such fields describe charged bosons. feynman – stueckelberg interpretation by considering the propagation of the negative energy modes of the electron field backward in time, ernst stueckelberg reached a pictorial understanding of the fact that the particle and antiparticle have equal mass m and spin j but opposite charges q. this allowed him to rewrite perturbation theory precisely in the form of diagrams. richard feynman later gave an independent systematic derivation of these diagrams from a particle formalism, and they are now called feynman diagrams. each line of a diagram represents a particle propagating either backward or forward in time. in feynman diagrams, anti - particles are shown traveling backwards in time relative to normal