new zealand, who often offer karakia invocations to sweet potatoes as they dig up the latter. while doing so, there is an awareness of a kinship relationship between the maori and the sweet potatoes, with both understood as having arrived in aotearoa together in the same canoes. in other instances, animists believe that interaction with plant and fungi persons can result in the communication of things unknown or even otherwise unknowable. among some modern pagans, for instance, relationships are cultivated with specific trees, who are understood to bestow knowledge or physical gifts, such as flowers, sap, or wood that can be used as firewood or to fashion into a wand ; in return, these pagans give offerings to the tree itself, which can come in the form of libations of mead or ale, a drop of blood from a finger, or a strand of wool. the elements various animistic cultures also comprehend stones as persons. discussing ethnographic work conducted among the ojibwe, harvey noted that their society generally conceived of stones as being inanimate, but with two notable exceptions : the stones of the bell rocks and those stones which are situated beneath trees struck by lightning, which were understood to have become thunderers themselves. the ojibwe conceived of weather as being capable of having personhood, with storms being conceived of as persons known as ' thunderers ' whose sounds conveyed communications and who engaged in seasonal conflict over the lakes and forests, throwing lightning at lake monsters. wind, similarly, can be conceived as a person in animistic thought. the importance of place is also a recurring element of animism, with some places being understood to be persons in their own right. spirits animism can also entail relationships being established with non - corporeal spirit entities. other usage science in the early 20th century, william mcdougall defended a form of animism in his book body and mind : a history and defence of animism ( 1911 ). physicist nick herbert has argued for " quantum animism " in which the mind permeates the world at every level : werner krieglstein wrote regarding his quantum animism : in error and loss : a licence to enchantment, ashley curtis ( 2018 ) has argued that the cartesian idea of an experiencing subject facing off with an inert physical world is incoherent at its very foundation and that this incoherence is consistent with rather than belied by darwinism. human reason (