south india, sri lanka and southeast asia. south indic letter forms are more rounded than north indic forms, though odia, golmol and litumol of nepal script are rounded. most north indic scripts ' full letters incorporate a horizontal line at the top, with gujarati and odia as exceptions ; south indic scripts do not. indic scripts indicate vowels through dependent vowel signs ( diacritics ) around the consonants, often including a sign that explicitly indicates the lack of a vowel. if a consonant has no vowel sign, this indicates a default vowel. vowel diacritics may appear above, below, to the left, to the right, or around the consonant. the most widely used indic script is devanagari, shared by hindi, bihari, marathi, konkani, nepali, and often sanskrit. a basic letter such as क in hindi represents a syllable with the default vowel, in this case ka ( ). in some languages, including hindi, it becomes a final closing consonant at the end of a word, in this case k. the inherent vowel may be changed by adding vowel mark ( diacritics ), producing syllables such as कि ki, क ku, क ke, को ko. in many of the brahmic scripts, a syllable beginning with a cluster is treated as a single character for purposes of vowel marking, so a vowel marker like ि - i, falling before the character it modifies, may appear several positions before the place where it is pronounced. for example, the game cricket in hindi is करिकट ; the diacritic for appears before the consonant cluster, not before the. a more unusual example is seen in the batak alphabet : here the syllable bim is written ba - ma - i - ( virama ). that is, the vowel diacritic and virama are both written after the consonants for the whole syllable. in many abugidas, there is also a diacritic to suppress the inherent vowel, yielding the bare consonant. in devanagari, क is k, and ल is l. this is called the virama or halantam in sanskrit. it may be used to form consonant clusters, or to indicate that a consonant occurs at the end of a word. thus in sanskrit, a default vowel consonant such as क does not take on a final consonant sound. instead, it keeps its vowel. for writing two consonants without a vowel in between, instead of using diacritic