' s conception, i. e., the annunciation on march 25 " ( " annunciation style " dating ). on the continent of europe, anno domini was introduced as the era of choice of the carolingian renaissance by the english cleric and scholar alcuin in the late eighth century. its endorsement by emperor charlemagne and his successors popularizing the use of the epoch and spreading it throughout the carolingian empire ultimately lies at the core of the system ' s prevalence. according to the catholic encyclopedia, popes continued to date documents according to regnal years for some time, but usage of ad gradually became more common in catholic countries from the 11th to the 14th centuries. in 1422, portugal became the last western european country to switch to the system begun by dionysius. eastern orthodox countries only began to adopt ad instead of the byzantine calendar in 1700 when russia did so, with others adopting it in the 19th and 20th centuries. although anno domini was in widespread use by the 9th century, the term " before christ " ( or its equivalent ) did not become common until much later. bede used the expression " anno [... ] ante incarnationem dominicam " ( in the year before the incarnation of the lord ) twice. " anno ante christi nativitatem " ( in the year before the birth of christ ) is found in 1474 in a work by a german monk. in 1627, the french jesuit theologian denis petau ( dionysius petavius in latin ), with his work de doctrina temporum, popularized the usage ante christum ( latin for " before christ " ) to mark years prior to ad. new year when the reckoning from jesus ' incarnation began replacing the previous dating systems in western europe, various people chose different christian feast days to begin the year : christmas, annunciation, or easter. thus, depending on the time and place, the year number changed on different days in the year, which created slightly different styles in chronology : from 25 march 753 auc ( today in 1 bc ), i. e., notionally from the incarnation of jesus. that first " annunciation style " appeared in arles at the end of the 9th century then spread to burgundy and northern italy. it was not commonly used and was called calculus pisanus since it was adopted in pisa and survived there until 1750. from 25 december 753 auc ( today in 1 bc ), i. e., notionally from