: faber & faber, 2003.. instant light, tarkovsky polaroids. london : thames and hudson, 2006.. a book of 60 photographs taken by tarkovsky in russia and italy between 1979 and 1984. edited by italian photographer giovanni chiaramonte and tarkovsky ' s son andrey a. tarkovsky. bright, bright day. tarkovsky foundation and white space gallery, 2008. a book of polaroids edited by stephen gill.. edition of 3000 copies. tarkovsky : films, stills, polaroids & writings. london : thames and hudson, 2019.. unproduced screenplays concentrate concentrate (, kontsentrat ) is a never - filmed 1958 screenplay by tarkovsky. the screenplay is based on tarkovsky ' s year in the taiga as a member of a research expedition, prior to his enrollment in film school. it ' s about the leader of a geological expedition, who waits for the boat that brings back the concentrates collected by the expedition. the expedition is surrounded by mystery, and its purpose is a state secret. although some authors claim that the screenplay was filmed, according to marina tarkovskaya, tarkovsky ' s sister ( and wife of aleksandr gordon, a fellow student of tarkovsky during his film school years ) the screenplay was never filmed. tarkovsky wrote the screenplay during his entrance examination at the state institute of cinematography ( vgik ) in a single sitting. he earned the highest possible grade, " excellent " ( ) for this work. in 1994, fragments of concentrate were filmed and used in the documentary andrei tarkovsky ' s taiga summer by marina tarkovskaya and aleksandr gordon. hoffmanniana hoffmanniana ( ) is a never - filmed 1974 screenplay by tarkovsky. the screenplay is based on the life and work of german author e. t. a. hoffmann. in 1974, an acquaintance from tallinnfilm approached tarkovsky to write a screenplay on a german theme. tarkovsky considered thomas mann and e. t. a. hoffmann, and also thought about ibsen ' s peer gynt. in the end tarkovsky signed a contract for a script based on the life and work of hoffmann. he planned to write the script during the summer of 1974 at his dacha. writing was not without difficulty, less than a month before the deadline he had not written a single page. he finally finished the project in late 1974 and submitted the final script to tallinnfilm in october. although the script was well received by the officials at tallinnfilm, it was the consensus that no one but