. barry schwartz wrote in 2009 that lincoln ' s image suffered " erosion, fading prestige, benign ridicule " in the late 20th century. on the other hand, donald opined in his 1996 biography that lincoln was distinctly endowed with the personality trait of negative capability, defined by the poet john keats and attributed to extraordinary leaders who were " content in the midst of uncertainties and doubts, and not compelled toward fact or reason ". in the 21st century, president barack obama named lincoln his favorite president and insisted on using the lincoln bible for his inaugural ceremonies. lincoln has often been portrayed by hollywood, almost always in a flattering light. lincoln has been also admired by political figures outside the u. s., including german political theorist karl marx, indian independence leader mahatma gandhi, former liberian president ellen johnson sirleaf, and libyan revolutionary muammar gaddafi. memory and memorials lincoln ' s portrait appears on two denominations of united states currency, the penny and the $ 5 bill. his likeness also appears on many postage stamps. while he is usually portrayed bearded, he did not grow a beard until 1860 at the suggestion of 11 - year - old grace bedell. he was the first of five presidents to do so. he has been memorialized in many town, city, and county names, including the capital of nebraska. the united states navy is named after lincoln, the second navy ship to bear his name. the lincoln memorial is one of the most visited monuments in the nation ' s capital and is one of the top five most visited national park service sites in the country. ford ' s theatre, among the most visited sites in washington, d. c., is across the street from petersen house, where lincoln died. memorials in springfield, illinois, include the abraham lincoln presidential library and museum, lincoln ' s home, and his tomb. a portrait carving of lincoln appears with those of three other presidents on mount rushmore, which receives about 3 million visitors a year. an influential statue of lincoln stands in lincoln park, chicago, with recastings given as diplomatic gifts standing in parliament square, london, and parque lincoln, mexico city. in 2019, congress officially dedicated room h - 226 in the united states capitol to abraham lincoln. the room is located off national statuary hall and served as the post office of the house while then - representative abraham lincoln served in congress from 1847 to 1849. see also outline of abraham lincoln grace bedell lincoln tower list of civil rights leaders list of photographs of abraham lincoln lincoln ( film ) : 2012