##ihelion of mercury ( a slow drift in the point in mercury ' s elliptical orbit at which it approaches the sun most closely ). a total eclipse of the sun that took place on 29 may 1919 provided an opportunity to put his theory of gravitational lensing to the test, and observations performed by sir arthur eddington yielded results that were consistent with his calculations. eddington ' s work was reported at length in newspapers around the world. on 7 november 1919, for example, the leading british newspaper, the times, printed a banner headline that read : " revolution in science – new theory of the universe – newtonian ideas overthrown ". 1921 – 1923 : coming to terms with fame with eddington ' s eclipse observations widely reported not just in academic journals but by the popular press as well, einstein became " perhaps the world ' s first celebrity scientist ", a genius who had shattered a paradigm that had been basic to physicists ' understanding of the universe since the seventeenth century. einstein began his new life as an intellectual icon in america, where he arrived on 2 april 1921. he was welcomed to new york city by mayor john francis hylan, and then spent three weeks giving lectures and attending receptions. he spoke several times at columbia university and princeton, and in washington, he visited the white house with representatives of the national academy of sciences. he returned to europe via london, where he was the guest of the philosopher and statesman viscount haldane. he used his time in the british capital to meet several people prominent in british scientific, political or intellectual life, and to deliver a lecture at king ' s college. in july 1921, he published an essay, " my first impression of the u. s. a. ", in which he sought to sketch the american character, much as had alexis de tocqueville in democracy in america ( 1835 ). he wrote of his transatlantic hosts in highly approving terms : " what strikes a visitor is the joyous, positive attitude to life... the american is friendly, self - confident, optimistic, and without envy. " in 1922, einstein ' s travels were to the old world rather than the new. he devoted six months to a tour of asia that saw him speaking in japan, singapore and sri lanka ( then known as ceylon ). after his first public lecture in tokyo, he met emperor yoshihito and his wife at the imperial palace, with thousands of spectators thronging the streets in the hope of catching a glimpse of him. ( in a letter to