before aborting the fetus, that abortion providers inform women of health risks of the procedure — sometimes including " risks " not supported by the medical literature — and that multiple medical authorities certify that the abortion is either medically or socially necessary. many restrictions are waived in emergency situations. china, which has ended their one - child policy, and now has a two child policy, has at times incorporated mandatory abortions as part of their population control strategy. other jurisdictions ban abortion almost entirely. many, but not all, of these allow legal abortions in a variety of circumstances. these circumstances vary based on jurisdiction, but may include whether the pregnancy is a result of rape or incest, the fetus ' development is impaired, the woman ' s physical or mental well - being is endangered, or socioeconomic considerations make childbirth a hardship. in countries where abortion is banned entirely, such as nicaragua, medical authorities have recorded rises in maternal death directly and indirectly due to pregnancy as well as deaths due to doctors ' fears of prosecution if they treat other gynecological emergencies. some countries, such as bangladesh, that nominally ban abortion, may also support clinics that perform abortions under the guise of menstrual hygiene. this is also a terminology in traditional medicine. in places where abortion is illegal or carries heavy social stigma, pregnant women may engage in medical tourism and travel to countries where they can terminate their pregnancies. women without the means to travel can resort to providers of illegal abortions or attempt to perform an abortion by themselves. the organization women on waves has been providing education about medical abortions since 1999. the ngo created a mobile medical clinic inside a shipping container, which then travels on rented ships to countries with restrictive abortion laws. because the ships are registered in the netherlands, dutch law prevails when the ship is in international waters. while in port, the organization provides free workshops and education ; while in international waters, medical personnel are legally able to prescribe medical abortion drugs and counseling. sex - selective abortion sonography and amniocentesis allow parents to determine sex before childbirth. the development of this technology has led to sex - selective abortion, or the termination of a fetus based on its sex. the selective termination of a female fetus is most common. sex - selective abortion is partially responsible for the noticeable disparities between the birth rates of male and female children in some countries. the preference for male children is reported in many areas of asia, and abortion used to limit female births has been reported in taiwan