houses, or compounds with mudbrick or stone walled houses. villages typically have a headman ( malik ), a master for water distribution ( mirab ) and a religious teacher ( mullah ). men would typically work on the fields, joined by women during harvest. about 15 % of the population are nomadic, locally called kochis. when nomads pass villages they often buy supplies such as tea, wheat and kerosene from the villagers ; villagers buy wool and milk from the nomads. afghan clothing for both men and women typically consists of various forms of shalwar kameez, especially perahan tunban and khet partug. women would normally wear a chador for head covering ; some women, typically from highly conservative communities, wear the burqa, a full body covering. these were worn by some women of the pashtun community well before islam came to the region, but the taliban enforced this dress on women when they were in power. another popular dress is the chapan which acts as a coat. the karakul is a hat made from the fur of a specific regional breed of sheep. it was favored by former kings of afghanistan and became known to much of the world in the 21st century when it was constantly worn by president hamid karzai. the pakol is another traditional hat originating from the far east of the country ; it was popularly worn by the guerrilla leader ahmad shah massoud. the mazari hat originates from northern afghanistan. architecture the nation has a complex history that has survived either in its current cultures or in the form of various languages and monuments. afghanistan contains many remnants from all ages, including greek and buddhist stupas, monasteries, monuments, temples and islamic minarets. among the most well known are the great mosque of herat, the blue mosque, the minaret of jam, the chil zena, the qala - i bost in lashkargah, the ancient greek city of ai - khanoum. however, many of its historic monuments have been damaged in modern times due to the civil wars. the two famous buddhas of bamiyan were destroyed by the taliban, who regarded them as idolatrous. as there was no colonialism in the modern era in afghanistan, european - style architecture is rare but does exist : the victory arch at paghman and the darul aman palace in kabul were built in this style in the 1920s. afghan architecture also ranges deep into india such as the tomb of sher shah suri