states ' rights a long - running dispute over the origin of the civil war is to what extent states ' rights triggered the conflict. the consensus among historians is that the civil war was fought about states ' rights. but the issue is frequently referenced in popular accounts of the war and has much traction among southerners. southerners advocating secession argued that just as each state had decided to join the union, a state had the right to secede — leave the union — at any time. northerners ( including pro - slavery president buchanan ) rejected that notion as opposed to the will of the founding fathers, who said they were setting up a perpetual union. historian james mcpherson points out that even if confederates genuinely fought over states ' rights, it boiled down to states ' right to slavery. mcpherson writes concerning states ' rights and other non - slavery explanations : states ' rights was an ideology formulated and applied as a means of advancing slave state interests through federal authority. as historian thomas l. krannawitter points out, the " southern demand for federal slave protection represented a demand for an unprecedented expansion of federal power. " before the civil war, the southern states supported the use of federal powers to enforce and extend slavery, as with the fugitive slave act of 1850 and the dred scott v. sandford decision. the faction that pushed for secession often infringed on states ' rights. because of the overrepresentation of pro - slavery factions in the federal government, many northerners, even non - abolitionists, feared the slave power conspiracy. some northern states resisted the enforcement of the fugitive slave act. historian eric foner states that the act " could hardly have been designed to arouse greater opposition in the north. it overrode numerous state and local laws and legal procedures and ' commanded ' individual citizens to assist, when called upon, in capturing runaways. " he continues, " it certainly did not reveal, on the part of slaveholders, sensitivity to states ' rights. " according to historian paul finkelman, " the southern states mostly complained that the northern states were asserting their states ' rights and that the national government was not powerful enough to counter these northern claims. " the confederate constitution also " federally " required slavery to be legal in all confederate states and claimed territories. sectionalism sectionalism resulted from the different economies, social structure, customs, and political values of the north and south. regional tensions came to a head during the war of 1812, resulting in the hartford convention, which manifested northern dissatisfaction with a foreign trade em