an american in paris is a jazz - influenced symphonic poem ( or tone poem ) for orchestra by american composer george gershwin first performed in 1928. it was inspired by the time that gershwin had spent in paris and evokes the sights and energy of the french capital during the. gershwin scored the piece for the standard instruments of the symphony orchestra plus celesta, saxophones, and automobile horns. he brought back four parisian taxi horns for the new york premiere of the composition, which took place on december 13, 1928, in carnegie hall, with walter damrosch conducting the new york philharmonic. it was damrosch who had commissioned gershwin to write his concerto in f following the earlier success of rhapsody in blue ( 1924 ). he completed the orchestration on november 18, less than four weeks before the work ' s premiere. he collaborated on the original program notes with critic and composer deems taylor. background although the story is likely apocryphal, gershwin is said to have been attracted by maurice ravel ' s unusual chords, and gershwin went on his first trip to paris in 1926 ready to study with ravel. after his initial student audition with ravel turned into a sharing of musical theories, ravel said he could not teach him, saying, " why be a second - rate ravel when you can be a first - rate gershwin? " gershwin strongly encouraged ravel to come to the united states for a tour. to this end, upon his return to new york, gershwin joined the efforts of ravel ' s friend robert schmitz, a pianist ravel had met during the war, to urge ravel to tour the u. s. schmitz was the head of pro musica, promoting franco - american musical relations, and was able to offer ravel a $ 10, 000 fee for the tour, an enticement gershwin knew would be important to ravel. gershwin greeted ravel in new york in march 1928 during a party held for ravel ' s birthday by eva gauthier. ravel ' s tour reignited gershwin ' s desire to return to paris, which he and his brother ira did after meeting ravel. ravel ' s high praise of gershwin in an introductory letter to nadia boulanger caused gershwin to seriously consider taking much more time to study abroad in paris. yet after he played for her, she told him she could not teach him. boulanger gave gershwin basically the same advice she gave all her accomplished master students : " what could i give you that you haven '