the oldest of eight children, later changed the spelling to " alcott " and dropped his first name. at age six, young bronson began his formal education in a one - room schoolhouse in the center of town but learned how to read at home with the help of his mother. the school taught only reading, writing, and spelling, and he left this school at the age of 10. at age 13, his uncle, reverend tillotson bronson, invited alcott into his home in cheshire, connecticut, to be educated and prepared for college. bronson gave it up after only a month and was self - educated from then on. he was not particularly social and his only close friend was his neighbor and second cousin william alcott, with whom he shared books and ideas. bronson alcott later reflected on his childhood at spindle hill : " it kept me pure... i dwelt amidst the hills... god spoke to me while i walked the fields. " starting at age 15, he worked for clockmaker seth thomas in the nearby town of plymouth. at age 17, alcott passed the exam for a teaching certificate but had trouble finding work as a teacher. instead, he left home and became a traveling salesman in the american south, peddling books and merchandise. he hoped the job would earn him enough money to support his parents, " to make their cares, and burdens less... and get them free from debt ", though he soon spent most of his earnings on a new suit. at first, he thought it an acceptable occupation but soon worried about his spiritual well - being. in march 1823, alcott wrote to his brother : " peddling is a hard place to serve god, but a capital one to serve mammon. " near the end of his life, he fictionalized this experience in his book, new connecticut, originally circulated only among friends before its publication in 1881. early career and marriage by the summer of 1823, alcott returned to connecticut in debt to his father, who had bailed him out after his last two unsuccessful sales trips. he took a job as a schoolteacher in cheshire with the help of his uncle tillotson. he quickly set about reforming the school. he added backs to the benches on which students sat, improved lighting and heating, de - emphasized rote learning, and provided individual slates to each student — paid for by himself. alcott had been influenced by educational philosophy of the swiss pedagogue johann heinrich pestalozzi