, and had laboriously translated it, he and his older brother melville built their own automaton head. their father, highly interested in their project, offered to pay for any supplies and spurred the boys on with the enticement of a " big prize " if they were successful. while his brother constructed the throat and larynx, bell tackled the more difficult task of recreating a realistic skull. his efforts resulted in a remarkably lifelike head that could " speak ", albeit only a few words. the boys would carefully adjust the " lips " and when a bellows forced air through the windpipe, a very recognizable mama ensued, to the delight of neighbours who came to see the bell invention. intrigued by the results of the automaton, bell continued to experiment with a live subject, the family ' s skye terrier, trouve. after he taught it to growl continuously, bell would reach into its mouth and manipulate the dog ' s lips and vocal cords to produce a crude - sounding " ow ah oo ga ma ma ". with little convincing, visitors believed his dog could articulate " how are you, grandmama? " indicative of his playful nature, his experiments convinced onlookers that they saw a " talking dog ". these initial forays into experimentation with sound led bell to undertake his first serious work on the transmission of sound, using tuning forks to explore resonance. at age 19, bell wrote a report on his work and sent it to philologist alexander ellis, a colleague of his father. ellis immediately wrote back indicating that the experiments were similar to existing work in germany, and also lent bell a copy of hermann von helmholtz ' s work, the sensations of tone as a physiological basis for the theory of music. dismayed to find that groundbreaking work had already been undertaken by helmholtz who had conveyed vowel sounds by means of a similar tuning fork " contraption ", bell pored over the german scientist ' s book. working from his own erroneous mistranslation of a french edition, bell fortuitously then made a deduction that would be the underpinning of all his future work on transmitting sound, reporting : " without knowing much about the subject, it seemed to me that if vowel sounds could be produced by electrical means, so could consonants, so could articulate speech. " he also later remarked : " i thought that helmholtz had done it... and that my failure was due only to my ignorance of electricity. it was a