the aardwolf ( proteles cristatus ) is an insectivorous species of hyena, native to east and southern africa. its name means " earth - wolf " in afrikaans and dutch. it is also called the maanhaar - jackal ( afrikaans for " mane - jackal " ), termite - eating hyena and civet hyena, based on its habit of secreting substances from its anal gland, a characteristic shared with the african civet. unlike many of its relatives in the order carnivora, the aardwolf does not hunt large animals. it eats insects and their larvae, mainly termites ; one aardwolf can lap up as many as 300, 000 termites during a single night using its long, sticky tongue. the aardwolf ' s tongue has adapted to be tough enough to withstand the strong bite of termites. the aardwolf lives in the shrublands of eastern and southern africa – open lands covered with stunted trees and shrubs. it is nocturnal, resting in burrows during the day and emerging at night to seek food. taxonomy the aardwolf is generally classified with the hyena family hyaenidae, though it was formerly placed in its own family protelidae. early on, scientists felt that it was merely mimicking the striped hyena, which subsequently led to the creation of protelidae. recent studies have suggested that the aardwolf probably diverged from other hyaenids early on ; how early is still unclear, as the fossil record and genetic studies disagree by 10 million years. the aardwolf is the only surviving species in the subfamily protelinae. there is disagreement as to whether the species is monotypic, or can be divided into subspecies p. c. cristatus of southern africa and p. c. septentrionalis of east africa. a 2006 molecular analysis indicates that it is phylogenetically the most basal of the four extant hyaenidae species. etymology the generic name proteles comes from two words both of greek origin, protos and teleos which combined means " complete in front " based on the fact that they have five toes on their front feet and four on the rear. the specific name, cristatus, comes from latin and means " provided with a comb ", relating to their mane. description the aardwolf resembles a very thin striped hyena, but with a more slender muzzle, black