been run. its high octane rating of 120 and low flame temperature allows the use of high compression ratios without a penalty of high production. since ammonia contains no carbon, its combustion cannot produce carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons, or soot. ammonia production currently creates 1. 8 % of global emissions. ' green ammonia ' is ammonia produced by using green hydrogen ( hydrogen produced by electrolysis ), whereas ' blue ammonia ' is ammonia produced using blue hydrogen ( hydrogen produced by steam methane reforming where the carbon dioxide has been captured and stored ). rocket engines have also been fueled by ammonia. the reaction motors xlr99 rocket engine that powered the hypersonic research aircraft used liquid ammonia. although not as powerful as other fuels, it left no soot in the reusable rocket engine, and its density approximately matches the density of the oxidiser, liquid oxygen, which simplified the aircraft ' s design. in early august 2018, scientists from australia ' s commonwealth scientific and industrial research organisation ( csiro ) announced the success of developing a process to release hydrogen from ammonia and harvest that at ultra - high purity as a fuel for cars. this uses a special membrane. two demonstration fuel cell vehicles have the technology, a hyundai nexo and toyota mirai. in 2020, saudi arabia shipped 40 metric tons of liquid ' blue ammonia ' to japan for use as a fuel. it was produced as a by - product by petrochemical industries, and can be burned without giving off greenhouse gases. its energy density by volume is nearly double that of liquid hydrogen. if the process of creating it can be scaled up via purely renewable resources, producing green ammonia, it could make a major difference in avoiding climate change. the company acwa power and the city of neom have announced the construction of a green hydrogen and ammonia plant in 2020. green ammonia is considered as a potential fuel for future container ships. in 2020, the companies dsme and man energy solutions announced the construction of an ammonia - based ship, dsme plans to commercialize it by 2025. the use of ammonia as a potential alternative fuel for aircraft jet engines is also being explored. japan intends to implement a plan to develop ammonia co - firing technology that can increase the use of ammonia in power generation, as part of efforts to assist domestic and other asian utilities to accelerate their transition to carbon neutrality. in october 2021, the first international conference on fuel ammonia ( icfa2021 ) was held. in june 2022, ihi corporation succeeded in reducing greenhouse gases