the artist is selected each year via a public and competitive process is expected to do community outreach and attend events to promote the arts throughout the province. the award comes with $ 60, 000 funding which includes travel and materials costs. on january 31, 2019, lauren crazybull was named alberta ' s first artist in residence. alberta is the first province to launch an artist in residence program in canada. sports education as with any canadian province, the alberta legislature has ( almost ) exclusive authority to make laws respecting education. since 1905, the legislature has used this capacity to continue the model of locally elected public and separate school boards which originated prior to 1905, as well as to create and regulate universities, colleges, technical institutions, and other educational forms and institutions ( public charter schools, private schools, homeschooling ). elementary and secondary there are forty - two public school jurisdictions in alberta, and seventeen operating separate school jurisdictions. sixteen of the operating separate school jurisdictions have a catholic electorate, and one ( st. albert ) has a protestant electorate. in addition, one protestant separate school district, glen avon, survives as a ward of the st. paul education region. the city of lloydminster straddles the albertan / saskatchewan border, and both the public and separate school systems in that city are counted in the above numbers : both of them operate according to saskatchewan law. for many years the provincial government has funded the greater part of the cost of providing k – 12 education. prior to 1994 public and separate school boards in alberta had the legislative authority to levy a local tax on property as supplementary support for local education. in 1994, the government of the province eliminated this right for public school boards, but not for separate school boards. since 1994 there has continued to be a tax on property in support of k – 12 education ; the difference is that the provincial government now sets the mill rate, the money is collected by the local municipal authority and remitted to the provincial government. the relevant legislation requires that all the money raised by this property tax must go to support k – 12 education provided by school boards. the provincial government pools the property tax funds from across the province and distributes them, according to a formula, to public and separate school jurisdictions and francophone authorities. public and separate school boards, charter schools, and private schools all follow the program of studies and the curriculum approved by the provincial department of education ( alberta education ). homeschool tutors may choose to follow the program of studies or develop their own program of studies. public and