now known as the temple of augustus and rome, was built 25 20 bc following the conquest of central anatolia by the roman empire. ancyra then formed the capital of the new province of galatia. after the death of augustus in ad 14, a copy of the text of the res gestae divi augusti ( the monumentum ancyranum ) was inscribed on the interior of the temple ' s in latin and a greek translation on an exterior wall of the. the temple on the ancient acropolis of ancyra was enlarged in the 2nd century and converted into a church in the 5th century. it is located in the ulus quarter of the city. it was subsequently publicized by the austrian ambassador ogier ghiselin de busbecq in the 16th century. roman baths the roman baths of ankara have all the typical features of a classical roman bath complex : a frigidarium ( cold room ), a tepidarium ( warm room ) and a caldarium ( hot room ). the baths were built during the reign of the roman emperor caracalla in the early 3rd century to honor asclepios, the god of medicine. today, only the basement and first floors remain. it is situated in the ulus quarter. roman road the roman road of ankara or cardo maximus was found in 1995 by turkish archeologist cevdet bayburtluoglu. it is long and wide. many ancient artifacts were discovered during the excavations along the road and most of them are displayed at the museum of anatolian civilizations. column of julian the column of julian or julianus, now in the ulus district, was erected in honor of the roman emperor julian the apostate ' s visit to ancyra in 362. mosques kocatepe mosque kocatepe mosque is the largest mosque in the city. located in the kocatepe quarter, it was constructed between 1967 and 1987 in classical ottoman style with four minarets. its size and prominent location have made it a landmark for the city. ahmet hamdi akseki mosque ahmet hamdi akseki mosque is located near the presidency of religious affairs on the eskisehir road. built in the turkish neoclassical style, it is one of the largest new mosques in the city, completed and opened in 2013. it can accommodate 6 thousand people during general prayers, and up to 30 thousand people during funeral prayers. the mosque was decorated with anatolian seljuk style patterns. yeni ( cenab