troops against smallpox. with the exception of a minor skirmishing between the two armies which continued until march, howe made no attempt to attack the americans. british northern strategy fails the 1776 campaign demonstrated that regaining new england would be a prolonged affair, which led to a change in british strategy. this involved isolating the north from the rest of the country by taking control of the hudson river, allowing them to focus on the south where loyalist support was believed to be substantial. in december 1776, howe wrote to the colonial secretary lord germain, proposing a limited offensive against philadelphia, while a second force moved down the hudson from canada. germain received this on february 23, 1777, followed a few days later by a memorandum from burgoyne, then in london on leave. burgoyne supplied several alternatives, all of which gave him responsibility for the offensive, with howe remaining on the defensive. the option selected required him to lead the main force south from montreal down the hudson valley, while a detachment under barry st. leger moved east from lake ontario. the two would meet at albany, leaving howe to decide whether to join them. reasonable in principle, this did not account for the logistical difficulties involved and burgoyne erroneously assumed howe would remain on the defensive ; germain ' s failure to make this clear meant he opted to attack philadelphia instead. burgoyne set out on june 14, 1777, with a mixed force of british regulars, professional german soldiers and canadian militia, and captured fort ticonderoga on july 5. as general horatio gates retreated, his troops blocked roads, destroyed bridges, dammed streams, and stripped the area of food. this slowed burgoyne ' s progress and forced him to send out large foraging expeditions ; on one of these, more than 700 british troops were captured at the battle of bennington on august 16. st leger moved east and besieged fort stanwix ; despite defeating an american relief force at the battle of oriskany on august 6, he was abandoned by his indian allies and withdrew to quebec on august 22. now isolated and outnumbered by gates, burgoyne continued onto albany rather than retreating to fort ticonderoga, reaching saratoga on september 13. he asked clinton for support while constructing defenses around the town. morale among his troops rapidly declined, and an unsuccessful attempt to break past gates at the battle of freeman farms on september 19 resulted in 600 british casualties. when clinton advised he could not reach them, burgoyne ' s subordinates advised retreat ; a reconnaissance in force on october 7 was repulsed by gates