##el ' s incompleteness theorems decades before their actual discovery. lovelace and mary shelley as teenagers are the central characters in jordan stratford ' s steampunk series, the wollstonecraft detective agency. lovelace features in john crowley ' s 2005 novel, lord byron ' s novel : the evening land, as an unseen character whose personality is forcefully depicted in her annotations and anti - heroic efforts to archive her father ' s lost novel. the 2015 play ada and the engine by lauren gunderson portrays lovelace and charles babbage in unrequited love, and it imagines a post - death meeting between lovelace and her father. lovelace and babbage are also the main characters in sydney padua ' s webcomic and graphic novel the thrilling adventures of lovelace and babbage. the comic features extensive footnotes on the history of ada lovelace, and many lines of dialogue are drawn from actual correspondence. lovelace is a primary character in the 2019 big finish doctor who audio play the enchantress of numbers, starring tom baker as the fourth doctor and jane slavin as his current companion, wpc ann kelso. lovelace is played by finty williams. in 2019, lovelace is a featured character in the play stem femmes by philadelphia theater company applied mechanics. film and television in the 1997 film conceiving ada, a computer scientist obsessed with ada finds a way of communicating with her in the past by means of " undying information waves ". lovelace, identified as ada augusta byron, is portrayed by lily lesser in the second season of the frankenstein chronicles. she is employed as an " analyst " to provide the workings of a life - sized humanoid automaton. the brass workings of the machine are reminiscent of babbage ' s analytical engine. her employment is described as keeping her occupied until she returns to her studies in advanced mathematics. lovelace and babbage appear as characters in the second season of the itv series victoria ( 2017 ). emerald fennell portrays lovelace in the episode, " the green - eyed monster. " " lovelace " is the name given to the operating system designed by the character cameron howe in halt and catch fire. lovelace features as a character in " spyfall, part 2 ", the second episode of doctor who, series 12, which first aired on bbc one on 5 january 2020. the character was portrayed by sylvie briggs, alongside characterisations of charles babbage and noor inayat khan.