kissing each other as true brothers, and of them it is written : " behold how good and how pleasant [ it is ] for brethren to dwell together in unity! " of them it is said : " mercy and truth are met together ; righteousness and peace have kissed [ each other ] " ; for moses stood for righteousness and aaron for peace. again, mercy was personified in aaron, according to deuteronomy 33 : 8, and truth in moses, according to numbers 12 : 7. when moses poured the oil of anointment upon the head of aaron, aaron modestly shrank back and said : " who knows whether i have not cast some blemish upon this sacred oil so as to forfeit this high office. " then the shekhinah spoke the words : " behold the precious ointment upon the head, that ran down upon the beard of aaron, that even went down to the skirts of his garment, is as pure as the dew of hermon. " according to tanhuma, aaron ' s activity as a prophet began earlier than that of moses. hillel held aaron up as an example, saying : " be of the disciples of aaron, loving peace and pursuing peace ; love your fellow creatures and draw them nigh unto the law! " this is further illustrated by the tradition that aaron was an ideal priest of the people, far more beloved for his kindly ways than was moses. while moses was stern and uncompromising, brooking no wrong, aaron went about as peacemaker, reconciling man and wife when he saw them estranged, or a man with his neighbor when they quarreled, and winning evil - doers back into the right way by his friendly intercourse. as a result, aaron ' s death was more intensely mourned than moses ' : when aaron died the whole house of israel wept, including the women, while moses was bewailed by " the sons of israel " only. even in the making of the golden calf the rabbis find extenuating circumstances for aaron. his fortitude and silent submission to the will of god on the loss of his two sons are referred to as an excellent example to men how to glorify god in the midst of great affliction. especially significant are the words represented as being spoken by god after the princes of the twelve tribes had brought their dedication offerings into the newly reared tabernacle : " say to thy brother aaron : greater than the gifts of the princes is thy gift ; for thou art called