howe ' s replacement henry clinton, which intended to take the war against the americans into the south. despite some initial success, cornwallis was besieged by a franco - american force in yorktown in september and october 1781. cornwallis attempted to resupply the garrison, but failed and was forced to surrender in october. the british wars with france and spain continued for another two years, but britain ' s forces in america were largely confined to several harbors and forts in great lakes, and fighting largely ceased in america. in april 1782, the north ministry was replaced by a new british government, which accepted american independence and began negotiating the treaty of paris, ratified on september 3, 1783, and britain acknowledged the sovereignty and independence of the united states of america, bringing the american revolutionary war to an end. the treaties of versailles resolved britain ' s conflicts with france and spain. prelude to revolution the french and indian war, part of the wider global conflict known as the seven years ' war, ended with the 1763 peace of paris, which expelled france from britain ' s possessions in new france. acquisition of territories in atlantic canada and west florida, inhabited largely by french or spanish - speaking catholics, led british authorities to consolidate their hold by populating them with english - speaking settlers. preventing conflict between settlers and indian tribes west of the appalachian mountains also avoided the cost of an expensive military occupation. the royal proclamation of 1763 was designed to achieve these aims by refocusing colonial expansion north into nova scotia and south into florida, with the mississippi river as the dividing line between british and spanish possessions in america. settlement was tightly restricted beyond the 1763 limits, and claims west of this line, including by virginia and massachusetts, were rescinded despite the fact that each colony argued that their boundaries extended from the atlantic ocean to the pacific ocean. the vast exchange of territory ultimately destabilized existing alliances and trade networks between settlers and indians in the west, while it proved impossible to prevent encroachment beyond the proclamation line. with the exception of virginia and others deprived of rights to western lands, the colonial legislatures agreed on the boundaries but disagreed on where to set them. many settlers resented the restrictions entirely, and enforcement required permanent garrisons along the frontier, which led to increasingly bitter disputes over who should pay for them. taxation and legislation although directly administered by the crown, acting through a local governor, the colonies were largely governed by native - born property owners. while external affairs were managed by london, colonial militia were funded locally but with the ending of the french threat in