to be continued, and their endowments secured. consequently, some thirty - four cathedrals, collegiate churches, and royal chapels maintained paid establishments of lay singing men and choristers in the late 16th century. all save four of these have – with interruptions during the commonwealth and the covid - 19 pandemic – continued daily choral prayer and praise to this day. in the offices of matins and evensong in the 1662 book of common prayer, these choral establishments are specified as " quires and places where they sing ". for nearly three centuries, this round of daily professional choral worship represented a tradition entirely distinct from that embodied in the intoning of parish clerks, and the singing of " west gallery choirs " which commonly accompanied weekly worship in english parish churches. in 1841, the rebuilt leeds parish church established a surpliced choir to accompany parish services, drawing explicitly on the musical traditions of the ancient choral foundations. over the next century, the leeds example proved immensely popular and influential for choirs in cathedrals, parish churches, and schools throughout the anglican communion. more or less extensively adapted, this choral tradition also became the direct inspiration for robed choirs leading congregational worship in a wide range of christian denominations. in 1719, the cathedral choirs of gloucester, hereford, and worcester combined to establish the annual three choirs festival, the precursor for the multitude of summer music festivals since. by the 20th century, the choral tradition had become for many the most accessible face of worldwide anglicanism – especially as promoted through the regular broadcasting of choral evensong by the bbc ; and also in the annual televising of the festival of nine lessons and carols from king ' s college, cambridge. composers closely concerned with this tradition include edward elgar, ralph vaughan williams, gustav holst, charles villiers stanford, and benjamin britten. a number of important 20th - century works by non - anglican composers were originally commissioned for the anglican choral tradition – for example, the chichester psalms of leonard bernstein and the nunc dimittis of arvo part. communion principles of governance contrary to popular misconception, the british monarch is not the constitutional " head " of the church of england but is, in law, the church ' s " supreme governor ", nor does the monarch have any role in provinces outside england. the role of the crown in the church of england is practically limited to the appointment of bishops, including the archbishop of canterbury, and even this role is limited, as the church presents the government with a short list of candidates from which to