of the most important molecules for studies of molecular clouds. the relative intensity of the ammonia lines can be used to measure the temperature of the emitting medium. the following isotopic species of ammonia have been detected :,,,, and. the detection of triply deuterated ammonia was considered a surprise as deuterium is relatively scarce. it is thought that the low - temperature conditions allow this molecule to survive and accumulate. since its interstellar discovery, has proved to be an invaluable spectroscopic tool in the study of the interstellar medium. with a large number of transitions sensitive to a wide range of excitation conditions, has been widely astronomically detected – its detection has been reported in hundreds of journal articles. listed below is a sample of journal articles that highlights the range of detectors that have been used to identify ammonia. the study of interstellar ammonia has been important to a number of areas of research in the last few decades. some of these are delineated below and primarily involve using ammonia as an interstellar thermometer. interstellar formation mechanisms the interstellar abundance for ammonia has been measured for a variety of environments. the [ ] / [ ] ratio has been estimated to range from 10−7 in small dark clouds up to 10−5 in the dense core of the orion molecular cloud complex. although a total of 18 total production routes have been proposed, the principal formation mechanism for interstellar is the reaction : the rate constant, k, of this reaction depends on the temperature of the environment, with a value of at 10 k. the rate constant was calculated from the formula. for the primary formation reaction, and. assuming an abundance of and an electron abundance of 10−7 typical of molecular clouds, the formation will proceed at a rate of in a molecular cloud of total density. all other proposed formation reactions have rate constants of between two and 13 orders of magnitude smaller, making their contribution to the abundance of ammonia relatively insignificant. as an example of the minor contribution other formation reactions play, the reaction : has a rate constant of 2. 2. assuming densities of 105 and [ ] / [ ] ratio of 10−7, this reaction proceeds at a rate of 2. 2, more than three orders of magnitude slower than the primary reaction above. some of the other possible formation reactions are : interstellar destruction mechanisms there are 113 total proposed reactions leading to the destruction of. of these, 39 were tabulated in extensive tables of the chemistry among c, n and o compounds. a review of