species. the remaining families count together for less than 1500 species. the two large families are cosmopolitan, with many of their species found in the northern hemisphere, and the smaller families are usually confined to australia and the adjacent areas, or sometimes south america. only the asteraceae have composite flower heads ; the other families do not, but share other characteristics such as storage of inulin that define the 11 families as more closely related to each other than to other plant families or orders such as the rosids. the phylogenetic tree according to apg iii for the campanulid clade is as below. phylogeny although most extant species of asteraceae are herbaceous, the examination of the basal members in the family suggests that the common ancestor of the family was an arborescent plant, a tree or shrub, perhaps adapted to dry conditions, radiating from south america. less can be said about the asterales themselves with certainty, although since several families in asterales contain trees, the ancestral member is most likely to have been a tree or shrub. because all clades are represented in the southern hemisphere but many not in the northern hemisphere, it is natural to conjecture that there is a common southern origin to them. asterales are angiosperms, flowering plants that appeared about 140 million years ago. the asterales order probably originated in the cretaceous ( 145 – 66 mya ) on the supercontinent gondwana which broke up from 184 – 80 mya, forming the area that is now australia, south america, africa, india and antarctica. asterales contain about 14 % of eudicot diversity. from an analysis of relationships and diversities within the asterales and with their superorders, estimates of the age of the beginning of the asterales have been made, which range from 116 mya to 82mya. however few fossils have been found, of the menyanthaceae - asteraceae clade in the oligocene, about 29 mya. fossil evidence of the asterales is rare and belongs to rather recent epochs, so the precise estimation of the order ' s age is quite difficult. an oligocene ( 34 – 23 mya ) pollen is known for asteraceae and goodeniaceae, and seeds from oligocene and miocene ( 23 – 5. 3 mya ) are known for menyanthaceae and campanulaceae respectively. biogeography the core asterales are stylidiaceae ( six genera ), ap