accordions have been modified by individuals striving to bring a more pure sound out of low - end instruments, such as the ones improved by yutaka usui, a japanese craftsman. the manufacture of an accordion is only a partly automated process. in a sense, all accordions are handmade, since there is always some hand assembly of the small parts required. the general process involves making the individual parts, assembling the subsections, assembling the entire instrument, and final decorating and packaging. notable centres of production are the italian cities of stradella and castelfidardo, with many small and medium size manufacturers especially at the latter. castelfidardo honours the memory of paolo soprani who was one of the first large - scale producers. maugein freres has built accordions in the french town of tulle since 1919, and the company is now the last complete - process manufacturer of accordions in france. german companies such as hohner and weltmeister made large numbers of accordions, but production diminished by the end of the 20th century. hohner still manufactures its top - end models in germany, and weltmeister instruments are still handmade by harmona akkordeon gmbh in klingenthal. use in various music genres the accordion has traditionally been used to perform folk or ethnic music, popular music, and transcriptions from the operatic and light - classical music repertoire. it was also used by the kikuyu tribe in kenya and is the main instrument in the traditional mwomboko dance. today the instrument is sometimes heard in contemporary pop styles, such as rock and pop - rock, and occasionally even in serious classical music concerts, as well as advertisements. use in traditional music the accordion ' s popularity spread rapidly : it has mostly been associated with the common people, and was propagated by europeans who emigrated around the world. the accordion in both button and piano forms became a favorite of folk musicians and has been integrated into traditional music styles all over the world : see the list of music styles that incorporate the accordion. use in jazz notable jazz accordionists early jazz accordionists include charles melrose, who recorded wailing blues / barrel house stomp ( 1930, voc. 1503 ) with the cellar boys ; buster moten, who played second piano and accordion in the bennie moten orchestra ; and jack cornell, who did recordings with irving mills. later jazz accordionists from the united states include steve bach, milton delugg, orlando digiro