##kovsky ( along with francois truffaut and yasujiro ozu ). the french filmmaker chris marker directed a documentary film as a homage to tarkovsky called one day in the life of andrei arsenevich and used tarkovsky ' s concept of " the zone " ( from the film, stalker ) for his 1983 film essay, sans soleil. the greek filmmaker theo angelopoulos regarded tarkovsky ' s film stalker as one of the films that influenced him. the polish filmmaker andrzej zuławski remarked that : " if anybody influenced anybody, it ’ s me being influenced by tarkovsky, not the reverse ", and called tarkovsky ' s film andrei rublev a " masterpiece ". the greek - australian filmmaker alex proyas was " extremely influenced " by tarkovsky ' s work and cited stalker as one of his favorite films. the french philosopher jean - paul sartre highly praised tarkovsky ' s film ivan ' s childhood, saying that it was one of the most beautiful films he had ever seen. the japanese anime filmmaker mamoru oshii, known for his works such as ghost in the shell, was influenced by tarkovsky. the indian - born british american novelist salman rushdie praised tarkovsky and his work solaris by calling it " a sci - fi masterpiece ". film historian steven dillon says that much of subsequent film was deeply influenced by the films of tarkovsky. mexican filmmaker alejandro gonzalez inarritu is a huge fan of tarkovsky. he once said in an interview : " andrei rublev is maybe my favorite film ever ", and in another interview, he added : " i remember, the first time i saw a tarkovsky film, i was shocked by it. i did not know what to do. i was shocked by it. i was fascinated, because suddenly i realized that film could have so many more layers to it than what i had imagined before ". there are many direct references and hidden tributes to tarkovsky ' s movies in inarritu ' s 2015 oscar - winning drama the revenant. danish film director lars von trier is a fervent admirer of tarkovsky. he dedicated his 2009 film antichrist to him, and, while discussing it with critic david jenkins, asked : " have you seen mirror? i was hypnotised! i ' ve seen it 20 times. it ' s the closest thing i ' ve got to a religion – to me he is a god ". film festival two film festivals have been named in his honor : international