political reform. however, elections are routinely criticised by opposition groups as unfair and international human rights groups say that media censorship and harassment of political opponents continue. on 2 april 2019, bouteflika resigned from the presidency after mass protests against his candidacy for a fifth term in office. in december 2019, abdelmadjid tebboune became algeria ' s president, after winning the first round of the presidential election with a record abstention rate – the highest of all presidential elections since algeria ' s democracy in 1989. tebboune is accused to be close to the military and being loyal to the deposed president. tebboune rejects these accusations, claiming to be the victim of a witch hunt. he also reminds his detractors that he was expelled from the government in august 2017 at the instigation of oligarchs languishing in prison. geography since the 2011 breakup of sudan, and the creation of south sudan, algeria has been the largest country in africa, and the mediterranean basin. its southern part includes a significant portion of the sahara. to the north, the tell atlas form with the saharan atlas, further south, two parallel sets of reliefs in approaching eastbound, and between which are inserted vast plains and highlands. both atlas tend to merge in eastern algeria. the vast mountain ranges of aures and nememcha occupy the entire northeastern algeria and are delineated by the tunisian border. the highest point is mount tahat ( ). algeria lies mostly between latitudes 19° and 37°n ( a small area is north of 37°n and south of 19°n ), and longitudes 9°w and 12°e. most of the coastal area is hilly, sometimes even mountainous, and there are a few natural harbours. the area from the coast to the tell atlas is fertile. south of the tell atlas is a steppe landscape ending with the saharan atlas ; farther south, there is the sahara desert. the hoggar mountains ( ), also known as the hoggar, are a highland region in central sahara, southern algeria. they are located about south of the capital, algiers, and just east of tamanghasset. algiers, oran, constantine, and annaba are algeria ' s main cities. climate and hydrology in this region, midday desert temperatures can be hot year round. after sunset, however, the clear, dry air permits rapid loss of heat, and the nights are cool to chilly. enormous daily ranges in temperature are recorded. rainfall is fairly plentiful