s low point, with people in misery ;... yeltsin decreed i be honored the highest state order. i replied that i was unable to receive an award from a government that had led russia into such dire straits. " in a 2003 interview with joseph pearce, solzhenitsyn said : " we are exiting from communism in a most unfortunate and awkward way. it would have been difficult to design a path out of communism worse than the one that has been followed. " in a 2007 interview with der spiegel, solzhenitsyn expressed disappointment that the " conflation of ' soviet ' and ' russian ' ", against which he spoke so often in the 1970s, had not passed away in the west, in the ex - socialist countries, or in the former soviet republics. he commented, " the elder political generation in communist countries is not ready for repentance, while the new generation is only too happy to voice grievances and level accusations, with present - day moscow [ as ] a convenient target. they behave as if they heroically liberated themselves and lead a new life now, while moscow has remained communist. nevertheless, i dare [ to ] hope that this unhealthy phase will soon be over, that all the peoples who have lived through communism will understand that communism is to blame for the bitter pages of their history. " in 2008, solzhenitsyn praised putin, saying russia was rediscovering what it meant to be russian. solzhenitsyn also praised the russian president dmitry medvedev as a " nice young man " who was capable of taking on the challenges russia was facing. criticism of the west once in the united states, solzhenitsyn sharply criticized the west. solzhenitsyn criticized the allies for not opening a new front against nazi germany in the west earlier in world war ii. this resulted in soviet domination and control of the nations of eastern europe. solzhenitsyn claimed the western democracies apparently cared little about how many died in the east, as long as they could end the war quickly and painlessly for themselves in the west. delivering the commencement address at harvard university in 1978, he called the united states " dechristianized " and mired in boorish consumerism. the american people, he said, speaking in russian through a translator, were also suffering from a " decline in courage " and a " lack of manliness. " few were willing to die for their ideals, he said