' s law code, of excerpts from the vulgate book of exodus. the old english versions of orosius ' s histories against the pagans and bede ' s ecclesiastical history of the english people are no longer accepted by scholars as alfred ' s own translations because of lexical and stylistic differences. nonetheless, the consensus remains that they were part of the alfredian programme of translation. simon keynes and michael lapidge suggest this also for bald ' s leechbook and the anonymous old english martyrology. the preface of alfred ' s translation of pope gregory the great ' s pastoral care explained why he thought it necessary to translate works such as this from latin into english. although he described his method as translating " sometimes word for word, sometimes sense for sense ", the translation keeps very close to the original although, through his choice of language, he blurred throughout the distinction between spiritual and secular authority. alfred meant the translation to be used, and circulated it to all his bishops. interest in alfred ' s translation of pastoral care was so enduring that copies were still being made in the 11th century. boethius ' s consolation of philosophy was the most popular philosophical handbook of the middle ages. unlike the translation of the pastoral care, the alfredian text deals very freely with the original and, though the late dr. g. schepss showed that many of the additions to the text are to be traced not to the translator himself but to the glosses and commentaries which he used, still there is much in the work which is distinctive to the translation and has been taken to reflect philosophies of kingship in alfred ' s milieu. it is in the boethius that the oft - quoted sentence occurs : " to speak briefly : i desired to live worthily as long as i lived, and after my life to leave to them that should come after, my memory in good works. " the book has come down to us in two manuscripts only. in one of these the writing is prose, in the other a combination of prose and alliterating verse. the latter manuscript was severely damaged in the 18th and 19th centuries. the last of the alfredian works is one which bears the name blostman ( ' blooms ' ) or anthology. the first half is based mainly on the soliloquies of st augustine of hippo, the remainder is drawn from various sources. the material has traditionally been thought to contain much that is alfred ' s own and highly characteristic of him. the last words of it may be quoted