was established in 1925. currently all newly discovered asteroids receive a provisional designation ( such as ) consisting of the year of discovery and an alphanumeric code indicating the half - month of discovery and the sequence within that half - month. once an asteroid ' s orbit has been confirmed, it is given a number, and later may also be given a name ( e. g. ). the formal naming convention uses parentheses around the number — e. g. ( 433 ) eros — but dropping the parentheses is quite common. informally, it is also common to drop the number altogether, or to drop it after the first mention when a name is repeated in running text. in addition, names can be proposed by the asteroid ' s discoverer, within guidelines established by the international astronomical union. symbols the first asteroids to be discovered were assigned iconic symbols like the ones traditionally used to designate the planets. by 1855 there were two dozen asteroid symbols, which often occurred in multiple variants. in 1851, after the fifteenth asteroid, eunomia, had been discovered, johann franz encke made a major change in the upcoming 1854 edition of the berliner astronomisches jahrbuch ( baj, berlin astronomical yearbook ). he introduced a disk ( circle ), a traditional symbol for a star, as the generic symbol for an asteroid. the circle was then numbered in order of discovery to indicate a specific asteroid. the numbered - circle convention was quickly adopted by astronomers, and the next asteroid to be discovered ( 16 psyche, in 1852 ) was the first to be designated in that way at the time of its discovery. however, psyche was given an iconic symbol as well, as were a few other asteroids discovered over the next few years. 20 massalia was the first asteroid that was not assigned an iconic symbol, and no iconic symbols were created after the 1855 discovery of 37 fides. terminology the first discovered asteroid, ceres, was originally considered a new planet. it was followed by the discovery of other similar bodies, which with the equipment of the time appeared to be points of light like stars, showing little or no planetary disc, though readily distinguishable from stars due to their apparent motions. this prompted the astronomer sir william herschel to propose the term asteroid, coined in greek as αστεροειδης, or asteroeides, meaning ' star - like, star - shaped ', and derived from the ancient greek aster ' star, planet '. in the early second half of the 19th century, the terms