stamps on the back, by the 1980s they switched to blue. warhol had a retrospective exhibition at the whitney museum of american art in 1971. his famous portrait of chinese communist leader mao zedong was created in 1973. in 1975, he published the philosophy of andy warhol ( 1975 ). an idea expressed in the book : " making money is art, and working is art and good business is the best art. " compared to the success and scandal of warhol ' s work in the 1960s, the 1970s were a much quieter decade, as he became more entrepreneurial. he socialized at various nightspots in new york city, including max ' s kansas city and, later in the 1970s, studio 54. he was generally regarded as quiet, shy, and a meticulous observer. art critic robert hughes called him " the white mole of union square ". in 1977, warhol was commissioned by art collector richard weisman to create athletes, ten portraits consisting of the leading athletes of the day. according to bob colacello, warhol devoted much of his time to rounding up new, rich patrons for portrait commissions — including shah of iran mohammad reza pahlavi, his wife empress farah pahlavi, his sister princess ashraf pahlavi, mick jagger, liza minnelli, john lennon, diana ross, and brigitte bardot. in 1979, reviewers disliked his exhibits of portraits of 1970s personalities and celebrities, calling them superficial, facile and commercial, with no depth or indication of the significance of the subjects. in 1979, warhol and his longtime friend stuart pivar founded the new york academy of art. 1980s warhol had a re - emergence of critical and financial success in the 1980s, partially due to his affiliation and friendships with a number of prolific younger artists, who were dominating the " bull market " of 1980s new york art : jean - michel basquiat, julian schnabel, david salle and other so - called neo - expressionists, as well as members of the transavantgarde movement in europe, including francesco clemente and enzo cucchi. warhol also earned street credibility and graffiti artist fab five freddy paid homage to warhol by painting an entire train with campbell soup cans. warhol was also being criticized for becoming merely a " business artist ". critics panned his 1980 exhibition ten portraits of jews of the twentieth century at the jewish museum in manhattan, which warhol — who was uninterested in judaism and jews — had described in his