when dropped into water, caesium produces a larger explosion than potassium if the same number of moles of each metal is used. the alkali metals have the lowest first ionisation energies in their respective periods of the periodic table because of their low effective nuclear charge and the ability to attain a noble gas configuration by losing just one electron. not only do the alkali metals react with water, but also with proton donors like alcohols and phenols, gaseous ammonia, and alkynes, the last demonstrating the phenomenal degree of their reactivity. their great power as reducing agents makes them very useful in liberating other metals from their oxides or halides. the second ionisation energy of all of the alkali metals is very high as it is in a full shell that is also closer to the nucleus ; thus, they almost always lose a single electron, forming cations. the alkalides are an exception : they are unstable compounds which contain alkali metals in a −1 oxidation state, which is very unusual as before the discovery of the alkalides, the alkali metals were not expected to be able to form anions and were thought to be able to appear in salts only as cations. the alkalide anions have filled s - subshells, which gives them enough stability to exist. all the stable alkali metals except lithium are known to be able to form alkalides, and the alkalides have much theoretical interest due to their unusual stoichiometry and low ionisation potentials. alkalides are chemically similar to the electrides, which are salts with trapped electrons acting as anions. a particularly striking example of an alkalide is " inverse sodium hydride ", h + na− ( both ions being complexed ), as opposed to the usual sodium hydride, na + h− : it is unstable in isolation, due to its high energy resulting from the displacement of two electrons from hydrogen to sodium, although several derivatives are predicted to be metastable or stable. in aqueous solution, the alkali metal ions form aqua ions of the formula [ m ( h2o ) n ] +, where n is the solvation number. their coordination numbers and shapes agree well with those expected from their ionic radii. in aqueous solution the water molecules directly attached to the metal ion are said to belong to the first coordination sphere, also known as the first, or primary, solvation shell. the bond