##s of the ninth or tenth century. legends about attila and his meeting with pope leo i an anonymous chronicler of the medieval period represented the meeting of pope leo and atilla as attended also by saint peter and saint paul, " a miraculous tale calculated to meet the taste of the time " this apotheosis was later portrayed artistically by the renaissance artist raphael and sculptor algardi, whom eighteenth - century historian edward gibbon praised for establishing " one of the noblest legends of ecclesiastical tradition ". according to a version of this narrative related in the chronicon pictum, a mediaeval hungarian chronicle, the pope promised attila that if he left rome in peace, one of his successors would receive a holy crown ( which has been understood as referring to the holy crown of hungary ). attila in germanic heroic legend some histories and chronicles describe attila as a great and noble king, and he plays major roles in three norse texts : atlakviða, volsunga saga, and atlamal. the polish chronicle represents attila ' s name as aquila. frutolf of michelsberg and otto of freising pointed out that some songs as " vulgar fables " and made theoderic the great, attila and ermanaric contemporaries, when any reader of jordanes knew that this was not the case. this refers to the so - called historical poems about dietrich von bern ( theoderic ), in which etzel ( german for attila ) is dietrich ' s refuge in exile from his wicked uncle ermenrich ( ermanaric ). etzel is most prominent in the poems dietrichs flucht and the rabenschlacht. etzel also appears as kriemhild ' s second noble husband in the nibelungenlied, in which kriemhild causes the destruction of both the hunnish kingdom and that of her burgundian relatives. early modern and modern reception in 1812, ludwig van beethoven conceived the idea of writing an opera about attila and approached august von kotzebue to write the libretto. it was, however, never written. in 1846, giuseppe verdi wrote the opera, loosely based on episodes in attila ' s invasion of italy. in world war i, allied propaganda referred to germans as the " huns ", based on a 1900 speech by emperor wilhelm ii praising attila the hun ' s military prowess, according to jawaharlal nehru ' s glimpses of world history. der sp