with rage over agamemnon ' s theft, achilles prays to thetis to convince zeus to help the trojans gain ground in the war, so that he may regain his honour. as the battle turns against the greeks, thanks to the influence of zeus, nestor declares that the trojans are winning because agamemnon has angered achilles, and urges the king to appease the warrior. agamemnon agrees and sends odysseus and two other chieftains, ajax and phoenix. they promise that, if achilles returns to battle, agamemnon will return the captive briseis and other gifts. achilles rejects all agamemnon offers him and simply urges the greeks to sail home as he was planning to do. the trojans, led by hector, subsequently push the greek army back toward the beaches and assault the greek ships. with the greek forces on the verge of absolute destruction, patroclus leads the myrmidons into battle, wearing achilles ' armour, though achilles remains at his camp. patroclus succeeds in pushing the trojans back from the beaches, but is killed by hector before he can lead a proper assault on the city of troy. after receiving the news of the death of patroclus from antilochus, the son of nestor, achilles grieves over his beloved companion ' s death. his mother thetis comes to comfort the distraught achilles. she persuades hephaestus to make new armour for him, in place of the armour that patroclus had been wearing, which was taken by hector. the new armour includes the shield of achilles, described in great detail in the poem. enraged over the death of patroclus, achilles ends his refusal to fight and takes the field, killing many men in his rage but always seeking out hector. achilles even engages in battle with the river god scamander, who has become angry that achilles is choking his waters with all the men he has killed. the god tries to drown achilles but is stopped by hera and hephaestus. zeus himself takes note of achilles ' rage and sends the gods to restrain him so that he will not go on to sack troy itself before the time allotted for its destruction, seeming to show that the unhindered rage of achilles can defy fate itself. finally, achilles finds his prey. achilles chases hector around the wall of troy three times before athena, in the form of hector ' s favorite and dearest brother, deiphobus, persuade