other compounds were used starting in the 1890s. arsenite of lime and arsenate of lead were used widely as insecticides until the discovery of ddt in 1942. applications agricultural the toxicity of arsenic to insects, bacteria, and fungi led to its use as a wood preservative. in the 1930s, a process of treating wood with chromated copper arsenate ( also known as cca or tanalith ) was invented, and for decades, this treatment was the most extensive industrial use of arsenic. an increased appreciation of the toxicity of arsenic led to a ban of cca in consumer products in 2004, initiated by the european union and united states. however, cca remains in heavy use in other countries ( such as on malaysian rubber plantations ). arsenic was also used in various agricultural insecticides and poisons. for example, lead hydrogen arsenate was a common insecticide on fruit trees, but contact with the compound sometimes resulted in brain damage among those working the sprayers. in the second half of the 20th century, monosodium methyl arsenate ( msma ) and disodium methyl arsenate ( dsma ) – less toxic organic forms of arsenic – replaced lead arsenate in agriculture. these organic arsenicals were in turn phased out in the united states by 2013 in all agricultural activities except cotton farming. the biogeochemistry of arsenic is complex and includes various adsorption and desorption processes. the toxicity of arsenic is connected to its solubility and is affected by ph. arsenite ( ) is more soluble than arsenate ( ) and is more toxic ; however, at a lower ph, arsenate becomes more mobile and toxic. it was found that addition of sulfur, phosphorus, and iron oxides to high - arsenite soils greatly reduces arsenic phytotoxicity. arsenic is used as a feed additive in poultry and swine production, in particular it was used in the u. s. until 2015 to increase weight gain, improve feed efficiency, and prevent disease. an example is roxarsone, which had been used as a broiler starter by about 70 % of u. s. broiler growers. in 2011, alpharma, a subsidiary of pfizer inc., which produces roxarsone, voluntarily suspended sales of the drug in response to studies showing elevated levels of inorganic arsenic, a carcinogen, in treated chickens. a successor to alpharma, zoetis, continued to sell ni