acapulco de juarez ( ), commonly called acapulco (, ; ), is a city and major seaport in the state of guerrero on the pacific coast of mexico, south of mexico city. acapulco is located on a deep, semicircular bay and has been a port since the early colonial period of mexico ' s history. it is a port of call for shipping and cruise lines running between panama and san francisco, california, united states. the city of acapulco is the largest in the state, far larger than the state capital chilpancingo. acapulco is also mexico ' s largest beach and balneario resort city. acapulco de juarez is the municipal seat of the municipality of acapulco. the city is one of mexico ' s oldest beach resorts, coming into prominence in the 1940s through the 1960s as a getaway for hollywood stars and millionaires. acapulco was once a popular tourist resort, but due to a massive upsurge in gang violence and homicide numbers since 2014, acapulco no longer attracts many foreign tourists, and most now only come from mexico itself. it is both the ninth deadliest city in mexico and the tenth - deadliest city in the world as of 2022 ; the us government has warned its citizens not to travel there. in 2016 there were 918 murders, and the homicide rate was one of the highest in the world : 103 in every 100, 000. in september 2018 the city ' s entire police force was disarmed by the military, due to suspicions that it has been infiltrated by drug gangs. the resort area is divided into three parts : the north end of the bay and beyond is the " traditional " area, which encompasses the area from parque papagayo through the and onto the beaches of caleta and caletilla, the main part of the bay known as " " ( ' golden zone ' in spanish ), where the famous in the mid - 20th century vacationed, and the south end, " " ( ' diamond ' in spanish ), which is dominated by newer luxury high - rise hotels and condominiums. the name " acapulco " comes from nahuatl language aca - pol - co, and means " where the reeds were destroyed or washed away " or " at the big reeds ", which inspired the city ' s seal, which is an aztec - type glyph showing two hands breaking reeds