retreat, counting on the untested athenian hoplites to follow, thus breaking their line. alexander was the first to break the theban lines, followed by philip ' s generals. having damaged the enemy ' s cohesion, philip ordered his troops to press forward and quickly routed them. with the athenians lost, the thebans were surrounded. left to fight alone, they were defeated. after the victory at chaeronea, philip and alexander marched unopposed into the peloponnese, welcomed by all cities ; however, when they reached sparta, they were refused, but did not resort to war. at corinth, philip established a " hellenic alliance " ( modelled on the old anti - persian alliance of the greco - persian wars ), which included most greek city - states except sparta. philip was then named hegemon ( often translated as " supreme commander " ) of this league ( known by modern scholars as the league of corinth ), and announced his plans to attack the persian empire. exile and return when philip returned to pella, he fell in love with and married cleopatra eurydice in 338 bc, the niece of his general attalus. the marriage made alexander ' s position as heir less secure, since any son of cleopatra eurydice would be a fully macedonian heir, while alexander was only half - macedonian. during the wedding banquet, a drunken attalus publicly prayed to the gods that the union would produce a legitimate heir. in 337 bc, alexander fled macedon with his mother, dropping her off with her brother, king alexander i of epirus in dodona, capital of the molossians. he continued to illyria, where he sought refuge with one or more illyrian kings, perhaps with glaucias, and was treated as a guest, despite having defeated them in battle a few years before. however, it appears philip never intended to disown his politically and militarily trained son. accordingly, alexander returned to macedon after six months due to the efforts of a family friend, demaratus, who mediated between the two parties. in the following year, the persian satrap ( governor ) of caria, pixodarus, offered his eldest daughter to alexander ' s half - brother, philip arrhidaeus. olympias and several of alexander ' s friends suggested this showed philip intended to make arrhidaeus his heir. alexander reacted by sending an actor, thessalus of corinth, to tell pix