identify and provide intervention strategies for occupational health and safety issues. in the european union, the european agency for safety and health at work has issued guidelines on implementing health and safety directives in agriculture, livestock farming, horticulture, and forestry. the agricultural safety and health council of america ( ashca ) also holds a yearly summit to discuss safety. production overall production varies by country as listed. crop cultivation systems cropping systems vary among farms depending on the available resources and constraints ; geography and climate of the farm ; government policy ; economic, social and political pressures ; and the philosophy and culture of the farmer. shifting cultivation ( or slash and burn ) is a system in which forests are burnt, releasing nutrients to support cultivation of annual and then perennial crops for a period of several years. then the plot is left fallow to regrow forest, and the farmer moves to a new plot, returning after many more years ( 10 – 20 ). this fallow period is shortened if population density grows, requiring the input of nutrients ( fertilizer or manure ) and some manual pest control. annual cultivation is the next phase of intensity in which there is no fallow period. this requires even greater nutrient and pest control inputs. further industrialization led to the use of monocultures, when one cultivar is planted on a large acreage. because of the low biodiversity, nutrient use is uniform and pests tend to build up, necessitating the greater use of pesticides and fertilizers. multiple cropping, in which several crops are grown sequentially in one year, and intercropping, when several crops are grown at the same time, are other kinds of annual cropping systems known as polycultures. in subtropical and arid environments, the timing and extent of agriculture may be limited by rainfall, either not allowing multiple annual crops in a year, or requiring irrigation. in all of these environments perennial crops are grown ( coffee, chocolate ) and systems are practiced such as agroforestry. in temperate environments, where ecosystems were predominantly grassland or prairie, highly productive annual farming is the dominant agricultural system. important categories of food crops include cereals, legumes, forage, fruits and vegetables. natural fibers include cotton, wool, hemp, silk and flax. specific crops are cultivated in distinct growing regions throughout the world. production is listed in millions of metric tons, based on fao estimates. livestock production systems animal husbandry is the breeding and raising of animals for meat, milk, eggs, or