0. 9 % of the population. the us state department estimates that greeks make up 1. 17 %, and other minorities 0. 23 %, of the population. the latter questions the validity of the census data about the greek minority, as measurements have been affected by boycott. language the official language of the country is albanian which is spoken by the vast majority of the country ' s population. its standard spoken and written form is revised and merged from the two main dialects, gheg and tosk, though it is notably based more on the tosk dialect. the shkumbin river is the rough dividing line between the two dialects. among minority languages, greek is the second most - spoken language in the country, with 0. 5 to 3 % of the population speaking it as first language, mainly in the country ' s south where its speakers are concentrated. other languages spoken by ethnic minorities in albania include aromanian, serbian, macedonian, bosnian, bulgarian, gorani, and roma. macedonian is official in the pustec municipality in east albania. according to the 2011 population census, 2, 765, 610 or 98. 8 % of the population declared albanian as their mother tongue. because of large migration flows from albania, over half of albanians during their life learn a second language. the main foreign language known is english with 40. 0 %, followed by italian with 27. 8 % and greek with 22. 9 %. the english speakers were mostly young people, the knowledge of italian is stable in every age group, while there is a decrease of the speakers of greek in the youngest group. among young people aged 25 or less, english, german and turkish have seen rising interest after 2000. italian and french have had a stable interest, while greek has lost much of its previous interest. the trends are linked with cultural and economic factors. young people have shown a growing interest in the german language in recent years. some of them go to germany for studying or various experiences. albania and germany have agreements for cooperating in helping young people of the two countries know both cultures better. due to a sharp rise in economic relations with turkey, interest in learning turkish, in particular among young people, has been growing on a yearly basis. religion albania is a secular and religiously diverse country with no official religion and thus, freedom of religion, belief and conscience are guaranteed under the country ' s constitution. as of the 2011 census, there were 1, 587, 608 ( 56. 7 % ) sunni muslims, 280, 92