90s led to over - water dispersal of the green iguanas ( iguana iguana ) to anguilla. all three animals are introductions. five species of bats are known in the literature from anguilla – the threatened insular single leaf bat ( monophyllus plethodon ), the antillean fruit - eating bat ( brachyphylla cavernarum ), the jamaican fruit bat ( artibeus jamaicensis ), the mexican funnel - eared bat ( natalus stramineus ), and the velvety free - tailed bat ( molossus molossus ). notable people zharnel hughes ( born 1995 ), sprinter dee - ann kentish - rogers ( born 1993 ), politician, model and miss universe great britain 2018 carlos newton ( born 1976 ), former ufc welterweight champion shara proctor ( born 1988 ), long jump athlete economy anguilla ' s thin arid soil being largely unsuitable for agriculture, the island has few land - based natural resources. its main industries are tourism, offshore incorporation and management, offshore banking, captive insurance and fishing. anguilla ' s currency is the east caribbean dollar, though the us dollar is also widely accepted. the exchange rate is fixed to the us dollar at us $ 1 = ec $ 2. 70. the economy, and especially the tourism sector, suffered a setback in late 1995 due to the effects of hurricane luis in september. hotels were hit particularly hard but a recovery occurred the following year. another economic setback occurred during the aftermath of hurricane lenny in 2000. before the 2008 worldwide crisis, the economy of anguilla was growing strongly, especially the tourism sector, which was driving major new developments in partnerships with multi - national companies. anguilla ' s tourism industry received a major boost when it was selected to host the world travel awards in december 2014. known as " the oscars of the travel industry ", the awards ceremony was held at the cuisinart resort and spa and was hosted by vivica a. fox. anguilla was voted the world ' s leading luxury island destination from a short list of top - tier candidates such as st. barts, the maldives, and mauritius. anguilla ' s financial system comprises seven banks, two money services businesses, more than 40 company managers, more than 50 insurers, 12 brokers, more than 250 captive intermediaries, more than 50 mutual funds, and eight trust companies. anguilla has become a popular tax