fuero of tortum per tortum, facilitating taking the law into one ' s own hands, which among others reassumed the muslim right to dwell in the city and their right to keep their properties and practice their religion under their own jurisdiction as long as they maintained tax payment and relocated to the suburbs. in 1119, he retook cervera, tudejen, castellon, tarazona, agreda, magallon, borja, alagon, novillas, mallen, rueda, epila and populated the region of soria. he began the siege of calatayud, but left to defeat the army at cutanda trying to retake zaragoza. when calatayud fell, he took bubierca, alhama de aragon, ariza, and daroca ( 1120 ). in 1123, he besieged and took lleida, which was in the hands of the count of barcelona. from the winter of 1124 to september 1125, he was on a risky expedition to pena cadiella deep in andalusia. in the great raid of 1125, he carried away a large part of the subject christians from granada, and in the south - west of france, he had rights as king of navarre. from 1125 to 1126, he was on campaign against granada, where he was trying to install a christian prince, and cordoba, where he got only as far as motril. in 1127, he reconquered longares, but simultaneously lost all his castilian possessions to alfonso vii. he confirmed a treaty with castile the next year ( 1128 ) with the peace of tamara, which fixed the boundaries of the two realms. he conquered molina de aragon and populated monzon in 1129, before besieging valencia, which had fallen again upon the cid ' s death. he went north of the pyrenees in october 1130 to protect the val d ' aran. early in 1131, he besieged bayonne. it is said he ruled " from belorado to pallars and from bayonne to monreal. " at the siege of bayonne in october 1131, three years before his death, he published a will leaving his kingdom to three autonomous religious orders based in palestine and politically largely independent – the knights templars, the hospitallers, and the knights of the holy sepulchre, whose influences might have been expected to cancel one another out. the will has greatly puzzled historians