' s theogony, aphrodite is unmarried and the wife of hephaestus is aglaea, the youngest of the three charites. in book eight of the odyssey, however, the blind singer demodocus describes aphrodite as the wife of hephaestus and tells how she committed adultery with ares during the trojan war. the sun - god helios saw aphrodite and ares having sex in hephaestus ' s bed and warned hephaestus, who fashioned a fine, near invisible net. the next time ares and aphrodite had sex together, the net trapped them both. hephaestus brought all the gods into the bedchamber to laugh at the captured adulterers, but apollo, hermes, and poseidon had sympathy for ares and poseidon agreed to pay hephaestus for ares ' s release. aphrodite returned to her temple in cyprus, where she was attended by the charites. this narrative probably originated as a greek folk tale, originally independent of the odyssey. in a much later interpolated detail, ares put the young soldier alectryon by the door to warn of helios ' s arrival but alectryon fell asleep on guard duty. helios discovered the two and alerted hephaestus ; ares in rage turned alectryon into a rooster, which unfailingly crows to announce the sunrise. after exposing them, hephaestus asks zeus for his wedding gifts and dowry to be returned to him ; by the time of the trojan war, he is married to charis / aglaea, one of the graces, apparently divorced from aphrodite. afterwards, it was generally ares who was regarded as the husband or official consort of the goddess ; on the francois vase, the two arrive at the wedding of peleus and thetis on the same chariot, as do zeus with hera and poseidon with amphitrite. the poets pindar and aeschylus refer to ares as aphrodite ' s husband. later stories were invented to explain aphrodite ' s marriage to hephaestus. in the most famous story, zeus hastily married aphrodite to hephaestus in order to prevent the other gods from fighting over her. in another version of the myth, hephaestus gave his mother hera a golden throne, but when she sat on it, she became trapped and he refused to let her go until she