##c conference was convened to measure the progress made by the ldcs towards fulfilling their development goals during the 1980s. recognizing the problems that plagued the ldcs over the past decade, the conference formulated a new set of national and international policies to accelerate the growth rates of the poorest nations. these new principles were embodied in the " paris declaration and programme of action for the least developed countries for the 1990s ". the fourth un ldc conference was the most recent conference. it was held in may 2011 in istanbul, recognized that the nature of development had fundamentally changed since the 1st conference held almost 30 years earlier. in the 21st century, the capital flow into emerging economies has increasingly become dominated by foreign direct investment and remittances, as opposed to bilateral and multilateral assistance. moreover, since the 1980s, significant structural changes have taken place on the international stage. with the creation of the g - 20 conference of the largest economic powers, including many nations in the global south, formerly undeveloped nations are now able to have a much larger say in international relations. furthermore, the conference recognized that in the midst of a deep global recession, coupled with multiple crises ( energy, climate, food, etc. ), the international community would have fewer resources to aid the ldcs. thus, the un considered the participation of a wide range of stakeholders ( not least the ldcs themselves ), crucial to the formulation of the conference. organizations working to end extreme poverty international organizations world bank in 2013, the board of governors of the world bank group ( wbg ) set two overriding goals for the wbg to commit itself to in the future. first, to end extreme poverty by 2030, an objective that echoes the sentiments of the un and the obama administration. additionally, the wbg set an interim target of reducing extreme poverty to below 9 % by 2020. second, to focus on growth among the bottom 40 % of people, as opposed to standard gdp growth. this commitment ensures that the growth of the developing world lifts people out of poverty, rather than exacerbating inequality. as the world bank ' s primary focus is on delivering economic growth to enable equitable prosperity, its developments programs are primarily commercial - based in nature, as opposed to the un. since the world bank recognizes better jobs will result in higher income, and thus less poverty, the wbg seeks to support employment training initiatives, small business development programs and strong labor protection laws. however, since much of the growth in the developing world has been inequitable, the world bank has also