- general of south australia, with his own original, unique, topographically sensitive design. the city was named after queen adelaide. adelaide was established as a planned colony of free immigrants, promising civil liberties and freedom from religious persecution, based upon the ideas of edward gibbon wakefield. wakefield had read accounts of australian settlement while in prison in london for attempting to abduct an heiress, and realised that the eastern colonies suffered from a lack of available labour, due to the practice of giving land grants to all arrivals. wakefield ' s idea was for the government to survey and sell the land at a rate that would maintain land values high enough to be unaffordable for labourers and journeymen. funds raised from the sale of land were to be used to bring out working - class emigrants, who would have to work hard for the monied settlers to ever afford their own land. as a result of this policy, adelaide does not share the convict settlement history of other australian cities like sydney, brisbane and hobart. as it was believed that in a colony of free settlers there would be little crime, no provision was made for a gaol in colonel light ' s 1837 plan. but by mid - 1837 the south australian register was warning of escaped convicts from new south wales and tenders for a temporary gaol were sought. following a burglary, a murder, and two attempted murders in adelaide during march 1838, governor hindmarsh created the south australian police force ( now the south australia police ) in april 1838 under 21 - year - old henry inman. the first sheriff, samuel smart, was wounded during a robbery, and on 2 may 1838 one of the offenders, michael magee, became the first person to be hanged in south australia. william baker ashton was appointed governor of the temporary gaol in 1839, and in 1840 george strickland kingston was commissioned to design adelaide ' s new gaol. construction of adelaide gaol commenced in 1841. adelaide ' s early history was marked by economic uncertainty and questionable leadership. the first governor of south australia, john hindmarsh, clashed frequently with others, in particular the resident commissioner, james hurtle fisher. the rural area surrounding adelaide was surveyed by light in preparation to sell a total of over of land. adelaide ' s early economy started to get on its feet in 1838 with the arrival of livestock from victoria, new south wales and tasmania. wool production provided an early basis for the south australian economy. by 1860, wheat farms had been established from encounter bay in the south to clare in