##genism, who held that different races had separate origins and were different species. wallace ' s anthropological observations of native americans in the amazon, and especially his time living among the dayak people of borneo, had convinced him that human beings were a single species with a common ancestor. he still felt that natural selection might have continued to act on mental faculties after the development of the different races ; and he did not dispute the nearly universal view among european anthropologists of the time that europeans were intellectually superior to other races. according to political scientist adam jones, " wallace found little difficulty in reconciling the extermination of native peoples with his progressive political views ". in 1864, in the aforementioned paper, he stated " it is the same great law of the preservation of favored races in the struggle for life, which leads to the inevitable extinction of all those low and mentally undeveloped populations with which europeans come in contact. " he argued that the natives die out due to an unequal struggle. shortly afterwards, wallace became a spiritualist. at about the same time, he began to maintain that natural selection could not account for mathematical, artistic, or musical genius, metaphysical musings, or wit and humour. he stated that something in " the unseen universe of spirit " had interceded at least three times in history : the creation of life from inorganic matter ; the introduction of consciousness in the higher animals ; and the generation of the higher mental faculties in humankind. he believed that the raison d ' etre of the universe was the development of the human spirit. while some historians have concluded that wallace ' s belief that natural selection was insufficient to explain the development of consciousness and the higher functions of the human mind was directly caused by his adoption of spiritualism, other scholars have disagreed, and some maintain that wallace never believed natural selection applied to those areas. reaction to wallace ' s ideas on this topic among leading naturalists at the time varied. lyell endorsed wallace ' s views on human evolution rather than darwin ' s. wallace ' s belief that human consciousness could not be entirely a product of purely material causes was shared by a number of prominent intellectuals in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. all the same, many, including huxley, hooker, and darwin himself, were critical of wallace ' s views. as the historian of science and sceptic michael shermer has stated, wallace ' s views in this area were at odds with two major tenets of the emerging darwinian philosophy. these were that evolution was