will then solve any problem of the set with no human intervention beyond inserting the question and ( later ) reading the answer. all three definitions are equivalent, so it doesn ' t matter which one is used. moreover, the fact that all three are equivalent is a very strong argument for the correctness of any one. " ( rosser 1939 : 225 – 226 ) rosser ' s footnote no. 5 references the work of ( 1 ) church and kleene and their definition of λ - definability, in particular, church ' s use of it in his an unsolvable problem of elementary number theory ( 1936 ) ; ( 2 ) herbrand and godel and their use of recursion, in particular, godel ' s use in his famous paper on formally undecidable propositions of principia mathematica and related systems i ( 1931 ) ; and ( 3 ) post ( 1936 ) and turing ( 1936 – 37 ) in their mechanism - models of computation. stephen c. kleene defined as his now - famous " thesis i " known as the church – turing thesis. but he did this in the following context ( boldface in original ) : " 12. algorithmic theories... in setting up a complete algorithmic theory, what we do is to describe a procedure, performable for each set of values of the independent variables, which procedure necessarily terminates and in such manner that from the outcome we can read a definite answer, " yes " or " no, " to the question, " is the predicate value true? " " ( kleene 1943 : 273 ) history after 1950 a number of efforts have been directed toward further refinement of the definition of " algorithm ", and activity is on - going because of issues surrounding, in particular, foundations of mathematics ( especially the church – turing thesis ) and philosophy of mind ( especially arguments about artificial intelligence ). for more, see algorithm characterizations. see also abstract machine algol algorithm engineering algorithm characterizations algorithmic bias algorithmic composition algorithmic entities algorithmic synthesis algorithmic technique algorithmic topology garbage in, garbage out introduction to algorithms ( textbook ) government by algorithm list of algorithms list of algorithm general topics regulation of algorithms theory of computation computability theory computational complexity theory computational mathematics notes bibliography bell, c. gordon and newell, allen ( 1971 ), computer structures : readings and examples, mcgraw – hill book company, new york.. includes a bibliography of 56 references., : cf. chapter 3 turing machines