, and grew successful there as a manufacturer of machine tools and explosives. he invented the veneer lathe ( which made possible the production of modern plywood ) and started work on the torpedo. in 1842, the family joined him in the city. now prosperous, his parents were able to send nobel to private tutors and the boy excelled in his studies, particularly in chemistry and languages, achieving fluency in english, french, german and russian. for 18 months, from 1841 to 1842, nobel went to the only school he ever attended as a child, in stockholm. nobel gained proficiency in swedish, french, russian, english, german, and italian. he also developed sufficient literary skill to write poetry in english. his nemesis is a prose tragedy in four acts about the italian noblewoman beatrice cenci. it was printed while he was dying, but the entire stock was destroyed immediately after his death except for three copies, being regarded as scandalous and blasphemous. it was published in sweden in 2003 and has been translated into slovenian, french, italian, and spanish. religion nobel was lutheran and regularly attended the church of sweden abroad during his paris years, led by pastor nathan soderblom who received the nobel peace prize in 1930. he was an agnostic in youth and became an atheist later in life, though he still donated generously to the church. health and relationships nobel traveled for much of his business life, maintaining companies in europe and america while keeping a home in paris from 1873 to 1891. he remained a solitary character, given to periods of depression. he remained unmarried, although his biographers note that he had at least three loves, the first in russia with a girl named alexandra who rejected his proposal. in 1876, austro - bohemian countess bertha kinsky became his secretary, but she left him after a brief stay to marry her previous lover baron arthur gundaccar von suttner. her contact with nobel was brief, yet she corresponded with him until his death in 1896, and probably influenced his decision to include a peace prize in his will. she was awarded the 1905 nobel peace prize " for her sincere peace activities ". nobel ' s longest - lasting relationship was with sofija hess from celje whom he met in 1876 in baden near vienna, where she worked as an employee in a flower shop. the liaison lasted for 18 years. residences in the years of 1865 to 1873, alfred nobel had his home in krummel, hamburg, he afterward moved to a house in the avenue mala