british defeat clinton spent most of 1781 based in new york city ; he failed to construct a coherent operational strategy, partly due to his difficult relationship with admiral marriot arbuthnot. in charleston, cornwallis independently developed an aggressive plan for a campaign in virginia, which he hoped would isolate greene ' s army in the carolinas and cause the collapse of patriot resistance in the south. this strategy was approved by lord germain in london, but neither of them informed clinton. washington and rochambeau, meanwhile, discussed their options. washington wanted to attack the british in new york, and rochambeau wanted to attack them in virginia, where cornwallis ' forces were less established and arguably easier to defeat. washington eventually gave way, and lafayette took a combined franco - american force into virginia, but clinton misinterpreted his movements as preparations for an attack on new york. concerned by a perceived threat to his positions in new york, he instructed cornwallis to establish a fortified sea base, where the royal navy could evacuate british troops to help defend new york. when lafayette entered virginia, cornwallis complied with clinton ' s orders and withdrew to yorktown, where he constructed strong defenses and awaited evacuation. an agreement by the spanish navy to defend the french west indies allowed admiral de grasse to relocate to the atlantic seaboard, a move arbuthnot did not anticipate. this provided lafayette naval support, while the failure of previous combined operations at newport and savannah meant their coordination was planned more carefully. despite repeated urging from his subordinates, cornwallis made no attempt to engage lafayette before he could establish siege lines. expecting to be withdrawn within a few days, he also abandoned the outer defenses, which were promptly occupied by the besiegers and hastened british defeat. on august 31, a royal navy fleet under thomas graves left new york for yorktown. after landing troops and munitions for the besiegers on august 30, de grasse remained in chesapeake bay and intercepted him on september 5 ; although the battle of the chesapeake was indecisive in terms of losses, graves was forced to retreat, leaving cornwallis isolated. an attempted breakout over york river at gloucester point failed due to bad weather. under heavy bombardment with dwindling supplies, cornwallis felt his situation was hopeless and on october 16 sent emissaries to general washington to negotiate their surrender ; after twelve hours of negotiations, the terms of surrender were finalized the following day. responsibility for defeat was the subject of fierce public debate between cornwallis, clinton, and germain