praised them. he took several actions to offer them protection. in 1917, alfonso instructed the spanish consul in jerusalem, antonio de la cierva y lewita, count of ballobar, to help protect palestinian jews. on another occasion, after a high official in tetuan had committed onslaughts against jews, a delegation composed of catholics, jews, and muslims appealed to alfonso. the king then removed the tetuan official from power, in spite of the fact that the official possessed the support of the spanish minister of foreign affairs. according to the jewish professor abraham s. e. yahuda, alfonso told yahuda in private conversations that he would issue no policies of discrimination towards jews, believing all of his spanish subjects to be entitled to equal rights and protection. pornographic cinema alfonso is occasionally referred to as " the playboy king ", due in part to his promotion and collection of spanish pornographic films, as well as his extramarital affairs. as king, alfonso commissioned pornographic films through the barcelona production company royal films, with the count of romanones acting as an intermediary figure between him and the company. between forty and seventy pornographic films are said to have been shot in total ( three of which have been preserved ) and were screened in barcelona ' s chinatown, as well as during alfonso ' s private screenings. the films, while silent and in black and white, were nonetheless very explicit for the time, showing full nudity and sex scenes. these films featured content considered immoral and degenerate, including sexual relationships involving catholic priests, lesbianism, and " women with enormous breasts " ( the last of which is said to have been alfonso ' s passion ). most of these films were later destroyed during franco ' s regime. this has led some to speculate that alfonso may have possessed a sex addiction. heraldry honours spanish honours 1, 072nd knight of the golden fleece, 1886 grand cross of the order of charles iii, with collar, 1886 grand cross of the order of isabella the catholic, with collar, 1927 order of santiago order of calatrava order of alcantara order of montesa maestranza de caballeria ( royal cavalry armory ) of ronda, sevilla, granada, valencia and zaragoza founder of the civil order of alfonso xii, 23 may 1902 founder of the order of civil merit, 25 june 1926 foreign honours in the royal library of madrid, there are books containing emblems of the spanish monarch. ancestry alfonso xiii is a rare example of endogamy. in the