this is a list of characters in ayn rand ' s 1957 novel atlas shrugged. major characters the following are major characters from the novel. protagonists dagny taggart dagny taggart is the protagonist of the novel. she is vice - president in charge of operations for taggart transcontinental, under her brother, james taggart. given james ' incompetence, dagny is responsible for all the workings of the railroad. francisco d ' anconia francisco d ' anconia is one of the central characters in atlas shrugged, an owner by inheritance of the world ' s largest copper mining operation. he is a childhood friend, and the first love, of dagny taggart. a child prodigy of exceptional talents, francisco was dubbed the " climax " of the d ' anconia line, an already prestigious argentine family of skilled industrialists. he was a classmate of john galt and ragnar danneskjold and student of both hugh akston and robert stadler. he began working while still in school to show that he could have been successful without the aid of his family ' s wealth. later, francisco bankrupts the d ' anconia business to put it out of others ' reach. his full name is given as " francisco domingo carlos andres sebastian d ' anconia ". john galt john galt is the primary male hero of atlas shrugged. he initially appears as an unnamed menial worker for taggart transcontinental, who often dines with eddie willers in the employees ' cafeteria, and leads eddie to reveal important information about dagny taggart and taggart transcontinental. only eddie ' s side of their conversations is given in the novel. later in the novel, the reader discovers this worker ' s true identity. before working for taggart transcontinental, galt worked as an engineer for the twentieth century motor company, where he secretly invented a generator of usable electric energy from ambient static electricity, but abandoned his prototype, and his employment, when dissatisfied by an easily corrupted novel system of payment. this prototype was found by dagny taggart and hank rearden. galt himself remains concealed throughout much of the novel, working a job and living by himself, where he unites the most skillful inventors and business leaders under his leadership. he delivers a lengthy broadcast speech that presents the author ' s philosophy of objectivism. henry " hank " rearden henry ( known as " hank " ) rearden is one of the central characters in