variant of the ak - 47. akms : under - folding stock version of the akm intended for airborne troops. akmn ( akmsn ) : night scope rail. akml ( akmsl ) : slotted flash suppressor and night scope rail. rpk : hand - held machine gun version with longer barrel and bipod. the variants — rpks, rpkn ( rpksn ), rpkl ( rpksl ) — mirror akm variants. the " s " variants have a side - folding wooden stock. foreign variants ( 7. 62×39mm ) type 56 : chinese assault rifle based on the. still in production primarily for export markets. for the further developed ak models, see kalashnikov rifles. production manufacturing countries of ak - 47 and its variants in alphabetical order. a private company kalashnikov concern ( formerly izhmash ) from russia has repeatedly claimed that the majority of foreign manufacturers are producing ak - type rifles without proper licensing. accuracy potential us military method the ak - 47 ' s accuracy is generally sufficient to hit an adult male torso out to about, though even experts firing from prone or bench rest positions at this range were observed to have difficulty placing ten consecutive rounds on target. later designs did not significantly improve the rifle ' s accuracy. an ak can fire a 10 - shot group of at, and at the newer stamped - steel receiver akm models, while more rugged and less prone to metal fatigue, are less accurate than the forged / milled receivers of their predecessors : the milled ak - 47s are capable of shooting groups at, whereas the stamped akms are capable of shooting groups at. the best shooters can hit a man - sized target at within five shots ( firing from a prone or bench rest position ) or ten shots ( standing ). the single - shot hit - probability on the nato e - type silhouette target ( a human upper body half and head silhouette ) of the ak - 47 and the later developed ak - 74, m16a1, and m16a2 rifles were measured by the us military under ideal proving ground conditions in the 1980s as follows : under worst field exercise circumstances, the hit probabilities for all the tested rifles were drastically reduced, from 34 % at 50m down to 3 – 4 % at 600m with no significant differences between weapons at each range. russian method the following table represents the russian circular error probable method for determining accuracy, which involves drawing two circles on the target,