##ng is a major industry in new zealand with many thousands being taken illegally, often undersized. convictions have resulted in seizure of diving gear, boats, and motor vehicles and fines and in rare cases, imprisonment. south africa there are five species endemic to south africa, namely h. parva, h. spadicea, h. queketti and h. speciosa. the largest abalone in south africa, haliotis midae, occurs along roughly two - thirds of the country ' s coastline. abalone - diving has been a recreational activity for many years, but stocks are currently being threatened by illegal commercial harvesting. in south africa, all persons harvesting this shellfish need permits that are issued annually, and no abalone may be harvested using scuba gear. for the last few years, however, no permits have been issued for collecting abalone, but commercial harvesting still continues as does illegal collection by syndicates. in 2007, because of widespread poaching of abalone, the south african government listed abalone as an endangered species according to the cites section iii appendix, which requests member governments to monitor the trade in this species. this listing was removed from cites in june 2010 by the south african government and south african abalone is no longer subject to cites trade controls. export permits are still required, however. the abalone meat from south africa is prohibited for sale in the country to help reduce poaching ; however, much of the illegally harvested meat is sold in asian countries. as of early 2008, the wholesale price for abalone meat was approximately us $ 40. 00 per kilogram. there is an active trade in the shells, which sell for more than us $ 1, 400 per tonne. channel islands, brittany and normandy ormers ( haliotis tuberculata ) are considered a delicacy in the british channel islands as well as in adjacent areas of france, and are pursued with great alacrity by the locals. this, and a recent lethal bacterial disease, has led to a dramatic depletion in numbers since the latter half of the 19th century, and " ormering " is now strictly regulated to preserve stocks. the gathering of ormers is now restricted to a number of ' ormering tides ', from 1 january to 30 april, which occur on the full or new moon and two days following. no ormers may be taken from the beach that are under in shell length. gatherers are not allowed to wear wetsuits or even put their heads underwater. any breach of