regency lasted until 534, when athalaric died from what was most likely the combination of excessive drinking ( a part of gothic culture ) and a disease, probably diabetes. in order to secure the power in the amali name, amalasuintha created the consortium regni that allowed her to continue to rule as queen while still presenting a public face that honored conservative gothic tradition. she then appointed her older cousin theodahad to rule as co - regent, in which amalasuintha would play the male character and theodahad would play the woman, as male and female monarchs sharing powers. masculinity is the main characteristic attributed to amalasuintha by procopius and cassiodorus, because she had a strong determination and temperament. her tremendous influence in her position as regent can be seen in a diptych of rufius gennadius probus orestes in which she appears alongside her son, athalaric, in 530. deeply imbued with the old roman culture, she gave to her son ' s education a more refined and literary turn than suited her goth subjects. conscious of her unpopularity, she banished – and afterwards put to death – three gothic nobles whom she suspected of conspiring against her rule. at the same time, she opened negotiations with justinian, with the view of removing herself and the gothic treasure to constantinople. queen regnant after athalaric ' s death, amalasuintha became queen and ruled alone for a short while before making her cousin theodahad co - ruler with the intent of strengthening her position. theodahad was a prominent leader of the gothic military aristocracy that opposed her pro - roman stances, and amalasuintha believed this duumvirate might make supporters from her harshest critics. instead theodahad fostered the disaffection of the goths, and either by his orders or with his permission, amalasuintha was imprisoned on the island of martana in lake bolsena, where on april 30 of 534 / 535 she was murdered in her bath. death the death of amalasuintha gave justinian i a reason to go to war with the ostrogoths and attempt to take italy. according to the eastern roman historian procopius, amalasuintha was thinking about handing over italy to justinian around the time of her death. shortly after amalasuintha ' s murder, theodahad was replaced by witigis, amalasuintha '