omotic group. additionally, the minority of scholars who favor an asian origin of afroasiatic tend to place semitic as the first branch to split off. disagreement on which features are innovative and which are inherited from proto - afroasiatic produces radically different trees, as can be seen by comparing the trees produced by ehret and igor diakonoff. responding to the above, tom guldemann criticizes attempts at finding subgroupings based on common or lacking morphology by arguing that the presence or absence of morphological features is not a useful way of discerning subgroupings in afroasiatic, because it cannot be excluded that families currently lacking certain features had them in the past ; this also means that the presence of morphological features cannot be taken as defining a subgroup. peust notes that other factors that can obscure genetic relationships between languages include the poor state of present documentation and understanding of particular language families ( historically with egyptian, presently with omotic ). gene gragg likewise argues that more needs to be known about omotic still, and that afroasiatic linguists have still not found convincing isoglosses on which to base genetic distinctions. one way of avoiding the problem of determining which features are original and which are inherited is to use a computational methodology such as lexicostatistics, with one of the earliest attempts being fleming 1983. this is also the method used by alexander militarev and sergei starostin to create a family tree. fleming ( 2006 ) was a more recent attempt by fleming, with a different result from militarev and starostin. hezekiah bacovcin and david wilson argue that this methodology is invalid for discerning linguistic sub - relationship. they note the method ' s inability to detect various strong commonalities even between well - studied branches of aa. classification history a relationship between hebrew, arabic, and aramaic and the berber languages was perceived as early as the 9th century ce by the hebrew grammarian and physician judah ibn quraysh, who is regarded as a forerunner of afroasiatic studies. the french orientalist guillaume postel had also pointed out similarities between hebrew, arabic, and aramaic in 1538, and hiob ludolf noted similarities also to ge ' ez and amharic in 1701. this family was formally described and named " semitic " by august ludwig von schlozer in 1781. in 1844, theodor benfey first described the relationship between semitic and the egyptian language and connected both to the berber and the cushitic languages ( which he