late december, ballots, and copies of the reminder list of eligible releases are mailed to around 6, 000 active members. for most categories, members from each of the branches vote to determine the nominees only in their respective categories ( i. e. only directors vote for directors, writers for writers, actors for actors, etc. ). in the special case of best picture, all voting members are eligible to select the nominees. in all major categories, a variant of the single transferable vote is used, with each member casting a ballot with up to five nominees ( ten for best picture ) ranked preferentially. in certain categories, including international feature film, documentary and animated feature, nominees are selected by special screening committees made up of members from all branches. in most categories, the winner is selected from among the nominees by plurality voting of all members. since 2009, the best picture winner has been chosen by instant runoff voting. since 2013, re - weighted range voting has been used to select the nominees for the best visual effects. film companies will spend as much as several million dollars on marketing to awards voters for a movie in the running for best picture, in attempts to improve chances of receiving oscars and other movie awards conferred in oscar season. the academy enforces rules to limit overt campaigning by its members to try to eliminate excesses and prevent the process from becoming undignified. it has an awards czar on staff who advises members on allowed practices and levies penalties on offenders. for example, a producer of the 2009 best picture nominee the hurt locker was disqualified as a producer in the category when he contacted associates urging them to vote for his film and not another that was seen as the front - runner ( the hurt locker eventually won ). academy screening room the academy screening room or academy digital screening room is a secure streaming platform which allows voting members of the academy to view all eligible films ( except, initially, those in the international category ) in one place. it was introduced in 2019, for the 2020 oscars, though dvd screeners and academy in - person screenings were still provided. for films to be included on the platform, the north american distributor must pay $ 12, 500, including a watermarking fee, and a digital copy of the film to be prepared for streaming by the academy. the platform can be accessed via apple tv and roku players. the watermarking process involved several video security firms, creating a forensic watermark and restricting the ability to take screenshots or screen recordings. in 2021, for