being a very hard material ( mohs hardness 9 ), alumina is widely used as an abrasive ; being extraordinarily chemically inert, it is useful in highly reactive environments such as high pressure sodium lamps. aluminium oxide is commonly used as a catalyst for industrial processes ; e. g. the claus process to convert hydrogen sulfide to sulfur in refineries and to alkylate amines. many industrial catalysts are supported by alumina, meaning that the expensive catalyst material is dispersed over a surface of the inert alumina. another principal use is as a drying agent or absorbent. several sulfates of aluminium have industrial and commercial application. aluminium sulfate ( in its hydrate form ) is produced on the annual scale of several millions of metric tons. about two - thirds is consumed in water treatment. the next major application is in the manufacture of paper. it is also used as a mordant in dyeing, in pickling seeds, deodorizing of mineral oils, in leather tanning, and in production of other aluminium compounds. two kinds of alum, ammonium alum and potassium alum, were formerly used as mordants and in leather tanning, but their use has significantly declined following availability of high - purity aluminium sulfate. anhydrous aluminium chloride is used as a catalyst in chemical and petrochemical industries, the dyeing industry, and in synthesis of various inorganic and organic compounds. aluminium hydroxychlorides are used in purifying water, in the paper industry, and as antiperspirants. sodium aluminate is used in treating water and as an accelerator of solidification of cement. many aluminium compounds have niche applications, for example : aluminium acetate in solution is used as an astringent. aluminium phosphate is used in the manufacture of glass, ceramic, pulp and paper products, cosmetics, paints, varnishes, and in dental cement. aluminium hydroxide is used as an antacid, and mordant ; it is used also in water purification, the manufacture of glass and ceramics, and in the waterproofing of fabrics. lithium aluminium hydride is a powerful reducing agent used in organic chemistry. organoaluminiums are used as lewis acids and co - catalysts. methylaluminoxane is a co - catalyst for ziegler – natta olefin polymerization to produce vinyl polymers such as polyethene. aqueous aluminium ions ( such as aqueous aluminium sulfate