i. e., odder is pronounced " ojjer ". like other dialects in east jutland, it has two grammatical genders, similar to standard danish, but different from west jutlandic dialects, which have only one. in 2009, the university of aarhus compiled a list of contemporary public figures who best exemplify the dialect, including jacob haugaard, thomas helmig, steffen brandt, stig tøfting, flemming jørgensen, tina dickow and camilla martin. in popular culture, the dialect features prominently in niels malmros ' s movie aarhus by night and in 90s comedy sketches by jacob haugaard and finn nørbygaard. sports aarhus has three major men ' s professional sports teams : the superliga team aarhus gymnastikforening ( agf ), danish handball league ' s aarhus gf handbold, and danish basketball league ' s bakken bears. notable or historic clubs include aarhus 1900, aarhus fremad, idrætsklubben skovbakken and aarhus sejlklub. aarhus idrætspark has hosted matches in the premiere danish soccer league since it was formed in 1920 and matches for the national men ' s soccer team in 2006 and 2007. the five sailing clubs routinely win national and international titles in a range of disciplines and the future national watersports stadium will be located on the aarhus docklands in the city centre. the bakken bears won the danish basketball championships in 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014. the municipality actively supports sports organisations in and around the city, providing public organisations that aim to attract major sporting events and strengthen professional sports. the national olympic committee and sports confederation of denmark counts some 380 sports organisations within the municipality and about one third of the population are members of one. soccer is by far the most popular sport followed by gymnastics, handball and badminton. in recent decades, many free and public sports facilities have sprung up across the city, such as street football, basketball, climbing walls, skateboarding and beach volley. several natural sites also offer green exercise, with exercise equipment installed along the paths and tracks reserved for mountain biking. the newly reconstructed area of skjoldhøjkilen is a prime example. aarhus has hosted many sporting events including the 2010 european women ' s handball championship, the 2014 european men ' s handball championship, the 2013 men ' s european volleyball championships, the 2005 european table tennis championships, the denmark open in badminton, the uci women ' s road cycling world cup, the