and then to ebor preparatory school in cambridge, run by the reverend henry d ' arcy champney, whom crowley considered a sadist. in march 1887, when crowley was 11, his father died of tongue cancer. crowley described this as a turning point in his life, and he always maintained an admiration of his father, describing him as " my hero and my friend ". inheriting a third of his father ' s wealth, he began misbehaving at school and was harshly punished by champney ; crowley ' s family removed him from the school when he developed albuminuria. he then attended malvern college and tonbridge school, both of which he despised and left after a few terms. he became increasingly sceptical regarding christianity, pointing out inconsistencies in the bible to his religious teachers, and went against the christian morality of his upbringing by smoking, masturbating, and having sex with prostitutes from whom he contracted gonorrhea. sent to live with a brethren tutor in eastbourne, he undertook chemistry courses at eastbourne college. crowley developed interests in chess, poetry, and mountain climbing, and in 1894 climbed beachy head before visiting the alps and joining the scottish mountaineering club. the following year he returned to the bernese alps, climbing the eiger, trift, jungfrau, monch, and wetterhorn. cambridge university : 1895 – 1898 having adopted the name of aleister over edward, in october 1895 crowley began a three - year course at trinity college, cambridge, where he was entered for the moral science tripos studying philosophy. with approval from his personal tutor, he changed to english literature, which was not then part of the curriculum offered. crowley spent much of his time at university engaged in his pastimes, becoming president of the chess club and practising the game for two hours a day ; he briefly considered a professional career as a chess player. crowley also embraced his love of literature and poetry, particularly the works of richard francis burton and percy bysshe shelley. many of his own poems appeared in student publications such as the granta, cambridge magazine, and cantab. he continued his mountaineering, going on holiday to the alps to climb every year from 1894 to 1898, often with his friend oscar eckenstein, and in 1897 he made the first ascent of the monch without a guide. these feats led to his recognition in the alpine mountaineering community. crowley had his first significant mystical experience while on holiday in stockholm in december 1896