), there is no obvious way to make a function that forms a set out of selecting one sock from each pair, without invoking the axiom of choice. although originally controversial, the axiom of choice is now used without reservation by most mathematicians, and it is included in the standard form of axiomatic set theory, zermelo – fraenkel set theory with the axiom of choice ( zfc ). one motivation for this use is that a number of generally accepted mathematical results, such as tychonoff ' s theorem, require the axiom of choice for their proofs. contemporary set theorists also study axioms that are not compatible with the axiom of choice, such as the axiom of determinacy. the axiom of choice is avoided in some varieties of constructive mathematics, although there are varieties of constructive mathematics in which the axiom of choice is embraced. statement a choice function ( also called selector or selection ) is a function f, defined on a collection x of nonempty sets, such that for every set a in x, f ( a ) is an element of a. with this concept, the axiom can be stated : formally, this may be expressed as follows : thus, the negation of the axiom of choice states that there exists a collection of nonempty sets that has no choice function. (, so where is negation. ) each choice function on a collection x of nonempty sets is an element of the cartesian product of the sets in x. this is not the most general situation of a cartesian product of a family of sets, where a given set can occur more than once as a factor ; however, one can focus on elements of such a product that select the same element every time a given set appears as factor, and such elements correspond to an element of the cartesian product of all distinct sets in the family. the axiom of choice asserts the existence of such elements ; it is therefore equivalent to : given any family of nonempty sets, their cartesian product is a nonempty set. nomenclature zf, ac, and zfc in this article and other discussions of the axiom of choice the following abbreviations are common : ac – the axiom of choice. more rarely, aoc is used. zf – zermelo – fraenkel set theory omitting the axiom of choice. zfc – zermelo – fraenkel set theory, extended to include the axiom of choice. variants there