of the erinyes and presides over his trial for the murder of his mother clytemnestra. when half the jury votes to acquit and the other half votes to convict, athena casts the deciding vote to acquit orestes and declares that, from then on, whenever a jury is tied, the defendant shall always be acquitted. in the odyssey, odysseus ' cunning and shrewd nature quickly wins athena ' s favour. for the first part of the poem, however, she largely is confined to aiding him only from afar, mainly by implanting thoughts in his head during his journey home from troy. her guiding actions reinforce her role as the " protectress of heroes, " or, as mythologian walter friedrich otto dubbed her, the " goddess of nearness, " due to her mentoring and motherly probing. it is not until he washes up on the shore of the island of the phaeacians, where nausicaa is washing her clothes that athena arrives personally to provide more tangible assistance. she appears in nausicaa ' s dreams to ensure that the princess rescues odysseus and plays a role in his eventual escort to ithaca. athena appears to odysseus upon his arrival, disguised as a herdsman ; she initially lies and tells him that penelope, his wife, has remarried and that he is believed to be dead, but odysseus lies back to her, employing skillful prevarications to protect himself. impressed by his resolve and shrewdness, she reveals herself and tells him what he needs to know to win back his kingdom. she disguises him as an elderly beggar so that he will not be recognized by the suitors or penelope, and helps him to defeat the suitors. athena also appears to odysseus ' s son telemachus. her actions lead him to travel around to odysseus ' s comrades and ask about his father. he hears stories about some of odysseus ' s journey. athena ' s push for telemachus ' s journey helps him grow into the man role, that his father once held. she also plays a role in ending the resultant feud against the suitors ' relatives. she instructs laertes to throw his spear and to kill eupeithes, the father of antinous. punishment myths the gorgoneion appears to have originated as an apotropaic symbol intended to ward off evil. in a late