working on his autobiography le premier homme ( the first man ) in an attempt to examine " moral learning ". he also turned to the theatre once more. financed by the money he received with his nobel prize, he adapted and directed for the stage dostoyevsky ' s novel demons. the play opened in january 1959 at the antoine theatre in paris and was a critical success. during these years, he published posthumously the works of the philosopher simone weil, in the series " espoir " ( " hope " ) which he had founded for editions gallimard. weil had great influence on his philosophy, since he saw her writings as an " antidote " to nihilism. camus described her as " the only great spirit of our times ". death camus died on 4 january 1960 at the age of 46, in a car accident near sens, in le grand fossard in the small town of villeblevin. he had spent the new year ' s holiday of 1960 at his house in lourmarin, vaucluse with his family, and his publisher michel gallimard of editions gallimard, along with gallimard ' s wife, janine, and daughter. camus ' s wife and children went back to paris by train on 2 january, but camus decided to return in gallimard ' s luxurious facel vega fv2. the car crashed into a plane tree on a long straight stretch of the route nationale 5 ( now the rn 6 or d606 ). camus, who was in the passenger seat, died instantly. gallimard died five days later, although his wife and daughter were unharmed. 144 pages of a handwritten manuscript entitled le premier homme ( the first man ) were found in the wreckage. camus had predicted that this unfinished novel based on his childhood in algeria would be his finest work. camus was buried in the lourmarin cemetery, vaucluse, france, where he had lived. his friend sartre read a eulogy, paying tribute to camus ' s heroic " stubborn humanism ". william faulkner wrote his obituary, saying, " when the door shut for him he had already written on this side of it that which every artist who also carries through life with him that one same foreknowledge and hatred of death is hoping to do : i was here. " literary career camus ' s first publication was a play called revolte dans les asturies ( revolt in the asturias ) written with