released by cern states that, when fully operational, their facilities are capable of producing ten million antiprotons per minute. assuming a 100 % conversion of antiprotons to antihydrogen, it would take 100 billion years to produce 1 gram or 1 mole of antihydrogen ( approximately atoms of anti - hydrogen ). however, cern only produces 1 % of the anti - matter fermilab does, and neither are designed to produce anti - matter. according to gerald jackson, using technology already in use today we are capable of producing and capturing 20 grams of anti - matter particles per year at a yearly cost of 670 million dollars per facility. antihelium antihelium - 3 nuclei ( ) were first observed in the 1970s in proton – nucleus collision experiments at the institute for high energy physics by y. prockoshkin ' s group ( protvino near moscow, ussr ) and later created in nucleus – nucleus collision experiments. nucleus – nucleus collisions produce antinuclei through the coalescence of antiprotons and antineutrons created in these reactions. in 2011, the star detector reported the observation of artificially created antihelium - 4 nuclei ( anti - alpha particles ) ( ) from such collisions. the alpha magnetic spectrometer on the international space station has, as of 2021, recorded eight events that seem to indicate the detection of antihelium - 3. preservation antimatter cannot be stored in a container made of ordinary matter because antimatter reacts with any matter it touches, annihilating itself and an equal amount of the container. antimatter in the form of charged particles can be contained by a combination of electric and magnetic fields, in a device called a penning trap. this device cannot, however, contain antimatter that consists of uncharged particles, for which atomic traps are used. in particular, such a trap may use the dipole moment ( electric or magnetic ) of the trapped particles. at high vacuum, the matter or antimatter particles can be trapped and cooled with slightly off - resonant laser radiation using a magneto - optical trap or magnetic trap. small particles can also be suspended with optical tweezers, using a highly focused laser beam. in 2011, cern scientists were able to preserve antihydrogen for approximately 17 minutes. the record for storing antiparticles is currently held by the trap experiment at cern : antiprotons were kept in a penning trap for 405 days. a proposal was made