the largest single anglican province, with 26 million members. in most industrialised countries, church attendance has decreased since the 19th century. anglicanism ' s presence in the rest of the world is due to large - scale emigration, the establishment of expatriate communities, or the work of missionaries. the church of england has been a church of missionaries since the 17th century, when the church first left english shores with colonists who founded what would become the united states, australia, canada, new zealand, and south africa, and established anglican churches. for example, an anglican chaplain, robert wolfall, with martin frobisher ' s arctic expedition, celebrated the eucharist in 1578 in frobisher bay. the first anglican church in the americas was built at jamestown, virginia, in 1607. by the 18th century, missionaries worked to establish anglican churches in asia, africa, and latin america. the great church of england missionary societies were founded ; for example, the society for promoting christian knowledge ( spck ) in 1698, the society for the propagation of the gospel in foreign parts ( spg ) in 1701, and the church mission society ( cms ) in 1799. the 19th century saw the founding and expansion of social - oriented evangelism with societies such as the church pastoral aid society ( cpas ) in 1836, mission to seafarers in 1856, girls ' friendly society ( gfs ) in 1875, mothers ' union in 1876, and church army in 1882, all carrying out a personal form of evangelism. the 20th century saw the church of england developing new forms of evangelism such as the alpha course in 1990, which was developed and propagated from holy trinity brompton church in london. in the 21st century, there has been renewed effort to reach children and youth. fresh expressions is a church of england missionary initiative to youth begun in 2005, and has ministries at a skate park through the efforts of st george ' s church, benfleet, essex – diocese of chelmsford – or youth groups with evocative names, like the c. l. a. w ( christ little angels – whatever! ) youth group at coventry cathedral. and for the unchurched who do not actually wish to visit a brick and mortar church, there are internet ministries such as the diocese of oxford ' s online anglican i - church, which appeared on the web in 2005. ecumenism anglican interest in ecumenical dialogue can be traced back to the time of the reformation and dialogues with both orthodox