##a khan ( 1933 – 2003 ). the couple was divorced in 1943. he married, on october 9, 1944, in geneva, switzerland, begum om habibeh aga khan ( yvonne blanche labrousse ) ( 15 february 19061 july 2000 ). according to an interview she gave to an egyptian journalist, her first name was yvonne, though she is referred to as yvette in most published references. the daughter of a tram conductor and a dressmaker, she was working as aga khan ' s social secretary at the time of their marriage. she converted to islam and became known as om habibeh ( little mother of the beloved ). in 1954, her husband bestowed upon her the title " mata salamat ". publications he wrote a number of books and papers two of which are of immense importance, namely ( 1 ) india in transition, about the prepartition politics of india and ( 2 ) the memoirs of aga khan : world enough and time, his autobiography. the aga khan iii proposed " the south asiatic federation " in india in transition that india might be re - organized into some states, and those states should have own autonomies. he was the first person who designed a detailed plan of such a federation of india. death and succession aga khan iii was succeeded as aga khan by his grandson karim aga khan, who is the present imam of the ismaili muslims. at the time of his death on 11 july 1957, his family members were in versoix. a solicitor brought the will of the aga khan iii from london to geneva and read it before the family : " ever since the time of my ancestor ali, the first imam, that is to say over a period of thirteen hundred years, it has always been the tradition of our family that each imam chooses his successor at his absolute and unfettered discretion from amongst any of his descendants, whether they be sons or remote male issue and in these circumstances and in view of the fundamentally altered conditions in the world in very recent years due to the great changes which have taken place including the discoveries of atomic science, i am convinced that it is in the best interest of the shia muslim ismailia community that i should be succeeded by a young man who has been brought up and developed during recent years and in the midst of the new age and who brings a new outlook on life to his office as imam. for these reasons, i appoint my grandson karim, the son of my own son, aly salomone khan to