evidence of the halo surrounding the apollo 15 lunar module blast crater while orbiting above the lunar surface. beginning in 2009, nasa ' s robotic lunar reconnaissance orbiter, while orbiting above the moon, photographed the remnants of the apollo program left on the lunar surface, and each site where crewed apollo flights landed. all of the u. s. flags left on the moon during the apollo missions were found to still be standing, with the exception of the one left during the apollo 11 mission, which was blown over during that mission ' s lift - off from the lunar surface ; the degree to which these flags retain their original colors remains unknown. the flags cannot be seen through a telescope from earth. in a november 16, 2009, editorial, the new york times opined : legacy science and engineering the apollo program has been described as the greatest technological achievement in human history. apollo stimulated many areas of technology, leading to over 1, 800 spinoff products as of 2015, including advances in the development of cordless power tools, fireproof materials, heart monitors, solar panels, digital imaging, and the use of liquid methane as fuel. the flight computer design used in both the lunar and command modules was, along with the polaris and minuteman missile systems, the driving force behind early research into integrated circuits ( ics ). by 1963, apollo was using 60 percent of the united states ' production of ics. the crucial difference between the requirements of apollo and the missile programs was apollo ' s much greater need for reliability. while the navy and air force could work around reliability problems by deploying more missiles, the political and financial cost of failure of an apollo mission was unacceptably high. technologies and techniques required for apollo were developed by project gemini. the apollo project was enabled by nasa ' s adoption of new advances in semiconductor electronic technology, including metal – oxide – semiconductor field - effect transistors ( mosfets ) in the interplanetary monitoring platform ( imp ) and silicon integrated circuit chips in the apollo guidance computer ( agc ). cultural impact the crew of apollo 8 sent the first live televised pictures of the earth and the moon back to earth, and read from the creation story in the book of genesis, on christmas eve 1968. an estimated one - quarter of the population of the world saw — either live or delayed — the christmas eve transmission during the ninth orbit of the moon, and an estimated one - fifth of the population of the world watched the live transmission of the apollo 11 moonwalk. the apollo program also affected environmental activism in