radiation in the zone of alienation around the chernobyl nuclear power plant. its chemical properties as one of the alkali metals make it one of the most problematic of the short - to - medium - lifetime fission products because it easily moves and spreads in nature due to the high water solubility of its salts, and is taken up by the body, which mistakes it for its essential congeners sodium and potassium. periodic trends the alkali metals are more similar to each other than the elements in any other group are to each other. for instance, when moving down the table, all known alkali metals show increasing atomic radius, decreasing electronegativity, increasing reactivity, and decreasing melting and boiling points as well as heats of fusion and vaporisation. in general, their densities increase when moving down the table, with the exception that potassium is less dense than sodium. atomic and ionic radii the atomic radii of the alkali metals increase going down the group. because of the shielding effect, when an atom has more than one electron shell, each electron feels electric repulsion from the other electrons as well as electric attraction from the nucleus. in the alkali metals, the outermost electron only feels a net charge of + 1, as some of the nuclear charge ( which is equal to the atomic number ) is cancelled by the inner electrons ; the number of inner electrons of an alkali metal is always one less than the nuclear charge. therefore, the only factor which affects the atomic radius of the alkali metals is the number of electron shells. since this number increases down the group, the atomic radius must also increase down the group. the ionic radii of the alkali metals are much smaller than their atomic radii. this is because the outermost electron of the alkali metals is in a different electron shell than the inner electrons, and thus when it is removed the resulting atom has one fewer electron shell and is smaller. additionally, the effective nuclear charge has increased, and thus the electrons are attracted more strongly towards the nucleus and the ionic radius decreases. first ionisation energy the first ionisation energy of an element or molecule is the energy required to move the most loosely held electron from one mole of gaseous atoms of the element or molecules to form one mole of gaseous ions with electric charge + 1. the factors affecting the first ionisation energy are the nuclear charge, the amount of shielding by the inner electrons and the distance from the most loosely held electron from the nucleus, which is always an outer