selling until 1972. initially, volkswagen was hostile to the idea of auto union as a standalone entity producing its own models having acquired the company merely to boost its own production capacity through the ingolstadt assembly plant – to the point where volkswagen executives ordered that the auto union name and flags bearing the four rings were removed from the factory buildings. then vw chief heinz nordhoff explicitly forbade auto union from any further product development. fearing that volkswagen had no long - term ambition for the audi brand, auto union engineers under the leadership of ludwig kraus developed the first audi 100 in secret, without nordhoff ' s knowledge. when presented with a finished prototype, nordhoff was so impressed he authorised the car for production, which when launched in 1968, went on to be a huge success. with this, the resurrection of the audi brand was now complete, this being followed by the first generation audi 80 in 1972, which would in turn provide a template for vw ' s new front - wheel - drive water - cooled range which debuted from the mid - 1970s onward. in 1969, auto union merged with nsu, based in neckarsulm, near stuttgart. in the 1950s, nsu had been the world ' s largest manufacturer of motorcycles, but had moved on to produce small cars like the nsu prinz, the tt and tts versions of which are still popular as vintage race cars. nsu then focused on new rotary engines based on the ideas of felix wankel. in 1967, the new nsu ro 80 was a car well ahead of its time in technical details such as aerodynamics, light weight, and safety. however, teething problems with the rotary engines put an end to the independence of nsu. the neckarsulm plant is now used to produce the larger audi models a6 and a8. the neckarsulm factory is also home of the " quattro gmbh " ( from november 2016 " audi sport gmbh " ), a subsidiary responsible for development and production of audi high - performance models : the r8 and the rs model range. modern era the new merged company was incorporated on 1 january 1969 and was known as audi nsu auto union ag, with its headquarters at nsu ' s neckarsulm plant, and saw the emergence of audi as a separate brand for the first time since the pre - war era. volkswagen introduced the audi brand to the united states for the 1970 model year. that same year, the mid - sized car that nsu had been working on, the k70