or inadequately treated sewage, reducing the yield of caviar and fish. in the soviet period, azerbaijan was pressed to use extremely heavy applications of pesticides to improve its output of scarce subtropical crops for the rest of the soviet union. the continued regular use of the pesticide ddt in the 1970s and 1980s was an egregious lapse, although that chemical was officially banned in the soviet union because of its toxicity to humans. excessive application of pesticides and chemical fertilizers has caused extensive groundwater pollution and has been linked by azerbaijani scientists to birth defects and illnesses. rising water levels in the caspian sea, mainly caused by natural factors exacerbated by man - made structures, have reversed the decades - long drying trend and now threaten coastal areas ; the average level rose 1. 5 meters between 1978 and 1993. because of the nagorno - karabakh conflict, large numbers of trees were felled, roads were built through pristine areas, and large expanses of agricultural land were occupied by military forces. like other former soviet republics, azerbaijan faces a gigantic environmental cleanup complicated by the economic uncertainties left in the wake of the moscow - centered planning system. the committee for the protection of the natural environment is part of the azerbaijani government, but in the early 1990s it was ineffective at targeting critical applications of limited funds, establishing pollution standards, or monitoring compliance with environmental regulations. early in 1994, plans called for azerbaijan to participate in the international caspian sea forum, sponsored by the european union ( eu ). natural hazards droughts and floods ; some lowland areas threatened by rising levels of the caspian sea environment — current issues local scientists consider the abseron yasaqligi ( apsheron peninsula ) ( including baky and sumqayit ) and the caspian sea to be the ecologically most devastated area in the world because of severe air, water, and soil pollution ; soil pollution results from the use of ddt as a pesticide and also from toxic defoliants used in the production of cotton. environment - international agreements party to : air pollution, biodiversity, climate change, desertification, endangered species, hazardous wastes, marine dumping, ozone layer protection, ship pollution, wetlands area and boundaries area total : 86, 600 km² - country comparison to the world : 113 land : 82, 629 km² water : 3, 971 km² note : includes the exclave of nakhchivan autonomous republic and the nagorno - karabakh region ; the region ' s autonomy was abolished by azerbaijani supreme soviet