g., in radio and tv broadcasts, formal lectures, parliamentary discussions and to some extent between speakers of different colloquial dialects. even when the literary language is spoken, it is normally only spoken in its pure form when reading a prepared text out loud and communication between speakers of different colloquial dialects. when speaking extemporaneously ( i. e. making up the language on the spot, as in a normal discussion among people ), speakers tend to deviate somewhat from the strict literary language in the direction of the colloquial varieties. there is a continuous range of " in - between " spoken varieties : from nearly pure modern standard arabic ( msa ), to a form that still uses msa grammar and vocabulary but with significant colloquial influence, to a form of the colloquial language that imports a number of words and grammatical constructions in msa, to a form that is close to pure colloquial but with the " rough edges " ( the most noticeably " vulgar " or non - classical aspects ) smoothed out, to pure colloquial. the particular variant ( or register ) used depends on the social class and education level of the speakers involved and the level of formality of the speech situation. often it will vary within a single encounter, e. g., moving from nearly pure msa to a more mixed language in the process of a radio interview, as the interviewee becomes more comfortable with the interviewer. this type of variation is characteristic of the diglossia that exists throughout the arabic - speaking world. although modern standard arabic ( msa ) is a unitary language, its pronunciation varies somewhat from country to country and from region to region within a country. the variation in individual " accents " of msa speakers tends to mirror corresponding variations in the colloquial speech of the speakers in question, but with the distinguishing characteristics moderated somewhat. it is important in descriptions of " arabic " phonology to distinguish between pronunciation of a given colloquial ( spoken ) dialect and the pronunciation of msa by these same speakers. although they are related, they are not the same. for example, the phoneme that derives from classical arabic has many different pronunciations in the modern spoken varieties, e. g., including the proposed original. speakers whose native variety has either or will use the same pronunciation when speaking msa. even speakers from cairo, whose native egyptian arabic has, normally use when speaking msa. the of persian gulf speakers is the