on the soliloquies of st augustine of hippo, the remainder is drawn from various sources. the material has traditionally been thought to contain much that is alfred ' s own and highly characteristic of him. the last words of it may be quoted ; they form a fitting epitaph for the noblest of english kings. " therefore, he seems to me a very foolish man, and truly wretched, who will not increase his understanding while he is in the world, and ever wish and long to reach that endless life where all shall be made clear. " alfred appears as a character in the twelfth - or 13th - century poem the owl and the nightingale where his wisdom and skill with proverbs is praised. the proverbs of alfred, a 13th - century work, contains sayings that are not likely to have originated with alfred but attest to his posthumous medieval reputation for wisdom. the alfred jewel, discovered in somerset in 1693, has long been associated with king alfred because of its old english inscription aelfred mec heht gewyrcan ( ' alfred ordered me to be made ' ). the jewel is about long, made of filigreed gold, enclosing a highly polished piece of quartz crystal beneath which is set in a cloisonne enamel plaque with an enamelled image of a man holding floriate sceptres, perhaps personifying sight or the wisdom of god. it was at one time attached to a thin rod or stick based on the hollow socket at its base. the jewel certainly dates from alfred ' s reign. although its function is unknown, it has been often suggested that the jewel was one of the æstels – pointers for reading – that alfred ordered sent to every bishopric accompanying a copy of his translation of the pastoral care. each æstel was worth the princely sum of 50 mancuses which fits in well with the quality workmanship and expensive materials of the alfred jewel. historian richard abels sees alfred ' s educational and military reforms as complementary. restoring religion and learning in wessex, abels contends, was to alfred ' s mind as essential to the defence of his realm as the building of the burhs. as alfred observed in the preface to his english translation of gregory the great ' s pastoral care, kings who fail to obey their divine duty to promote learning can expect earthly punishments to befall their people. the pursuit of wisdom, he assured his readers of the boethius, was the surest path to power : " study wisdom,