refers to the wax abacus, a board covered with a thin layer of black wax on which columns and figures were inscribed using a stylus. one example of archaeological evidence of the roman abacus, shown nearby in reconstruction, dates to the 1st century ad. it has eight long grooves containing up to five beads in each and eight shorter grooves having either one or no beads in each. the groove marked i indicates units, x tens, and so on up to millions. the beads in the shorter grooves denote fives ( five units, five tens, etc. ) resembling a bi - quinary coded decimal system related to the roman numerals. the short grooves on the right may have been used for marking roman " ounces " ( i. e. fractions ). medieval europe the roman system of ' counter casting ' was used widely in medieval europe, and persisted in limited use into the nineteenth century. wealthy abacists used decorative minted counters, called jetons. due to pope sylvester ii ' s reintroduction of the abacus with modifications, it became widely used in europe again during the 11th century it used beads on wires, unlike the traditional roman counting boards, which meant the abacus could be used much faster and was more easily moved. china the earliest known written documentation of the chinese abacus dates to the 2nd century bc. the chinese abacus, also known as the suanpan ( /, lit. " calculating tray " ), comes in various lengths and widths, depending on the operator. it usually has more than seven rods. there are two beads on each rod in the upper deck and five beads each in the bottom one, to represent numbers in a bi - quinary coded decimal - like system. the beads are usually rounded and made of hardwood. the beads are counted by moving them up or down towards the beam ; beads moved toward the beam are counted, while those moved away from it are not. one of the top beads is 5, while one of the bottom beads is 1. each rod has a number under it, showing the place value. the suanpan can be reset to the starting position instantly by a quick movement along the horizontal axis to spin all the beads away from the horizontal beam at the center. the prototype of the chinese abacus appeared during the han dynasty, and the beads are oval. the song dynasty and earlier used the 1 : 4 type or four - beads abacus similar to the modern abacus including the shape of the beads commonly known as japanese