' s dale ". also, melchizedek king of salem ( jerusalem ), a priest of el elyon, brought out bread and wine and blessed abram and god. abram then gave melchizedek a tenth of everything. the king of sodom then offered to let abram keep all the possessions if he would merely return his people. abram refused any deal from the king of sodom, other than the share to which his allies were entitled. covenant of the pieces the voice of the lord came to abram in a vision and repeated the promise of the land and descendants as numerous as the stars. abram and god made a covenant ceremony, and god told of the future bondage of israel in egypt. god described to abram the land that his offspring would claim : the land of the kenites, kenizzites, kadmonites, hittites, perizzites, rephaims, amorites, canaanites, girgashites, and jebusites. hagar abram and sarai tried to make sense of how he would become a progenitor of nations, because after 10 years of living in canaan, no child had been born. sarai then offered her egyptian slave, hagar, to abram with the intention that she would bear him a son. after hagar found she was pregnant, she began to despise her mistress, sarai. sarai responded by mistreating hagar, and hagar fled into the wilderness. an angel spoke with hagar at the fountain on the way to shur. he instructed her to return to abram ' s camp and that her son would be " a wild ass of a man ; his hand shall be against every man, and every man ' s hand against him ; and he shall dwell in the face of all his brethren. " she was told to call her son ishmael. hagar then called god who spoke to her " el - roi ", ( " thou god seest me : " kjv ). from that day onward, the well was called beer - lahai - roi, ( " the well of him that liveth and seeth me. " kjv margin ), located between kadesh and bered. she then did as she was instructed by returning to her mistress in order to have her child. abram was 86 years of age when ishmael was born. sarah thirteen years later, when abram was 99 years of