about by the 2002 peace settlement has led to the resettlement of 4 million displaced persons, thus resulting in large - scale increases in agriculture production. angola produced over of diamonds in 2003, and production was expected to grow to per year by 2007. in 2004, china ' s eximbank approved a $ 2 billion line of credit to angola to rebuild infrastructure. the economy grew 18 % in 2005 and growth was expected to reach 26 % in 2006 and stay above 10 % for the rest of the decade. by 2020, angola had a national debt of $ 76 billion, of which $ 20 billion is to china. the construction industry is taking advantage of the growing economy, with various housing projects stimulated by the government initiatives for example the angola investe program and the casa feliz or mena projects. not all public construction projects are functional. a case in point : kilamba kiaxi, where a whole new satellite town of luanda, consisting of housing facilities for several hundreds of thousands of people, was completely uninhabited for over four years because of skyrocketing prices, but completely sold out after the government decreased the original price and created mortgage plans at around the election time thus made it affordable for middle - class people. chevrontexaco started pumping from block 14 in january 2000, but production decreased to in 2007 due to poor - quality oil. angola joined the organization of the petroleum exporting countries on january 1, 2007. cabinda gulf oil company found malange - 1, an oil reservoir in block 14, on august 9, 2007. overview despite its abundant natural resources, output per capita is among the world ' s lowest. subsistence agriculture provides the main livelihood for 85 % of the population. oil production and the supporting activities are vital to the economy, contributing about 45 % to gdp and 90 % of exports. growth is almost entirely driven by rising oil production which surpassed in late - 2005 and which is expected to grow to by 2007. control of the oil industry is consolidated in sonangol group, a conglomerate owned by the angolan government. with revenues booming from oil exports, the government has started to implement ambitious development programs to build roads and other basic infrastructure for the nation. in the last decade of the colonial period, angola was a major african food exporter but now imports almost all its food. severe wartime conditions, including extensive planting of landmines throughout the countryside, have brought agricultural activities to a near - standstill. some efforts to recover have gone forward, however, notably in fisheries. coffee production, though