artist john romita sr., in a 2010 deposition, recalled that lee and ditko " ended up not being able to work together because they disagreed on almost everything, cultural, social, historically, everything, they disagreed on characters... " in successor penciler romita sr. ' s first issue, no. 39 ( aug. 1966 ), nemesis the green goblin discovers spider - man ' s secret identity and reveals his own to the captive hero. romita ' s spider - man – more polished and heroic - looking than ditko ' s – became the model for two decades. the lee - romita era saw the introduction of such characters as daily bugle managing editor robbie robertson in no. 52 ( sept. 1967 ) and nypd captain george stacy, father of parker ' s girlfriend gwen stacy, in no. 56 ( jan. 1968 ). the most important supporting character to be introduced during the romita era was mary jane watson, who made her first full appearance in no. 42 ( nov. 1966 ), although she first appeared in no. 25 ( june 1965 ) with her face obscured and had been mentioned since no. 15 ( aug. 1964 ). peter david wrote in 2010 that romita " made the definitive statement of his arrival by pulling mary jane out from behind the oversized potted plant [ that blocked the reader ' s view of her face in issue no. 25 ] and placing her on panel in what would instantly become an iconic moment. " romita has stated that in designing mary jane, he " used ann - margret from the movie bye bye birdie as a guide, using her coloring, the shape of her face, her red hair and her form - fitting short skirts. " lee and romita toned down the prevalent sense of antagonism in parker ' s world by improving parker ' s relationship with the supporting characters and having stories focused as much on the social and college lives of the characters as they did on spider - man ' s adventures. the stories became more topical, addressing issues such as civil rights, racism, prisoners ' rights, the vietnam war, and political elections. issue no. 50 ( june 1967 ) introduced the highly enduring criminal mastermind the kingpin, who would become a major force as well in the superhero series daredevil. other notable first appearances in the lee - romita era include the rhino in no. 41 ( oct. 1966 ), the shocker in no. 46 ( mar. 1967 ), the prowler in no.