eugenics protection law " meant to prevent the births of " inferior " humans., due to japan ' s continuing strongly patriarchal culture and traditional views on women ' s societal roles, women who want an abortion must normally get written permission from their partner. society and culture abortion debate induced abortion has long been the source of considerable debate. ethical, moral, philosophical, biological, religious and legal issues surrounding abortion are related to value systems. opinions of abortion may be about fetal rights, governmental authority, and women ' s rights. in both public and private debate, arguments presented in favor of or against abortion access focus on either the moral permissibility of an induced abortion, or the justification of laws permitting or restricting abortion. the world medical association declaration on therapeutic abortion notes, " circumstances bringing the interests of a mother into conflict with the interests of her unborn child create a dilemma and raise the question as to whether or not the pregnancy should be deliberately terminated. " abortion debates, especially pertaining to abortion laws, are often spearheaded by groups advocating one of these two positions. groups who favor greater legal restrictions on abortion, including complete prohibition, most often describe themselves as " pro - life " while groups who are against such legal restrictions describe themselves as " pro - choice ". modern abortion law current laws pertaining to abortion are diverse. religious, moral, and cultural factors continue to influence abortion laws throughout the world. the right to life, the right to liberty, the right to security of person, and the right to reproductive health are major issues of human rights that sometimes constitute the basis for the existence or absence of abortion laws. in jurisdictions where abortion is legal, certain requirements must often be met before a woman may obtain a legal abortion ( an abortion performed without the woman ' s consent is considered feticide ). these requirements usually depend on the age of the fetus, often using a trimester - based system to regulate the window of legality, or as in the u. s., on a doctor ' s evaluation of the fetus ' viability. some jurisdictions require a waiting period before the procedure, prescribe the distribution of information on fetal development, or require that parents be contacted if their minor daughter requests an abortion. other jurisdictions may require that a woman obtain the consent of the fetus ' father before aborting the fetus, that abortion providers inform women of health risks of the procedure — sometimes including " risks " not supported by the medical literature — and that multiple medical authorities certify that the abortion is either medically or socially necessary