within the young sun ' s solar nebula that never grew large enough to become planets. it is thought that planetesimals in the asteroid belt evolved much like the rest of objects in the solar nebula until jupiter neared its current mass, at which point excitation from orbital resonances with jupiter ejected over 99 % of planetesimals in the belt. simulations and a discontinuity in spin rate and spectral properties suggest that asteroids larger than approximately in diameter accreted during that early era, whereas smaller bodies are fragments from collisions between asteroids during or after the jovian disruption. ceres and vesta grew large enough to melt and differentiate, with heavy metallic elements sinking to the core, leaving rocky minerals in the crust. in the nice model, many kuiper - belt objects are captured in the outer asteroid belt, at distances greater than 2. 6 au. most were later ejected by jupiter, but those that remained may be the d - type asteroids, and possibly include ceres. distribution within the solar system various dynamical groups of asteroids have been discovered orbiting in the inner solar system. their orbits are perturbed by the gravity of other bodies in the solar system and by the yarkovsky effect. significant populations include : asteroid belt the majority of known asteroids orbit within the asteroid belt between the orbits of mars and jupiter, generally in relatively low - eccentricity ( i. e. not very elongated ) orbits. this belt is estimated to contain between 1. 1 and 1. 9 million asteroids larger than in diameter, and millions of smaller ones. these asteroids may be remnants of the protoplanetary disk, and in this region the accretion of planetesimals into planets during the formative period of the solar system was prevented by large gravitational perturbations by jupiter. contrary to popular imagery, the asteroid belt is mostly empty. the asteroids are spread over such a large volume that reaching an asteroid without aiming carefully would be improbable. nonetheless, hundreds of thousands of asteroids are currently known, and the total number ranges in the millions or more, depending on the lower size cutoff. over 200 asteroids are known to be larger than 100 km, and a survey in the infrared wavelengths has shown that the asteroid belt has between 700, 000 and 1. 7 million asteroids with a diameter of 1 km or more. the absolute magnitudes of most of the known asteroids are between 11 and 19, with the median at about 16. the total mass of the asteroid belt is estimated to be kg, which is just