##us contrast with the sexual dimorphism observed in common chimpanzees, where males have significantly larger and sharper upper canine teeth than females. of the living apes, bonobos have the smallest canine sexual dimorphism, although still greater than that displayed by a. ramidus. the less pronounced nature of the upper canine teeth in a. ramidus has been used to infer aspects of the social behavior of the species and more ancestral hominids. in particular, it has been used to suggest that the last common ancestor of hominids and african apes was characterized by relatively little aggression between males and between groups. this is markedly different from social patterns in common chimpanzees, among which intermale and intergroup aggression are typically high. researchers in a 2009 study said that this condition " compromises the living chimpanzee as a behavioral model for the ancestral hominid condition. " bonobo canine size and canine sexual dimorphism more closely resembles that of a. ramidus, and as a result, bonobos are now suggested as a behavioural model. a. ramidus existed more recently than the most recent common ancestor of humans and chimpanzees ( clca or pan - homo lca ) and thus is not fully representative of that common ancestor. nevertheless, it is in some ways unlike chimpanzees, suggesting that the common ancestor differs from the modern chimpanzee. after the chimpanzee and human lineages diverged, both underwent substantial evolutionary change. chimp feet are specialized for grasping trees ; a. ramidus feet are better suited for walking. the canine teeth of a. ramidus are smaller, and equal in size between males and females, which suggests reduced male - to - male conflict, increased pair - bonding, and increased parental investment. " thus, fundamental reproductive and social behavioral changes probably occurred in hominids long before they had enlarged brains and began to use stone tools, " the research team concluded. ardi on october 1, 2009, paleontologists formally announced the discovery of the relatively complete a. ramidus fossil skeleton first unearthed in 1994. the fossil is the remains of a small - brained 50 - kilogram ( 110 lb ) female, nicknamed " ardi ", and includes most of the skull and teeth, as well as the pelvis, hands, and feet. it was discovered in ethiopia ' s harsh afar desert at a site called aramis in the middle