an anchor is a device, normally made of metal, used to secure a vessel to the bed of a body of water to prevent the craft from drifting due to wind or current. the word derives from latin, which itself comes from the greek ( ). anchors can either be temporary or permanent. permanent anchors are used in the creation of a mooring, and are rarely moved ; a specialist service is normally needed to move or maintain them. vessels carry one or more temporary anchors, which may be of different designs and weights. a sea anchor is a drag device, not in contact with the seabed, used to minimise drift of a vessel relative to the water. a drogue is a drag device used to slow or help steer a vessel running before a storm in a following or overtaking sea, or when crossing a bar in a breaking sea. overview anchors achieve holding power either by " hooking " into the seabed, or weight, or a combination of the two. permanent moorings use large masses ( commonly a block or slab of concrete ) resting on the seabed. semi - permanent mooring anchors ( such as mushroom anchors ) and large ship ' s anchors derive a significant portion of their holding power from their weight, while also hooking or embedding in the bottom. modern anchors for smaller vessels have metal flukes that hook on to rocks on the bottom or bury themselves in soft seabed. the vessel is attached to the anchor by the rode ( also called a cable or a warp ). it can be made of rope, chain or a combination of rope and chain. the ratio of the length of rode to the water depth is known as the scope ( see below ). holding ground holding ground is the area of sea floor that holds an anchor, and thus the attached ship or boat. different types of anchor are designed to hold in different types of holding ground. some bottom materials hold better than others ; for instance, hard sand holds well, shell holds poorly. holding ground may be fouled with obstacles. an anchorage location may be chosen for its holding ground. in poor holding ground, only the weight of an anchor matters ; in good holding ground, it is able to dig in, and the holding power can be significantly higher. history evolution of the anchor the earliest anchors were probably rocks, and many rock anchors have been found dating from at least the bronze age. pre - european maori waka ( canoes ) used one or more hollowed stones, tied with flax ropes, as anchors. many modern moor