juveniles of an undetermined species of apatosaurus ; this material includes partial shoulder and pelvic girdles, some vertebrae, and limb bones. omnh juvenile material is from at least two different age groups and based on overlapping bones likely comes from more than three individuals. the specimens exhibit features that distinguish apatosaurus from its relatives, and thus likely belong to the genus. juvenile sauropods tend to have proportionally shorter necks and tails, and a more pronounced forelimb - hindlimb disparity than found in adult sauropods. tail an article published in 1997 reported research of the mechanics of apatosaurus tails by nathan myhrvold and paleontologist philip j. currie. myhrvold carried out a computer simulation of the tail, which in diplodocids like apatosaurus was a very long, tapering structure resembling a bullwhip. this computer modeling suggested diplodocids were capable of producing a whiplike cracking sound of over 200 decibels, comparable to the volume of a cannon being fired. a pathology has been identified on the tail of apatosaurus, caused by a growth defect. two caudal vertebrae are seamlessly fused along the entire articulating surface of the bone, including the arches of the neural spines. this defect might have been caused by the lack or inhibition of the substance that forms intervertebral disks or joints. it has been proposed that the whips could have been used in combat and defense, but the tails of diplodocids were quite light and narrow compared to shunosaurus and mamenchisaurids, and thus to injure another animal with the tail would severely injure the tail itself. more recently, baron ( 2020 ) considers the use of the tail as a bullwhip unlikely because of the potentially catastrophic muscle and skeletal damage such speeds could cause on the large and heavy tail. instead, he proposes that the tails might have been used as a tactile organ to keep in touch with the individuals behind and on the sides in a group while migrating, which could have augmented cohesion and allowed communication among individuals while limiting more energetically demanding activities like stopping to search for dispersed individuals, turning to visually check on individuals behind, or communicating vocally. paleoecology the morrison formation is a sequence of shallow marine and alluvial sediments which, according to radiometric dating, dates from between 156. 3mya at its base, and 146. 8mya at the top, placing