##ricaria chamomilla ( german chamomile ) and the perennial chamaemelum nobile ( roman chamomile ). calendula ( known as pot marigold ) is grown commercially for herbal teas and potpourri. echinacea is used as a medicinal tea. the wormwood genus artemisia includes absinthe ( a. absinthium ) and tarragon ( a. dracunculus ). winter tarragon ( tagetes lucida ), is commonly grown and used as a tarragon substitute in climates where tarragon will not survive. many members of the family are grown as ornamental plants for their flowers, and some are important ornamental crops for the cut flower industry. some examples are chrysanthemum, gerbera, calendula, dendranthema, argyranthemum, dahlia, tagetes, zinnia, and many others. many species of this family possess medicinal properties and are used as traditional antiparasitic medicine. members of the family are also commonly featured in medical and phytochemical journals because the sesquiterpene lactone compounds contained within them are an important cause of allergic contact dermatitis. allergy to these compounds is the leading cause of allergic contact dermatitis in florists in the us. pollen from ragweed ambrosia is among the main causes of so - called hay fever in the united states. asteraceae are also used for some industrial purposes. french marigold ( tagetes patula ) is common in commercial poultry feeds and its oil is extracted for uses in cola and the cigarette industry. the genera chrysanthemum, pulicaria, tagetes, and tanacetum contain species with useful insecticidal properties. parthenium argentatum ( guayule ) is a source of hypoallergenic latex. several members of the family are copious nectar producers and are useful for evaluating pollinator populations during their bloom. centaurea ( knapweed ), helianthus annuus ( domestic sunflower ), and some species of solidago ( goldenrod ) are major " honey plants " for beekeepers. solidago produces relatively high protein pollen, which helps honey bees over winter. references bibliography external links asteraceae at the angiosperm phylogeny website compositae. org – compositae working group ( cwg ) and global