##igraph titled silver car crash ( double disaster ) sold for $ 105 million. in 2022, shot sage blue marilyn ( 1964 ) sold for $ 195 million, which is the most expensive work of art sold at auction by an american artist. biography early life and beginnings ( 1928 – 1949 ) warhol was born on august 6, 1928, in pittsburgh, pennsylvania. he was the fourth child of ondrej warhola ( americanized as andrew warhola sr. ; 1889 – 1942 ) and julia ( nee zavacka, 1891 – 1972 ), whose first child was born in their homeland of austria - hungary and died before their move to the us. his parents were working - class lemko emigrants from miko, austria - hungary ( now called mikova, located in today ' s northeastern slovakia ). warhol ' s father emigrated to the united states in 1914, and his mother joined him in 1921, after the death of warhol ' s grandparents. warhol ' s father worked in a coal mine. the family lived at 55 beelen street and later at 3252 dawson street in the oakland neighborhood of pittsburgh. the family was ruthenian catholic and attended st. john chrysostom byzantine catholic church. warhol had two elder brothers — pavol ( paul ), the eldest, was born before the family emigrated ; john was born in pittsburgh. pavol ' s son, james warhola, became a successful children ' s book illustrator. in third grade, warhol had sydenham ' s chorea ( also known as st. vitus ' dance ), the nervous system disease that causes involuntary movements of the extremities, which is believed to be a complication of scarlet fever which causes skin pigmentation blotchiness. at times when he was confined to bed, he drew, listened to the radio and collected pictures of movie stars around his bed. warhol later described this period as very important in the development of his personality, skill - set and preferences. when warhol was 13, his father died in an accident. as a teenager, warhol graduated from schenley high school in 1945, and also won a scholastic art and writing award. after graduating from high school, his intentions were to study art education at the university of pittsburgh in the hope of becoming an art teacher, but his plans changed and he enrolled in the carnegie institute of technology, now carnegie mellon university in pittsburgh, where he studied commercial art. during his time there, war