, which are considerable, have gone into the rich language of his inverted utopia. if you can stomach the horrors, you ' ll enjoy the manner ". roald dahl called it " a terrifying and marvellous book ". many reviewers praised the inventiveness of the language, but expressed unease at the violent subject matter. the spectator praised burgess ' s " extraordinary technical feat " but was uncomfortable with " a certain arbitrariness about the plot which is slightly irritating ". new statesman acclaimed burgess for addressing " acutely and savagely the tendencies of our time " but called the book " a great strain to read ". the sunday times review was negative, and described the book as " a very ordinary, brutal and psychologically shallow story ". the times also reviewed the book negatively, describing it as " a somewhat clumsy experiment with science fiction [ with ] clumsy cliches about juvenile delinquency ". the violence was criticised as " unconvincing in detail ". writer ' s appraisal burgess dismissed a clockwork orange as " too didactic to be artistic ". he said that the violent content of the novel " nauseated " him. in 1985, burgess published flame into being : the life and work of d. h. lawrence and while discussing lady chatterley ' s lover in his biography, burgess compared the notoriety of d. h. lawrence ' s novel with a clockwork orange : " we all suffer from the popular desire to make the known notorious. the book i am best known for, or only known for, is a novel i am prepared to repudiate : written a quarter of a century ago, a jeu d ' esprit knocked off for money in three weeks, it became known as the raw material for a film which seemed to glorify sex and violence. the film made it easy for readers of the book to misunderstand what it was about, and the misunderstanding will pursue me until i die. i should not have written the book because of this danger of misinterpretation, and the same may be said of lawrence and lady chatterley ' s lover. " awards and nominations and rankings 1983 – prometheus award ( preliminary nominee ) 1999 – prometheus award ( nomination ) 2002 – prometheus award ( nomination ) 2003 – prometheus award ( nomination ) 2006 – prometheus award ( nomination ) 2008 – prometheus award ( hall of fame award ) a clockwork orange was chosen by time magazine as one of the 100 best