. in reality, he had sought to prolong the war until further resistance was impossible, thus contributing to the large number of deaths and the extensive destruction germany suffered in the conflict ' s final months. denial of responsibility speer maintained at the nuremberg trials and in his memoirs that he had no direct knowledge of the holocaust. he admitted only to being uncomfortable around jews in the published version of the spandau diaries. in his final statement at nuremberg, speer gave the impression of apologizing, although he did not directly admit any personal guilt and the only victim he mentioned was the german people. historian martin kitchen states that speer was actually " fully aware of what had happened to the jews " and was " intimately involved in the ' final solution ' ". brechtken said speer only admitted to a generalized responsibility for the holocaust to hide his direct and actual responsibility. speer was photographed with slave laborers at mauthausen concentration camp during a visit on 31 march 1943 ; he also visited gusen concentration camp. although survivor francisco boix testified at the nuremberg trials about speer ' s visit, taylor writes that, had the photo been available, he would have been hanged. in 2005, the daily telegraph reported that documents had surfaced indicating that speer had approved the allocation of materials for the expansion of auschwitz concentration camp after two of his assistants inspected the facility on a day when almost a thousand jews were massacred. heinrich breloer, discussing the construction of auschwitz, said speer was not just a cog in the work — he was the " terror itself ". speer did not deny being present at the posen speeches to nazi leaders at a conference in posen ( poznan ) on 6 october 1943, but claimed to have left the auditorium before himmler said during his speech : " the grave decision had to be taken to cause this people to vanish from the earth ", and later, " the jews must be exterminated ". speer is mentioned several times in the speech, and himmler addresses him directly. in 2007, the guardian reported that a letter from speer dated 23 december 1971, had been found in a collection of his correspondence with helene jeanty, the widow of a belgian resistance fighter. in the letter, speer says, " there is no doubt — i was present as himmler announced on october 6, 1943, that all jews would be killed. " armaments miracle speer was credited with an " armaments miracle ". during the winter of 1941 – 42, in the light