most beneficially influence the lot of mankind. he became a vegetarian himself only during the last part of his life. in march 1954 he wrote in a letter : " so i am living without fats, without meat, without fish, but am feeling quite well this way. it almost seems to me that man was not born to be a carnivore. " love of music einstein developed an appreciation for music at an early age. in his late journals he wrote : his mother played the piano reasonably well and wanted her son to learn the violin, not only to instill in him a love of music but also to help him assimilate into german culture. according to conductor leon botstein, einstein began playing when he was 5. however, he did not enjoy it at that age. when he turned 13, he discovered the violin sonatas of mozart, whereupon he became enamored of mozart ' s compositions and studied music more willingly. einstein taught himself to play without " ever practicing systematically ". he said that " love is a better teacher than a sense of duty ". at the age of 17, he was heard by a school examiner in aarau while playing beethoven ' s violin sonatas. the examiner stated afterward that his playing was " remarkable and revealing of ' great insight. what struck the examiner, writes botstein, was that einstein " displayed a deep love of the music, a quality that was and remains in short supply. music possessed an unusual meaning for this student. " music took on a pivotal and permanent role in einstein ' s life from that period on. although the idea of becoming a professional musician himself was not on his mind at any time, among those with whom einstein played chamber music were a few professionals, including kurt appelbaum, and he performed for private audiences and friends. chamber music had also become a regular part of his social life while living in bern, zurich, and berlin, where he played with max planck and his son, among others. he is sometimes erroneously credited as the editor of the 1937 edition of the kochel catalog of mozart ' s work ; that edition was prepared by alfred einstein, who may have been a distant relation. in 1931, while engaged in research at the california institute of technology, he visited the zoellner family conservatory in los angeles, where he played some of beethoven and mozart ' s works with members of the zoellner quartet. near the end of his life, when the young juilliard quartet visited him in princeton, he played his violin with them