be accurate, as valesius remarks, for it was called anazarbus in pliny ' s time. dioscorides is called a native of anazarbus ; but the period of dioscorides is not certain. it was also the home of the poet oppian. its later name was caesarea ad anazarbum, and there are many medals of the place in which it is both named anazarbus and caesarea at or under anazarbus. on the division of cilicia it became the chief place of the roman province of cilicia secunda, with the title of metropolis. early in the sixth century, in the reign of eastern roman emperor justin i, it was named justinopolis or ioustinoupolis ( ιουστινουπολις ). the city suffered from an earthquake in 526 and was rebuilt by justinian i and renamed justinianopolis or ioustinianoupolis ( ιουστινιανουπολις ) ; but the old name persisted, and when thoros i, king of lesser armenia, made it his capital early in the 12th century, it was known as anazarva. its great natural strength and situation, not far from the mouth of the sis pass, and near the great road which debouched from the cilician gates, made anazarbus play a considerable part in the struggles between the eastern roman empire and the early muslim invaders. it had been rebuilt by harun al - rashid in 796, refortified at great expense by the hamdanid sayf al - dawla ( mid - 10th century ) and again destroyed in 962 by nikephoros ii phokas. in the 11th century it was again a major fortress, comparable to tarsos and marash, and belonged to the realm of philaretos brachamios before it was captured around 1084 by the seljuk turks. in late 1097 or early 1098 it was captured by the armies of the first crusade and after the conquest of antioch it was incorporated into bohemond of taranto ' s principality of antioch. the site briefly exchanged hands between the byzantine empire and armenians, until it was formally part of the armenian kingdom of cilicia. anazarbus was one of a chain of armenian fortifications stretching through cilicia. the castle of sis ( modern kozan, adana ) lies to the north while tumlu castle and yi