##mine, epinephrine and norepinephrine and various trace amines. phenylalanine is a precursor of phenethylamine and tyrosine in humans. in plants, it is a precursor of various phenylpropanoids, which are important in plant metabolism. glycine is a precursor of porphyrins such as heme. arginine is a precursor of nitric oxide. ornithine and s - adenosylmethionine are precursors of polyamines. aspartate, glycine, and glutamine are precursors of nucleotides. however, not all of the functions of other abundant nonstandard amino acids are known. roles for nonstandard amino acids carnitine is used in lipid transport. gamma - aminobutyric acid is a neurotransmitter. 5 - htp ( 5 - hydroxytryptophan ) is used for experimental treatment of depression. l - dopa ( l - dihydroxyphenylalanine ) for parkinson ' s treatment, eflornithine inhibits ornithine decarboxylase and used in the treatment of sleeping sickness. canavanine, an analogue of arginine found in many legumes is an antifeedant, protecting the plant from predators. mimosine found in some legumes, is another possible antifeedant. this compound is an analogue of tyrosine and can poison animals that graze on these plants. uses in industry animal feed amino acids are sometimes added to animal feed because some of the components of these feeds, such as soybeans, have low levels of some of the essential amino acids, especially of lysine, methionine, threonine, and tryptophan. likewise amino acids are used to chelate metal cations in order to improve the absorption of minerals from feed supplements. food the food industry is a major consumer of amino acids, especially glutamic acid, which is used as a flavor enhancer, and aspartame ( aspartylphenylalanine 1 - methyl ester ), which is used as an artificial sweetener. amino acids are sometimes added to food by manufacturers to alleviate symptoms of mineral deficiencies, such as anemia, by improving mineral absorption and reducing negative side effects from inorganic mineral supplementation. chemical building blocks amino acids are low - cost feedstocks