but the women did not enjoy caressing his rough skin. sometime later, when ashoka fell asleep, the resentful women chopped the flowers and the branches of his namesake tree. after ashoka woke up, he burnt 500 of his concubines to death as punishment. alarmed by the king ' s involvement in such massacres, prime minister radha - gupta proposed hiring an executioner to carry out future mass killings to leave the king unsullied. girika, a magadha village boy who boasted that he could execute the whole of jambudvipa, was hired for the purpose. he came to be known as chandagirika ( " girika the fierce " ), and on his request, ashoka built a jail in pataliputra. called ashoka ' s hell, the jail looked pleasant from the outside, but inside it, girika brutally tortured the prisoners. the 5th - century chinese traveller faxian states that ashoka personally visited the underworld to study torture methods there and then invented his methods. the 7th - century traveller xuanzang claims to have seen a pillar marking the site of ashoka ' s " hell ". the mahavamsa also briefly alludes to ashoka ' s cruelty, stating that ashoka was earlier called chandashoka because of his evil deeds but came to be called dharmashoka because of his pious acts after his conversion to buddhism. however, unlike the north indian tradition, the sri lankan texts do not mention any specific evil deeds performed by ashoka, except his killing of 99 of his brothers. such descriptions of ashoka as an evil person before his conversion to buddhism appear to be a fabrication of the buddhist authors, who attempted to present the change that buddhism brought to him as a miracle. in an attempt to dramatise this change, such legends exaggerate ashoka ' s past wickedness and his piousness after the conversion. kalinga war and conversion to buddhism ashoka ' s inscriptions mention that he conquered the kalinga region during his 8th regnal year : the destruction caused during the war made him repent violence, and in the subsequent years, he was drawn towards buddhism. edict 13 of the edicts of ashoka rock inscriptions expresses the great remorse the king felt after observing the destruction of kalinga : on the other hand, the sri lankan tradition suggests that ashoka was already a devoted buddhist by his 8th regnal year, converted to buddhism during his 4th regnal year, and constructed 84, 000 viharas during