was runner - up at the masters series tournament in key biscayne, losing to marcelo rios, who became no. 1 as a result. at the year end he was awarded the atp most improved player of the year for the second time in his career ( the first being 10 years earlier in 1988 ). agassi entered the history books in 1999 when he came back from two sets to love down to beat andrei medvedev in a five - set french open final, becoming, at the time, only the fifth male player ( joining rod laver, fred perry, roy emerson and don budge — these have since been joined by roger federer, rafael nadal, and novak djokovic ) to win all four grand slam singles titles during his career. only laver, agassi, federer, nadal and djokovic have achieved this feat during the open era. this win also made him the first ( of only four, the next being federer, nadal and djokovic respectively ) male player in history to have won all four grand slam titles on three different surfaces ( clay, grass and hard courts ). agassi also became the only male player to win the career super slam, consisting of all four grand slam tournaments plus an olympic gold medal in singles and a year - end championship. agassi followed his 1999 french open victory by reaching the wimbledon final, where he lost to sampras in straight sets. he rebounded from his wimbledon defeat by winning the us open, beating todd martin in five sets ( rallying from a two sets to one deficit ) in the final. overall during the year agassi won 5 titles including two majors and the atp masters series in paris, where he beat marat safin. agassi ended 1999 as the no. 1, ending sampras ' s record of six consecutive year - ending top rankings ( 1993 – 98 ). this was the only time agassi ended the year at no. 1. agassi was runner - up to sampras at the year - end tennis masters cup losing 1 – 6, 5 – 7, 4 – 6 despite beating sampras in the round - robin 6 – 2, 6 – 2. he began the next year 2000 by capturing his second australian open title, beating sampras in a five - set semi - final and yevgeny kafelnikov in a four - set final. he was the first male player to have reached four consecutive grand slam finals since rod laver achieved