. abu bakr contracted a fever for several days, during which time he was attended to by khaarijah and his family. in mecca, abu bakr was a wholesale trader in cloth and he started the same business in medina. he opened his new store at sunh, and from there cloth was supplied to the market at medina. soon his business flourished. early in 623, abu bakr ' s daughter aisha, who was already married to muhammad, was sent on to muhammad ' s house after a simple marriage ceremony, further strengthening relations between abu bakr and muhammad. military campaigns under muhammad battle of badr in 624, abu bakr was involved in the first battle between the muslims and the quraysh of mecca, known as the battle of badr, but did not fight, instead acting as one of the guards of muhammad ' s tent. in relation to this, ali later asked his associates as to who they thought was the bravest among men. everyone stated that ali was the bravest of all men. ali then replied : in sunni accounts, during one such attack, two discs from abu bakr ' s shield penetrated into muhammad ' s cheeks. abu bakr went forward with the intention of extracting these discs but abu ubaidah ibn al - jarrah requested he leave the matter to him, losing his two incisors during the process. in these stories subsequently abu bakr, along with other companions, led muhammad to a place of safety. battle of uhud in 625, he participated in the battle of uhud, in which the majority of the muslims were routed and he himself was wounded. before the battle had begun, his son abd al - rahman, at that time still non - muslim and fighting on the side of the quraysh, came forward and threw down a challenge for a duel. abu bakr accepted the challenge but was stopped by muhammad. later, abd al - rahman approached his father and said to him " you were exposed to me as a target, but i turned away from you and did not kill you. " to this abu bakr replied " however, if you had been exposed to me as a target i would not have turned away from you. " in the second phase of the battle, khalid ibn al - walid ' s cavalry attacked the muslims from behind, changing a muslim victory to defeat. many fled from the battlefield, including abu bakr. however, according to his own account, he was " the first to return ". battle of