and looking behind itself. the obsolete constellations of aries ( apes / vespa / lilium / musca ( borealis ) ) all centred on the same the northern stars. in 1612, petrus plancius introduced apes, a constellation representing a bee. in 1624, the same stars were used by jakob bartsch as for vespa, representing a wasp. in 1679, augustin royer used these stars for his constellation lilium, representing the fleur - de - lis. none of these constellations became widely accepted. johann hevelius renamed the constellation " musca " in 1690 in his firmamentum sobiescianum. to differentiate it from musca, the southern fly, it was later renamed musca borealis but it did not gain acceptance and its stars were ultimately officially reabsorbed into aries. the asterism involved was 33, 35, 39, and 41 arietis. in 1922, the international astronomical union defined its recommended three - letter abbreviation, " ari ". the official boundaries of aries were defined in 1930 by eugene delporte as a polygon of 12 segments. its right ascension is between 1h 46. 4m and 3h 29. 4m and its declination is between 10. 36° and 31. 22° in the equatorial coordinate system. in non - western astronomy in traditional chinese astronomy, stars from aries were used in several constellations. the brightest stars — alpha, beta, and gamma arietis — formed a constellation called lou ( ), variously translated as " bond ", " lasso ", and " sickle ", which was associated with the ritual sacrifice of cattle. this name was shared by the 16th lunar mansion, the location of the full moon closest to the autumnal equinox. this constellation has also been associated with harvest - time as it could represent a woman carrying a basket of food on her head. 35, 39, and 41 arietis were part of a constellation called wei ( ), which represented a fat abdomen and was the namesake of the 17th lunar mansion, which represented granaries. delta and zeta arietis were a part of the constellation tianyin ( 天 ), thought to represent the emperor ' s hunting partner. zuogeng ( ), a constellation depicting a marsh and pond inspector, was composed of mu, nu, omicron, pi, and sigma arietis. he was accompanied by yeou - kang, a constellation depicting