his prior policy, is to say, " i can ' t help it. i need wider powers. " secondary characters the following secondary characters also appear in the novel. hugh akston is identified as " one of the last great advocates of reason. " he was a renowned philosopher and the head of the department of philosophy at patrick henry university, where he taught francisco d ' anconia, john galt, and ragnar danneskjold. he was, along with robert stadler, a father figure to these three. akston ' s name is so hallowed that a young lady, on hearing that francisco had studied under him, is shocked. she thought he must have been one of those great names from an earlier century. he now works as a cook in a roadside diner, and proves extremely skillful at the job. when dagny tracks him down, and before she discovers his true identity, he rejects her enthusiastic offer to manage the dining car services for taggart transcontinental. he is based on aristotle. jeff allen is a tramp who stows away on a taggart train during one of dagny ' s cross - country trips. instead of throwing him out, she allows him to ride as her guest. it is from allen that she learns the full story behind the collapse of the twentieth century motor company ( rand ' s extensive metaphor for the inherent flaws of communism ), as well as a hint of john galt ' s true background. calvin atwood is owner of atwood light and power company and joins galt ' s strike. mayor bascom is the mayor of rome, wisconsin, who reveals part of the history of the twentieth century motor company. dr. blodgett is the scientist who pulls the lever to demonstrate project x. orren boyle is the head of associated steel, antithesis of hank rearden and a friend of james taggart. he is an investor in the san sebastian mines. he disappears from the story after having a nervous breakdown following the failed ' unification ' of the steel industry. laura bradford is an actress and kip chalmers ' mistress. she is one of the passengers on his train, and dies in the taggart tunnel disaster. bill brent is the chief dispatcher for the colorado division of taggart transcontinental, who tries to prevent the taggart tunnel disaster. cherryl brooks is a dime store shopgirl who marries james taggart after a chance encounter in her store the night the john galt line was falsely deemed his greatest success.