medicine in france. as a result, carrel moved to canada with plans of farming and raising cattle. but, shortly after, he accepted a position at the university of chicago, where he remained for two years before taking up a post at the rockefeller institute of medical research. man, the unknown ( 1935, 1939 ) in 1935, carrel ' s book, l ' homme, cet inconnu ( man, the unknown ), became a best - seller. the book attempted to comprehensively outline what is known, and unknown, of the human body and human life " in light of discoveries in biology, physics, and medicine ", to shed light on the problems of the modern world, and to provide possible routes to a better life for human beings. in the book, carrel advocated for an elite group of intellectuals to guide mankind and to incorporate eugenics into the social framework. he argued for an aristocracy that would come from individuals of potential and advocated for euthanasia for criminals and the criminally insane. notably, carrel ' s endorsement of euthanasia for criminals and the criminally insane was published in the mid - 1930s, prior to the implementation of death camps and gas chambers in nazi germany. in the 1936 german introduction of his book, carrel added praise for the nazi regime at the publisher ' s request, which did not appear in other language editions. after the second world war the book and his role with the vichy regime would stain his reputation such that his name was removed from streets in more than 20 french cities and the alexis carrel medical faculty in lyon was renamed in 1996. french foundation for the study of human problems in 1937, carrel joined the centre d ' etudes des problemes humains, which was led by jean coutrot. coutrot ' s goal was to develop what he called an " economic humanism " through " collective thinking. " however, in 1941, carrel went on to advocate for the creation of the french foundation for the study of human problems ( fondation francaise pour l ' etude des problemes humains ). this foundation was created by decree of the vichy regime in 1941, and carrel served as a " regent. " carrel ' s connections to the cabinet of vichy france president philippe petain, specifically french industrial physicians andre gros and jacques menetrier, helped pave the way for the creation of the foundation. the foundation played a significant role in the establishment of the field of occupational medicine, which was institutionalized by the provisional government of