a series of civil wars broke out across the macedonian empire, eventually leading to its disintegration at the hands of the diadochi. with his death marking the start of the hellenistic period, alexander ' s legacy includes the cultural diffusion and syncretism that his conquests engendered, such as greco - buddhism and hellenistic judaism. he founded more than twenty cities, with the most prominent being the city of alexandria in egypt. alexander ' s settlement of greek colonists and the resulting spread of greek culture led to the overwhelming dominance of hellenistic civilization and influence as far east as the indian subcontinent. the hellenistic period developed through the roman empire into modern western culture ; the greek language became the lingua franca of the region and was the predominant language of the byzantine empire up until its collapse in the mid - 15th century ad. greek - speaking communities in central anatolia and in far - eastern anatolia survived until the greek genocide and greek – turkish population exchanges of the early 20th century ad. alexander became legendary as a classical hero in the mould of achilles, featuring prominently in the historical and mythical traditions of both greek and non - greek cultures. his military achievements and unprecedented enduring successes in battle made him the measure against which many later military leaders would compare themselves, and his tactics remain a significant subject of study in military academies worldwide. early life lineage and childhood alexander iii was born in pella, the capital of the kingdom of macedon, on the sixth day of the ancient greek month of hekatombaion, which probably corresponds to 20 july 356 bc ( although the exact date is uncertain ). he was the son of the erstwhile king of macedon, philip ii, and his fourth wife, olympias ( daughter of neoptolemus i, king of epirus ). although philip had seven or eight wives, olympias was his principal wife for some time, likely because she gave birth to alexander. several legends surround alexander ' s birth and childhood. according to the ancient greek biographer plutarch, on the eve of the consummation of her marriage to philip, olympias dreamed that her womb was struck by a thunderbolt that caused a flame to spread " far and wide " before dying away. sometime after the wedding, philip is said to have seen himself, in a dream, securing his wife ' s womb with a seal engraved with a lion ' s image. plutarch offered a variety of interpretations for these dreams : that olympias was pregnant before her marriage, indicated by the sealing of her womb ; or that alexander '