, she is mostly unknown. her father was aristomenidas, an influential noble with connections in thebes. thanks to three treaties signed with persia in 412 – 411, sparta received funding from the persians, which it used to build a fleet that ultimately defeated athens. this fleet was essentially led by lysander, whose success gave him an enormous influence in the greek cities of asia as well as in sparta, where he even schemed to become king. in 403 the two kings, agis and pausanias, acted together to relieve him from his command. reign accession to the throne ( 400 – 398 bc ) agis ii died while returning from delphi between 400 and 398. after his funeral, agesilaus contested the claim of leotychidas, the son of agis ii, using the widespread belief in sparta that leotychidas was an illegitimate son of alcibiades — a famous athenian statesman and nephew of pericles, who had gone into exile in sparta during the peloponnesian war, and then seduced the queen. the rumours were strengthened by the fact that even agis only recognised leotychidas as his son on his deathbed. diopeithes, a supporter of leotychidas, however quoted an old oracle telling that a spartan king could not be lame, thus refuting agesilaus ' claim, but lysander cunningly returned the objection by saying that the oracle had to be understood figuratively. the lameness warned against by the oracle would therefore refer to the doubt on leotychidas ' paternity, and this reasoning won the argument. the role of lysander in the accession of agesilaus has been debated among historians, principally because plutarch makes him the main instigator of the plot, while xenophon downplays lysander ' s influence. lysander doubtless supported agesilaus ' accession because he hoped that the new king would in return help him to regain the importance that he lost in 403. conspiracy of cinadon ( 399 bc ) the conspiracy of cinadon took place during the first year of agesilaus ' reign, in the summer of 399. cinadon was a hypomeion, a spartan who had lost his citizen status, presumably because he could not afford the price of the collective mess — one of the main reasons for the dwindling number of spartan citizens in the classical era, called oliganthropia. it is probable