or excellence. aristotle taught that to achieve a virtuous and potentially happy character requires a first stage of having the fortune to be habituated not deliberately, but by teachers, and experience, leading to a later stage in which one consciously chooses to do the best things. when the best people come to live life this way their practical wisdom ( phronesis ) and their intellect ( nous ) can develop with each other towards the highest possible human virtue, the wisdom of an accomplished theoretical or speculative thinker, or in other words, a philosopher. politics in addition to his works on ethics, which address the individual, aristotle addressed the city in his work titled politics. aristotle considered the city to be a natural community. moreover, he considered the city to be prior in importance to the family, which in turn is prior to the individual, " for the whole must of necessity be prior to the part ". he famously stated that " man is by nature a political animal " and argued that humanity ' s defining factor among others in the animal kingdom is its rationality. aristotle conceived of politics as being like an organism rather than like a machine, and as a collection of parts none of which can exist without the others. aristotle ' s conception of the city is organic, and he is considered one of the first to conceive of the city in this manner. the common modern understanding of a political community as a modern state is quite different from aristotle ' s understanding. although he was aware of the existence and potential of larger empires, the natural community according to aristotle was the city ( polis ) which functions as a political " community " or " partnership " ( koinonia ). the aim of the city is not just to avoid injustice or for economic stability, but rather to allow at least some citizens the possibility to live a good life, and to perform beautiful acts : " the political partnership must be regarded, therefore, as being for the sake of noble actions, not for the sake of living together. " this is distinguished from modern approaches, beginning with social contract theory, according to which individuals leave the state of nature because of " fear of violent death " or its " inconveniences ". in protrepticus, the character ' aristotle ' states : as plato ' s disciple aristotle was rather critical concerning democracy and, following the outline of certain ideas from plato ' s statesman, he developed a coherent theory of integrating various forms of power into a so - called mixed state : to illustrate this approach, aristotle proposed a first - of