), few of these vehicles were produced ( all hand - built by a single team ), but the model was a great success in rallying. prominent wins proved the viability of all - wheel - drive racecars, and the audi name became associated with advances in automotive technology. in 1985, with the auto union and nsu brands effectively dead, the company ' s official name was now shortened to simply audi ag. at the same time the company ' s headquarters moved back to ingolstadt and two new wholly owned subsidiaries ; auto union gmbh and nsu gmbh, were formed to own and manage the historical trademarks and intellectual property of the original constituent companies ( the exception being horch, which had been retained by daimler - benz after the vw takeover ), and to operate audi ' s heritage operations. in 1986, as the passat - based audi 80 was beginning to develop a kind of " grandfather ' s car " image, the type 89 was introduced. this completely new development sold extremely well. however, its modern and dynamic exterior belied the low performance of its base engine, and its base package was quite spartan ( even the passenger - side mirror was an option. ) in 1987, audi put forward a new and very elegant audi 90, which had a much superior set of standard features. in the early 1990s, sales began to slump for the audi 80 series, and some basic construction problems started to surface. in the early part of the 21st century, audi set forth on a german racetrack to claim and maintain several world records, such as top speed endurance. this effort was in - line with the company ' s heritage from the 1930s racing era silver arrows. through the early 1990s, audi began to shift its target market upscale to compete against german automakers mercedes - benz and bmw. this began with the release of the audi v8 in 1990. it was essentially a new engine fitted to the audi 100 / 200, but with noticeable bodywork differences. most obvious was the new grille that was now incorporated in the bonnet. by 1991, audi had the four - cylinder audi 80, the 5 - cylinder audi 90 and audi 100, the turbocharged audi 200 and the audi v8. there was also a coupe version of the 80 / 90 with both four - and five - cylinder engines. although the five - cylinder engine was a successful and robust powerplant, it was still a little too different for the target market. with the introduction of an all - new audi 100 in 1992, audi introduced a 2. 8l v6 engine.