to be called ampere ' s law, which states that the mutual action of two lengths of current - carrying wire is proportional to their lengths and to the intensities of their currents. ampere also applied this same principle to magnetism, showing the harmony between his law and french physicist charles augustin de coulomb ' s law of electric action. ampere ' s devotion to, and skill with, experimental techniques anchored his science within the emerging fields of experimental physics. ampere also provided a physical understanding of the electromagnetic relationship, theorizing the existence of an " electrodynamic molecule " ( the forerunner of the idea of the electron ) that served as the component element of both electricity and magnetism. using this physical explanation of electromagnetic motion, ampere developed a physical account of electromagnetic phenomena that was both empirically demonstrable and mathematically predictive. almost 100 years later, in 1915, albert einstein together with wander johannes de haas made the proof of the correctness of ampere ' s hypothesis through the einstein – de haas effect. in 1827, ampere published his magnum opus, memoire sur la theorie mathematique des phenomenes electrodynamiques uniquement deduite de l ' experience ( memoir on the mathematical theory of electrodynamic phenomena, uniquely deduced from experience ), the work that coined the name of his new science, electrodynamics, and became known ever after as its founding treatise. in 1827, ampere was elected a foreign member of the royal society and in 1828, a foreign member of the royal swedish academy of science. probably the highest recognition came from james clerk maxwell, who in his treatise on electricity and magnetism named ampere " the newton of electricity ". honours 8. 10. 1825 : member of the royal academy of science, letters and fine arts of belgium. legacy an international convention, signed at the 1881 international exposition of electricity, established the ampere as one of the standard units of electrical measurement, in recognition of his contribution to the creation of modern electrical science and along with the coulomb, volt, ohm, watt and farad, which are named, respectively, after ampere ' s contemporaries charles - augustin de coulomb of france, alessandro volta of italy, georg ohm of germany, james watt of scotland and michael faraday of england. ampere ' s name is one of the 72 names inscribed on the eiffel tower. many streets and squares are named after ampere, as are schools