( ) r2 ≈ 3. 16r2, a reasonable approximation of the formula. the golden ratio seems to be reflected in many egyptian constructions, including the pyramids, but its use may have been an unintended consequence of the ancient egyptian practice of combining the use of knotted ropes with an intuitive sense of proportion and harmony. population estimates of the size of the population range from 1 – 1. 5 million in the 3rd millennium bc to possibly 2 – 3 million by the 1st millennium bc, before growing significantly towards the end of that millennium. dna according to historian william stiebling and archaeologist susan n. helft, conflicting dna analysis on recent genetic samples such as the amarna royal mummies has led to a lack of consensus on the genetic makeup of the ancient egyptians and their geographic origins. in 2012, two mummies of two 20th dynasty individuals, ramesses iii and " unknown man e " believed to be ramesses iii ' s son pentawer, were analyzed by albert zink, yehia z gad and a team of researchers under zahi hawass. genetic kinship analyses revealed identical haplotypes in both mummies ; using the whit athey ' s haplogroup predictor, the y chromosomal haplogroup e1b1a was predicted. a 2017 study by schuenemann et al. analysed the maternal dna ( mtdna ) of 90 mummies from abusir el - meleq. additionally, three of the mummies were also analyzed for y - dna. two were assigned to west asian j and one to haplogroup e1b1b1 both are carried by modern egyptians and are common in north africa and the middle east. the samples are from the time periods : late new kingdom, ptolemaic, and roman, and the study used 135 modern egyptian samples ( 100 from modern egyptians and 35 from el - hayez western desert oasis ). the researchers cautioned that the affinities of the examined ancient egyptian specimens may not be representative of those of all ancient egyptians since they were from a single archaeological site. the authors of this study state that the abusir el - meleq mummies closely resembled near eastern populations. the genetics of the mummies remained remarkably consistent within this range even as different powers — including nubians, greeks, and romans — conquered the empire. a wide range of mtdna haplogroups were found including clades of j, u, h, hv, m,