##saurus where a skull was found articulated with its cervical vertebrae was described. this specimen, cmcvp7180, was found to differ in both skull and neck features from a. louisae, but shared many features of the cervical vertebrae with a. ajax. another well - preserved skull is brigham young university specimen 17096, a well - preserved skull and skeleton, with a preserved braincase. the specimen was found in cactus park quarry in western colorado. in 2013, matthew mossbrucker and several other authors published an abstract that described a premaxilla and maxilla from lakes ' original quarry in morrison and referred the material to apatosaurus ajax. almost all modern paleontologists agreed with riggs that the two dinosaurs should be classified together in a single genus. according to the rules of the iczn ( which governs the scientific names of animals ), the name apatosaurus, having been published first, has priority as the official name ; brontosaurus was considered a junior synonym and was therefore long discarded from formal use. despite this, at least one paleontologistrobert t. bakkerargued in the 1990s that a. ajax and a. excelsus were in fact sufficiently distinct for the latter to merit a separate genus. in 2015, emanuel tschopp, octavio mateus, and roger benson released a paper on diplodocoid systematics, and proposed that genera could be diagnosed by thirteen differing characters, and species separated based on six. the minimum number for generic separation was chosen based on the fact that a. ajax and a. louisae differ in twelve characters, and diplodocus carnegiei and d. hallorum differ in eleven characters. thus, thirteen characters were chosen to validate the separation of genera. the six differing features for specific separation were chosen by counting the number of differing features in separate specimens generally agreed to represent one species, with only one differing character in d. carnegiei and a. louisae, but five differing features in b. excelsus. therefore, tschopp etal. argued that apatosaurus excelsus, originally classified as brontosaurus excelsus, had enough morphological differences from other species of apatosaurus that it warranted being reclassified as a separate genus again. the conclusion was based on a comparison of 477 morphological characteristics across 81 different dinosaur individuals. among the many notable differences are the widerand presumably strongerneck of apatosaurus species compared to b. excelsus. other species previously assigned to apatosaurus, such