with o. t. o. initiate lady frieda harris, crowley developed plans to produce a tarot card set, designed by him and painted by harris. accompanying this was a book, published in a limited edition as the book of thoth by chiswick press in 1944. to aid the war effort, he wrote a proclamation on the rights of humanity, liber oz, and a poem for the liberation of france, le gauloise. crowley ' s final publication during his lifetime was a book of poetry, olla : an anthology of sixty years of song. another of his projects, aleister explains everything, was posthumously published as magick without tears. in april 1944 crowley briefly moved to aston clinton in buckinghamshire, where he was visited by the poet nancy cunard, before relocating to hastings in sussex, where he took up residence at the netherwood boarding house. he took a young man named kenneth grant as his secretary, paying him in magical teaching rather than wages. he was also introduced to john symonds, whom he appointed to be his literary executor ; symonds thought little of crowley, later publishing negative biographies of him. corresponding with the illusionist arnold crowther, it was through him that crowley was introduced to gerald gardner, the future founder of gardnerian wicca. they became friends, with crowley authorising gardner to revive britain ' s ailing o. t. o. another visitor was eliza marian butler, who interviewed crowley for her book the myth of the magus. other friends and family also spent time with him, among them doherty and crowley ' s son aleister ataturk. on 1 december 1947, crowley died at netherwood of chronic bronchitis aggravated by pleurisy and myocardial degeneration, aged 72. his funeral was held at a brighton crematorium on 5 december ; about a dozen people attended, and louis wilkinson read excerpts from the gnostic mass, the book of the law, and " hymn to pan ". the funeral generated press controversy, and was labelled a black mass by the tabloids. crowley ' s body was cremated ; his ashes were sent to karl germer in the us, who buried them in his garden in hampton, new jersey. beliefs and thought crowley ' s belief system, thelema, has been described by scholars as a religion, and more specifically as both a new religious movement, and as a " magico - religious doctrine ". it has also been characterized as a form of esotericism and