experienced by abraham ( see also the articles on the constantinian basilica at mamre and the church at the so - called " oak of mamre " ). islam islam regards abraham as a link in the chain of prophets that begins with adam and culminates in muhammad. ibrahim is mentioned in 35 chapters of the quran, more often than any other biblical personage apart from moses. he is called both a hanif ( monotheist ) and muslim ( one who submits ), and muslims regard him as a prophet and patriarch, the archetype of the perfect muslim, and the revered reformer of the kaaba in mecca. islamic traditions consider ibrahim the first pioneer of islam ( which is also called millat ibrahim, the " religion of abraham " ), and that his purpose and mission throughout his life was to proclaim the oneness of god. in islam, abraham holds an exalted position among the major prophets and he is referred to as " ibrahim khalilullah ", meaning " abraham the beloved of god ". besides ishaq and yaqub, ibrahim is among the most honorable and the most excellent men in sight of god. ibrahim was also mentioned in quran as " father of muslims " and the role model for the community. druze the druze regard abraham as the third spokesman ( natiq ) after adam and noah, who helped transmit the foundational teachings of monotheism ( tawhid ) intended for the larger audience. he is also among the seven prophets who appeared in different periods of history according to the druze faith. mandaeism in mandaeism, abraham ( ) is mentioned in book 18 of the right ginza as the patriarch of the jewish people. mandaeans consider abraham to have been originally a mandaean priest, however they differ with abraham and jews regarding circumcision which they consider to be bodily mutilation and therefore forbidden. in the arts painting and sculpture paintings on the life of abraham tend to focus on only a few incidents : the sacrifice of isaac ; meeting melchizedek ; entertaining the three angels ; hagar in the desert ; and a few others. additionally, martin o ' kane, a professor of biblical studies, writes that the parable of lazarus resting in the " bosom of abraham ", as described in the gospel of luke, became an iconic image in christian works. according to o ' kane, artists often chose to divert from the common literary portrayal of lazarus sitting next to abraham at a banquet in heaven and