traceable. in the united states, land - based and nearshore aquaculture is regulated at the federal and state levels ; however, no national laws govern offshore aquaculture in u. s. exclusive economic zone waters. in june 2011, the department of commerce and national oceanic and atmospheric administration released national aquaculture policies to address this issue and " to meet the growing demand for healthy seafood, to create jobs in coastal communities, and restore vital ecosystems. " large aquaculture facilities ( i. e. those producing per year ) which discharge wastewater are required to obtain permits pursuant to the clean water act. facilities that produce at least of fish, molluscs or crustaceans a year are subject to specific national discharge standards. other permitted facilities are subject to effluent limitations that are developed on a case - by - case basis. by country aquaculture by country : history the gunditjmara, the local aboriginal australian people in south - western victoria, australia, may have raised short - finned eels as early as about 4, 580 bce. evidence indicates they developed about of volcanic floodplains in the vicinity of lake condah into a complex of channels and dams, and used woven traps to capture eels, and preserve them to eat all year round. the budj bim cultural landscape, a world heritage site, is thought to be one of the oldest aquaculture sites in the world. oral tradition in china tells of the culture of the common carp, cyprinus carpio, as long ago as 2000 – 2100 bce ( around 4, 000 years bp ), but the earliest significant evidence lies in the literature, in the earliest monograph on fish culture called the classic of fish culture, by fan li, written around 475 bce ( bp ). another ancient chinese guide to aquaculture was by yang yu jing, written around 460 bce, showing that carp farming was becoming more sophisticated. the jiahu site in china has circumstantial archeological evidence as possibly the oldest aquaculture locations, dating from 6200bce ( about 8, 200 years bp ), but this is speculative. when the waters subsided after river floods, some fish, mainly carp, were trapped in lakes. early aquaculturists fed their brood using nymphs and silkworm faeces, and ate them. ancient egyptians might have farmed fish ( especially gilt - head bream ) from lake bardawil about 1, 500 bce ( about 3, 500 bp ), and they traded them with canaan. gim cultivation