, it has been studied with attention by modern scholars, in particular neil christie, who see in it a possible record of a formal invitation by the byzantine state to settle in northern italy as foederati, to help protect the region against the franks, an arrangement that may have been disowned by justin ii after narses ' removal. march to italy the lombard migration started on easter monday, 2 april 568. the decision to combine the departure with a christian celebration can be understood in the context of alboin ' s recent conversion to arian christianity, as attested by the presence of arian gothic missionaries at his court. the conversion is likely to have been motivated mostly by political considerations, and intended to consolidate the migration ' s cohesion, distinguishing the migrants from the catholic romans. it also connected alboin and his people to the gothic heritage, and in this way obtain the support of the ostrogoths serving in the byzantine army as foederati. it has been speculated that alboin ' s migration could have been partly the result of a call from surviving ostrogoths in italy. the season chosen for leaving pannonia was unusually early ; the germanic peoples generally waited until autumn before beginning a migration, giving themselves time to do the harvesting and replenish their granaries for the march. the reason behind the spring departure could be the anxiety induced by the neighboring avars, despite the friendship treaty. nomadic peoples like the avars also waited for autumn to begin their military campaigns, as they needed enough forage for their horses. a sign of this anxiety can also be seen in the decision taken by alboin to ravage pannonia, which created a safety zone between the lombards and the avars. the road followed by alboin to reach italy has been the subject of controversy, as is the length of the trek. according to neil christie the lombards divided themselves into migrational groups, with a vanguard scouting the road, probably following the poetovio – celeia – emona – forum iulii route, while the wagons and most of the people proceeded slowly behind because of the goods and chattels they brought with them, and possibly also because they were waiting for the saxons to join them on the road. by september raiding parties were looting venetia, but it was probably only in 569 that the julian alps were crossed at the vipava valley ; the eyewitness secundus of non gives the date as 20 or 21 may. the