in 1902, einstein and some friends whom he had met in bern formed a group that held regular meetings to discuss science and philosophy. their choice of a name for their club, the olympia academy, was an ironic comment upon its far from olympian status. sometimes they were joined by maric, who limited her participation in their proceedings to careful listening. the thinkers whose works they reflected upon included henri poincare, ernst mach and david hume, all of whom significantly influenced einstein ' s own subsequent ideas and beliefs. 1900 – 1905 : first scientific papers einstein ' s first paper, " folgerungen aus den capillaritatserscheinungen " ( " conclusions drawn from the phenomena of capillarity " ), in which he proposed a model of intermolecular attraction that he afterwards disavowed as worthless, was published in the journal annalen der physik in 1900. his 24 - page doctoral dissertation also addressed a topic in molecular physics. titled " eine neue bestimmung der molekuldimensionen " ( " a new determination of molecular dimensions " ) and dedicated to his friend marcel grossman, it was completed on 30 april 1905 and approved by professor alfred kleiner of the university of zurich three months later. ( einstein was formally awarded his phd on 15 january 1906. ) four other pieces of work that einstein completed in 1905 — his famous papers on the photoelectric effect, brownian motion, his special theory of relativity and the equivalence of mass and energy — have led to the year ' s being celebrated as an annus mirabilis for physics almost as wonderful as 1666 ( the year in which isaac newton experienced his greatest epiphanies ). the publications deeply impressed einstein ' s contemporaries. 1908 – 1933 : early academic career einstein ' s sabbatical as a civil servant approached its end in 1908, when he secured a junior teaching position at the university of bern. in 1909, a lecture on relativistic electrodynamics that he gave at the university of zurich, much admired by alfred kleiner, led to zurich ' s luring him away from bern with a newly created associate professorship. promotion to a full professorship followed in april 1911, when he accepted a chair at the german charles - ferdinand university in prague, a move which required him to become an austrian citizen of the austro - hungarian empire. his time in prague saw him producing eleven research papers. in july 1912, he returned to his alma mater, the eth zurich, to take up a chair in theoretical