##ροειδης, or asteroeides, meaning ' star - like, star - shaped ', and derived from the ancient greek aster ' star, planet '. in the early second half of the 19th century, the terms asteroid and planet ( not always qualified as " minor " ) were still used interchangeably. traditionally, small bodies orbiting the sun were classified as comets, asteroids, or meteoroids, with anything smaller than one meter across being called a meteoroid. the term asteroid never had a formal definition, with the broader term small solar system bodies being preferred by the international astronomical union ( iau ). as no iau definition exists, asteroid can be defined as " an irregularly shaped rocky body orbiting the sun that does not qualify as a planet or a dwarf planet under the iau definitions of those terms ". when found, asteroids were seen as a class of objects distinct from comets, and there was no unified term for the two until small solar system body was coined in 2006. the main difference between an asteroid and a comet is that a comet shows a coma due to sublimation of near - surface ices by solar radiation. a few objects have ended up being dual - listed because they were first classified as minor planets but later showed evidence of cometary activity. conversely, some ( perhaps all ) comets are eventually depleted of their surface volatile ices and become asteroid - like. a further distinction is that comets typically have more eccentric orbits than most asteroids ; " asteroids " with notably eccentric orbits are probably dormant or extinct comets. for almost two centuries, from the discovery of ceres in 1801 until the discovery of the first centaur, 2060 chiron in 1977, all known asteroids spent most of their time at or within the orbit of jupiter, though a few such as 944 hidalgo ventured far beyond jupiter for part of their orbit. when astronomers started finding more small bodies that permanently resided further out than jupiter, now called centaurs, they numbered them among the traditional asteroids. there was debate over whether these objects should be considered asteroids or given a new classification. then, when the first trans - neptunian object ( other than pluto ), 15760 albion, was discovered in 1992, and especially when large numbers of similar objects started turning up, new terms were invented to sidestep the issue : kuiper - belt object, trans - neptunian object, scattered - disc object, and so on. they inhabit the cold outer reaches of the solar system where ices remain