##mony alloy. indium antimonide ( insb ) is used as a material for mid - infrared detectors. biology and medicine have few uses for antimony. treatments containing antimony, known as antimonials, are used as emetics. antimony compounds are used as antiprotozoan drugs. potassium antimonyl tartrate, or tartar emetic, was once used as an anti - schistosomal drug from 1919 on. it was subsequently replaced by praziquantel. antimony and its compounds are used in several veterinary preparations, such as anthiomaline and lithium antimony thiomalate, as a skin conditioner in ruminants. antimony has a nourishing or conditioning effect on keratinized tissues in animals. antimony - based drugs, such as meglumine antimoniate, are also considered the drugs of choice for treatment of leishmaniasis in domestic animals. besides having low therapeutic indices, the drugs have minimal penetration of the bone marrow, where some of the leishmania amastigotes reside, and curing the disease – especially the visceral form – is very difficult. elemental antimony as an antimony pill was once used as a medicine. it could be reused by others after ingestion and elimination. antimony ( iii ) sulfide is used in the heads of some safety matches. antimony sulfides help to stabilize the friction coefficient in automotive brake pad materials. antimony is used in bullets, bullet tracers, paint, glass art, and as an opacifier in enamel. antimony - 124 is used together with beryllium in neutron sources ; the gamma rays emitted by antimony - 124 initiate the photodisintegration of beryllium. the emitted neutrons have an average energy of 24 kev. natural antimony is used in startup neutron sources. historically, the powder derived from crushed antimony ( kohl ) has been applied to the eyes with a metal rod and with one ' s spittle, thought by the ancients to aid in curing eye infections. the practice is still seen in yemen and in other muslim countries. precautions antimony and many of its compounds are toxic, and the effects of antimony poisoning are similar to arsenic poisoning. the toxicity of antimony is far lower than that of arsenic ; this might be caused by the significant differences of uptake, metabolism and excretion between arsenic and antimony. the uptake of antimony ( iii