of this term seems to be a friendship with ginsberg. friendship with kerouac or burroughs might also apply, but both writers later strove to disassociate themselves from the name " beat generation. " part of their dissatisfaction with the term came from the mistaken identification of ginsberg as the leader. ginsberg never claimed to be the leader of a movement. he claimed that many of the writers with whom he had become friends in this period shared many of the same intentions and themes. some of these friends include : david amram, bob kaufman ; diane di prima ; jim cohn ; poets associated with the black mountain college such as charles olson, robert creeley, and denise levertov ; poets associated with the new york school such as frank o ' hara and kenneth koch. leroi jones before he became amiri baraka, who, after reading " howl ", wrote a letter to ginsberg on a sheet of toilet paper. baraka ' s independent publishing house totem press published ginsberg ' s early work. through a party organized by baraka, ginsberg was introduced to langston hughes while ornette coleman played saxophone. later in his life, ginsberg formed a bridge between the beat movement of the 1950s and the hippies of the 1960s, befriending, among others, timothy leary, ken kesey, hunter s. thompson, and bob dylan. ginsberg gave his last public reading at booksmith, a bookstore in the haight - ashbury neighborhood of san francisco, a few months before his death. in 1993, ginsberg visited the university of maine at orono to pay homage to the 90 - year - old great carl rakosi. buddhism and krishna in 1950, kerouac began studying buddhism and shared what he learned from dwight goddard ' s buddhist bible with ginsberg. ginsberg first heard about the four noble truths and such sutras as the diamond sutra at this time. ginsberg ' s spiritual journey began early on with his spontaneous visions, and continued with an early trip to india with gary snyder. snyder had previously spent time in kyoto to study at the first zen institute at daitoku - ji monastery. at one point, snyder chanted the prajnaparamita, which in ginsberg ' s words " blew my mind. " his interest piqued, ginsberg traveled to meet the dalai lama as well as the karmapa at rumtek monastery. continuing on his journey, ginsberg met dudjom rinpoche in kalimpong