##yp market, westerstraat - markt, ten katemarkt, and dappermarkt. some of these markets are held daily, like the albert cuypmarkt and the dappermarkt. others, like the westerstraatmarkt, are held every week. fashion several fashion brands and designers are based in amsterdam. fashion designers include iris van herpen, mart visser, viktor & rolf, marlies dekkers and frans molenaar. fashion models like yfke sturm, doutzen kroes and kim noorda started their careers in amsterdam. amsterdam has its garment centre in the world fashion center. fashion photographers inez van lamsweerde and vinoodh matadin were born in amsterdam. culture during the later part of the 16th century, amsterdam ' s rederijkerskamer ( chamber of rhetoric ) organised contests between different chambers in the reading of poetry and drama. in 1637, schouwburg, the first theatre in amsterdam was built, opening on 3 january 1638. the first ballet performances in the netherlands were given in schouwburg in 1642 with the ballet of the five senses. in the 18th century, french theatre became popular. while amsterdam was under the influence of german music in the 19th century there were few national opera productions ; the hollandse opera of amsterdam was built in 1888 for the specific purpose of promoting dutch opera. in the 19th century, popular culture was centred on the nes area in amsterdam ( mainly vaudeville and music - hall ). an improved metronome was invented in 1812 by dietrich nikolaus winkel. the ( 1885 ) and stedelijk museum ( 1895 ) were built and opened. in 1888, the concertgebouworkest orchestra was established. with the 20th century came cinema, radio and television. though most studios are located in hilversum and aalsmeer, amsterdam ' s influence on programming is very strong. many people who work in the television industry live in amsterdam. also, the headquarters of the dutch sbs broadcasting group is located in amsterdam. museums the most important museums of amsterdam are located on the museumplein ( museum square ), located at the southwestern side of the rijksmuseum. it was created in the last quarter of the 19th century on the grounds of the former world ' s fair. the northeastern part of the square is bordered by the large rijksmuseum. in front of the rijksmuseum on the square itself is a long