to further help the animators see how characters would look from different angles. unlike live - action films, animated films were traditionally developed beyond the synopsis stage through the storyboard format ; the storyboard artists would then receive credit for writing the film. in the early 1960s, animation studios began hiring professional screenwriters to write screenplays ( while also continuing to use story departments ) and screenplays had become commonplace for animated films by the late 1980s. techniques traditional traditional animation ( also called cel animation or hand - drawn animation ) was the process used for most animated films of the 20th century. the individual frames of a traditionally animated film are photographs of drawings, first drawn on paper. to create the illusion of movement, each drawing differs slightly from the one before it. the animators ' drawings are traced or photocopied onto transparent acetate sheets called cels, which are filled in with paints in assigned colors or tones on the side opposite the line drawings. the completed character cels are photographed one - by - one against a painted background by a rostrum camera onto motion picture film. the traditional cel animation process became obsolete by the beginning of the 21st century. today, animators ' drawings and the backgrounds are either scanned into or drawn directly into a computer system. various software programs are used to color the drawings and simulate camera movement and effects. the final animated piece is output to one of several delivery media, including traditional 35 mm film and newer media with digital video. the " look " of traditional cel animation is still preserved, and the character animators ' work has remained essentially the same over the past 90 years. some animation producers have used the term " tradigital " ( a play on the words " traditional " and " digital " ) to describe cel animation that uses significant computer technology. examples of traditionally animated feature films include pinocchio ( united states, 1940 ), animal farm ( united kingdom, 1954 ), lucky and zorba ( italy, 1998 ), and the illusionist ( british - french, 2010 ). traditionally animated films produced with the aid of computer technology include the lion king ( us, 1994 ), the prince of egypt ( us, 1998 ), akira ( japan, 1988 ), spirited away ( japan, 2001 ), the triplets of belleville ( france, 2003 ), and the secret of kells ( irish - french - belgian, 2009 ). full full animation is the process of producing high - quality traditionally animated films that regularly use detailed drawings and plausible movement,