##2 ), the italian explorer who mapped south america ' s east coast and the caribbean sea in the early 16th century. later, vespucci ' s published letters were the basis of waldseemuller ' s 1507 map, which is the first usage of america. the adjective american subsequently denoted the new world. in the 16th century, european usage of american denoted the native inhabitants of the new world. the earliest recorded use of this term in english is in thomas hacket ' s 1568 translation of andre thevet ' s book france antarctique ; thevet himself had referred to the natives as ameriques. in the following century, the term was extended to european settlers and their descendants in the americas. the earliest recorded use of " english - american " dates to 1648, in thomas gage ' s the english - american his travail by sea and land : or, a new survey of the west india ' s. in english, american was used especially for people in british america. samuel johnson, the leading english lexicographer, wrote in 1775, before the united states declared independence : " that the americans are able to bear taxation is indubitable. " the declaration of independence of july 1776 refers to " [ the ] unanimous declaration of the thirteen united states of america " adopted by the " representatives of the united states of america " on july 4, 1776. the official name of the country was reaffirmed on november 15, 1777, when the second continental congress adopted the articles of confederation, the first of which says, " the stile of this confederacy shall be ' the united states of america ' ". the articles further state : thomas jefferson, newly elected president in may 1801 wrote, " i am sure the measures i mean to pursue are such as would in their nature be approved by every american who can emerge from preconceived prejudices ; as for those who cannot, we must take care of them as of the sick in our hospitals. the medicine of time and fact may cure some of them. " in the federalist papers ( 1787 – 88 ), alexander hamilton and james madison used the adjective american with two different meanings : one political and one geographic ; " the american republic " in federalist no. 51 and in federalist no. 70, and, in federalist no. 24, hamilton used american to denote the lands beyond the u. s. ' s political borders. early official u. s. documents show inconsistent usage ; the 1778 treaty of alliance with france used