##isele and cunningham were reassigned as the apollo1 backup crew. program delays the spacecraft for the as - 202 and as - 204 missions were delivered by north american aviation to the kennedy space center with long lists of equipment problems which had to be corrected before flight ; these delays caused the launch of as - 202 to slip behind as - 203, and eliminated hopes the first crewed mission might be ready to launch as soon as november 1966, concurrently with the last gemini mission. eventually, the planned as - 204 flight date was pushed to february 21, 1967. north american aviation was prime contractor not only for the apollo csm, but for the saturnv s - ii second stage as well, and delays in this stage pushed the first uncrewed saturnv flight as - 501 from late 1966 to november 1967. ( the initial assembly of as - 501 had to use a dummy spacer spool in place of the stage. ) the problems with north american were severe enough in late 1965 to cause manned space flight administrator george mueller to appoint program director samuel phillips to head a " tiger team " to investigate north american ' s problems and identify corrections. phillips documented his findings in a december 19 letter to naa president lee atwood, with a strongly worded letter by mueller, and also gave a presentation of the results to mueller and deputy administrator robert seamans. meanwhile, grumman was also encountering problems with the lunar module, eliminating hopes it would be ready for crewed flight in 1967, not long after the first crewed csm flights. apollo 1 fire grissom, white, and chaffee decided to name their flight apollo1 as a motivational focus on the first crewed flight. they trained and conducted tests of their spacecraft at north american, and in the altitude chamber at the kennedy space center. a " plugs - out " test was planned for january, which would simulate a launch countdown on lc - 34 with the spacecraft transferring from pad - supplied to internal power. if successful, this would be followed by a more rigorous countdown simulation test closer to the february 21 launch, with both spacecraft and launch vehicle fueled. the plugs - out test began on the morning of january 27, 1967, and immediately was plagued with problems. first, the crew noticed a strange odor in their spacesuits which delayed the sealing of the hatch. then, communications problems frustrated the astronauts and forced a hold in the simulated countdown. during this hold, an electrical fire began in the cabin and spread quickly in the high pressure, 100 % oxygen