s contributions to number theory include his work on perfect numbers. in his analysis and synthesis, he may have been the first to state that every even perfect number is of the form 2n−1 ( 2n − 1 ) where 2n − 1 is prime, but he was not able to prove this result ; euler later proved it in the 18th century, and it is now called the euclid – euler theorem. alhazen solved problems involving congruences using what is now called wilson ' s theorem. in his opuscula, alhazen considers the solution of a system of congruences, and gives two general methods of solution. his first method, the canonical method, involved wilson ' s theorem, while his second method involved a version of the chinese remainder theorem. calculus alhazen discovered the sum formula for the fourth power, using a method that could be generally used to determine the sum for any integral power. he used this to find the volume of a paraboloid. he could find the integral formula for any polynomial without having developed a general formula. other works influence of melodies on the souls of animals alhazen also wrote a treatise on the influence of melodies on the souls of animals, although no copies have survived. it appears to have been concerned with the question of whether animals could react to music, for example whether a camel would increase or decrease its pace. engineering in engineering, one account of his career as a civil engineer has him summoned to egypt by the fatimid caliph, al - hakim bi - amr allah, to regulate the flooding of the nile river. he carried out a detailed scientific study of the annual inundation of the nile river, and he drew plans for building a dam, at the site of the modern - day aswan dam. his field work, however, later made him aware of the impracticality of this scheme, and he soon feigned madness so he could avoid punishment from the caliph. philosophy in his treatise on place, alhazen disagreed with aristotle ' s view that nature abhors a void, and he used geometry in an attempt to demonstrate that place ( al - makan ) is the imagined three - dimensional void between the inner surfaces of a containing body. abd - el - latif, a supporter of aristotle ' s philosophical view of place, later criticized the work in fi al - radd ' ala ibn al - haytham fi al - makan ( a refutation of ibn al - haytham ' s place