amalric of bena ( ; ; died ) was a french theologian, philosopher and sect leader, after whom the amalricians are named. reformers such as martin luther considered him to be a proto - protestant. biography amalric was born in the latter part of the 12th century at bennes, a village between olle and chauffours in the diocese of chartres. amalric taught philosophy and theology at the university of paris and enjoyed a great reputation as a subtle dialectician ; his lectures developing the philosophy of aristotle attracted a large audience. in 1204 his doctrines were condemned by the university and, on a personal appeal to pope innocent iii, the sentence was ratified, amalric being ordered to return to paris and recant his errors. his death was caused, it is said, by grief at the humiliation to which he had been subjected. in 1209, ten of his followers were burnt before the gates of paris and amalric ' s own body was exhumed and burnt and the ashes given to the winds. the doctrines of his followers, known as the amalricians, were formally condemned by the fourth lateran council in 1215. propositions amalric appears to have derived his philosophical system from a selective reading of eriugena, whose expressions he developed in a one - sided and strongly pantheistic form. only three propositions can be attributed to him with certainty : that god is all ( omnia sunt deus ) and thus all things are one because whatever is, is god ( omnia unum, quia quidquid est, est deus ) ; that every christian is bound to believe that he is a member of the body of christ, and that this belief is necessary for salvation ; that he who remains in love of god can commit no sin. because of the first proposition, god himself is thought to be invisible and only recognizable in his creation. these three propositions were further developed by his followers, who maintained that god revealed himself in a threefold revelation, the first in the biblical patriarch abraham, marking the epoch of the father ; the second in jesus christ, who began the epoch of the son ; and the third in amalric and his disciples, who inaugurated the era of the holy ghost. amalricians taught : hell is ignorance, therefore hell is within all men, " like a bad tooth in a mouth " ; god is identical with all that is, even evil belongs to god and proves god '