speer ' s release from prison was a worldwide media event. reporters and photographers crowded both the street outside spandau and the lobby of the hotel berlin where speer spent the night. he said little, reserving most comments for a major interview published in der spiegel in november 1966. although he stated he hoped to resume an architectural career, his sole project, a collaboration for a brewery, was unsuccessful. instead, he revised his spandau writings into two autobiographical books, inside the third reich ( in german, erinnerungen, or reminiscences ) and spandau : the secret diaries. he later published a work about himmler and the ss which has been published in english as the slave state : heinrich himmler ' s masterplan for ss supremacy or infiltration : how heinrich himmler schemed to build an ss industrial empire ( in german, der sklavenstaat - meine auseinandersetzung mit der ss ). speer was aided in shaping the works by joachim fest and wolf jobst siedler from the publishing house ullstein. he found himself unable to re - establish a relationship with his children, even with his son albert who had also become an architect. according to speer ' s daughter hilde schramm, " one by one my sister and brothers gave up. there was no communication. " he supported hermann, his brother, financially after the war. however, his other brother ernst had died in the battle of stalingrad, despite repeated requests from his parents for speer to repatriate him. following his release from spandau, speer donated the chronicle, his personal diary, to the german federal archives. it had been edited by wolters and made no mention of the jews. david irving discovered discrepancies between the deceptively edited chronicle and independent documents. speer asked wolters to destroy the material he had omitted from his donation but wolters refused and retained an original copy. wolters ' friendship with speer deteriorated and one year before speer ' s death wolters gave matthias schmidt access to the unedited chronicle. schmidt authored the first book that was highly critical of speer. speer ' s memoirs were a phenomenal success. the public was fascinated by an inside view of the third reich and a major war criminal became a popular figure almost overnight. importantly, he provided an alibi to older germans who had been nazis. if speer, who had been so