mass smaller than 0. 1 solar masses not associated with a young cluster. gj 3470 c ( 2020 ) is the first exoplanet candidate completely discovered by amateurs. unlike peter jalowiczor, kojima - 1lb and xo - 1b, gj 3470 c was fully discovered by an amateur in a project led by amateur astronomers. pisces vii / triangulum iiii ( psc viii / tri iii ) is an ultrafaint dwarf galaxy in messier 31 system, a possible satellite of messier 33. it is the second discovery credited to the italian amateur astronomer giuseppe donatiello, already discoverer of the dwarf galaxy donatiello i. donatiello ii, donatiello iii and donatiello iv, three new satellites of the nearby galaxy ngc 253, discovered in 2021 by the italian amateur astronomer giuseppe donatiello. with these three new dwarf galaxies, donatiello i and pisces vii, his total discoveries in this topic are five. pegasus v / andromeda xxxiv ( peg v / and xxxiv ) an ultrafaint dwarf in the constellation of pegasus located ~ 260 kpc from messier 31 ( andromeda galaxy ) in the outskirts of its halo. peg v was initially identified in the desi legacy imaging surveys by the italian amateur astronomer giuseppe donatiello. prizes recognizing amateur astronomers amateur achievement award of astronomical society of the pacific chambliss amateur achievement award see also astronomical object caldwell catalogue a list of astronomical objects for observation by amateur astronomers compiled by sir patrick caldwell - moore. clear sky chart weather forecasts designed for amateur astronomers. list of astronomical societies list of telescope parts and construction messier catalogue a set of astronomical objects catalogued by the french astronomer charles messier in 1771, which is still used by many amateurs as an observing list. observation observational astronomy school astronomical olympiad by correspondence sidewalk astronomy skygazing star party references further reading external links amateur astronomy magazine articles containing video clips citizen science