northlands coliseum in edmonton, canada, with a full house of 14, 000. " the voices of the band, agnetha ' s high sauciness combined with round, rich lower tones of anni - frid, were excellent... technically perfect, melodically correct and always in perfect pitch... the soft lower voice of anni - frid and the high, edgy vocals of agnetha were stunning ", raved edmonton journal. during the next four weeks they played a total of 17 sold - out dates, 13 in the united states and four in canada. the last scheduled abba concert in the united states in washington, d. c. was cancelled due to emotional distress faltskog experienced during the flight from new york to boston. the group ' s private plane was subjected to extreme weather conditions and was unable to land for an extended period. they appeared at the boston music hall for the performance 90 minutes late. the tour ended with a show in toronto, canada at maple leaf gardens before a capacity crowd of 18, 000. " abba plays with surprising power and volume ; but although they are loud, they ' re also clear, which does justice to the signature vocal sound... anyone who ' s been waiting five years to see abba will be well satisfied ", wrote record world. on 19 october 1979, the tour resumed in western europe where the band played 23 sold - out gigs, including six sold - out nights at london ' s wembley arena. progression in march 1980, abba travelled to japan where upon their arrival at narita international airport, they were besieged by thousands of fans. the group performed eleven concerts to full houses, including six shows at tokyo ' s budokan. this tour was the last " on the road " adventure of their career. in july 1980, abba released the single " the winner takes it all ", the group ' s eighth uk chart topper ( and their first since 1978 ). the song is widely misunderstood as being written about ulvaeus and faltskog ' s marital tribulations ; ulvaeus wrote the lyrics, but has stated they were not about his own divorce ; faltskog has repeatedly stated she was not the loser in their divorce. in the united states, the single peaked at number - eight on the billboard hot 100 chart and became abba ' s second billboard adult contemporary number - one. it was also re - recorded by andersson and ulvaeus with a slightly different backing track