obtained a wider separation of the images by replacing the glass half - prism with quartz half - prisms whose rotation was opposite to that of the 14° – 152° – 14° prism. he added in passing that one could further increase the separation by increasing the number of prisms. reception for the supplement to riffault ' s translation of thomson ' s system of chemistry, fresnel was chosen to contribute the article on light. the resulting 137 - page essay, titled de la lumiere ( on light ), was apparently finished in june 1821 and published by february 1822. with sections covering the nature of light, diffraction, thin - film interference, reflection and refraction, double refraction and polarization, chromatic polarization, and modification of polarization by reflection, it made a comprehensive case for the wave theory to a readership that was not restricted to physicists. to examine fresnel ' s first memoir and supplements on double refraction, the academie des sciences appointed ampere, arago, fourier, and poisson. their report, of which arago was clearly the main author, was delivered at the meeting of 19 august 1822. then, in the words of emile verdet, as translated by ivor grattan - guinness : whether laplace was announcing his conversion to the wave theory — at the age of 73 — is uncertain. grattan - guinness entertained the idea. buchwald, noting that arago failed to explain that the " ellipsoid of elasticity " did not give the correct planes of polarization, suggests that laplace may have merely regarded fresnel ' s theory as a successful generalization of malus ' s ray - velocity law, embracing biot ' s laws. in the following year, poisson, who did not sign arago ' s report, disputed the possibility of transverse waves in the aether. starting from assumed equations of motion of a fluid medium, he noted that they did not give the correct results for partial reflection and double refraction — as if that were fresnel ' s problem rather than his own — and that the predicted waves, even if they were initially transverse, became more longitudinal as they propagated. in reply fresnel noted, inter alia, that the equations in which poisson put so much faith did not even predict viscosity. the implication was clear : given that the behavior of light had not been satisfactorily explained except by transverse waves, it was not the responsibility of the