and to these were added the less spartan qualities of kindliness and tenderness as a father and a friend. as examples, there was the story of his riding a stick - horse with his children and upon being discovered by a friend desiring that the friend not mention what he had seen until he was the father of children ; and because of the affection of his son archidamus for cleonymus, he saved sphodrias, cleonymus ' father, from execution for his incursion into piraeus and dishonourable retreat in 378. modern writers tend to be slightly more critical of agesilaus ' reputation and achievements, reckoning him an excellent soldier, but one who had a poor understanding of sea power and siege - craft. as a statesman he won himself both enthusiastic adherents and bitter enemies. agesilaus was most successful in the opening and closing periods of his reign : commencing but then surrendering a glorious career in asia ; and in extreme age, maintaining his prostrate country. other writers acknowledge his extremely high popularity at home, but suggest his occasionally rigid and arguably irrational political loyalties and convictions contributed greatly to spartan decline, notably his unremitting hatred of thebes, which led to sparta ' s humiliation at the battle of leuctra and thus the end of spartan hegemony. historian j. b. bury remarks that " there is something melancholy about his career : " born into a sparta that was the unquestioned continental power of hellas, the sparta which mourned him eighty four years later had suffered a series of military defeats which would have been unthinkable to his forebears, had seen its population severely decline, and had run so short of money that its soldiers were increasingly sent on campaigns fought more for money than for defense or glory. other historical accounts paint agesilaus as a prototype for the ideal leader. his awareness, thoughtfulness, and wisdom were all traits to be emulated diplomatically, while his bravery and shrewdness in battle epitomised the heroic greek commander. these historians point towards the unstable oligarchies established by lysander in the former athenian empire and the failures of spartan leaders ( such as pausanias and kleombrotos ) for the eventual suppression of spartan power. the ancient historian xenophon was a huge admirer and served under agesilaus during the campaigns into asia minor. plutarch includes among agesilaus ' 78 essays and speeches comprising the apophthegmata