the case to consumers. apple also experimented with a number of other unsuccessful consumer targeted products during the 1990s, including digital cameras, portable cd audio players, speakers, video game consoles, the eworld online service, and tv appliances. most notably, enormous resources were invested in the problem - plagued newton tablet division, based on john sculley ' s unrealistic market forecasts. throughout this period, microsoft continued to gain market share with windows by focusing on delivering software to inexpensive personal computers, while apple was delivering a richly engineered but expensive experience. apple relied on high profit margins and never developed a clear response ; instead, they sued microsoft for using a gui similar to the apple lisa in apple computer, inc. v. microsoft corp. the lawsuit dragged on for years before it was finally dismissed. the major product flops and the rapid loss of market share to windows sullied apple ' s reputation, and in 1993 sculley was replaced as ceo by michael spindler. with spindler at the helm, apple, ibm, and motorola formed the aim alliance in 1994 with the goal of creating a new computing platform ( the powerpc reference platform ; prep ), which would use ibm and motorola hardware coupled with apple software. the aim alliance hoped that prep ' s performance and apple ' s software would leave the pc far behind and thus counter the dominance of windows. the same year, apple introduced the power macintosh, the first of many apple computers to use motorola ' s powerpc processor. in the wake of the alliance, apple opened up to the idea of allowing motorola and other companies to build macintosh clones. over the next two years, 75 distinct macintosh clone models were introduced. however, by 1996, apple executives were worried that the clones were cannibalizing sales of their own high - end computers, where profit margins were highest. in 1996, spindler was replaced by gil amelio as ceo. hired for his reputation as a corporate rehabilitator, amelio made deep changes, including extensive layoffs and cost - cutting. this period was also marked by numerous failed attempts to modernize the macintosh operating system ( macos ). the original macintosh operating system ( system 1 ) was not built for multitasking ( running several applications at once ). the company attempted to correct this with by introducing cooperative multitasking in system 5, but the company still felt it needed a more modern approach. this led to the pink project in 1988, a / ux that same year, copland in 1994, and the attempted