aegean sea is controlled mainly by the regional climate, the fresh water discharge from major rivers draining southeastern europe, and the seasonal variations in the black sea surface water outflow through the dardanelles strait. analysis of the aegean during 1991 and 1992 revealed three distinct water masses : aegean sea surface water – thick veneer, with summer temperatures of 21 – 26 °c and winter temperatures ranging from in the north to in the south. aegean sea intermediate water – aegean sea intermediate water extends from 40 to 50 m to with temperatures ranging from 11 to 18 °c. aegean sea bottom water – occurring at depths below 500 – 1000 m with a very uniform temperature ( 13 – 14 °c ) and salinity ( 3. 91 – 3. 92 % ). climate the climate of the aegean sea largely reflects the climate of greece and western turkey, which is to say, predominantly mediterranean. according to the koppen climate classification, most of the aegean is classified as hot - summer mediterranean ( csa ), with hotter and drier summers along with milder and wetter winters. however, high temperatures during summers are generally not quite as high as those in arid or semiarid climates due to the presence of a large body of water. this is most predominant in the west and east coasts of the aegean, and within the aegean islands. in the north of the aegean sea, the climate is instead classified as cold semi - arid ( bsk ), which feature cooler summers than hot - summer mediterranean climates. the etesian winds are a dominant weather influence in the aegean basin. the below table lists climate conditions of some major aegean cities : population numerous greek and turkish settlements are located along their mainland coast, as well as on towns on the aegean islands. the largest cities are athens and thessaloniki in greece and izmir in turkey. the most populated of the aegean islands is crete, followed by euboea and rhodes. biogeography and ecology protected areas greece has established several marine protected areas along its coasts. according to the network of managers of marine protected areas in the mediterranean ( medpan ), four greek mpas are participating in the network. these include alonnisos marine park, while the missolonghi – aitoliko lagoons and the island of zakynthos are not on the aegean. history ancient history the current coastline dates back to about 4000 bc. before that time, at the peak of the last ice age ( about 18, 000 years ago ) sea levels everywhere were 130 metres lower, and there were large well - watered coastal plains instead