of consent is the marriageable age. in kuwait, this means that boys must be at least 17 and girls at least 15 years old. position of authority / trust in most jurisdictions where the age of consent is below 18 ( such as england and wales ), in cases where a person aged 18 or older is in a position of trust over a person under 18, the age of consent usually rises to 18 or higher. examples of such positions of trust include relationships between teachers and students. for example, in england and wales the age of consent is 16, but if the person is a student of the older person it becomes 18. circumstances of the relationship in several jurisdictions, it is illegal to engage in sexual activity with a person under a certain age under certain circumstances regarding the relationship in question, such as if it involves taking advantage of or corrupting the morals of the young person. for example, while the age of consent is 14 in germany and 16 in canada, it is illegal in both countries to engage in sexual activity with a person under 18 if the activity exploits the younger person. another example is in mexico, where there is a crime called " estupro " defined as sexual activity with a person over the age of consent but under a certain age limit ( generally 18 ) in which consent of the younger person was obtained through seduction and / or deceit. in pennsylvania, the age of consent is officially 16, but if the older partner is 18 or older, they may still be prosecuted for corruption of minors for their corruption or tending to corrupt the morals of the younger person. extraterritoriality a growing number of countries have specific extraterritorial legislation that prosecutes their citizens in their homeland should they engage in illicit sexual conduct in a foreign country with children. in 2008, ecpat reported that 44 countries had extraterritorial child sex legislation. for example, protect act of 2003, a federal united states law bans sexual activity by its citizens with foreigners or with u. s. citizens from another state, if the partner is under 18 and the activity is illegal under the federal, state, or local law. this applies in cases where any of the partners travels into or out of the united states, or from one state into another, for the purpose of an illegal sexual encounter. other issues gender of participants there is debate as to whether the gender of those involved should lead to different treatment of the sexual encounter, in law or in practice. traditionally, age of consent laws regarding vaginal intercourse were often meant to protect the