apps : final cut pro for video production, logic pro for musicians and producers, and xcode for software developers. apple also sells a variety of accessories for macs, including the pro display xdr, apple studio display, magic mouse, magic trackpad, and magic keyboard. iphone the iphone is apple ' s line of smartphones, which run the ios operating system. the first iphone was unveiled by steve jobs on january 9, 2007. since then, new models have been released annually. when it was introduced, its multi - touch screen was described as " revolutionary " and a " game - changer " for the mobile phone industry. the device has been credited with creating the app economy., the iphone has 15 % market share, yet represents 50 % of global smartphone revenues, with android phones accounting for the rest. the iphone has generated large profits for the company, and is credited with helping to make apple one of the world ' s most valuable publicly traded companies. the most recent iphones are the iphone 15, iphone 15 plus, iphone 15 pro and iphone 15 pro max. ipad the ipad is apple ' s line of tablets which run ipados. the first - generation ipad was announced on january 27, 2010. the ipad is mainly marketed for consuming multimedia, creating art, working on documents, videoconferencing, and playing games. the ipad lineup consists of several base ipad models, and the smaller ipad mini, upgraded ipad air, and high - end ipad pro. apple has consistently improved the ipad ' s performance, with the ipad pro adopting the same m1 and m2 chips as the mac ; but the ipad still receives criticism for its limited os. apple has sold more than 500 million ipads, though sales peaked in 2013. the ipad still remains the most popular tablet computer by sales, and accounted for nine percent of the company ' s revenue. apple sells several ipad accessories, including the apple pencil, smart keyboard, smart keyboard folio, magic keyboard, and several adapters. other products apple also makes several other products that it categorizes as " wearables, home and accessories ". these products include the airpods line of wireless headphones, apple tv digital media players, apple watch smartwatches, beats headphones and homepod mini smart speakers., this broad line of products comprises about 11 % of the company ' s revenues. at wwdc 2023, apple introduced its new vr headset, vision pro, along with visionos. apple announced that it will be partnering with unity to