of particular times and places sometimes reflected changing cultural or political attitudes. after the invasion of the hyksos in the second intermediate period, minoan - style frescoes were found in avaris. the most striking example of a politically driven change in artistic forms comes from the amarna period, where figures were radically altered to conform to akhenaten ' s revolutionary religious ideas. this style, known as amarna art, was quickly abandoned after akhenaten ' s death and replaced by the traditional forms. religious beliefs beliefs in the divine and in the afterlife were ingrained in ancient egyptian civilization from its inception ; pharaonic rule was based on the divine right of kings. the egyptian pantheon was populated by gods who had supernatural powers and were called on for help or protection. however, the gods were not always viewed as benevolent, and egyptians believed they had to be appeased with offerings and prayers. the structure of this pantheon changed continually as new deities were promoted in the hierarchy, but priests made no effort to organize the diverse and sometimes conflicting myths and stories into a coherent system. these various conceptions of divinity were not considered contradictory but rather layers in the multiple facets of reality. gods were worshiped in cult temples administered by priests acting on the king ' s behalf. at the center of the temple was the cult statue in a shrine. temples were not places of public worship or congregation, and only on select feast days and celebrations was a shrine carrying the statue of the god brought out for public worship. normally, the god ' s domain was sealed off from the outside world and was only accessible to temple officials. common citizens could worship private statues in their homes, and amulets offered protection against the forces of chaos. after the new kingdom, the pharaoh ' s role as a spiritual intermediary was de - emphasized as religious customs shifted to direct worship of the gods. as a result, priests developed a system of oracles to communicate the will of the gods directly to the people. the egyptians believed that every human being was composed of physical and spiritual parts or aspects. in addition to the body, each person had a swt ( shadow ), a ba ( personality or soul ), a ka ( life - force ), and a name. the heart, rather than the brain, was considered the seat of thoughts and emotions. after death, the spiritual aspects were released from the body and could move at will, but they required the physical remains ( or a substitute, such as a statue ) as a permanent home. the ultimate goal