but not battery, which implies that smacking is not always to be considered cruelty. sexual assault the offence of sexual assault is created by section 3 of the sexual offences act 2003. it is not defined in terms of the offences of common assault or battery. it instead requires intentional touching and the absence of a reasonable belief in consent. assault by penetration this offence is defined by section 2 of the sexual offences act 2003. whereas rape consists only of penetration with the perpetrator ' s penis, assault by penetration can be committed with anything, though unlike rape it excludes penetration of the mouth. it carries the same maximum sentence of life imprisonment. assault on an emergency worker the assaults on emergency workers ( offences ) act 2018 makes common assault an either way offence ( section 1 ) when committed against an emergency worker ( defined in section 3 ), with a maximum sentence of two years ' imprisonment if tried on indictment. the act did not repeal any enactments, so the existing offence of assault on a constable is still available, but that offence cannot be tried on indictment and is therefore limited to six months. scotland in scots law, assault is defined as an " attack upon the person of another ". there is no distinction made in scotland between assault and battery ( which is not a term used in scots law ), although, as in england and wales, assault can be occasioned without a physical attack on another ' s person, as demonstrated in atkinson v. hm advocate wherein the accused was found guilty of assaulting a shop assistant by simply jumping over a counter wearing a ski mask. the court said : scots law also provides for a more serious charge of aggravated assault on the basis of such factors as severity of injury, the use of a weapon, or hamesucken ( to assault a person in their own home ). the mens rea for assault is simply " evil intent ", although this has been held to mean no more than that assault " cannot be committed accidentally or recklessly or negligently " as upheld in lord advocate ' s reference no 2 of 1992 where it was found that a " hold - up " in a shop justified as a joke would still constitute an offence. it is a separate offence to assault on a constable in the execution of their duty, under section 90, police and fire reform ( scotland ) act 2012 ( previously section 41 of the police ( scotland ) act 1967 ) which provides that it is an offence for a person to, amongst other things, assault a constable in the execution of their duty or a person assisting