crop is growing, such as in managed intensive rotational grazing, or by spreading either dry or liquid formulations of manure on cropland or pastures. water management is needed where rainfall is insufficient or variable, which occurs to some degree in most regions of the world. some farmers use irrigation to supplement rainfall. in other areas such as the great plains in the u. s. and canada, farmers use a fallow year to conserve soil moisture for the following year. recent technological innovations in precision agriculture allow for water status monitoring and automate water usage, leading to more efficient management. agriculture represents 70 % of freshwater use worldwide. however, water withdrawal ratios for agriculture vary significantly by income level. in least developed countries and landlocked developing countries, water withdrawal ratios for agriculture are as high as 90 percent of total water withdrawals and about 60 percent in small island developing states. according to 2014 report by the international food policy research institute, agricultural technologies will have the greatest impact on food production if adopted in combination with each other. using a model that assessed how eleven technologies could impact agricultural productivity, food security and trade by 2050, the international food policy research institute found that the number of people at risk from hunger could be reduced by as much as 40 % and food prices could be reduced by almost half. payment for ecosystem services is a method of providing additional incentives to encourage farmers to conserve some aspects of the environment. measures might include paying for reforestation upstream of a city, to improve the supply of fresh water. agricultural automation different definitions exist for agricultural automation and for the variety of tools and technologies that are used to automate production. one view is that agricultural automation refers to autonomous navigation by robots without human intervention. alternatively it is defined as the accomplishment of production tasks through mobile, autonomous, decision - making, mechatronic devices. however, fao finds that these definitions do not capture all the aspects and forms of automation, such as robotic milking machines that are static, most motorized machinery that automates the performing of agricultural operations, and digital tools ( e. g., sensors ) that automate only diagnosis. fao defines agricultural automation as the use of machinery and equipment in agricultural operations to improve their diagnosis, decision - making or performing, reducing the drudgery of agricultural work or improving the timeliness, and potentially the precision, of agricultural operations. the technological evolution in agriculture has involved a progressive move from manual tools to animal traction, to motorized mechanization, to digital equipment and finally, to robotics with artificial intelligence ( ai )