apatosaurus ( ; meaning " deceptive lizard " ) is a genus of herbivorous sauropod dinosaur that lived in north america during the late jurassic period. othniel charles marsh described and named the first - known species, a. ajax, in 1877, and a second species, a. louisae, was discovered and named by william h. holland in 1916. apatosaurus lived about 152 to 151 million years ago ( mya ), during the late kimmeridgian to early tithonian age, and are now known from fossils in the morrison formation of modern - day colorado, oklahoma, new mexico, wyoming, and utah in the united states. apatosaurus had an average length of, and an average mass of. a few specimens indicate a maximum length of 11 – 30 % greater than average and a mass of approximately. the cervical vertebrae of apatosaurus are less elongated and more heavily constructed than those of diplodocus, a diplodocid like apatosaurus, and the bones of the leg are much stockier despite being longer, implying that apatosaurus was a more robust animal. the tail was held above the ground during normal locomotion. apatosaurus had a single claw on each forelimb and three on each hindlimb. the apatosaurus skull, long thought to be similar to camarasaurus, is much more similar to that of diplodocus. apatosaurus was a generalized browser that likely held its head elevated. to lighten its vertebrae, apatosaurus had air sacs that made the bones internally full of holes. like that of other diplodocids, its tail may have been used as a whip to create loud noises, or, as more recently suggested, as a sensory organ. the skull of apatosaurus was confused with that of camarasaurus and brachiosaurus until 1909, when the holotype of a. louisae was found, and a complete skull just a few meters away from the front of the neck. henry fairfield osborn disagreed with this association, and went on to mount a skeleton of apatosaurus with a camarasaurus skull cast. apatosaurus skeletons were mounted with speculative skull casts until 1970, when mcintosh showed that more robust skulls assigned to diplodocus were more likely from apatosaurus. apatosaurus is a genus in the family diplodocidae. it is one of the more basal genera, with only amphicoelias and possibly a new