##cophagus in which charlemagne was eventually laid to rest. a bronze bear from gaul was placed inside, along with an equestrian statue from ravenna, believed to be theodric, in contrast to a wolf and a statue of marcus aurelius in the capitoline. bronze pieces such as the doors and railings, some of which have survived to present day, were cast in a local foundry. finally, there is uncertainty surrounding the bronze pine cone in the chapel, and where it was created. wherever it was made, it was also a parallel to a piece in rome, this in old st. peter ' s basilica. cathedral treasury aachen cathedral treasury has housed, throughout its history, a collection of liturgical objects. the origin of this church treasure is in dispute as some say charlemagne himself endowed his chapel with the original collection, while the rest were collected over time. others say all of the objects were collected over time, from such places as jerusalem and constantinople. the location of this treasury has moved over time and was unknown until the 15th century when it was located in the matthiaskapelle ( st. matthew ' s chapel ) until 1873, when it was moved to the karlskapelle ( charles ' chapel ). from there it was moved to the hungarian chapel in 1881 and in 1931 to its present location next to the allerseelenkapelle ( poor souls ' chapel ). only six of the original carolingian objects have remained, and of those only three are left in aachen : the aachen gospels, a diptych of christ, and an early byzantine silk. the coronation gospels and a reliquary burse of st. stephen were moved to vienna in 1798 and the talisman of charlemagne was given as a gift in 1804 to josephine bonaparte and subsequently to rheims cathedral. 210 documented pieces have been added to the treasury since its inception, typically to receive in return legitimisation of linkage to the heritage of charlemagne. the lothar cross, the gospels of otto iii and multiple additional byzantine silks were donated by otto iii. part of the pala d ' oro and a covering for the aachen gospels were made of gold donated by henry ii. frederick barbarossa donated the candelabrum that adorns the dome and also once " crowned " the shrine of charlemagne, which was placed underneath in 1215. charles iv donated a pair of reliquaries. louis xi gave, in 1475, the crown of margaret of york, and, in 1481, another arm