while the corpuscular theory was obviously an emission theory, the converse did not follow : in principle, one could be an emissionist without being a corpuscularist. this was convenient because, beyond the ordinary laws of reflection and refraction, emissionists never managed to make testable quantitative predictions from a theory of forces acting on corpuscles of light. but they did make quantitative predictions from the premises that rays were countable objects, which were conserved in their interactions with matter ( except absorbent media ), and which had particular orientations with respect to their directions of propagation. according to this framework, polarization and the related phenomena of double refraction and partial reflection involved altering the orientations of the rays and / or selecting them according to orientation, and the state of polarization of a beam ( a bundle of rays ) was a question of how many rays were in what orientations : in a fully polarized beam, the orientations were all the same. this approach, which jed buchwald has called selectionism, was pioneered by malus and diligently pursued by biot. fresnel, in contrast, decided to introduce polarization into interference experiments. interference of polarized light, chromatic polarization ( 1816 – 21 ) in july or august 1816, fresnel discovered that when a birefringent crystal produced two images of a single slit, he could not obtain the usual two - slit interference pattern, even if he compensated for the different propagation times. a more general experiment, suggested by arago, found that if the two beams of a double - slit device were separately polarized, the interference pattern appeared and disappeared as the polarization of one beam was rotated, giving full interference for parallel polarizations, but no interference for perpendicular polarizations. these experiments, among others, were eventually reported in a brief memoir published in 1819 and later translated into english. in a memoir drafted on 30 august 1816 and revised on 6 october, fresnel reported an experiment in which he placed two matching thin laminae in a double - slit apparatus — one over each slit, with their optic axes perpendicular — and obtained two interference patterns offset in opposite directions, with perpendicular polarizations. this, in combination with the previous findings, meant that each lamina split the incident light into perpendicularly polarized components with different velocities — just like a normal ( thick ) birefringent crystal, and contrary to biot ' s " mobile polarization " hypothesis. accordingly, in the same memoir, fresnel