the loves of bacchus and amethyste ), the french poet remy belleau ( 1528 – 1577 ) invented a myth in which bacchus, the god of intoxication, of wine, and grapes was pursuing a maiden named amethyste, who refused his affections. amethyste prayed to the gods to remain chaste, a prayer which the chaste goddess diana answered, transforming her into a white stone. humbled by amethyste ' s desire to remain chaste, bacchus poured wine over the stone as an offering, dyeing the crystals purple. variations of the story include that dionysus had been insulted by a mortal and swore to slay the next mortal who crossed his path, creating fierce tigers to carry out his wrath. the mortal turned out to be a beautiful young woman, amethystos, who was on her way to pay tribute to artemis. her life was spared by artemis, who transformed the maiden into a statue of pure crystalline quartz to protect her from the brutal claws. dionysus wept tears of wine in remorse for his action at the sight of the beautiful statue. the god ' s tears then stained the quartz purple. this myth and its variations are not found in classical sources. however, the goddess rhea does present dionysus with an amethyst stone to preserve the wine - drinker ' s sanity in historical text. other cultural associations tibetans consider amethyst sacred to the buddha and make prayer beads from it. amethyst is considered the birthstone of february. in the middle ages, it was considered a symbol of royalty and used to decorate english regalia. in the old world, amethyst was considered one of the cardinal gems, in that it was one of the five gemstones considered precious above all others, until large deposits were found in brazil. value until the 18th century, amethyst was included in the cardinal, or most valuable, gemstones ( along with diamond, sapphire, ruby, and emerald ), but since the discovery of extensive deposits in locations such as brazil, it has lost most of its value. it is now considered a semiprecious stone. collectors look for depth of color, possibly with red flashes if cut conventionally. as amethyst is readily available in large structures, the value of the gem is not primarily defined by carat weight. this is different from most gemstones, since the carat weight typically exponentially increases the value of the stone. the biggest factor