, expanding possessions in africa, and completing the conquest of hispania, but he suffered a major setback in germania. beyond the frontiers, he secured the empire with a buffer region of client states and made peace with the parthian empire through diplomacy. he reformed the roman system of taxation, developed networks of roads with an official courier system, established a standing army, established the praetorian guard as well as official police and fire - fighting services for rome, and rebuilt much of the city during his reign. augustus died in ad 14 at age 75, probably from natural causes. persistent rumors, substantiated somewhat by deaths in the imperial family, have claimed his wife livia poisoned him. he was succeeded as emperor by his adopted son tiberius, livia ' s son and former husband of augustus ' only biological child julia. name as a consequence of roman customs, society, and personal preference, augustus ( ) was known by many names throughout his life : gaius octavius (, ). according to suetonius, the cognomen thurinus ( ) was added to his birth name as a toddler in 60 bc. later, after he had taken the name of caesar, his rival mark antony referred to him as " thurinus " in order to belittle him. in response, he merely said he was surprised that " using his old name was thought to be an insult ". gaius julius caesar octavianus. after his adoption by julius caesar on the latter ' s death in 44 bc, octavian took caesar ' s name, but was often distinguished from him as " octavianus " ( ), denoting that he was a former member of the gens octavia. he is mainly known by the anglicization " octavian " ( ) for the period between 44 and 27 bc. imperator caesar. octavian ' s early coins and inscriptions all refer to him simply as gaius caesar, but by 38 bc he had replaced " gaius " with the victory title imperator ( " commander " ). occasionally the epithet divi filius or ( " son of the divine julius " ) was included, alluding to julius caesar ' s deification in 42 bc. imperator caesar augustus. on 16 january 27 bc, partly on his own insistence, the roman senate granted him the honorific augustus ( ). historians use this name to refer to him from 27 bc until his death in ad 14. the name is sometimes given as " augustus caesar ". early life