in the ceremony of la merce. multiple uses in 1993, the current owners of casa batllo bought the home and continued refurbishments throughout the whole building. two years later, in 1995, casa batllo began to hire out its facilities for different events. more than 2, 500 square meters of rooms within the building were rented out for many different functions. due to the building ' s location and the beauty of the facilities being rented, the rooms of casa batllo were in very high demand and hosted many important events for the city. design overview the local name for the building is casa dels ossos ( house of bones ), as it has a visceral, skeletal organic quality. the building looks very remarkable — like everything gaudi designed, only identifiable as modernisme or art nouveau in the broadest sense. the ground floor, in particular, is rather astonishing with tracery, irregular oval windows and flowing sculpted stone work. it seems that the goal of the designer was to avoid straight lines completely. much of the facade is decorated with a mosaic made of broken ceramic tiles ( trencadis ) that starts in shades of golden orange moving into greenish blues. the roof is arched and was likened to the back of a dragon or dinosaur. a common theory about the building is that the rounded feature to the left of centre, terminating at the top in a turret and cross, represents the lance of saint george ( patron saint of catalonia, gaudi ' s home ), which has been plunged into the back of the dragon. loft the loft is considered to be one of the most unusual spaces. it was formerly a service area for the tenants of the different apartments in the building which contained laundry rooms and storage areas. it is known for its simplicity of shapes and its mediterranean influence through the use of white on the walls. it contains a series of sixty catenary arches that creates a space which represents the ribcage of an animal. some people believe that the “ ribcage ” design of the arches is a ribcage for the dragon ' s spine that is represented in the roof. noble floor and museum the noble floor is larger than seven - hundred square meters. it is the main floor of the building. the noble floor is accessed through a private entrance hall that utilizes skylights resembling tortoise shells and vaulted walls in curving shapes. on the noble floor, there is a spacious landing with direct views to the blue tiling of the building well. on the passeig de gracia side is mr. batllo '