##posting toilets and devices to capture water from the atmosphere. in a magazine interview published shortly before his death, he reflected on the possibility of using solar panels to heat houses. photophone bell and his assistant charles sumner tainter jointly invented a wireless telephone, named a photophone, which allowed for the transmission of both sounds and normal human conversations on a beam of light. both men later became full associates in the volta laboratory association. on june 21, 1880, bell ' s assistant transmitted a wireless voice telephone message a considerable distance, from the roof of the franklin school in washington, d. c., to bell at the window of his laboratory, some away, 19 years before the first voice radio transmissions. bell believed the photophone ' s principles were his life ' s " greatest achievement ", telling a reporter shortly before his death that the photophone was " the greatest invention [ i have ] ever made, greater than the telephone ". the photophone was a precursor to the fiber - optic communication systems which achieved popular worldwide usage in the 1980s. its master patent was issued in december 1880, many decades before the photophone ' s principles came into popular use. metal detector bell is also credited with developing one of the early versions of a metal detector through the use of an induction balance, after the shooting of u. s. president james a. garfield in 1881. according to some accounts, the metal detector worked flawlessly in tests but did not find guiteau ' s bullet, partly because the metal bed frame on which the president was lying disturbed the instrument, resulting in static. garfield ' s surgeons, led by self - appointed chief physician doctor willard bliss, were skeptical of the device, and ignored bell ' s requests to move the president to a bed not fitted with metal springs. alternatively, although bell had detected a slight sound on his first test, the bullet may have been lodged too deeply to be detected by the crude apparatus. bell ' s own detailed account, presented to the american association for the advancement of science in 1882, differs in several particulars from most of the many and varied versions now in circulation, by concluding that extraneous metal was not to blame for failure to locate the bullet. perplexed by the peculiar results he had obtained during an examination of garfield, bell " proceeded to the executive mansion the next morning... to ascertain from the surgeons whether they were perfectly sure that all metal had been removed from the neighborhood of the bed. it was then recollected that underneath the horse -