she was portrayed by pauline moran ( where she was shown to be efficient, prim and modest, but not remotely " unbelievably ugly ". ) on a number of occasions, she joins poirot in his inquiries or seeks out answers alone at his request. chief inspector james harold japp japp is a scotland yard inspector and appears in many of the stories trying to solve cases that poirot is working on. japp is outgoing, loud, and sometimes inconsiderate by nature, and his relationship with the refined belgian is one of the stranger aspects of poirot ' s world. he first met poirot in belgium in 1904, during the abercrombie forgery. later that year they joined forces again to hunt down a criminal known as baron altara. they also meet in england where poirot often helps japp and lets him take credit in return for special favours. these favours usually entail poirot being supplied with other interesting cases. in agatha christie ' s poirot, japp was portrayed by philip jackson. in the film, thirteen at dinner ( 1985 ), adapted from lord edgware dies, the role of japp was taken by the actor david suchet, who would later star as poirot in the itv adaptations. major novels the poirot books take readers through the whole of his life in england, from the first book ( the mysterious affair at styles ), where he is a refugee staying at styles, to the last poirot book ( curtain ), where he visits styles before his death. in between, poirot solves cases outside england as well, including his most famous case, murder on the orient express ( 1934 ). hercule poirot became famous in 1926 with the publication of the murder of roger ackroyd, whose surprising solution proved controversial. the novel is still among the most famous of all detective novels : edmund wilson alludes to it in the title of his well - known attack on detective fiction, " who cares who killed roger ackroyd? " aside from roger ackroyd, the most critically acclaimed poirot novels appeared from 1932 to 1942, including murder on the orient express ( 1934 ) ; the abc murders ( 1935 ) ; cards on the table ( 1936 ) ; and death on the nile ( 1937 ), a tale of multiple murders upon a nile steamer. death on the nile was judged by the famed detective novelist john dickson carr to be among the ten greatest