( hallowe ' en party ) and katrina reiger ( in the short story " how does your garden grow? " ). jewish characters are often seen as un - english ( such as oliver manders in three act tragedy ), but they are rarely the culprits. in 2023, the telegraph reported that several agatha christie novels have been edited to remove potentially offensive language, including insults and references to ethnicity. poirot and miss marple mysteries written between 1920 and 1976 have had passages reworked or removed in new editions published by harpercollins, in order to strip them of language and descriptions that modern audiences find offensive, especially those involving the characters christie ’ s protagonists encounter outside the uk. sensitivity readers had made the edits, which were evident in digital versions of the new editions, including the entire miss marple run and selected poirot novels set to be released or that have been released since 2020. other detectives in addition to hercule poirot and miss marple, christie also created amateur detectives thomas ( tommy ) beresford and his wife, prudence " tuppence " nee cowley, who appear in four novels and one collection of short stories published between 1922 and 1974. unlike her other sleuths, the beresfords were only in their early twenties when introduced in the secret adversary, and were allowed to age alongside their creator. she treated their stories with a lighter touch, giving them a " dash and verve " which was not universally admired by critics. their last adventure, postern of fate, was christie ' s last novel. harley quin was " easily the most unorthodox " of christie ' s fictional detectives. inspired by christie ' s affection for the figures from the harlequinade, the semi - supernatural quin always works with an elderly, conventional man called satterthwaite. the pair appear in 14 short stories, 12 of which were collected in 1930 as the mysterious mr. quin. mallowan described these tales as " detection in a fanciful vein, touching on the fairy story, a natural product of agatha ' s peculiar imagination ". satterthwaite also appears in a novel, three act tragedy, and a short story, " dead man ' s mirror ", both of which feature poirot. another of her lesser - known characters is parker pyne, a retired civil servant who assists unhappy people in an unconventional manner. the 12 short stories which introduced him, parker pyne investigates ( 1934 ), are best remembered for "