becoming a sovereign. this interregnum can be explained assuming that he fought a war of succession with other sons of bindusara during these four years. the ashokavadana contains a story about ashoka ' s minister yashas hiding the sun with his hand. professor p. h. l. eggermont theorised that this story was a reference to a partial solar eclipse that was seen in northern india on 4 may 249 bce. according to the ashokavadana, ashoka went on a pilgrimage to various buddhist sites sometime after this eclipse. ashoka ' s rummindei pillar inscription states that he visited lumbini during his 21st regnal year. assuming this visit was a part of the pilgrimage described in the text, and assuming that ashoka visited lumbini around 1 – 2 years after the solar eclipse, the ascension date of 268 – 269 bce seems more likely. however, this theory is not universally accepted. for example, according to john s. strong, the event described in the ashokavadana has nothing to do with chronology, and eggermont ' s interpretation grossly ignores the literary and religious context of the legend. reign before buddhist influence both sri lankan and north indian traditions assert that ashoka was a violent person before buddhism. taranatha also states that ashoka was initially called " kamashoka " because he spent many years in pleasurable pursuits ( kama ) ; he was then called " chandashoka " ( " ashoka the fierce " ) because he spent some years performing evil deeds ; and finally, he came to be known as dhammashoka ( " ashoka the righteous " ) after his conversion to buddhism. the ashokavadana also calls him " chandashoka ", and describes several of his cruel acts : the ministers who had helped him ascend the throne started treating him with contempt after his ascension. to test their loyalty, ashoka gave them the absurd order of cutting down every flower - and fruit - bearing tree. when they failed to carry out this order, ashoka personally cut off the heads of 500 ministers. one day, during a stroll at a park, ashoka and his concubines came across a beautiful ashoka tree. the sight put him in an amorous mood, but the women did not enjoy caressing his rough skin. sometime later, when ashoka fell asleep, the resentful women chopped the flowers and the branches of his namesake tree. after ashoka woke up, he burnt 500 of his concubine