ii and beyond the curtin and chifley governments governed australia through the latter half of the second world war and initial stages of transition to peace. labor leader john curtin became prime minister in october 1941 when two independents crossed the floor of parliament. labor, led by curtin, then led australia through the years of the pacific war. in december 1941, curtin announced that " australia looks to america, free of any pangs as to our traditional links or kinship with the united kingdom ", thus helping to establish the australian - american alliance ( later formalised as anzus by the menzies government ). remembered as a strong war time leader and for a landslide win at the 1943 federal election, curtin died in office just prior to the end of the war and was succeeded by ben chifley. chifley labor won the 1946 federal election and oversaw australia ' s initial transition to a peacetime economy. labor was defeated at the 1949 federal election. at the conference of the new south wales labor party in june 1949, chifley sought to define the labour movement as follows : " we have a great objective – the light on the hill – which we aim to reach by working for the betterment of mankind. [... ] [ labor would ] bring something better to the people, better standards of living, greater happiness to the mass of the people. " to a large extent, chifley saw centralisation of the economy as the means to achieve such ambitions. with an increasingly uncertain economic outlook, after his attempt to nationalise the banks and a strike by the communist - dominated miners ' federation, chifley lost office in 1949 to robert menzies ' liberal - national coalition. labor commenced a 23 - year period in opposition. the party was primarily led during this time by h. v. evatt and arthur calwell. various ideological beliefs were factionalised under reforms to the alp under gough whitlam, resulting in what is now known as the socialist left who tend to favour a more interventionist economic policy and more socially progressive ideals, and labor right, the now dominant faction that tends to be more economically liberal and focus to a lesser extent on social issues. the whitlam labor government, marking a break with labor ' s socialist tradition, pursued social - democratic policies rather than democratic socialist policies. in contrast to earlier labor leaders, whitlam also cut tariffs by 25 percent. whitlam led the federal labor party back to office at the 1972 and 1974 federal elections, and