evaporate and the alkali metal can then be isolated. lithium and sodium are typically isolated through electrolysis from their liquid chlorides, with calcium chloride typically added to lower the melting point of the mixture. the heavier alkali metals, however, are more typically isolated in a different way, where a reducing agent ( typically sodium for potassium and magnesium or calcium for the heaviest alkali metals ) is used to reduce the alkali metal chloride. the liquid or gaseous product ( the alkali metal ) then undergoes fractional distillation for purification. most routes to the pure alkali metals require the use of electrolysis due to their high reactivity ; one of the few which does not is the pyrolysis of the corresponding alkali metal azide, which yields the metal for sodium, potassium, rubidium, and caesium and the nitride for lithium. lithium salts have to be extracted from the water of mineral springs, brine pools, and brine deposits. the metal is produced electrolytically from a mixture of fused lithium chloride and potassium chloride. sodium occurs mostly in seawater and dried seabed, but is now produced through electrolysis of sodium chloride by lowering the melting point of the substance to below 700 °c through the use of a downs cell. extremely pure sodium can be produced through the thermal decomposition of sodium azide. potassium occurs in many minerals, such as sylvite ( potassium chloride ). previously, potassium was generally made from the electrolysis of potassium chloride or potassium hydroxide, found extensively in places such as canada, russia, belarus, germany, israel, united states, and jordan, in a method similar to how sodium was produced in the late 1800s and early 1900s. it can also be produced from seawater. however, these methods are problematic because the potassium metal tends to dissolve in its molten chloride and vaporises significantly at the operating temperatures, potentially forming the explosive superoxide. as a result, pure potassium metal is now produced by reducing molten potassium chloride with sodium metal at 850 °c. na ( g ) + kcl ( l ) nacl ( l ) + k ( g ) although sodium is less reactive than potassium, this process works because at such high temperatures potassium is more volatile than sodium and can easily be distilled off, so that the equilibrium shifts towards the right to produce more potassium gas and proceeds almost to completion. metals like sodium are obtained by electrolysis of molten salts. rb & cs obtained mainly as by products of li processing. to make pure caesium,