which erupted in 1961 with the baixa de cassanje revolt and gradually evolved into a protracted war of independence that persisted for the next twelve years. throughout the conflict, three militant nationalist movements with their own partisan guerrilla wings emerged from the fighting between the portuguese government and local forces, supported to varying degrees by the portuguese communist party. the national front for the liberation of angola ( fnla ) recruited from bakongo refugees in zaire. benefiting from particularly favourable political circumstances in leopoldville, and especially from a common border with zaire, angolan political exiles were able to build up a power base among a large expatriate community from related families, clans, and traditions. people on both sides of the border spoke mutually intelligible dialects and enjoyed shared ties to the historical kingdom of kongo. though as foreigners skilled angolans could not take advantage of mobutu sese seko ' s state employment programme, some found work as middlemen for the absentee owners of various lucrative private ventures. the migrants eventually formed the fnla with the intention of making a bid for political power upon their envisaged return to angola. a largely ovimbundu guerrilla initiative against the portuguese in central angola from 1966 was spearheaded by jonas savimbi and the national union for the total independence of angola ( unita ). it remained handicapped by its geographic remoteness from friendly borders, the ethnic fragmentation of the ovimbundu, and the isolation of peasants on european plantations where they had little opportunity to mobilise. during the late 1950s, the rise of the marxist – leninist popular movement for the liberation of angola ( mpla ) in the east and dembos hills north of luanda came to hold special significance. formed as a coalition resistance movement by the angolan communist party, the organisation ' s leadership remained predominantly ambundu and courted public sector workers in luanda. although both the mpla and its rivals accepted material assistance from the soviet union or the people ' s republic of china, the former harboured strong anti - imperialist views and was openly critical of the united states and its support for portugal. this allowed it to win important ground on the diplomatic front, soliciting support from nonaligned governments in morocco, ghana, guinea, mali, and the united arab republic. the mpla attempted to move its headquarters from conakry to leopoldville in october 1961, renewing efforts to create a common front with the fnla, then known as the union of angola