process is called stochastic gradient descent. evolutionary computation uses a form of optimization search. for example, they may begin with a population of organisms ( the guesses ) and then allow them to mutate and recombine, selecting only the fittest to survive each generation ( refining the guesses ). distributed search processes can coordinate via swarm intelligence algorithms. two popular swarm algorithms used in search are particle swarm optimization ( inspired by bird flocking ) and ant colony optimization ( inspired by ant trails ). neural networks and statistical classifiers ( discussed below ), also use a form of local search, where the " landscape " to be searched is formed by learning. logic formal logic is used for reasoning and knowledge representation. formal logic comes in two main forms : propositional logic ( which operates on statements that are true or false and uses logical connectives such as " and ", " or ", " not " and " implies " ) and predicate logic ( which also operates on objects, predicates and relations and uses quantifiers such as " every x is a y " and " there are some xs that are ys " ). logical inference ( or deduction ) is the process of proving a new statement ( conclusion ) from other statements that are already known to be true ( the premises ). a logical knowledge base also handles queries and assertions as a special case of inference. an inference rule describes what is a valid step in a proof. the most general inference rule is resolution. inference can be reduced to performing a search to find a path that leads from premises to conclusions, where each step is the application of an inference rule. inference performed this way is intractable except for short proofs in restricted domains. no efficient, powerful and general method has been discovered. fuzzy logic assigns a " degree of truth " between 0 and 1 and handles uncertainty and probabilistic situations. non - monotonic logics are designed to handle default reasoning. other specialized versions of logic have been developed to describe many complex domains ( see knowledge representation above ). probabilistic methods for uncertain reasoning many problems in ai ( including in reasoning, planning, learning, perception, and robotics ) require the agent to operate with incomplete or uncertain information. ai researchers have devised a number of tools to solve these problems using methods from probability theory and economics. bayesian networks are a very general tool that can be used for many problems, including reasoning ( using the bayesian inference algorithm ), learning ( using the expectation - maximization algorithm )