of the almoravids ), and that might have inspired ibn yasin ' s choice of name for the movement. contemporaries frequently referred to them as the al - mulathimun ( " the veiled ones ", from, arabic for " veil " ). the almoravids veiled themselves below the eyes with a tagelmust, a custom they adapted from southern sanhaja berbers ( this can still be seen among the modern tuareg people, but it was unusual further north ). although practical for the desert dust, the almoravids insisted on wearing the veil everywhere, as a badge of " foreignness " in urban settings, partly as a way of emphasizing their puritan credentials. it served as the uniform of the almoravids. under their rule, sumptuary laws forbade anybody else from wearing the veil, thereby making it the distinctive dress of the ruling class. in turn, the succeeding almohads made a point of mocking the almoravid veil as symbolic of effeminacy and decadence. history origins the berbers of the maghreb in the early middle ages could be roughly classified into three major groups : the zenata across the north, the masmuda, concentrated in central morocco, and the sanhaja, clustered in the western part of the sahara and the hills of the eastern maghreb. the eastern sanhaja included the kutama berbers, who had been the base of the fatimid rise in the early 10th century, and the zirid dynasty, who ruled ifriqiya as vassals of the fatimids after the latter moved to egypt in 972. the western sanhaja were divided into several tribes : the gazzula and the lamta in the draa valley and the foothills of the anti - atlas range ; further south, encamped in the western sahara, were the massufa, the banu warith ; and most southerly of all, the lamtuna and gudala, in littoral mauritania down to the borderlands of the senegal river. the western sanhaja had been converted to islam some time in the 9th century. they were subsequently united in the 10th century and, with the zeal of new converts, launched several campaigns against the " sudanese " ( pagan peoples of sub - saharan africa ). under their king tinbarutan ibn usfayshar, the sanhaja lamtuna erected ( or captured ) the citadel