##rceress heal the tree. according to the mahavamsa, she completely destroyed the tree, during ashoka ' s 34th regnal year. the ashokavadana states that tissarakkha ( called " tishyarakshita " here ) made sexual advances towards ashoka ' s son kunala, but kunala rejected her. subsequently, ashoka granted tissarakkha kingship for seven days, and during this period, she tortured and blinded kunala. ashoka then threatened to " tear out her eyes, rip open her body with sharp rakes, impale her alive on a spit, cut off her nose with a saw, cut out her tongue with a razor. " kunala regained his eyesight miraculously, and pleaded for mercy for the queen, but ashoka had her executed anyway. kshemendra ' s avadana - kalpa - lata also narrates this legend, but seeks to improve ashoka ' s image by stating that he forgave the queen after kunala regained his eyesight. death according to the sri lankan tradition, ashoka died during his 37th regnal year, which suggests that he died around 232 bce. according to the ashokavadana, the emperor fell severely ill during his last days. he started using state funds to make donations to the buddhist sangha, prompting his ministers to deny him access to the state treasury. ashoka then started donating his personal possessions, but was similarly restricted from doing so. on his deathbed, his only possession was the half of a myrobalan fruit, which he offered to the sangha as his final donation. such legends encourage generous donations to the sangha and highlight the role of the kingship in supporting the buddhist faith. legend states that during his cremation, his body burned for seven days and nights. legacy in the outline of history ( 1920 ), h. g. wells wrote, " amidst the tens of thousands of names of monarchs that crowd the columns of history, their majesties and graciousnesses and serenities and royal highnesses and the like, the name of ashoka shines, and shines, almost alone, a star. " in his 1978 book, the 100 : a ranking of the most influential persons in history, michael h. hart ranked him 53th, below the buddha ( ranked 4 ) and above mahavira ( ranked 100 ). architecture besides the various stupas attributed to ashoka, the pillars erected by him survive at various places in the