as limited by the time it can remain airborne. for a powered aircraft the time limit is determined by the fuel load and rate of consumption. for an unpowered aircraft, the maximum flight time is limited by factors such as weather conditions and pilot endurance. many aircraft types are restricted to daylight hours, while balloons are limited by their supply of lifting gas. the range can be seen as the average ground speed multiplied by the maximum time in the air. the airbus a350 - 900ulr is now the longest range airliner. flight dynamics flight dynamics is the science of air vehicle orientation and control in three dimensions. the three critical flight dynamics parameters are the angles of rotation around three axes which pass through the vehicle ' s center of gravity, known as pitch, roll, and yaw. roll is a rotation about the longitudinal axis ( equivalent to the rolling or heeling of a ship ) giving an up - down movement of the wing tips measured by the roll or bank angle. pitch is a rotation about the sideways horizontal axis giving an up - down movement of the aircraft nose measured by the angle of attack. yaw is a rotation about the vertical axis giving a side - to - side movement of the nose known as sideslip. flight dynamics is concerned with the stability and control of an aircraft ' s rotation about each of these axes. stability an aircraft that is unstable tends to diverge from its intended flight path and so is difficult to fly. a very stable aircraft tends to stay on its flight path and is difficult to maneuver. therefore, it is important for any design to achieve the desired degree of stability. since the widespread use of digital computers, it is increasingly common for designs to be inherently unstable and rely on computerised control systems to provide artificial stability. a fixed wing is typically unstable in pitch, roll, and yaw. pitch and yaw stabilities of conventional fixed wing designs require horizontal and vertical stabilisers, which act similarly to the feathers on an arrow. these stabilizing surfaces allow equilibrium of aerodynamic forces and to stabilise the flight dynamics of pitch and yaw. they are usually mounted on the tail section ( empennage ), although in the canard layout, the main aft wing replaces the canard foreplane as pitch stabilizer. tandem wing and tailless aircraft rely on the same general rule to achieve stability, the aft surface being the stabilising one. a rotary wing is typically unstable in yaw, requiring a vertical stabiliser. a balloon is typically very stable in pitch and roll due