##der, with petals of unequal size, the ones pointing outward from the umbel larger than the ones pointing inward. some are andromonoecious, polygamomonoecious, or even dioecious ( as in acronema ), with a distinct calyx and corolla, but the calyx is often highly reduced, to the point of being undetectable in many species, while the corolla can be white, yellow, pink or purple. the flowers are nearly perfectly pentamerous, with five petals and five stamens. there is often variation in the functionality of the stamens even within a single inflorescence. some flowers are functionally staminate ( where a pistil may be present but has no ovules capable of being fertilized ) while others are functionally pistillate ( where stamens are present but their anthers do not produce viable pollen ). pollination of one flower by the pollen of a different flower of the same plant ( geitonogamy ) is common. the gynoecium consists of two carpels fused into a single, bicarpellate pistil with an inferior ovary. stylopodia support two styles and secrete nectar, attracting pollinators like flies, mosquitoes, gnats, beetles, moths, and bees. the fruit is a schizocarp consisting of two fused carpels that separate at maturity into two mericarps, each containing a single seed. the fruits of many species are dispersed by wind but others such as those of daucus spp., are covered in bristles, which may be hooked in sanicle sanicula europaea and thus catch in the fur of animals. the seeds have an oily endosperm and often contain essential oils, containing aromatic compounds that are responsible for the flavour of commercially important umbelliferous seed such as anise, cumin and coriander. the shape and details of the ornamentation of the ripe fruits are important for identification to species level. taxonomy apiaceae was first described by john lindley in 1836. the name is derived from the type genus apium, which was originally used by pliny the elder circa 50 ad for a celery - like plant. the alternative name for the family, umbelliferae, derives from the inflorescence being generally in the form of a compound umbel. the family was one of the first to be recognized