. so, this added to the efficiency of vaccines resulted in an immediate and permanent reduction in the use of antibiotics in the 90s. in the beginning, there were fish immersion vaccines efficient against the vibriosis but proved ineffective against the furunculosis, hence the arrival of injectable vaccines : first water - based and after oil - based, much more efficient ( sommerset, 2005 ). development of new vaccines it is the important mortality in cages among farmed fish, the debates around dna injection vaccines, although effective, their safety and their side effects but also societal expectations for cleaner fish and security, lead research on new vaccine vectors. several initiatives are financed by the european union to develop a rapid and cost - effective approach to using bacteria in feed to make vaccines, in particular thanks to lactic bacteria whose dna is modified ( boudinot, 2006 ). in fact, vaccinating farmed fish by injection is time - consuming and costly, so vaccines can be administered orally or by immersion by being added to feed or directly into water. this allows vaccinating many individuals at the same time while limiting the associated handling and stress. indeed, many tests are necessary because the antigens of the vaccines must be adapted to each species or not present a certain level of variability or they will not have any effect. for example, tests have been done with two species : lepeophtheirus salmonis ( from which the antigens were collected ) and caligus rogercresseyi ( which was vaccinated with the antigens ), although the homology between the two species is important, the level of variability made the protection ineffective ( fisheries and oceans canada, 2014 ). recent vaccines development in aquaculture there are 24 vaccines available and one for lobsters. the first vaccine was used in the usa against enteric red mouth in 1976. however, there are 19 companies and some small stakeholders are producing vaccines for aquaculture nowadays. the novel approaches are a way forward to prevent the loss of 10 % of aquaculture through disease. genetically modified vaccines are not being used in the eu due to societal concerns and regulations. meanwhile, dna vaccines are now authorised in the eu. there are challenges in fish vaccine development, immune response due to lack of potent adjscientists are considering microdose application in future. but there are also exciting opportunities in aquaculture vaccinology due to the low cost of technology, regulations change and novel antigen expression and delivery systems. in norway subunit vaccine ( vp2 peptide