a defense under s3 criminal law act 1967 ) subject to the need to deter vigilantes and excessive self - help. furthermore, some jurisdictions, such as ohio, allow residents in their homes to use force when ejecting an intruder. the resident merely needs to assert to the court that they felt threatened by the intruder ' s presence. regional details the following are the countries with the most cases of assault according to the united nations in 2018. australia the term ' assault ', when used in legislation, commonly refers to both common assault and battery, even though the two offences remain distinct. common assault involves intentionally or recklessly causing a person to apprehend the imminent infliction of unlawful force, whilst battery refers to the actual infliction of force. each state has legislation relating to the act of assault, and offences against the act that constitute assault are heard in the magistrates ' court of that state or indictable offences are heard in a district or supreme court of that state. the legislation that defines assault of each state outline what the elements are that make up the assault, where the assault is sectioned in legislation or criminal codes, and the penalties that apply for the offence of assault. in new south wales, the crimes act 1900 defines a range of assault offences deemed more serious than common assault and which attract heavier penalties. these include : assault with further specific intent acts done to the person with intent to murder wounding or grievous bodily harm use or possession of a weapon to resist arrest assault causing certain injuries actual bodily harm – the term is not defined in the crimes act, but case law indicates actual bodily harm may include injuries such as bruises and scratches, as well as psychological injuries if the injury inflicted is more than merely transient ( the injury does not necessarily need to be permanent ) wounding – where there is breaking of the skin ; grievous bodily harm – which includes the destruction of a foetus, permanent or serious disfiguring, and transmission of a grievous bodily disease assault causing death death death when intoxicated ( in regards to the offender ) canada assault is an offence under s. 265 of the canadian criminal code. there is a wide range of the types of assault that can occur. generally, an assault occurs when a person directly or indirectly applies force intentionally to another person without their consent. it can also occur when a person attempts to apply such force, or threatens to do so, without the consent of the other person. an injury need not occur for an assault to be committed, but