believed to lead soldiers into battle. athena represented the disciplined, strategic side of war, in contrast to her brother ares, the patron of violence, bloodlust, and slaughter — " the raw force of war ". athena was believed to only support those fighting for a just cause and was thought to view war primarily as a means to resolve conflict. the greeks regarded athena with much higher esteem than ares. athena was especially worshipped in this role during the festivals of the panathenaea and pamboeotia, both of which prominently featured displays of athletic and military prowess. as the patroness of heroes and warriors, athena was believed to favor those who used cunning and intelligence rather than brute strength. in her aspect as a warrior maiden, athena was known as parthenos ( " virgin " ), because, like her fellow goddesses artemis and hestia, she was believed to remain perpetually a virgin. athena ' s most famous temple, the parthenon on the athenian acropolis, takes its name from this title. according to karl kerenyi, a scholar of greek mythology, the name parthenos is not merely an observation of athena ' s virginity, but also a recognition of her role as enforcer of rules of sexual modesty and ritual mystery. even beyond recognition, the athenians allotted the goddess value based on this pureness of virginity, which they upheld as a rudiment of female behavior. kerenyi ' s study and theory of athena explains her virginal epithet as a result of her relationship to her father zeus and a vital, cohesive piece of her character throughout the ages. this role is expressed in several stories about athena. marinus of neapolis reports that when christians removed the statue of the goddess from the parthenon, a beautiful woman appeared in a dream to proclus, a devotee of athena, and announced that the " athenian lady " wished to dwell with him. athena was also credited with creating the pebble - based form of divination. those pebbles were called thriai, which was also the collective name of a group of nymphs with prophetic powers. her half - brother apollo however, angered and spiteful at the practitioners of an art rival to his own, complained to their father zeus about it, with the pretext that many people took to casting pebbles, but few actually were true prophets. zeus, sympathizing with apollo ' s grievances, discredited the pebble divination by rendering the pebbles useless. apollo