aldous leonard huxley ( ; 26 july 1894 – 22 november 1963 ) was an english writer and philosopher. his bibliography spans nearly 50 books, including novels and non - fiction works, as well as essays, narratives, and poems. born into the prominent huxley family, he graduated from balliol college, oxford, with an undergraduate degree in english literature. early in his career, he published short stories and poetry and edited the literary magazine oxford poetry, before going on to publish travel writing, satire, and screenplays. he spent the latter part of his life in the united states, living in los angeles from 1937 until his death. by the end of his life, huxley was widely acknowledged as one of the foremost intellectuals of his time. he was nominated for the nobel prize in literature nine times, and was elected companion of literature by the royal society of literature in 1962. huxley was a pacifist. he grew interested in philosophical mysticism, as well as universalism, addressing these subjects in his works such as the perennial philosophy, which illustrates commonalities between western and eastern mysticism, and the doors of perception, which interprets his own psychedelic experience with mescaline. in his most famous novel brave new world and his final novel island, he presented his visions of dystopia and utopia, respectively. early life huxley was born in godalming, surrey, england, in 1894. he was the third son of the writer and schoolmaster leonard huxley, who edited the cornhill magazine, and his first wife, julia arnold, who founded prior ' s field school. julia was the niece of poet and critic matthew arnold and the sister of mrs. humphry ward. julia named him aldous after a character in one of her sister ' s novels. aldous was the grandson of thomas henry huxley, the zoologist, agnostic, and controversialist who had often been called " darwin ' s bulldog ". his brother julian huxley and half - brother andrew huxley also became outstanding biologists. aldous had another brother, noel trevenen huxley ( 1889 – 1914 ), who took his own life after a period of clinical depression. as a child, huxley ' s nickname was " ogie ", short for " ogre ". he was described by his brother, julian, as someone who frequently [ contemplated ] the strangeness of things ". according to his cousin and contemporary gervas huxley, he had an early interest in drawing. huxley '