water sources are surface waters. only 24 of the 8, 350 rivers are greater than in length. all the rivers drain into the caspian sea in the east of the country. the largest lake is sarysu, and the longest river is kur, which is transboundary with armenia. azerbaijan has several islands along the caspian sea, mostly located in the baku archipelago. since the independence of azerbaijan in 1991, the azerbaijani government has taken measures to preserve the environment of azerbaijan. national protection of the environment accelerated after 2001 when the state budget increased due to new revenues provided by the baku – tbilisi – ceyhan pipeline. within four years, protected areas doubled and now make up eight percent of the country ' s territory. since 2001 the government has set up seven large reserves and almost doubled the sector of the budget earmarked for environmental protection. landscape azerbaijan is home to a wide variety of landscapes. over half of azerbaijan ' s landmass consists of mountain ridges, crests, highlands, and plateaus which rise up to hypsometric levels of 400 – 1000 meters ( including the middle and lower lowlands ), in some places ( talis, jeyranchol - ajinohur and langabiz - alat foreranges ) up to 100 – 120 meters, and others from 0 – 50 meters and up ( qobustan, absheron ). the rest of azerbaijan ' s terrain consists of plains and lowlands. hypsometric marks within the caucasus region vary from about −28 meters at the caspian sea shoreline up to 4, 466 meters ( bazarduzu peak ). the formation of climate in azerbaijan is influenced particularly by cold arctic air masses of scandinavian anticyclone, temperate air masses of siberian anticyclone, and central asian anticyclone. azerbaijan ' s diverse landscape affects the ways air masses enter the country. the greater caucasus protects the country from direct influences of cold air masses coming from the north. that leads to the formation of subtropical climate on most foothills and plains of the country. meanwhile, plains and foothills are characterized by high solar radiation rates. nine out of eleven existing climate zones are present in azerbaijan. both the absolute minimum temperature ( ) and the absolute maximum temperature were observed in julfa and ordubad – regions of nakhchivan autonomous republic. the maximum annual precipitation falls in lankaran ( ) and the minimum in absheron ( ). rivers and lakes form the principal part of the water systems of azerbaijan, they were formed over a long geological