history the periodic table and a natural number for each element loosely speaking, the existence or construction of a periodic table of elements creates an ordering of the elements, and so they can be numbered in order. dmitri mendeleev claimed that he arranged his first periodic tables ( first published on march 6, 1869 ) in order of atomic weight ( " atomgewicht " ). however, in consideration of the elements ' observed chemical properties, he changed the order slightly and placed tellurium ( atomic weight 127. 6 ) ahead of iodine ( atomic weight 126. 9 ). this placement is consistent with the modern practice of ordering the elements by proton number, z, but that number was not known or suspected at the time. a simple numbering based on periodic table position was never entirely satisfactory. in addition to the case of iodine and tellurium, several other pairs of elements ( such as argon and potassium, cobalt and nickel ) were later shown to have nearly identical or reversed atomic weights, thus requiring their placement in the periodic table to be determined by their chemical properties. however the gradual identification of more and more chemically similar lanthanide elements, whose atomic number was not obvious, led to inconsistency and uncertainty in the periodic numbering of elements at least from lutetium ( element 71 ) onward ( hafnium was not known at this time ). the rutherford - bohr model and van den broek in 1911, ernest rutherford gave a model of the atom in which a central nucleus held most of the atom ' s mass and a positive charge which, in units of the electron ' s charge, was to be approximately equal to half of the atom ' s atomic weight, expressed in numbers of hydrogen atoms. this central charge would thus be approximately half the atomic weight ( though it was almost 25 % different from the atomic number of gold, ), the single element from which rutherford made his guess ). nevertheless, in spite of rutherford ' s estimation that gold had a central charge of about 100 ( but was element on the periodic table ), a month after rutherford ' s paper appeared, antonius van den broek first formally suggested that the central charge and number of electrons in an atom were exactly equal to its place in the periodic table ( also known as element number, atomic number, and symbolized z ). this eventually proved to be the case. moseley ' s 1913 experiment the experimental position improved dramatically after research by henry moseley in 1913. moseley, after discussions with bohr who