##most electrons in many chemical reactions ( see below ). the electronegativity of aluminium is 1. 61 ( pauling scale ). a free aluminium atom has a radius of 143 pm. with the three outermost electrons removed, the radius shrinks to 39 pm for a 4 - coordinated atom or 53. 5 pm for a 6 - coordinated atom. at standard temperature and pressure, aluminium atoms ( when not affected by atoms of other elements ) form a face - centered cubic crystal system bound by metallic bonding provided by atoms ' outermost electrons ; hence aluminium ( at these conditions ) is a metal. this crystal system is shared by many other metals, such as lead and copper ; the size of a unit cell of aluminium is comparable to that of those other metals. the system, however, is not shared by the other members of its group ; boron has ionization energies too high to allow metallization, thallium has a hexagonal close - packed structure, and gallium and indium have unusual structures that are not close - packed like those of aluminium and thallium. the few electrons that are available for metallic bonding in aluminium metal are a probable cause for it being soft with a low melting point and low electrical resistivity. bulk aluminium metal has an appearance ranging from silvery white to dull gray, depending on the surface roughness. aluminium mirrors are the most reflective of all metal mirrors for the near ultraviolet and far infrared light, and one of the most reflective in the visible spectrum, nearly on par with silver, and the two therefore look similar. aluminium is also good at reflecting solar radiation, although prolonged exposure to sunlight in air adds wear to the surface of the metal ; this may be prevented if aluminium is anodized, which adds a protective layer of oxide on the surface. the density of aluminium is 2. 70 g / cm3, about 1 / 3 that of steel, much lower than other commonly encountered metals, making aluminium parts easily identifiable through their lightness. aluminium ' s low density compared to most other metals arises from the fact that its nuclei are much lighter, while difference in the unit cell size does not compensate for this difference. the only lighter metals are the metals of groups 1 and 2, which apart from beryllium and magnesium are too reactive for structural use ( and beryllium is very toxic ). aluminium is not as strong or stiff as steel, but the low density makes up for this in the aerospace industry and for many other applications where light weight and relatively high strength are crucial. pure aluminium