the discoverer of aluminium. as wohler ' s method could not yield great quantities of aluminium, the metal remained rare ; its cost exceeded that of gold. the first industrial production of aluminium was established in 1856 by french chemist henri etienne sainte - claire deville and companions. deville had discovered that aluminium trichloride could be reduced by sodium, which was more convenient and less expensive than potassium, which wohler had used. even then, aluminium was still not of great purity and produced aluminium differed in properties by sample. because of its electricity - conducting capacity, aluminium was used as the cap of the washington monument, completed in 1885. the tallest building in the world at the time, the non - corroding metal cap was intended to serve as a lightning rod peak. the first industrial large - scale production method was independently developed in 1886 by french engineer paul heroult and american engineer charles martin hall ; it is now known as the hall – heroult process. the hall – heroult process converts alumina into metal. austrian chemist carl joseph bayer discovered a way of purifying bauxite to yield alumina, now known as the bayer process, in 1889. modern production of the aluminium metal is based on the bayer and hall – heroult processes. prices of aluminium dropped and aluminium became widely used in jewelry, everyday items, eyeglass frames, optical instruments, tableware, and foil in the 1890s and early 20th century. aluminium ' s ability to form hard yet light alloys with other metals provided the metal with many uses at the time. during world war i, major governments demanded large shipments of aluminium for light strong airframes ; during world war ii, demand by major governments for aviation was even higher. by the mid - 20th century, aluminium had become a part of everyday life and an essential component of housewares. in 1954, production of aluminium surpassed that of copper, historically second in production only to iron, making it the most produced non - ferrous metal. during the mid - 20th century, aluminium emerged as a civil engineering material, with building applications in both basic construction and interior finish work, and increasingly being used in military engineering, for both airplanes and land armor vehicle engines. earth ' s first artificial satellite, launched in 1957, consisted of two separate aluminium semi - spheres joined and all subsequent space vehicles have used aluminium to some extent. the aluminium can was invented in 1956 and employed as a storage for drinks in 1958. throughout the 20th century, the production of aluminium rose rapidly : while the world