1501, alexander ' s older brother john i albert died suddenly, and alexander was crowned king of poland on 12 december of that year. alexander ' s shortage of funds immediately made him subservient to the polish senate and szlachta, who deprived him of control of the mint ( then one of the most lucrative sources of revenue for the polish kings ), curtailed his prerogatives, and generally endeavored to reduce him to a subordinate position. in 1505, the sejm passed the act of nihil novi, which forbade the king to issue laws without the consent of the nobility, represented by the two legislative chambers, except for laws governing royal cities, crown lands, mines, fiefdoms, royal peasants, and jews. this was another step in poland ' s progression towards a " noble ' s democracy ". during alexander ' s reign, poland suffered additional humiliation at the hands of her subject principality, moldavia. only the death of stephen, the great hospodar of moldavia, enabled poland still to hold her own on the danube river. meanwhile, the liberality of pope julius ii, who issued no fewer than 29 bulls in favor of poland and granted alexander peter ' s pence and other financial help, enabled him to restrain somewhat the arrogance of the teutonic order. alexander jagiellon never felt at home in poland, and bestowed his favor principally upon his fellow lithuanians, the most notable of whom was the wealthy lithuanian magnate michael glinski, who justified his master ' s confidence by his great victory over the tatars at kleck ( 5 august 1506 ), news of which was brought to alexander on his deathbed in vilnius. alexander was the last known ruler of the gediminid dynasty to have maintained the family ' s ancestral lithuanian language. after his death, polish became the sole language of the family, thus fully polonising the jagiellons. in 1931, during the refurbishment of vilnius cathedral, the forgotten sarcophagus of alexander was discovered, and has since been put on display. gallery see also history of poland ( 1385 – 1569 ) rachela fiszel sejm walny st. anne ' s church, vilnius references external links pages and forums on the lithuanian history 1461 births 1506 deaths 16th - century monarchs in europe 16th - century polish monarchs kings of poland grand dukes of lithuania polish roman catholics jagiellonian dynasty burials at vilnius cathedral nobility from krakow