##lati2, and pbati are known or presumed to have been precipitated. in a plasma ion source mass spectrometer, the ions [ ati ] +, [ atbr ] +, and [ atcl ] + have been formed by introducing lighter halogen vapors into a helium - filled cell containing astatine, supporting the existence of stable neutral molecules in the plasma ion state. no astatine fluorides have been discovered yet. their absence has been speculatively attributed to the extreme reactivity of such compounds, including the reaction of an initially formed fluoride with the walls of the glass container to form a non - volatile product. thus, although the synthesis of an astatine fluoride is thought to be possible, it may require a liquid halogen fluoride solvent, as has already been used for the characterization of radon fluoride. history in 1869, when dmitri mendeleev published his periodic table, the space under iodine was empty ; after niels bohr established the physical basis of the classification of chemical elements, it was suggested that the fifth halogen belonged there. before its officially recognized discovery, it was called " eka - iodine " ( from sanskrit eka – " one " ) to imply it was one space under iodine ( in the same manner as eka - silicon, eka - boron, and others ). scientists tried to find it in nature ; given its extreme rarity, these attempts resulted in several false discoveries. the first claimed discovery of eka - iodine was made by fred allison and his associates at the alabama polytechnic institute ( now auburn university ) in 1931. the discoverers named element 85 " alabamine ", and assigned it the symbol ab, designations that were used for a few years. in 1934, h. g. macpherson of university of california, berkeley disproved allison ' s method and the validity of his discovery. there was another claim in 1937, by the chemist rajendralal de. working in dacca in british india ( now dhaka in bangladesh ), he chose the name " dakin " for element 85, which he claimed to have isolated as the thorium series equivalent of radium f ( polonium - 210 ) in the radium series. the properties he reported for dakin do not correspond to those of astatine, and astatine ' s radioactivity would have prevented him from handling it in the quantities he claimed. moreover, astatine