scientists to study how the animal grew and how long its lifespan may have been. remains may reach as far back in the lifespan as eggs — crushed eggs from colorado have been suggested as those of allosaurus. based on histological analysis of limb bones, bone deposition appears to stop at around 22 to 28 years, which is comparable to that of other large theropods like tyrannosaurus. from the same analysis, its maximum growth appears to have been at age 15, with an estimated growth rate of about 150 kilograms ( 330 lb ) per year. medullary bone tissue ( endosteally derived, ephemeral, mineralization located inside the medulla of the long bones in gravid female birds ) has been reported in at least one allosaurus specimen, a shin bone from the cleveland - lloyd quarry. today, this bone tissue is only formed in female birds that are laying eggs, as it is used to supply calcium to shells. its presence in the allosaurus individual has been used to establish sex and show it had reached reproductive age. however, other studies have called into question some cases of medullary bone in dinosaurs, including this allosaurus individual. data from extant birds suggested that the medullary bone in this allosaurus individual may have been the result of a bone pathology instead. however, with the confirmation of medullary tissue indicating sex in a specimen of tyrannosaurus, it may be possible to ascertain whether or not the allosaurus in question was indeed female. the discovery of a juvenile specimen with a nearly complete hindlimb shows that the legs were relatively longer in juveniles, and the lower segments of the leg ( shin and foot ) were relatively longer than the thigh. these differences suggest that younger allosaurus were faster and had different hunting strategies than adults, perhaps chasing small prey as juveniles, then becoming ambush hunters of large prey upon adulthood. the thigh bone became thicker and wider during growth, and the cross - section less circular, as muscle attachments shifted, muscles became shorter, and the growth of the leg slowed. these changes imply that juvenile legs has less predictable stresses compared with adults, which would have moved with more regular forward progression. conversely, the skull bones appear to have generally grown isometrically, increasing in size without changing in proportion. feeding many paleontologists accept allosaurus as an active predator of large animals. there is dramatic evidence for allosaur attacks on stegosaurus, including an allosaurus tail vertebra with a partially healed puncture wound that fits a