it technology department. electric vehicle manufacturing in june 2010, achim kampker, together with gunther schuh, founded a small company to develop electric powered light utility vehicles ; in august 2014, it was renamed streetscooter gmbh. this started as a privately organised research initiative at the rwth aachen university, before becoming the independent company in aachen. kampker was also the founder and chairman of the european network for affordable and sustainable electromobility. in may 2014, the company announced that the city of aachen, the city council aachen and the savings bank aachen had ordered electric vehicles from the company. in late 2014, approximately 70 employees were manufacturing 200 vehicles annually in the premises of the waggonfabrik talbot, the former talbot / bombardier plant in aachen. in december 2014 dhl group purchased the streetscooter company from gunther, operating it as a wholly owned subsidiary. in 2015, gunther founded a new electric vehicle company, e. go mobile, which started producing the e. go life electric passenger car and other vehicles in april 2019. by april 2016, streetscooter announced that it would produce 2000 of its electric vans, branded the work, in aachen by the end of the year, and would be scaling up to manufacture approximately 10, 000 works annually, starting in 2017, also in aachen. at the time, this target would make it the largest electric light utility vehicle manufacturer in europe, surpassing renault ' s smaller kangoo z. e.. culture in 1372, aachen became the first coin - minting city in the world to regularly place an anno domini date on a general circulation coin, a groschen. the scotch club in aachen was the first discotheque in germany, opened from 19 october 1959 until 1992. klaus quirini as dj heinrich was the first dj ever. the thriving aachen black metal scene is among the most notable in germany, with such bands as nagelfar, the ruins of beverast, graupel and verdunkeln. the local speciality of aachen is an originally hard type of sweet bread, baked in large flat loaves, called aachener printen. unlike lebkuchen, a german form of gingerbread sweetened with honey, printen use a syrup made from sugar. today, a soft version is sold under the same name which follows an entirely different recipe. asteroid 274835 aachen, discovered by amateur astronomer erwin schwab in 2009, was named after the city. the official was published by the