the destruction of kalinga : on the other hand, the sri lankan tradition suggests that ashoka was already a devoted buddhist by his 8th regnal year, converted to buddhism during his 4th regnal year, and constructed 84, 000 viharas during his 5th – 7th regnal years. the buddhist legends make no mention of the kalinga campaign. based on sri lankan tradition, some scholars, such as eggermont, believe ashoka converted to buddhism before the kalinga war. critics of this theory argue that if ashoka were already a buddhist, he would not have waged the violent kalinga war. eggermont explains this anomaly by theorising that ashoka had his own interpretation of the " middle way ". some earlier writers believed that ashoka dramatically converted to buddhism after seeing the suffering caused by the war since his major rock edict 13 states that he became closer to the dhamma after the annexation of kalinga. however, even if ashoka converted to buddhism after the war, epigraphic evidence suggests that his conversion was a gradual process rather than a dramatic event. for example, in a minor rock edict issued during his 13th regnal year ( five years after the kalinga campaign ), he states that he had been an upasaka ( lay buddhist ) for more than two and a half years, but did not make much progress ; in the past year, he was drawn closer to the sangha and became a more ardent follower. the kalinga war according to ashoka ' s major rock edict 13, he conquered kalinga 8 years after ascending to the throne. the edict states that during his conquest of kalinga, 100, 000 men and animals were killed in action ; many times that number " perished " ; and 150, 000 men and animals were carried away from kalinga as captives. ashoka states that the repentance of these sufferings caused him to devote himself to the practice and propagation of dharma. he proclaims that he now considered the slaughter, death and deportation caused during the conquest of a country painful and deplorable ; and that he considered the suffering caused to the religious people and householders even more deplorable. this edict has been inscribed at several places, including erragudi, girnar, kalsi, maneshra, shahbazgarhi and kandahar. however, it is omitted in ashoka ' s inscriptions found in the kalinga region, where the rock edicts 13 and 14 have been replaced by two separate edicts