secular thinking makes its appearance, without leaving behind the old christian hostility towards jews, the new term antisemitism becomes almost unavoidable, even before explicitly racist doctrines appear. " some christians such as the catholic priest ernest jouin, who published the first french translation of the protocols, combined religious and racial antisemitism, as in his statement that " from the triple viewpoint of race, of nationality, and of religion, the jew has become the enemy of humanity. " the virulent antisemitism of edouard drumont, one of the most widely read catholic writers in france during the dreyfus affair, likewise combined religious and racial antisemitism. drumont founded the antisemitic league of france. economic antisemitism the underlying premise of economic antisemitism is that jews perform harmful economic activities or that economic activities become harmful when they are performed by jews. linking jews and money underpins the most damaging and lasting antisemitic canards. antisemites claim that jews control the world finances, a theory promoted in the fraudulent protocols of the elders of zion, and later repeated by henry ford and his dearborn independent. in the modern era, such myths continue to be spread in books such as the secret relationship between blacks and jews published by the nation of islam, and on the internet. derek penslar writes that there are two components to the financial canards : a ) jews are savages that " are temperamentally incapable of performing honest labor " b ) jews are " leaders of a financial cabal seeking world domination " abraham foxman describes six facets of the financial canards : all jews are wealthy jews are stingy and greedy powerful jews control the business world jewish religion emphasizes profit and materialism it is okay for jews to cheat non - jews jews use their power to benefit " their own kind " gerald krefetz summarizes the myth as " [ jews ] control the banks, the money supply, the economy, and businesses — of the community, of the country, of the world ". krefetz gives, as illustrations, many slurs and proverbs ( in several different languages ) which suggest that jews are stingy, or greedy, or miserly, or aggressive bargainers. during the nineteenth century, jews were described as " scurrilous, stupid, and tight - fisted ", but after the jewish emancipation and the rise of jews to the middle - or upper - class in europe were portrayed as " clever, devious