ainu people, are part of the plot of a chapter in the manga silver spoon. a coming - of - age film, ainu mosir, was released in japan on 17 october, 2020. the film portrays kanto, a sensitive 14 - year - old ainu boy, who struggles to come to terms with his father ' s death and his identity. the film also focuses on the dilemma of controversial bear sacrifice under the shadow of the modern japanese society and the ainu ' s heavy reliance on tourists for their livelihood. along with other restless teenagers, kanto is under pressure to retain his ainu identity and participate in the cultural rituals. in the james bond novel and film you only live twice and film, bond ' s character spends some time living in an ainu village and ( in the film ) is supposedly disguised as one of the local people, " marrying " a local pearl fisher ( ) as part of his cover. in the 2013 samurai film unforgiven, starring ken watanabe and which is a remake of the 1992 clint eastwood western film of the same name, the character of goro sawada ( yuya yagira ) is half - ainu. see also ainu - ken akira ifukube bibliography of the ainu bikki sunazawa constitution of japan declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples emishi aterui ethnocide genocide of indigenous peoples hiram m. hiller jr. indigenous peoples kanko ainu takashi ukaji shigeru kayano nibutani dam ainu culture ainu music ainu flag ainu genre painting ikupasuy iomante matagi yukar ethnic groups in japan ethnic issues in japan human rights in japan ryukyuan people ryukyu independence movement nivkhs references citations sources japan times. ainu plan group for upper house run, october 31, 2011 further reading hitchingham, masako yoshida ( trans. ), act for the promotion of ainu culture & dissemination of knowledge regarding ainu traditions, asian - pacific law & policy journal, vol. 1, no. 1 ( 2000 ). kayano, shigeru ( 1994 ). our land was a forest : an ainu memoir. westview press... ( harvard university ) ( digitized january 24, 2006 ) ( indiana university ) ( digitized september 3, 2009 ) [ original from harvard university digitized jan 30, 2008 ] [ yokohama : r. meiklejohn & co., no 49. ] the collected works