him into unconsciousness so that there was no way for anyone to definitively determine which of them actually delivered the killing blow. the victim had committed a disgusting crime which led to the deaths of at least five people, and there was no question of his guilt, but he had been acquitted in america in a miscarriage of justice. considering it poetic justice that twelve jurors had acquitted him and twelve people had stabbed him, poirot produced an alternative sequence of events to explain the death involving an unknown additional passenger on the train, with the medical examiner agreeing to doctor his own report to support this theory. after his cases in the middle east, poirot returned to britain. apart from some of the so - called labours of hercules ( see next section ) he very rarely went abroad during his later career. he moved into styles court towards the end of his life. while poirot was usually paid handsomely by clients, he was also known to take on cases that piqued his curiosity, although they did not pay well. poirot shows a love of steam trains, which christie contrasts with hastings ' love of autos : this is shown in the plymouth express, the mystery of the blue train, murder on the orient express, and the abc murders ( in the tv series, steam trains are seen in nearly all of the episodes ). retirement that ' s the way of it. just a case or two, just one case more – the prima donna ' s farewell performance won ' t be in it with yours, poirot. confusion surrounds poirot ' s retirement. most of the cases covered by poirot ' s private detective agency take place before his retirement to attempt to grow larger marrows, at which time he solves the murder of roger ackroyd. it has been said that the twelve cases related in the labours of hercules ( 1947 ) must refer to a different retirement, but the fact that poirot specifically says that he intends to grow marrows indicates that these stories also take place before roger ackroyd, and presumably poirot closed his agency once he had completed them. there is specific mention in " the capture of cerberus " of the twenty - year gap between poirot ' s previous meeting with countess rossakoff and this one. if the labours precede the events in roger ackroyd, then the ackroyd case must have taken place around twenty years later than it was published, and so must any of the cases