subtract away the effects of light pollution, which has increased the popularity of astrophotography in urban areas. narrowband filters may also be used to minimize light pollution. scientific research scientific research is most often not the main goal for many amateur astronomers, unlike professional astronomers. work of scientific merit is possible, however, and many amateurs successfully contribute to the knowledge base of professional astronomers. astronomy is sometimes promoted as one of the few remaining sciences for which amateurs can still contribute useful data. to recognize this, the astronomical society of the pacific annually gives amateur achievement awards for significant contributions to astronomy by amateurs. the majority of scientific contributions by amateur astronomers are in the area of data collection. in particular, this applies where large numbers of amateur astronomers with small telescopes are more effective than the relatively small number of large telescopes that are available to professional astronomers. several organizations, such as the american association of variable star observers and the british astronomical association, exist to help coordinate these contributions. amateur astronomers often contribute toward activities such as monitoring the changes in brightness of variable stars and supernovae, helping to track asteroids, and observing occultations to determine both the shape of asteroids and the shape of the terrain on the apparent edge of the moon as seen from earth. with more advanced equipment, but still cheap in comparison to professional setups, amateur astronomers can measure the light spectrum emitted from astronomical objects, which can yield high - quality scientific data if the measurements are performed with due care. a relatively recent role for amateur astronomers is searching for overlooked phenomena ( e. g., kreutz sungrazers ) in the vast libraries of digital images and other data captured by earth and space based observatories, much of which is available over the internet. in the past and present, amateur astronomers have played a major role in discovering new comets. recently however, funding of projects such as the lincoln near - earth asteroid research and near earth asteroid tracking projects has meant that most comets are now discovered by automated systems long before it is possible for amateurs to see them. societies there are a large number of amateur astronomical societies around the world, that serve as a meeting point for those interested in amateur astronomy. members range from active observers with their own equipment to " armchair astronomers " who are simply interested in the topic. societies range widely in their goals and activities, which may depend on a variety of factors such as geographic spread, local circumstances, size, and membership. for example, a small local society located in dark countryside may focus on practical observing and star parties, whereas a large one