a legend tells how when alfred first fled to the somerset levels, he was given shelter by a peasant woman who, unaware of his identity, left him to watch some wheaten cakes she had left cooking on the fire. preoccupied with the problems of his kingdom, alfred accidentally let the cakes burn and was roundly scolded by the woman upon her return. there is no contemporary evidence for the legend, but it is possible that there was an early oral tradition. the first known written account of the incident is from about 100 years after alfred ' s death. counter - attack and victory in the seventh week after easter ( 4 – 10 may 878 ), around whitsuntide, alfred rode to egbert ' s stone east of selwood where he was met by " all the people of somerset and of wiltshire and of that part of hampshire which is on this side of the sea ( that is, west of southampton water ), and they rejoiced to see him ". alfred ' s emergence from his marshland stronghold was part of a carefully planned offensive that entailed raising the fyrds of three shires. this meant not only that the king had retained the loyalty of ealdormen, royal reeves and king ' s thegns, who were charged with levying and leading these forces, but that they had maintained their positions of authority in these localities well enough to answer his summons to war. alfred ' s actions also suggest a system of scouts and messengers. alfred won a decisive victory in the ensuing battle of edington which may have been fought near westbury, wiltshire. he then pursued the danes to their stronghold at chippenham and starved them into submission. one of the terms of the surrender was that guthrum convert to christianity. three weeks later, the danish king and 29 of his chief men were baptised at alfred ' s court at aller, near athelney, with alfred receiving guthrum as his spiritual son. according to asser, at wedmore, alfred and guthrum negotiated what some historians have called the treaty of wedmore, but it was to be some years after the cessation of hostilities that a formal treaty was signed. under the terms of the so - called treaty of wedmore, the converted guthrum was required to leave wessex and return to east anglia. consequently, in 879 the viking army left chippenham and made its way to cirencester. the formal treaty of alfred and guthrum, preserved in old english