finally ended. with the withdrawal of federal troops, however, whites retook control of every southern legislature, and the jim crow era of disenfranchisement and legal segregation was ushered in. the civil war would have a huge impact on american politics in the years to come. many veterans on both sides were subsequently elected to political office, including five u. s. presidents : general ulysses grant, rutherford b. hayes, james garfield, benjamin harrison, and william mckinley. memory and historiography the civil war is one of the central events in american collective memory. there are innumerable statues, commemorations, books, and archival collections. the memory includes the home front, military affairs, the treatment of soldiers, both living and dead, in the war ' s aftermath, depictions of the war in literature and art, evaluations of heroes and villains, and considerations of the moral and political lessons of the war. the last theme includes moral evaluations of racism and slavery, heroism in combat and heroism behind the lines, and issues of democracy and minority rights, as well as the notion of an " empire of liberty " influencing the world. professional historians have paid much more attention to the causes of the war than to the war itself. military history has largely developed outside academia, leading to a proliferation of studies by non - scholars who nevertheless are familiar with the primary sources and pay close attention to battles and campaigns and who write for the general public. bruce catton and shelby foote are among the best known. practically every major figure in the war, both north and south, has had a serious biographical study. even the name used for the conflict has been controversial, with many names for the american civil war. during and immediately after the war, northern historians often used a term like " war of the rebellion ". writers in rebel states often referred to the " war for southern independence ". more recently, some southerners have described it as the " war of northern aggression ". lost cause the memory of the war in the white south crystallized in the myth of the " lost cause " : that the confederate cause was just and heroic. the myth shaped regional identity and race relations for generations. alan t. nolan notes that the lost cause was expressly a rationalization, a cover - up to vindicate the name and fame of those in rebellion. some claims revolve around the insignificance of slavery as a cause of the war ; some appeals highlight cultural differences between north and south ; the military conflict by confederate actors is