acute and long - term inflammation, as well as for the treatment of inflammatory diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis. heart attacks and strokes aspirin is an important part of the treatment of those who have had a heart attack. it is generally not recommended for routine use by people with no other health problems, including those over the age of 70. the 2009 antithrombotic trialists ' collaboration published in lancet evaluated the efficacy and safety of low dose aspirin in secondary prevention. in those with prior ischaemic stroke or acute myocardial infarction, daily low dose aspirin was associated with a 19 % relative risk reduction of serious cardiovascular events ( non - fatal myocardial infarction, non - fatal stroke, or vascular death ). this did come at the expense of a 0. 19 % absolute risk increase in gastrointestinal bleeding ; however, the benefits outweigh the hazard risk in this case. data from previous trials have suggested that weight - based dosing of aspirin has greater benefits in primary prevention of cardiovascular outcomes. however, more recent trials were not able to replicate similar outcomes using low dose aspirin in low body weight ( < 70 kg ) in specific subset of population studied i. e. elderly and diabetic population, and more evidence is required to study the effect of high dose aspirin in high body weight ( ≥70 kg ). after percutaneous coronary interventions ( pcis ), such as the placement of a coronary artery stent, a u. s. agency for healthcare research and quality guideline recommends that aspirin be taken indefinitely. frequently, aspirin is combined with an adp receptor inhibitor, such as clopidogrel, prasugrel, or ticagrelor to prevent blood clots. this is called dual antiplatelet therapy ( dapt ). duration of dapt was advised in the united states and european union guidelines after the cure and prodigy studies. in 2020, the systematic review and network meta - analysis from khan et al. showed promising benefits of short - term ( < 6 months ) dapt followed by p2y12 inhibitors in selected patients, as well as the benefits of extended - term ( > 12 months ) dapt in high risk patients. in conclusion, the optimal duration of dapt after pcis should be personalized after outweighing each patient ' s risks of ischemic events and risks of bleeding events with consideration of multiple patient