95 % of paved roads being constructed of or surfaced with asphalt, a substantial amount of asphalt pavement material is reclaimed each year. according to industry surveys conducted annually by the federal highway administration and the national asphalt pavement association, more than 99 % of the bitumen removed each year from road surfaces during widening and resurfacing projects is reused as part of new pavements, roadbeds, shoulders and embankments or stockpiled for future use. asphalt concrete paving is widely used in airports around the world. due to the sturdiness and ability to be repaired quickly, it is widely used for runways. mastic asphalt mastic asphalt is a type of asphalt that differs from dense graded asphalt ( asphalt concrete ) in that it has a higher bitumen ( binder ) content, usually around 7 – 10 % of the whole aggregate mix, as opposed to rolled asphalt concrete, which has only around 5 % asphalt. this thermoplastic substance is widely used in the building industry for waterproofing flat roofs and tanking underground. mastic asphalt is heated to a temperature of and is spread in layers to form an impervious barrier about thick. bitumen emulsion bitumen emulsions are colloidal mixtures of bitumen and water. due to the different surface tensions of the two liquids, stable emulsions cannot be created simply by mixing. therefore, various emulsifiers and stabilizers are added. emulsifiers are amphiphilic molecules that differ in the charge of their polar head group. they reduce the surface tension of the emulsion and thus prevent bitumen particles from fusing. the emulsifier charge defines the type of emulsion : anionic ( negatively charged ) and cationic ( positively charged ). the concentration of an emulsifier is a critical parameter affecting the size of the bitumen particles - higher concentrations lead to smaller bitumen particles. thus, emulsifiers have a great impact on the stability, viscosity, breaking strength, and adhesion of the bitumen emulsion. the size of bitumen particles is usually between 0. 1 and 50 µm with a main fraction between 1 µm and 10 µm. laser diffraction techniques can be used to determine the particle size distribution quickly and easily. cationic emulsifiers primarily include long - chain amines such as imidazolines, amido - amines, and diamines, which acquire a positive charge when an acid is added. anionic emulsifiers are often fatty acids