ac is still the oldest open problem in set theory, and the equivalences of the other statements are similarly hard old open problems. in every known model of zf where choice fails, these statements fail too, but it is unknown if they can hold without choice. set theory partition principle : if there is a surjection from a to b, there is an injection from b to a. equivalently, every partition p of a set s is less than or equal to s in size. converse schroder – bernstein theorem : if two sets have surjections to each other, they are equinumerous. weak partition principle : if there is a injection and a surjection from a to b, then a and b are equinumerous. equivalently, a partition of a set s cannot be strictly larger than s. if wpp holds, this already implies the existence of a non - measurable set. each of the previous three statements is implied by the preceding one, but it is unknown if any of these implications can be reversed. there is no infinite decreasing sequence of cardinals. the equivalence was conjectured by schoenflies in 1905. abstract algebra hahn embedding theorem : every ordered abelian group g order - embeds as a subgroup of the additive group endowed with a lexicographical order, where ω is the set of archimedean equivalence classes of g. this equivalence was conjectured by hahn in 1907. stronger forms of the negation of ac if we abbreviate by bp the claim that every set of real numbers has the property of baire, then bp is stronger than ¬ac, which asserts the nonexistence of any choice function on perhaps only a single set of nonempty sets. strengthened negations may be compatible with weakened forms of ac. for example, zf + dc + bp is consistent, if zf is. it is also consistent with zf + dc that every set of reals is lebesgue measurable ; however, this consistency result, due to robert m. solovay, cannot be proved in zfc itself, but requires a mild large cardinal assumption ( the existence of an inaccessible cardinal ). the much stronger axiom of determinacy, or ad, implies that every set of reals is lebesgue measurable, has the property of baire, and has the perfect set property ( all three of these results are refuted by ac itself ). zf + dc + ad is consistent provided