rations, the ship reached its destination on 1 october 1852. the lost collection had been insured for £200 by stevens. after his return to britain, wallace spent 18 months in london living on the insurance payment, and selling a few specimens that had been shipped home. during this period, despite having lost almost all the notes from his south american expedition, he wrote six academic papers ( including " on the monkeys of the amazon " ) and two books, palm trees of the amazon and their uses and travels on the amazon. at the same time, he made connections with several other british naturalists. bates and others were collecting in the amazon area, wallace was more interested in new opportunities in the malay archipelago as demonstrated by the travel writings of ida laura pfeiffer, and valuable insect specimens she collected which stevens sold as her agent. in march 1853 wallace wrote to sir james brooke, rajah of sarawak, who was then in london, and who arranged assistance in sarawak for wallace. in june wallace wrote to murchison at the royal geographical society ( rgs ) for support, proposing to again fund his exploring entirely from sale of duplicate collections. he later recalled that, while researching in the insect - room of the british museum, he was introduced to darwin and they " had a few minutes ' conversation. " after presenting a paper and a large map of the rio negro to the rgs, wallace was elected a fellow of the society on 27 february 1854. free passage arranged on royal navy ships was stalled by the crimean war, but eventually the rgs funded first class travel by p & o steamships. wallace and a young assistant, charles allen, embarked at southampton on 4 march 1854. after the overland journey to suez and another change of ship at ceylon they disembarked at singapore on 19 april 1854. from 1854 to 1862, wallace travelled around the islands of the malay archipelago or east indies ( now singapore, malaysia and indonesia ). his main objective " was to obtain specimens of natural history, both for my private collection and to supply duplicates to museums and amateurs ". in addition to allen, he " generally employed one or two, and sometimes three malay servants " as assistants, and paid large numbers of local people at various places to bring specimens. his total was 125, 660 specimens, most of which were insects including more than 83, 000 beetles, several thousand of the specimens represented species new to science, overall, more than thirty men worked for him at some stage as full - time paid collectors. he also hired guides,