##ian legend has been inspired by the real world : about 20 % of the warrior graves on the lower don and lower volga contained women dressed for battle similar to how men dress. armed women accounted for up to 25 % of sarmatian military burials. russian archaeologist vera kovalevskaya asserts that when scythian men were abroad fighting or hunting, women would have to be able to competently defend themselves, their animals, and their pastures. in early 20th century minoan archeology a theory regarding amazon origins in minoan civilization was raised in an essay by lewis richard farnell and john myres. according to myres, the tradition interpreted in the light of evidence furnished by supposed amazon cults seems to have been very similar and may have even originated in minoan culture. modern legacy the city of samsun in modern - day samsun province, turkey features an amazon village museum, to help bring attention to the legacy of the amazons and to promote both academic interest and tourism. an annual amazon celebration festival takes place in the terme district. during the ottoman – egyptian invasion of mani in 1826, in the battle of diros the women of mani defeated the ottoman army and for this were given the name of ' the amazons of diros '. from 1936 to 1939, annual propaganda events, called night of the amazons ( nacht der amazonen ) were performed in nazi germany at the nymphenburg palace park in munich. announced as evening highlights of the international horse racing week munich - riem, bare - breasted variety show girls of the ss - cavalry, 2, 500 participants and international guests performed at the open - air revue. these revues served to promote an allegedly emancipated female role and a cosmopolitan and foreigner - friendly nazi regime. in literature and media literature amazon queen hippolyta appears in william shakespeare ' s play a midsummer night ' s dream and also in the two noble kinsmen, which shakespeare co - wrote with john fletcher. the amazon queen penthesilea, and her sexual frenzy, are at the center of the drama penthesilea by heinrich von kleist in 1808. steven pressfield ' s 2002 novel last of the amazons is a mythopoeia of plutarch ' s texts, that surround theseus ' abduction of queen antiope and the amazons ' attack on athens. an accurate and detailed portrayal of the archaic greek world, its life, people, weapons etc. dramatized as real as the sky. william