##relius ambrosius, now presented as son of a king constantine. king constantine ' s eldest son constans is murdered at vortigern ' s instigation, and the two remaining sons ( ambrosius and uther, still very young ) are quickly hustled into exile in brittany. ( this does not fit with gildas ' account, in which ambrosius ' family perished in the turmoil of the saxon uprisings. ) later, the two brothers return from exile with a large army when vortigern ' s power has faded. they destroy vortigern and become friends with merlin. they go on to defeat the saxon leader hengist in two battles at maisbeli ( probably ballifield, near sheffield ) and cunengeburg. hengist is executed and ambrosius becomes king of britain. however, he is poisoned by his enemies, and uther succeeds him. the text identifies the poisoner as eopa. judgements vary wildly of the value of geoffrey as both a historian and a literary storyteller. he has been praised for giving us detailed information about an otherwise obscure period and possibly preserving information from lost sources, and condemned for an excessive use of artistic licence and possibly inventing stories wholecloth. according to frank d. reno, whenever geoffrey uses extant sources, the details in the text tend to be accurate. assuming that he was also using sources lost to us, it may be difficult to decide which details are truthful. reno suggests that " individual judgements " have to be made about various elements of his narrative. geoffrey changed the word " aurelianus " to " aurelius ", which is the name of a roman gens. geoffrey retains the story of emrys and the dragons from nennius, but identifies the figure with merlin. merlin is geoffrey ' s version of a historical figure known as myrddin wyllt. myrddin is only mentioned once in the annales cambriae, at an entry dated to 573. the name of merlin is given in latin as ambrosius merlinus. " merlinus " may have been intended as the agnomen of a roman or romano - british individual like ambrosius. elements of ambrosius aurelianus, the traditional warrior king, are used by geoffrey for other characters. ambrosius ' supposed supernatural powers are passed to merlin. geoffrey ' s aurelius ambrosius rises to the throne but dies early, passing the throne to a previously