hosts many annual or recurring festivals, concerts and events, with the festival of aarhus festuge as the most popular and wide - ranging, along with large sports events. aarhus festuge is the largest multicultural festival in scandinavia, always based on a special theme and takes place every year for ten days between late august and early september, transforming the inner city with festive activities and decorations of all kinds. there are numerous music festivals ; the eight - day aarhus jazz festival features jazz in many venues across the city. it was founded in 1988 and usually takes place in july every year, occasionally august or september. there are several annually recurring music festivals for contemporary popular music in aarhus. northside festival presents well - known bands every year in mid - june on large outdoor scenes. it is a relatively new event, founded in 2010, but grew from a one - day event to a three - day festival in its first three years, now with 35, 000 paying guests in 2015. spot festival is aiming to showcase up - and - coming danish and scandinavian talents at selected venues of the inner city. the outdoor grøn koncert music festival takes place every year in many cities across denmark, including aarhus. danmarks grimmeste festival ( lit. denmark ' s ugliest festival ) is a small summer music festival held in skjoldhøjkilen, brabrand. aarhus also hosts recurring events dedicated to specific art genres. international living theatre ( ilt ) is a bi - annual festival, established in 2009, with performing arts and stage art on a broad scale. the festival has a vision of showing the best plays and stage art experiences of the world, while at the same time attracting thespians and stage art interested people from both aarhus and europe at large. literaturexchange is a new annual festival from 2018, focused on literature from around the world as well as regional talents. the city actively promotes its gay and lesbian community and celebrates the annual aarhus pride gay pride festival while aarhus festuge usually includes exhibits, concerts and events designed for the lgbt communities. notable events of a local scope include the university boat - race, held in the university park since 1991, which has become a local spectator event attracting some 20, 000 people. the boat race pits costumed teams from the university departments against each other in inflatable boats in a challenge to win the gyldne bækken ( golden chamber pot ) trophy. the annual lighting of the christmas lights on the salling department store in søndergade has also