ez abugida now used for amharic and tigrinya, has assimilated into their consonant modifications. it is no longer systematic and must be learned as a syllabary rather than as a segmental script. even more extreme, the pahlavi abjad eventually became logographic. thus the primary categorisation of alphabets reflects how they treat vowels. for tonal languages, further classification can be based on their treatment of tone. though names do not yet exist to distinguish the various types. some alphabets disregard tone entirely, especially when it does not carry a heavy functional load, as in somali and many other languages of africa and the americas. most commonly, tones are indicated by diacritics, which is how vowels are treated in abugidas, which is the case for vietnamese ( a true alphabet ) and thai ( an abugida ). in thai, the tone is determined primarily by a consonant, with diacritics for disambiguation. in the pollard script, an abugida, vowels are indicated by diacritics. the placing of the diacritic relative to the consonant is modified to indicate the tone. more rarely, a script may have separate letters for tones, as is the case for hmong and zhuang. for many, regardless of whether letters or diacritics get used, the most common tone is not marked, just as the most common vowel is not marked in indic abugidas. in zhuyin, not only is one of the tones unmarked ; but there is a diacritic to indicate a lack of tone, like the virama of indic. alphabetical order alphabets often come to be associated with a standard ordering of their letters ; this is for collation — namely, for listing words and other items in alphabetical order. latin alphabets the basic ordering of the latin alphabet ( a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z ), which derives from the northwest semitic " abgad " order, is already well established. although, languages using this alphabet have different conventions for their treatment of modified letters ( such as the french e, a, and o ) and certain combinations of letters ( multigraphs ). in french, these are not considered to be additional letters for collation. however, in icelandic, the accented letters such as a, i, and o are considered distinct letters representing different vowel sounds from sounds