##fflers began five years of research on what would become future shock, published in 1970. it has sold over 6 million copies worldwide, according to the new york times, or over 15 million copies according to the tofflers ' web site. toffler coined the term " future shock " to refer to what happens to a society when change happens too fast, which results in social confusion and normal decision - making processes breaking down. the book has never been out of print and has been translated into dozens of languages. he continued the theme in the third wave in 1980. while he describes the first and second waves as the agricultural and industrial revolutions, the " third wave, " a phrase he coined, represents the current information, computer - based revolution. he forecast the spread of the internet and email, interactive media, cable television, cloning, and other digital advancements. he claimed that one of the side effects of the digital age has been " information overload, " another term he coined. in 1990, he wrote powershift, also with the help of his wife, heidi. in 1996, with american business consultant tom johnson, they co - founded toffler associates, an advisory firm designed to implement many of the ideas the tofflers had written on. the firm worked with businesses, ngos, and governments in the united states, south korea, mexico, brazil, singapore, australia, and other countries. during this period in his career, toffler lectured worldwide, taught at several schools and met world leaders, such as mikhail gorbachev, along with key executives and military officials. ideas and opinions toffler stated many of his ideas during an interview with the australian broadcasting corporation in 1998. " society needs people who take care of the elderly and who know how to be compassionate and honest, " he said. " society needs people who work in hospitals. society needs all kinds of skills that are not just cognitive ; they ' re emotional, they ' re affectional. you can ' t run the society on data and computers alone. " his opinions about the future of education, many of which were in future shock, have often been quoted. an often misattributed quote, however, is that of psychologist herbert gerjuoy : " tomorrow ' s illiterate will not be the man who can ' t read ; he will be the man who has not learned how to learn. " early in his career, after traveling to other countries, he became aware of the new and myriad inputs that visitors