##ked anodes even though they save the power, energy, and labor to prebake the cathodes. carbon for anodes should be preferably pure so that neither aluminium nor the electrolyte is contaminated with ash. despite carbon ' s resistivity against corrosion, it is still consumed at a rate of 0. 4 – 0. 5 kg per each kilogram of produced aluminium. cathodes are made of anthracite ; high purity for them is not required because impurities leach only very slowly. the cathode is consumed at a rate of 0. 02 – 0. 04 kg per each kilogram of produced aluminium. a cell is usually terminated after 2 – 6 years following a failure of the cathode. the hall – heroult process produces aluminium with a purity of above 99 %. further purification can be done by the hoopes process. this process involves the electrolysis of molten aluminium with a sodium, barium, and aluminium fluoride electrolyte. the resulting aluminium has a purity of 99. 99 %. electric power represents about 20 to 40 % of the cost of producing aluminium, depending on the location of the smelter. aluminium production consumes roughly 5 % of electricity generated in the united states. because of this, alternatives to the hall – heroult process have been researched, but none has turned out to be economically feasible. recycling recovery of the metal through recycling has become an important task of the aluminium industry. recycling was a low - profile activity until the late 1960s, when the growing use of aluminium beverage cans brought it to public awareness. recycling involves melting the scrap, a process that requires only 5 % of the energy used to produce aluminium from ore, though a significant part ( up to 15 % of the input material ) is lost as dross ( ash - like oxide ). an aluminium stack melter produces significantly less dross, with values reported below 1 %. white dross from primary aluminium production and from secondary recycling operations still contains useful quantities of aluminium that can be extracted industrially. the process produces aluminium billets, together with a highly complex waste material. this waste is difficult to manage. it reacts with water, releasing a mixture of gases ( including, among others, hydrogen, acetylene, and ammonia ), which spontaneously ignites on contact with air ; contact with damp air results in the release of copious quantities of ammonia gas. despite these difficulties, the waste is used as a filler in asphalt and concrete. applications metal the global production of aluminium in