their available registers and by their specific tuning and voicing. despite these differences, all accordions share a number of common components. universal components bellows the bellows is the most recognizable part of the instrument, and the primary means of articulation. the production of sound in an accordion is in direct proportion to the motion of the bellows by the player. in a sense, the role of the bellows can be compared to the role of moving a violin ' s bow on bowed strings. for a more direct analogy, the bellows can be compared to the role of breathing for a singer. the bellows is located between the right - and left - hand keyboards, and is made from pleated layers of cloth and cardboard, with added leather and metal. it is used to create pressure and vacuum, driving air across the internal reeds and producing sound by their vibrations, applied pressure increases the volume. the keyboard touch is not expressive and does not affect dynamics : all expression is effected through the bellows. bellows effects include : volume control, including swells and fades repeated short, rapid changes of direction ( " bellows shake " ), which has been popularized by musicians such as renato borghetti ( gaucho music ) and luiz gonzaga, and extensively used in forro, called resfulego in brazil constant bellows motion while applying pressure at intervals constant bellows motion to produce clear tones with no resonance subtly changing the intonation to mimic the expressiveness of a singer using the bellows with the silent air button gives the sound of air moving ( " whooshing " ), which is sometimes used in contemporary compositions for this instrument body the accordion ' s body consists of two boxes, commonly made of wood, joined by the bellows. these boxes house reed chambers for the right - and left - hand keyboards. each side has grilles in order to facilitate the transmission of air in and out of the instrument, and to allow the sound to project. the grille at the right - hand side is usually larger and is often shaped for decorative purposes. the right - hand keyboard is normally used for playing the melody and the left - hand one for playing the accompaniment ; however, skilled players can reverse these roles and play melodies with the left hand. the size and weight of an accordion varies depending on its type, layout and playing range, which can be as small as to have only one or two rows of basses and a single octave on the right - hand keyboard, to the most common 120 - bass accordion