descendants are to satisfy their hunger and clothe them, through rituals done on earth. rituals which are done on the first three days are vital and important, as they protect the soul from evil powers and give it strength to reach the underworld. after three days, the soul crosses chinvat bridge which is the final judgment of the soul. rashnu and sraosha are present at the final judgment. the list is expanded sometimes, and include vahman and ormazd. rashnu is the yazata who holds the scales of justice. if the good deeds of the person outweigh the bad, the soul is worthy of paradise. if the bad deeds outweigh the good, the bridge narrows down to the width of a blade - edge, and a horrid hag pulls the soul in her arms, and takes it down to hell with her. misvan gatu is the " place of the mixed ones " where the souls lead a gray existence, lacking both joy and sorrow. a soul goes here if his / her good deeds and bad deeds are equal, and rashnu ' s scale is equal. parapsychology the society for psychical research was founded in 1882 with the express intention of investigating phenomena relating to spiritualism and the afterlife. its members continue to conduct scientific research on the paranormal to this day. some of the earliest attempts to apply scientific methods to the study of phenomena relating to an afterlife were conducted by this organization. its earliest members included noted scientists like william crookes, and philosophers such as henry sidgwick and william james. parapsychological investigation of the afterlife includes the study of haunting, apparitions of the deceased, instrumental trans - communication, electronic voice phenomena, and mediumship. a study conducted in 1901 by physician duncan macdougall sought to measure the weight lost by a human when the soul " departed the body " upon death. macdougall weighed dying patients in an attempt to prove that the soul was material, tangible and thus measurable. although macdougall ' s results varied considerably from " 21 grams ", for some people this figure has become synonymous with the measure of a soul ' s mass. the title of the 2003 movie 21 grams is a reference to macdougall ' s findings. his results have never been reproduced, and are generally regarded either as meaningless or considered to have had little if any scientific merit. frank tipler has argued that physics can explain immortality, although such arguments are not falsifiable and, in karl popper ' s views,