as well as tourists from other parts of canada, the united states, and many other countries. there are also natural attractions like elk island national park, wood buffalo national park, and the columbia icefield. alberta ' s rockies include well - known tourist destinations banff national park and jasper national park. the two mountain parks are connected by the scenic icefields parkway. banff is located west of calgary on highway 1, and jasper is located west of edmonton on the yellowhead highway. five of canada ' s fourteen unesco world heritage sites are located within the province : canadian rocky mountain parks, waterton - glacier international peace park, wood buffalo national park, dinosaur provincial park and head - smashed - in buffalo jump. a number of these areas hold ski resorts, most notably banff sunshine, lake louise, marmot basin, norquay and nakiska. about 1. 2 million people visit the calgary stampede, a celebration of canada ' s own wild west and the cattle ranching industry. about 700, 000 people enjoy edmonton ' s k - days ( formerly klondike days and capital ex ). edmonton was the gateway to the only all - canadian route to the yukon gold fields, and the only route which did not require gold - seekers to travel the exhausting and dangerous chilkoot pass. another tourist destination that draws more than 650, 000 visitors each year is the drumheller valley, located northeast of calgary. drumheller, known as the " dinosaur capital of the world ", offers the royal tyrrell museum of palaeontology. drumheller also had a rich mining history being one of western canada ' s largest coal producers during the war years. another attraction in east - central alberta is alberta prairie railway excursions, a popular tourist attraction operated out of stettler, that offers train excursions into the prairie and caters to tens of thousands of visitors every year. government and politics the government of alberta is organized as a parliamentary democracy with a unicameral legislature. its unicameral legislature — the legislative assembly — consists of 87 members elected first past the post ( fptp ) from single - member constituencies. locally municipal governments and school boards are elected and operate separately. their boundaries do not necessarily coincide. as king of canada, charles iii is the head of state of alberta. his duties concerning the government of alberta are carried out by lieutenant governor salma lakhani. the king and lieutenant governor are figureheads whose actions are highly restricted by custom and constitutional convention. the lieutenant governor handles numerous honor