will and claimed all forms of magical transformation depended on the human will, not on ritual. this theory notably parallels aleister crowley ' s system of magic and its emphasis on human will. given the importance of the will to schopenhauer ' s overarching system, this amounts to " suggesting his whole philosophical system had magical powers. " schopenhauer rejected the theory of disenchantment and claimed philosophy should synthesize itself with magic, which he believed amount to " practical metaphysics. " neoplatonism, including the traditions of plotinus and to a lesser extent marsilio ficino, has also been cited as an influence on schopenhauer. interests schopenhauer had a wide range of interests, from science and opera to occultism and literature. in his student years, schopenhauer went more often to lectures in the sciences than philosophy. he kept a strong interest as his personal library contained near to 200 books of scientific literature at his death, and his works refer to scientific titles not found in the library. many evenings were spent in the theatre, opera and ballet ; schopenhauer especially liked the operas of mozart, rossini and bellini. schopenhauer considered music the highest art, and played the flute during his whole life. as a polyglot, he knew german, italian, spanish, french, english, latin and ancient greek, and was an avid reader of poetry and literature. he particularly revered goethe, petrarch, calderon and shakespeare. if goethe had not been sent into the world simultaneously with kant in order to counterbalance him, so to speak, in the spirit of the age, the latter would have been haunted like a nightmare many an aspiring mind and would have oppressed it with great affliction. but now the two have an infinitely wholesome effect from opposite directions and will probably raise the german spirit to a height surpassing even that of antiquity. in philosophy, his most important influences were, according to himself, kant, plato and the upanishads. concerning the upanishads and vedas, he writes in the world as will and representation : if the reader has also received the benefit of the vedas, the access to which by means of the upanishads is in my eyes the greatest privilege which this still young century ( 1818 ) may claim before all previous centuries, if then the reader, i say, has received his initiation in primeval indian wisdom, and received it with an open heart, he will be prepared in