wrote several other treatises on the same subject, including his risala fi l - daw ( treatise on light ). he investigated the properties of luminance, the rainbow, eclipses, twilight, and moonlight. experiments with mirrors and the refractive interfaces between air, water, and glass cubes, hemispheres, and quarter - spheres provided the foundation for his theories on catoptrics. celestial physics alhazen discussed the physics of the celestial region in his epitome of astronomy, arguing that ptolemaic models must be understood in terms of physical objects rather than abstract hypotheses — in other words that it should be possible to create physical models where ( for example ) none of the celestial bodies would collide with each other. the suggestion of mechanical models for the earth centred ptolemaic model " greatly contributed to the eventual triumph of the ptolemaic system among the christians of the west ". alhazen ' s determination to root astronomy in the realm of physical objects was important, however, because it meant astronomical hypotheses " were accountable to the laws of physics ", and could be criticised and improved upon in those terms. he also wrote maqala fi daw al - qamar ( on the light of the moon ). mechanics in his work, alhazen discussed theories on the motion of a body. in his treatise on place, alhazen disagreed with aristotle ' s view that nature abhors a void, and he used geometry in an attempt to demonstrate that place ( al - makan ) is the imagined three - dimensional void between the inner surfaces of a containing body. astronomical works on the configuration of the world in his on the configuration of the world alhazen presented a detailed description of the physical structure of the earth : the book is a non - technical explanation of ptolemy ' s almagest, which was eventually translated into hebrew and latin in the 13th and 14th centuries and subsequently had an influence on astronomers such as georg von peuerbach during the european middle ages and renaissance. doubts concerning ptolemy in his al - shukuk ala batlamyus, variously translated as doubts concerning ptolemy or aporias against ptolemy, published at some time between 1025 and 1028, alhazen criticized ptolemy ' s almagest, planetary hypotheses, and optics, pointing out various contradictions he found in these works, particularly in astronomy. ptolemy ' s almagest concerned mathematical theories regarding the motion of the planets, whereas the