the words represented as being spoken by god after the princes of the twelve tribes had brought their dedication offerings into the newly reared tabernacle : " say to thy brother aaron : greater than the gifts of the princes is thy gift ; for thou art called upon to kindle the light, and, while the sacrifices shall last only as long as the temple lasts, thy light shall last forever. " christianity in the eastern orthodox and maronite churches, aaron is venerated as a saint whose feast day is shared with his brother moses and celebrated on september 4. ( those churches that follow the traditional julian calendar celebrate this day on september 17 of the modern gregorian calendar ). aaron is also commemorated with other old testament saints on the sunday of the holy fathers, the sunday before christmas. in eastern orthodox church he is commemorated on 20 july, 12 march, sunday of the forefathers, sunday of the fathers and on april 14 with all saint sinai monks. aaron is commemorated as one of the holy forefathers in the calendar of saints of the armenian apostolic church on july 30. he is commemorated on july 1 in the modern latin calendar and in the syriac calendar. the moses and aaron church ( ), in the waterlooplein neighborhood of amsterdam, is one of the most well - known catholic churches in the city. one version of the bible has an encyclopedia that describes aaron ' s role in scripture as the " spokesman for moses ". mormonism in the church of jesus christ of latter - day saints, the aaronic priesthood is the lesser order of priesthood under the higher order of the melchizedek priesthood. those ordained to this priesthood have the authority to act in god ' s name in certain responsibilities in the church such as the administration of the sacrament and baptism. in the community of christ, the aaronic order of priesthood is regarded as an appendage to the melchisedec order, and consists of the priesthood offices of deacon, teacher, and priest. while differing in responsibilities, these offices, along with those of the melchisidec order, are regarded as equal before god. islam aaron ( arabic : هارون, harun ) is mentioned in the quran as a prophet of god. the quran praises aaron repeatedly, calling him a " believing servant " as well as one who was " guided " and one of the " victors ". aaron is important in islam for his role in the events of the exodus, in which, according to the quran and islamic belief, he preached with his elder brother,