are similar to arsenic poisoning. the toxicity of antimony is far lower than that of arsenic ; this might be caused by the significant differences of uptake, metabolism and excretion between arsenic and antimony. the uptake of antimony ( iii ) or antimony ( v ) in the gastrointestinal tract is at most 20 %. antimony ( v ) is not quantitatively reduced to antimony ( iii ) in the cell ( in fact antimony ( iii ) is oxidised to antimony ( v ) instead ). since methylation of antimony does not occur, the excretion of antimony ( v ) in urine is the main way of elimination. like arsenic, the most serious effect of acute antimony poisoning is cardiotoxicity and the resulted myocarditis, however it can also manifest as adams – stokes syndrome which arsenic does not. reported cases of intoxication by antimony equivalent to 90 mg antimony potassium tartrate dissolved from enamel has been reported to show only short term effects. an intoxication with 6 g of antimony potassium tartrate was reported to result in death after 3 days. inhalation of antimony dust is harmful and in certain cases may be fatal ; in small doses, antimony causes headaches, dizziness, and depression. larger doses such as prolonged skin contact may cause dermatitis, or damage the kidneys and the liver, causing violent and frequent vomiting, leading to death in a few days. antimony is incompatible with strong oxidizing agents, strong acids, halogen acids, chlorine, or fluorine. it should be kept away from heat. antimony leaches from polyethylene terephthalate ( pet ) bottles into liquids. while levels observed for bottled water are below drinking water guidelines, fruit juice concentrates ( for which no guidelines are established ) produced in the uk were found to contain up to 44. 7 µg / l of antimony, well above the eu limits for tap water of 5 µg / l. the guidelines are : world health organization : 20 µg / l japan : 15 µg / l united states environmental protection agency, health canada and the ontario ministry of environment : 6 µg / l eu and german federal ministry of environment : 5 µg / l the tolerable daily intake ( tdi ) proposed by who is 6 µg antimony per kilogram of body weight. the immediately dangerous to life or health ( idlh )