century. timur shah would consolidate the holdings of the durrani empire, and fight off civil war and rebellion throughout his reign, he would also lead multiple campaigns into punjab to try and repeat his fathers success. after the death of timur shah, his son, zaman shah durrani ascended to the throne, throughout his reign he would lose the outlying territories but also alienated some pashtun tribes and those of other durrani lineages. zaman shah would lead campaigns into punjab, capturing lahore, however due to internal strife, he was forced to withdraw on all attempts. zaman shah would later be deposed by mahmud shah durrani, his brother, and the durrani realm would continue to disintegrate in the following years from progressive succession crises, usually between timur shah ' s sons, with mahmud shah durrani, zaman shah durrani, and shah shuja durrani. afghanistan would remain disunited until dost mohammad khan ' s ascendancy in 1826, chaos reigned in afghanistan, which effectively ceased to exist as a single entity, disintegrating into a fragmented collection of small countries or units. dost mohammad throughout his reign had focused on re - uniting afghanistan and had succeeded in doing so, with the herat campaign of 1862 - 63 in the recapture of herat, and the eventual conquest of the principality of qandahar. in pakistan, a short - range ballistic missile abdali - i, is named in the honour of ahmad shah abdali. languages similar to earlier persianate rulers, ahmad shah durrani rarely wrote by himself. instead, for textual composition in his name, he turned to scribes, secretaries, and a group of authors known as munshis. the sole written records from ahmad shah ' s reign are his official biography and a letter he wrote to the ottoman court ; both are written in persian but not in ahmad shah ' s hand. the modern historian shah mahmoud hanifi says that ahmad shah ' s diwan compendium of pashto poetry, which is kept in the british library, has notations and provenance information that raise serious concerns about what the book is aggressively claimed to be, namely, evidence of ahmad shah ' s pashtunness. for his son sulaiman, a shia who served as the governor of qandahar, ahmad shah is claimed to have ordered a pashto language textbook. ahmad shah is not known to have spoken pashto, and his tenacious literary