##ancy is among the lowest in the world, while infant mortality is among the highest. since 2017, the government of joao lourenco has made fighting corruption its flagship, so much so that many individuals of the previous government are either jailed or awaiting trial. whilst this effort has been recognised by foreign diplomats to be legitimate, some skeptics see the actions as being politically motivated. angola is a member of the united nations, opec, african union, the community of portuguese language countries, and the southern african development community., the angolan population is estimated at 32. 87 million. angola is multicultural and multiethnic. angolan culture reflects centuries of portuguese influence, namely the predominance of the portuguese language and of the catholic church, intermingled with a variety of indigenous customs and traditions. etymology the name angola comes from the portuguese colonial name ( ' kingdom of angola ' ), which appeared as early as paulo dias de novais ' s 1571 charter. the toponym was derived by the portuguese from the title held by the kings of ndongo and matamba. ndongo in the highlands, between the kwanza and lucala rivers, was nominally a possession of the kingdom of kongo, but was seeking greater independence in the 16th century. history early migrations and political units modern angola was populated predominantly by nomadic khoi and san prior to the first bantu migrations. the khoi and san peoples were neither pastoralists nor cultivators, but rather hunter - gatherers. they were displaced by bantu peoples arriving from the north in the first millennium bc, most of whom likely originated in what is today northwestern nigeria and southern niger. bantu speakers introduced the cultivation of bananas and taro, as well as large cattle herds, to angola ' s central highlands and the luanda plain. a number of political entities were established ; the best - known of these was the kingdom of kongo, based in angola, which extended northward to what is now the democratic republic of the congo, the republic of the congo and gabon. it established trade routes with other city - states and civilisations up and down the coast of southwestern and western africa and even with great zimbabwe and the mutapa empire, although it engaged in little or no transoceanic trade. to its south lay the kingdom of ndongo, from which the area of the later portuguese colony was sometimes known as dongo, and right next to them lay the kingdom of matamba. portuguese colonization portuguese explorer di