burnham road, highbridge, so named due to its rough proximity to brent knoll ( a beacon site ) and athelney the king alfred school in barnet, north london, uk king alfred ' s house in bishop stopford ' s school at enfield king alfred swimming pool & leisure complex in hove, brighton uk the royal navy named one ship and two shore establishments hms king alfred, and one of the early ships of the u. s. navy was named uss alfred in his honour. in 2002, alfred was ranked number 14 in the bbc ' s list of the 100 greatest britons following a uk - wide vote. statues pewsey a prominent statue of king alfred the great stands in the middle of pewsey. it was unveiled in june 1913 to commemorate the coronation of king george v. southwark a statue of alfred the great located in trinity church square, southwark is considered to be the oldest outdoor statue in london, and part of it has been found to date to roman times. the sculpture was thought to be medieval until 2021 conservation work. the lower half was then discovered to be bath stone and part of a colossal ancient sculpture dedicated to the goddess minerva. it is typical of the 2nd century, dating to around the reign of hadrian. the lower older half is likely to have been carved by a continental craftsman used to working with british stone. the upper half dates to the late 18th or early 19th century, cast to fit the lower portion from coade stone. wantage a statue of alfred the great, situated in the wantage market place, was sculpted by count gleichen, a relative of queen victoria, and unveiled on 14 july 1877 by the prince and princess of wales. the statue was vandalised on new year ' s eve 2007, losing part of its right arm and axe. after the arm and axe were replaced, the statue was again vandalised on christmas eve 2008, losing its axe. winchester a bronze statue of alfred the great stands at the eastern end of the broadway, close to the site of winchester ' s medieval east gate. the statue was designed by hamo thornycroft, cast in bronze by singer & sons of frome and erected in 1899 to mark one thousand years since alfred ' s death. the statue is placed on a pedestal consisting of two immense blocks of grey cornish granite. alfred university, new york the centerpiece of alfred university ' s quad is a bronze statue of the king, created in 1990 by then - professor william underhill. it features the king as a young man,