the rights to his music, and disappeared. it is later revealed that he has joined the strike and settled in galt ' s gulch. lawrence hammond runs hammond cars in colorado, one of the few companies in existence that still produces top - quality vehicles. he eventually quits and joins the strike. mrs. william hastings is the widow of the chief engineer at the twentieth century motor company. her husband quit shortly after galt did and joined the strike some years later. her lead allows dagny to find hugh akston. dr. thomas hendricks is a famous brain surgeon who developed a new method of preventing strokes. he joined galt ' s strike when the american medical system was put under government control. tinky holloway is one of the " looters " and is frequently referred to and quoted by other characters in the story, but he has only one major appearance : during the washington meeting with hank rearden. lee hunsacker is in charge of a company called amalgamated service that takes over the twentieth century motor company. he files a lawsuit that eventually leads to midas mulligan and judge narragansett joining the strike. a failed businessman, he laments constantly that no - one ever gave him a chance. gwen ives is hank rearden ' s secretary, described as being in her late twenties and remaining calm and professional despite the chaos that threatens his business. when rearden abandons his mills and joins galt ' s strike, she and many other employees do the same. gilbert keith - worthing is a british novelist of erstwhile fame, now neglected but still considered a " walking classic, " and a proponent of the idea that freedom is an illusion. kip chalmers brings him along on the train to california, " for no reason that either of them could discover " ; he dies in the taggart tunnel disaster. owen kellogg is assistant to the manager of the taggart terminal in new york. he catches dagny taggart ' s eye as one of the few competent men on staff. after seeing the sorry state of the ohio division, she decides to make him its new superintendent. however, as soon as she returns to new york, kellogg informs her that he is quitting his job. owen kellogg eventually reaches, and settles in, galt ' s gulch. fred kinnan is a labor leader and member of the looter cabal. unlike the others, however, kinnan is straightforward and honest about his purpose. kinnan is the only one to openly state the true motivations of