. a flash of lightning without thunder is a jolt of the air that disperses and falls, allowing a less active fire to break free. thunderbolts are the result of a thicker and more violent air flow. he saw the sea as a remnant of the mass of humidity that once surrounded earth. a part of that mass evaporated under the sun ' s action, thus causing the winds and even the rotation of the celestial bodies, which he believed were attracted to places where water is more abundant. he explained rain as a product of the humidity pumped up from earth by the sun. for him, the earth was slowly drying up and water only remained in the deepest regions, which someday would go dry as well. according to aristotle ' s meteorology ( ii, 3 ), democritus also shared this opinion. origin of mankind anaximander speculated about the beginnings and origin of animal life, and that humans came from other animals in waters. according to his evolutionary theory, animals sprang out of the sea long ago, born trapped in a spiny bark, but as they got older, the bark would dry up and animals would be able to break it. as the early humidity evaporated, dry land emerged and, in time, humankind had to adapt. the 3rd century roman writer censorinus reports : anaximander put forward the idea that humans had to spend part of this transition inside the mouths of big fish to protect themselves from the earth ' s climate until they could come out in open air and lose their scales. he thought that, considering humans ' extended infancy, we could not have survived in the primeval world in the same manner we do presently. other accomplishments cartography both strabo and agathemerus ( later greek geographers ) claim that, according to the geographer eratosthenes, anaximander was the first to publish a map of the world. the map probably inspired the greek historian hecataeus of miletus to draw a more accurate version. strabo viewed both as the first geographers after homer. maps were produced in ancient times, also notably in egypt, lydia, the middle east, and babylon. only some small examples survived until today. the unique example of a world map comes from the late babylonian map of the world later than 9th century bc but is based probably on a much older map. these maps indicated directions, roads, towns, borders, and geological features. anaximander ' s innovation was to represent the entire inhabited