magic, through the use of masturbation, female prostitutes, and male clients of a turkish bathhouse ; all of these encounters were documented in his diaries. professing to be of irish ancestry and a supporter of irish independence from great britain, crowley began to espouse support for germany in their war against britain. he became involved in new york ' s pro - german movement, and in january 1915 german spy george sylvester viereck employed him as a writer for his propagandist paper, the fatherland, which was dedicated to keeping the us neutral in the conflict. in later years, detractors denounced crowley as a traitor to britain for this action. crowley entered into a relationship with jeanne robert foster, with whom he toured the west coast. in vancouver, headquarters of the north american o. t. o., he met with charles stansfeld jones and wilfred talbot smith to discuss the propagation of thelema on the continent. in detroit he experimented with peyote at parke - davis, then visited seattle, san francisco, santa cruz, los angeles, san diego, tijuana, and the grand canyon, before returning to new york. there he befriended ananda coomaraswamy and his wife alice richardson ; crowley and richardson performed sex magic in april 1916, following which she became pregnant and then miscarried. later that year he took a " magical retirement " to a cabin by lake pasquaney owned by evangeline adams. there, he made heavy use of drugs and undertook a ritual after which he proclaimed himself " master therion ". he also wrote several short stories based on j. g. frazer ' s the golden bough and a work of literary criticism, the gospel according to bernard shaw. in december, he moved to new orleans, his favourite us city, before spending february 1917 with evangelical christian relatives in titusville, florida. returning to new york city, he moved in with artist and member leon engers kennedy in may, learning of his mother ' s death. after the collapse of the fatherland, crowley continued his association with viereck, who appointed him contributing editor of arts journal the international. crowley used it to promote thelema, but it soon ceased publication. he then moved to the studio apartment of roddie minor, who became his partner and scarlet woman. through their rituals, which crowley called " the amalantrah workings ", he believed that they were contacted by a preternatural entity named lam. the relationship soon