ogre ". he was described by his brother, julian, as someone who frequently [ contemplated ] the strangeness of things ". according to his cousin and contemporary gervas huxley, he had an early interest in drawing. huxley ' s education began in his father ' s well - equipped botanical laboratory, after which he enrolled at hillside school near godalming. he was taught there by his own mother for several years until she became terminally ill. after hillside he went on to eton college. his mother died in 1908, when he was 14 ( his father later remarried ). he contracted the eye disease keratitis punctata in 1911 ; this " left [ him ] practically blind for two to three years " and " ended his early dreams of becoming a doctor ". in october 1913, huxley entered balliol college, oxford, where he studied english literature. he volunteered for the british army in january 1916, for the great war ; however, he was rejected on health grounds, being half - blind in one eye. his eyesight later partly recovered. he edited oxford poetry in 1916, and in june of that year graduated ba with first class honours. his brother julian wrote : following his years at balliol, huxley, being financially indebted to his father, decided to find employment. he taught french for a year at eton college, where eric blair ( who was to take the pen name george orwell ) and steven runciman were among his pupils. he was mainly remembered as being an incompetent schoolmaster unable to keep order in class. nevertheless, blair and others spoke highly of his excellent command of language. huxley also worked for a time during the 1920s at brunner and mond, an advanced chemical plant in billingham in county durham, northeast england. according to an introduction to his science fiction novel brave new world ( 1932 ), the experience he had there of " an ordered universe in a world of planless incoherence " was an important source for the novel. career huxley completed his first ( unpublished ) novel at the age of 17 and began writing seriously in his early twenties, establishing himself as a successful writer and social satirist. his first published novels were social satires, crome yellow ( 1921 ), antic hay ( 1923 ), those barren leaves ( 1925 ), and point counter point ( 1928 ). brave new world ( 1932 ) was his fifth novel and first dystopian work. in the 1920s, he was also a