in search of pasture, fodder, and water. this type of farming is practised in arid and semi - arid regions of sahara, central asia and some parts of india. in shifting cultivation, a small area of forest is cleared by cutting and burning the trees. the cleared land is used for growing crops for a few years until the soil becomes too infertile, and the area is abandoned. another patch of land is selected and the process is repeated. this type of farming is practiced mainly in areas with abundant rainfall where the forest regenerates quickly. this practice is used in northeast india, southeast asia, and the amazon basin. subsistence farming is practiced to satisfy family or local needs alone, with little left over for transport elsewhere. it is intensively practiced in monsoon asia and south - east asia. an estimated 2. 5 billion subsistence farmers worked in 2018, cultivating about 60 % of the earth ' s arable land. intensive farming is cultivation to maximise productivity, with a low fallow ratio and a high use of inputs ( water, fertilizer, pesticide and automation ). it is practiced mainly in developed countries. contemporary agriculture status from the twentieth century onwards, intensive agriculture increased crop productivity. it substituted synthetic fertilizers and pesticides for labour, but caused increased water pollution, and often involved farm subsidies. soil degradation and diseases such as stem rust are major concerns globally ; approximately 40 % of the world ' s agricultural land is seriously degraded. in recent years there has been a backlash against the environmental effects of conventional agriculture, resulting in the organic, regenerative, and sustainable agriculture movements. one of the major forces behind this movement has been the european union, which first certified organic food in 1991 and began reform of its common agricultural policy ( cap ) in 2005 to phase out commodity - linked farm subsidies, also known as decoupling. the growth of organic farming has renewed research in alternative technologies such as integrated pest management, selective breeding, and controlled - environment agriculture. there are concerns about the lower yield associated with organic farming and its impact on global food security. recent mainstream technological developments include genetically modified food. by 2015, the agricultural output of china was the largest in the world, followed by the european union, india and the united states. economists measure the total factor productivity of agriculture, according to which agriculture in the united states is roughly 1. 7 times more productive than it was in 1948. despite increases in agricultural production and productivity, between 702 and 828 million people were affected by hunger in 2021