a punishment. judgment of paris and trojan war the myth of the judgement of paris is mentioned briefly in the iliad, but is described in depth in an epitome of the cypria, a lost poem of the epic cycle, which records that all the gods and goddesses as well as various mortals were invited to the marriage of peleus and thetis ( the eventual parents of achilles ). only eris, goddess of discord, was not invited. she was annoyed at this, so she arrived with a golden apple inscribed with the word καλλιστη ( kallistei, " for the fairest " ), which she threw among the goddesses. aphrodite, hera, and athena all claimed to be the fairest, and thus the rightful owner of the apple. the goddesses chose to place the matter before zeus, who, not wanting to favor one of the goddesses, put the choice into the hands of paris, a trojan prince. after bathing in the spring of mount ida where troy was situated, the goddesses appeared before paris for his decision. in the extant ancient depictions of the judgement of paris, aphrodite is only occasionally represented nude, and athena and hera are always fully clothed. since the renaissance, however, western paintings have typically portrayed all three goddesses as completely naked. all three goddesses were ideally beautiful and paris could not decide between them, so they resorted to bribes. hera tried to bribe paris with power over all asia and europe, and athena offered wisdom, fame and glory in battle, but aphrodite promised paris that, if he were to choose her as the fairest, she would let him marry the most beautiful woman on earth. this woman was helen, who was already married to king menelaus of sparta. paris selected aphrodite and awarded her the apple. the other two goddesses were enraged and, as a direct result, sided with the greeks in the trojan war. aphrodite plays an important and active role throughout the entirety of homer ' s iliad. in book iii, she rescues paris from menelaus after he foolishly challenges him to a one - on - one duel. she then appears to helen in the form of an old woman and attempts to persuade her to have sex with paris, reminding her of his physical beauty and athletic prowess. helen immediately recognizes aphrodite by her beautiful neck, perfect breasts, and flashing eyes and chides the goddess,