simplify ' adtech service by launching a single advertising proposition dubbed oath ad platforms, now yahoo! ad tech. membership aol offers a range of integrated products and properties including communication tools, mobile apps and services and subscription packages. in 2017, before the discontinuation of aim, " billions of messages " were sent " daily " on it and aol ' s other chat services. dial - up internet access – while 2. 1 million people still used aol ' s dial - up service as recently as 2015, only a few thousand were still subscribed as of 2021. aol mail – aol mail is aol ' s proprietary email client. it is fully integrated with aim and links to news headlines on aol content sites. aol instant messenger ( aim ) – was aol ' s proprietary instant - messaging tool. it was released in 1997. it lost market share to competition in the instant messenger market such as google chat, facebook messenger, and skype. it also included a video - chat service, av by aim. on december 15, 2017, aol discontinued aim. aol plans – aol plans offers three online safety and assistance tools : id protection, data security and a general online technical assistance service. aol desktop aol desktop is an internet suite produced by aol from 2007 that integrates a web browser, a media player and an instant messenger client. version 10. x was based on aol openride, it is an upgrade from such. the macos version is based on webkit. aol desktop version 10. x was different from previous aol browsers and aol desktop versions. its features are focused on web browsing as well as email. for instance, one does not have to sign into aol in order to use it as a regular browser. in addition, non - aol email accounts can be accessed through it. primary buttons include " mail ", " im ", and several shortcuts to various web pages. the first two require users to sign in, but the shortcuts to web pages can be used without authentication. aol desktop version 10. x was late marked as unsupported in favor of supporting the aol desktop 9. x versions. version 9. 8 was released, replacing the internet explorer components of the internet browser with cef ( chromium embedded framework ) to give users an improved web browsing experience closer to that of chrome. version 11 of aol desktop, was a total rewrite but maintained a