and independence, and every power, jurisdiction, and right, which is not by this confederation expressly delegated. " declares the purpose of the confederation : " the said states hereby severally enter into a firm league of friendship with each other, for their common defense, the security of their liberties, and their mutual and general welfare, binding themselves to assist each other, against all force offered to, or attacks made upon them, or any of them, on account of religion, sovereignty, trade, or any other pretense whatever. " elaborates upon the intent " to secure and perpetuate mutual friendship and intercourse among the people of the different states in this union, " and to establish equal treatment and freedom of movement for the free inhabitants of each state to pass unhindered between the states, excluding " paupers, vagabonds, and fugitives from justice. " all these people are entitled to equal rights established by the state into which they travel. if a crime is committed in one state and the perpetrator flees to another state, he will be extradited to and tried in the state in which the crime was committed. allocates one vote in the congress of the confederation ( the " united states in congress assembled " ) to each state, which is entitled to a delegation of between two and seven members. members of congress are to be appointed by state legislatures. no congressman may serve more than three out of any six years. only the central government may declare war, or conduct foreign political or commercial relations. no state or official may accept foreign gifts or titles, and granting any title of nobility is forbidden to all. no states may form any sub - national groups. no state may tax or interfere with treaty stipulations already proposed. no state may wage war without permission of congress, unless invaded or under imminent attack on the frontier ; no state may maintain a peacetime standing army or navy, unless infested by pirates, but every state is required to keep ready, a well - trained, disciplined, and equipped militia. whenever an army is raised for common defense, the state legislatures shall assign military ranks of colonel and below. expenditures by the united states of america will be paid with funds raised by state legislatures, and apportioned to the states in proportion to the real property values of each. powers and functions of the united states in congress assembled. grants to the united states in congress assembled the sole and exclusive right and power to determine peace and war ; to exchange ambassadors ; to enter