above displays, because display is the default action on any expression for which no action is specified explicitly ( e. g. assignment, function parameter ). exponentiation another example of this theme is that exponentiation in apl is written as, which indicates raising 2 to the power 3 ( this would be written as or in some languages, or relegated to a function call such as in others ). many languages use to signify multiplication, as in, but apl chooses to use. however, if no base is specified ( as with the statement in apl, or in other languages ), most programming languages one would see this as a syntax error. apl, however, assumes the missing base to be the natural logarithm constant e, and interprets as. simple statistics suppose that is an array of numbers. then gives its average. reading right - to - left, gives the number of elements in x, and since is a dyadic operator, the term to its left is required as well. it is surrounded by parentheses since otherwise x would be taken ( so that the summation would be of — each element of x divided by the number of elements in x ), and gives the sum of the elements of x. building on this, the following expression computes standard deviation : naturally, one would define this expression as a function for repeated use rather than rewriting it each time. further, since assignment is an operator, it can appear within an expression, so the following would place suitable values into t, av and sd : pick 6 lottery numbers this following immediate - mode expression generates a typical set of pick 6 lottery numbers : six pseudo - random integers ranging from 1 to 40, guaranteed non - repeating, and displays them sorted in ascending order : x [? 40 ] the above does a lot, concisely, although it may seem complex to a new apler. it combines the following apl functions ( also called primitives and glyphs ) : the first to be executed ( apl executes from rightmost to leftmost ) is dyadic function? ( named deal when dyadic ) that returns a vector consisting of a select number ( left argument : 6 in this case ) of random integers ranging from 1 to a specified maximum ( right argument : 40 in this case ), which, if said maximum ≥ vector length, is guaranteed to be non - repeating ; thus, generate / create 6 random integers ranging from 1 to 40. this vector is then assigned ( ← ) to