analyzed, historians are becoming more aware of the intellectual connections between that discipline and other facets of western cultural history, such as the evolution of science and philosophy, the sociology and psychology of the intellectual communities, kabbalism, spiritualism, rosicrucianism, and other mystic movements. institutions involved in this research include the chymistry of isaac newton project at indiana university, the university of exeter centre for the study of esotericism ( exeseso ), the european society for the study of western esotericism ( esswe ), and the university of amsterdam ' s sub - department for the history of hermetic philosophy and related currents. a large collection of books on alchemy is kept in the bibliotheca philosophica hermetica in amsterdam. journals which publish regularly on the topic of alchemy include ' ambix ', published by the society for the history of alchemy and chemistry, and ' isis ', published by the history of science society. core concepts western alchemical theory corresponds to the worldview of late antiquity in which it was born. concepts were imported from neoplatonism and earlier greek cosmology. as such, the classical elements appear in alchemical writings, as do the seven classical planets and the corresponding seven metals of antiquity. similarly, the gods of the roman pantheon who are associated with these luminaries are discussed in alchemical literature. the concepts of prima materia and anima mundi are central to the theory of the philosopher ' s stone. magnum opus the great work of alchemy is often described as a series of four stages represented by colors. nigredo, a blackening or melanosis albedo, a whitening or leucosis citrinitas, a yellowing or xanthosis rubedo, a reddening, purpling, or iosis modernity due to the complexity and obscurity of alchemical literature, and the 18th - century disappearance of remaining alchemical practitioners into the area of chemistry, the general understanding of alchemy has been strongly influenced by several distinct and radically different interpretations. those focusing on the exoteric, such as historians of science lawrence m. principe and william r. newman, have interpreted the ' decknamen ' ( or code words ) of alchemy as physical substances. these scholars have reconstructed physicochemical experiments that they say are described in medieval and early modern texts. at the opposite end of the spectrum, focusing on