actinopterygii ( ; ), members of which are known as ray - finned fish or actinopterygians, is a class of bony fish that comprise over 50 % of living vertebrate species. they are so called because of their lightly built fins made of webs of skin supported by radially extended bony spines, as opposed to the bulkier, fleshy lobed fins of the sister class sarcopterygii ( lobe - finned fish ). resembling folding fans, the actinopterygian fins can change shape and wetted area easily, providing superior thrust - to - weight ratios per movement compared to sarcopterygian and chondrichthyian fins. the fin rays attach directly to the proximal or basal skeletal elements, the radials, which represent the articulation between these fins and the internal skeleton ( e. g., pelvic and pectoral girdles ). the vast majority ( ~ 99 % ) of actinopterygians are teleosts. by species count, they dominate the subphylum vertebrata, and constitute nearly 99 % of the over 30, 000 extant species of fish. they are the most abundant nektonic aquatic animals and are ubiquitous throughout freshwater and marine environments from the deep sea to subterranean waters to the highest mountain streams. extant species can range in size from paedocypris, at ; to the massive ocean sunfish, at ; and to the long - bodied oarfish, at. characteristics ray - finned fishes occur in many variant forms. the main features of typical ray - finned fish are shown in the adjacent diagram. the swim bladder is a more derived structure than the lung and used for buoyancy. except from the bichirs, which just like the sarcopterygii ( lobe - finned fish ) have retained the ancestral condition of ventrally budding lungs, the swim bladder in ray - finned fishes derives from a dorsal bud above the foregut. in early forms the swim bladder could still be used for breathing, a trait still present in holostei ( bowfins and gars ). in some fish, like the arapaima, the swim bladder has been modified for breathing air again, and in other lineages it have been completely lost. ray - finned fishes have many different types of scales ; but all teleosts have leptoid scales. the outer part of these scales fan out