over time assisted state policies and projects, especially colonialism. some commentators have contended : that the discipline grew out of colonialism, perhaps was in league with it, and derives some of its key notions from it, consciously or not. ( see, for example, gough, pels and salemink, but cf. lewis 2004 ). that ethnographic work is often ahistorical, writing about people as if they were " out of time " in an " ethnographic present " ( johannes fabian, time and its other ). in his article " the misrepresentation of anthropology and its consequence ", herbert s. lewis critiqued older anthropological works that presented other cultures as if they were strange and unusual. while the findings of those researchers should not be discarded, the field should learn from its mistakes. cultural relativism as part of their quest for scientific objectivity, present - day anthropologists typically urge cultural relativism, which has an influence on all the sub - fields of anthropology. this is the notion that cultures should not be judged by another ' s values or viewpoints, but be examined dispassionately on their own terms. there should be no notions, in good anthropology, of one culture being better or worse than another culture. ethical commitments in anthropology include noticing and documenting genocide, infanticide, racism, sexism, mutilation ( including circumcision and subincision ), and torture. topics like racism, slavery, and human sacrifice attract anthropological attention and theories ranging from nutritional deficiencies, to genes, to acculturation, to colonialism, have been proposed to explain their origins and continued recurrences. to illustrate the depth of an anthropological approach, one can take just one of these topics, such as " racism " and find thousands of anthropological references, stretching across all the major and minor sub - fields. military involvement anthropologists ' involvement with the u. s. government, in particular, has caused bitter controversy within the discipline. franz boas publicly objected to us participation in world war i, and after the war he published a brief expose and condemnation of the participation of several american archaeologists in espionage in mexico under their cover as scientists. but by the 1940s, many of boas ' anthropologist contemporaries were active in the allied war effort against the axis powers ( nazi germany, fascist italy, and imperial japan ). many served in the armed forces, while others worked in intelligence ( for example, office of strategic services and the office of war information ). at