microscopic diatoms and radiolaria. other invertebrates may have no rigid structures but the epidermis may secrete a variety of surface coatings such as the pinacoderm of sponges, the gelatinous cuticle of cnidarians ( polyps, sea anemones, jellyfish ) and the collagenous cuticle of annelids. the outer epithelial layer may include cells of several types including sensory cells, gland cells and stinging cells. there may also be protrusions such as microvilli, cilia, bristles, spines and tubercles. marcello malpighi, the father of microscopical anatomy, discovered that plants had tubules similar to those he saw in insects like the silk worm. he observed that when a ring - like portion of bark was removed on a trunk a swelling occurred in the tissues above the ring, and he unmistakably interpreted this as growth stimulated by food coming down from the leaves, and being captured above the ring. arthropod anatomy arthropods comprise the largest phylum in the animal kingdom with over a million known invertebrate species. insects possess segmented bodies supported by a hard - jointed outer covering, the exoskeleton, made mostly of chitin. the segments of the body are organized into three distinct parts, a head, a thorax and an abdomen. the head typically bears a pair of sensory antennae, a pair of compound eyes, one to three simple eyes ( ocelli ) and three sets of modified appendages that form the mouthparts. the thorax has three pairs of segmented legs, one pair each for the three segments that compose the thorax and one or two pairs of wings. the abdomen is composed of eleven segments, some of which may be fused and houses the digestive, respiratory, excretory and reproductive systems. there is considerable variation between species and many adaptations to the body parts, especially wings, legs, antennae and mouthparts. spiders a class of arachnids have four pairs of legs ; a body of two segments — a cephalothorax and an abdomen. spiders have no wings and no antennae. they have mouthparts called chelicerae which are often connected to venom glands as most spiders are venomous. they have a second pair of appendages called pedipalps attached to the cephalothorax. these have similar segmentation to the legs and function as taste and smell organs. at the end of