, six centuries before the separation. in the eastern part of the church, it took much of the fifth century also to come to agreement, but in the end it was accomplished. the canonical books thus established by the undivided church became the predominant canon for what was later to become roman catholic and eastern orthodox alike. the east already differed from the west in not considering every question of canon yet settled, and it subsequently adopted a few more books into its old testament. it also allowed consideration of yet a few more to continue not fully decided, which led in some cases to adoption in one or more jurisdictions, but not all. thus, there are today a few remaining differences of canon among orthodox, and all orthodox accept a few more books than appear in the catholic canon. the psalms of solomon, 3 maccabees, 4 maccabees, the epistle of jeremiah the book of odes, the prayer of manasseh and psalm 151 are included in some copies of the septuagint, some of which are accepted as canonical by eastern orthodox and some other churches. protestants accept none of these additional books as canon, but see them having roughly the same status as the other apocrypha. eastern orthodoxy uses a different definition than the roman catholic church does for the books of its canon that it calls deuterocanonical, referring to them as a class of books with less authority than other books of the old testament. in contrast, the catholic church uses this term to refer to a class of books that were added to its canon later than the other books in its old testament canon, considering them all of equal authority. new testament apocrypha new testament apocrypha — books similar to those in the new testament but almost universally rejected by catholics, orthodox and protestants — include several gospels and lives of apostles. some were written by early jewish christians ( see the gospel according to the hebrews ). others of these were produced by gnostic authors or members of other groups later defined as heterodox. many texts believed lost for centuries were unearthed in the 19th and 20th centuries, producing lively speculation about their importance in early christianity among religious scholars, while many others survive only in the form of quotations from them in other writings ; for some, no more than the title is known. artists and theologians have drawn upon the new testament apocrypha for such matters as the names of dismas and gestas and details about the three wise men. the first explicit mention of the perpetual virginity of mary