d. other alphabets only use a subset of the latin alphabet, such as hawaiian and italian, which uses the letters j, k, x, y, and w only in foreign words. another notable script is elder futhark, believed to have evolved out of one of the old italic alphabets. elder futhark gave rise to other alphabets known collectively as the runic alphabets. the runic alphabets were used for germanic languages from 100 ce to the late middle ages, being engraved on stone and jewelry, although inscriptions found on bone and wood occasionally appear. these alphabets have since been replaced with the latin alphabet. the exception was for decorative use, where the runes remained in use until the 20th century. the old hungarian script was the writing system of the hungarians. it was in use during the entire history of hungary, albeit not as an official writing system. from the 19th century, it once again became more and more popular. the glagolitic alphabet was the initial script of the liturgical language old church slavonic and became, together with the greek uncial script, the basis of the cyrillic script. cyrillic is one of the most widely used modern alphabetic scripts and is notable for its use in slavic languages and also for other languages within the former soviet union. cyrillic alphabets include serbian, macedonian, bulgarian, russian, belarusian, and ukrainian. the glagolitic alphabet is believed to have been created by saints cyril and methodius, while the cyrillic alphabet was created by clement of ohrid, their disciple. they feature many letters that appear to have been borrowed from or influenced by greek and hebrew. asian alphabets beyond the logographic chinese writing, many phonetic scripts exist in asia. the arabic alphabet, hebrew alphabet, syriac alphabet, and other abjads of the middle east are developments of the aramaic alphabet. most alphabetic scripts of india and eastern asia descend from the brahmi script, believed to be a descendant of aramaic. hangul in korea, sejong the great created the hangul alphabet in 1443 ce. hangul is a unique alphabet : it is a featural alphabet, where the design of many of the letters comes from a sound ' s place of articulation, like p looking like the widened mouth and l looking like the tongue pulled in. the creation of hangul was planned by the government of the day, and it places individual letters in syllable clusters with equal dimensions, in the same way as chinese characters. this change allows for mixed - script writing, where one syllable always takes up