is also one of the group of looters who tries to get rearden to agree to the steel unification plan. ferris hosts the demonstration of the project x weapon, and is the creator of the ferris persuader, a torture machine. when john galt is captured by the looters, ferris uses the device on galt, but it breaks down before extracting the information ferris wants from galt. ferris represents the group which uses brute force on the heroes to achieve the ends of the looters. dr. robert stadler a former professor at patrick henry university, and along with colleague hugh akston, mentor to francisco d ' anconia, john galt and ragnar danneskjold. he has since become a sell - out, one who had great promise but squandered it for social approval, to the detriment of the free. he works at the state science institute where all his inventions are perverted for use by the military, including a sound - based weapon known as project x ( xylophone ). he is killed when cuffy meigs ( see below ) drunkenly overloads the circuits of project x, causing it to destroy itself and every structure and living thing in a 100 - mile radius. the character was, in part, modeled on j. robert oppenheimer, whom rand had interviewed for an earlier project, and his part in the creation of nuclear weapons. to his former student galt, stadler represents the epitome of human evil, as the " man who knew better " but chose not to act for the good. wesley mouch the incompetent and treacherous lobbyist whom hank rearden reluctantly employs in washington, who rises to prominence and authority throughout the novel through trading favours and disloyalty. in return for betraying hank by helping broker the equalization of opportunity bill ( which, by restricting the number of businesses each person may own to one, forces hank to divest most of his companies ), he is given a senior position at the bureau of economic planning and national resources. later in the novel he becomes its top co - ordinator, a position that eventually becomes economic dictator of the country. mouch ' s mantra, whenever a problem arises from his prior policy, is to say, " i can ' t help it. i need wider powers. " secondary characters the following secondary characters also appear in the novel. hugh akston is identified as " one of the last great advocates of reason.