models — not as an alternative to regression but as a tool for summarizing complex high - dimensional inferences... " for a single factor the simplest experiment suitable for anova analysis is the completely randomized experiment with a single factor. more complex experiments with a single factor involve constraints on randomization and include completely randomized blocks and latin squares ( and variants : graeco - latin squares, etc. ). the more complex experiments share many of the complexities of multiple factors. a relatively complete discussion of the analysis ( models, data summaries, anova table ) of the completely randomized experiment is available. there are some alternatives to conventional one - way analysis of variance, e. g. : welch ' s heteroscedastic f test, welch ' s heteroscedastic f test with trimmed means and winsorized variances, brown - forsythe test, alexander - govern test, james second order test and kruskal - wallis test, available in onewaytests r it is useful to represent each data point in the following form, called a statistical model : where i = 1, 2, 3,..., r j = 1, 2, 3,..., c μ = overall average ( mean ) τj = differential effect ( response ) associated with the j level of x ; this assumes that overall the values of τj add to zero ( that is, ) εij = noise or error associated with the particular ij data value that is, we envision an additive model that says every data point can be represented by summing three quantities : the true mean, averaged over all factor levels being investigated, plus an incremental component associated with the particular column ( factor level ), plus a final component associated with everything else affecting that specific data value. for multiple factors anova generalizes to the study of the effects of multiple factors. when the experiment includes observations at all combinations of levels of each factor, it is termed factorial. factorial experiments are more efficient than a series of single factor experiments and the efficiency grows as the number of factors increases. consequently, factorial designs are heavily used. the use of anova to study the effects of multiple factors has a complication. in a 3 - way anova with factors x, y and z, the anova model includes terms for the main effects ( x, y, z ) and terms for interactions ( xy, xz, yz, xyz ). all terms require hypothesis tests.