was followed by p67. for a skip - out re - entry, p65 and p66 were employed to handle the exit and entry parts of the skip. in this case, because they were extending the re - entry but not actually skipping out, p66 was not invoked and instead, p65 led directly to p67. the crew were also warned they would not be in a full - lift ( heads - down ) attitude when they entered p67. the first program ' s acceleration subjected the astronauts to ; the second, to. before dawn on july 24, hornet launched four sea king helicopters and three grumman e - 1 tracers. two of the e - 1s were designated as " air boss " while the third acted as a communications relay aircraft. two of the sea kings carried divers and recovery equipment. the third carried photographic equipment, and the fourth carried the decontamination swimmer and the flight surgeon. at 16 : 44 utc ( 05 : 44 local time ) columbias drogue parachutes were deployed. this was observed by the helicopters. seven minutes later columbia struck the water forcefully east of wake island, south of johnston atoll, and from hornet, at. with seas and winds at from the east were reported under broken clouds at with visibility of at the recovery site. reconnaissance aircraft flying to the original splashdown location reported the conditions brandli and houston had predicted. during splashdown, columbia landed upside down but was righted within ten minutes by flotation bags activated by the astronauts. a diver from the navy helicopter hovering above attached a sea anchor to prevent it from drifting. more divers attached flotation collars to stabilize the module and positioned rafts for astronaut extraction. the divers then passed biological isolation garments ( bigs ) to the astronauts, and assisted them into the life raft. the possibility of bringing back pathogens from the lunar surface was considered remote, but nasa took precautions at the recovery site. the astronauts were rubbed down with a sodium hypochlorite solution and columbia wiped with povidone - iodine to remove any lunar dust that might be present. the astronauts were winched on board the recovery helicopter. bigs were worn until they reached isolation facilities on board hornet. the raft containing decontamination materials was intentionally sunk. after touchdown on hornet at 17 : 53 utc, the helicopter was lowered by the elevator into the hangar bay, where the astronauts walked the to the mobile quarantine facility ( mqf ), where they would begin the earth -