not a valid numeric constant ( hexadecimal, decimal, octal, or binary ), so only the 88 instruction can be applicable. assembly languages are always designed so that this sort of lack of ambiguity is universally enforced by their syntax. for example, in the intel x86 assembly language, a hexadecimal constant must start with a numeral digit, so that the hexadecimal number ' a ' ( equal to decimal ten ) would be written as 0ah or 0ah, not ah, specifically so that it cannot appear to be the name of register ah. ( the same rule also prevents ambiguity with the names of registers bh, ch, and dh, as well as with any user - defined symbol that ends with the letter h and otherwise contains only characters that are hexadecimal digits, such as the word " beach ". ) returning to the original example, while the x86 opcode 10110000 ( b0 ) copies an 8 - bit value into the al register, 10110001 ( b1 ) moves it into cl and 10110010 ( b2 ) does so into dl. assembly language examples for these follow. mov al, 1h ; load al with immediate value 1 mov cl, 2h ; load cl with immediate value 2 mov dl, 3h ; load dl with immediate value 3 the syntax of mov can also be more complex as the following examples show. mov eax, [ ebx ] ; move the 4 bytes in memory at the address contained in ebx into eax mov [ esi + eax ], cl ; move the contents of cl into the byte at address esi + eax mov ds, dx ; move the contents of dx into segment register ds in each case, the mov mnemonic is translated directly into one of the opcodes 88 - 8c, 8e, a0 - a3, b0 - bf, c6 or c7 by an assembler, and the programmer normally does not have to know or remember which. transforming assembly language into machine code is the job of an assembler, and the reverse can at least partially be achieved by a disassembler. unlike high - level languages, there is a one - to - one correspondence between many simple assembly statements and machine language instructions. however, in some cases, an assembler may provide pseudoinstructions ( essentially macros ) which expand into several machine language instructions to