lauds and prime ; prayer during the day, roughly corresponding to the combination of terce, sext, and none ( noonday prayer in the usa ) ; evening prayer, corresponding to vespers ( and compline ) ; compline. in addition, most prayer books include a section of prayers and devotions for family use. in the us, these offices are further supplemented by an " order of worship for the evening ", a prelude to or an abbreviated form of evensong, partly derived from orthodox prayers. in the united kingdom, the publication of daily prayer, the third volume of common worship, was published in 2005. it retains the services for morning and evening prayer and compline and includes a section entitled " prayer during the day ". a new zealand prayer book of 1989 provides different outlines for matins and evensong on each day of the week, as well as " midday prayer ", " night prayer " and " family prayer ". some anglicans who pray the office on daily basis use the present divine office of the roman catholic church. in many cities, especially in england, anglican and roman catholic priests and lay people often meet several times a week to pray the office in common. a small but enthusiastic minority use the anglican breviary, or other translations and adaptations of the pre – vatican ii roman rite and sarum rite, along with supplemental material from cognate western sources, to provide such things as a common of octaves, a common of holy women, and other additional material. others may privately use idiosyncratic forms borrowed from a wide range of christian traditions. " quires and places where they sing " in the late medieval period, many english cathedrals and monasteries had established small choirs of trained lay clerks and boy choristers to perform polyphonic settings of the mass in their lady chapels. although these " lady masses " were discontinued at the reformation, the associated musical tradition was maintained in the elizabethan settlement through the establishment of choral foundations for daily singing of the divine office by expanded choirs of men and boys. this resulted from an explicit addition by elizabeth herself to the injunctions accompanying the 1559 book of common prayer ( that had itself made no mention of choral worship ) by which existing choral foundations and choir schools were instructed to be continued, and their endowments secured. consequently, some thirty - four cathedrals, collegiate churches, and royal chapels maintained paid establishments of lay singing men and choristers in the late 16th century. all save four of these have – with