it is unclear what location geoffrey had in mind. maisbeli translates to " the field of beli ", and could be related to the beli mawr of welsh legend and / or the celtic god belenus. alternatively it could be a field where the beltane festival was celebrated. geoffrey could derive the name from a similar - sounding toponym. for example, meicen of the hen ogledd ( " old north " ), traditionally identified with hatfield. following his defeat, hengist retreats towards cunungeburg. geoffrey probably had in mind conisbrough, not far from hatfield. ambrosius leads his army against the new position of the saxons. the second battle is more evenly fought, and hengist has a chance to achieve victory. however, ambrosius receives reinforcements from brittany and the tide of the battle turns in favour of the britons. hengist himself is captured by his old enemy eldol, consul of gloucester and decapitated. soon after the battle, the surviving saxon leaders octa and eosa submit themselves to ambrosius ' rule. he pardons them and grants them an area near scotland. the area is not named, but geoffrey could be basing this on bernicia, a real anglo - saxon kingdom covering areas in the modern borders of scotland and england. geoffrey closely connects the deaths of vortigern and hengist, which are elsewhere poorly recorded. vortigern historically died in the 450s, and various dates for the death of hengist have been proposed, between the 450s and the 480s. octa of kent, the supposed son and heir of hengist, was still alive in the 6th century and seems to belong to a later historical era than his father. the ruling family of the kingdom of kent were called the oiscingas, a term identifying them as descendants of oisc of kent, not of hengist. in effect, none of them was likely a literal son of hengist and their relation to hengist may have been a later invention. geoffrey did not invent the connection, but his sources here were likely legendary in nature. following his victories and the end of the wars, ambrosius organises the burial of killed nobles at kaercaradduc. geoffrey identifies this otherwise unknown location with caer - caradog ( salisbury ). ambrosius wants a permanent memorial for the slain and assigns the task to merlin. the result is the so - called giants ' ring. its location in