transparent deals critics of the robert kocharyan government ( in office until 2008 ) say that the armenian administration never considered alternative ways of settling the russian debts. according to economist eduard aghajanov, armenia could have repaid them with low - interest loans from other, presumably western sources, or with some of its hard currency reserves which then totaled about $ 450 million. furthermore, aghajanov points to the armenian government ' s failure to eliminate widespread corruption and mismanagement in the energy sector – abuses that cost armenia at least $ 50 million in losses each year, according to one estimate. political observers say that armenia ' s economic cooperation with russia has been one of the least transparent areas of the armenian government ' s work. the debt arrangements have been personally negotiated by ( then ) defense minister ( and later president ) serge sarkisian, initially kocharyan ' s closest political associate. other top government officials, including former prime minister andranik markarian, had little say on the issue. furthermore, all of the controversial agreements have been announced after sarkisian ' s frequent trips to moscow, without prior public discussion. finally, while armenia is not the only ex - soviet state that has incurred multi - million - dollar debts to russia over the past decades, it is the only state to have so far given up such a large share of its economic infrastructure to russia. for example, pro - western ukraine and georgia ( both of which owe russia more than armenia ) have managed to reschedule repayment of their debts. transportation routes and energy lines internal since early 2008, armenia ' s entire rail network is managed by the russian state railway under brand south caucasus railways. metros yerevan metro was launched in 1981. it serves 11 active stations. buses yerevan central bus station, also known as kilikia bus station, is yerevan ' s primary bus terminal, linking buses to both domestic and foreign destinations. roadways total length : 8, 140 km, world ranking : 112 ( 7, 700 km paved including 1561 km of expressways ). through georgia russian natural gas reaches armenia via a pipeline through georgia. the only operational rail link into armenia is from georgia. during soviet times, armenia ' s rail network connected to russia ' s via georgia through abkhazia along the black sea. however, the rail link between abkhazia and other georgian regions has been closed for a number of years, forcing armenia to receive rail cars laden with cargo only through the relatively expensive rail - ferry services operating between georgian and other black sea ports.