in 1916, as the interactions between their constituent electrons. as the chemical properties of the elements were known to largely repeat themselves according to the periodic law, in 1919 the american chemist irving langmuir suggested that this could be explained if the electrons in an atom were connected or clustered in some manner. groups of electrons were thought to occupy a set of electron shells about the nucleus. the bohr model of the atom was the first complete physical model of the atom. it described the overall structure of the atom, how atoms bond to each other, and predicted the spectral lines of hydrogen. bohr ' s model was not perfect and was soon superseded by the more accurate schrodinger model, but it was sufficient to evaporate any remaining doubts that matter is composed of atoms. for chemists, the idea of the atom had been a useful heuristic tool, but physicists had doubts as to whether matter really is made up of atoms as nobody had yet developed a complete physical model of the atom. the schrodinger model in 1925, werner heisenberg published the first consistent mathematical formulation of quantum mechanics ( matrix mechanics ). one year earlier, louis de broglie had proposed that all particles behave like waves to some extent, and in 1926 erwin schrodinger used this idea to develop the schrodinger equation, a mathematical model of the atom that described the electrons as three - dimensional waveforms rather than points in space. a consequence of using waveforms to describe particles is that it is mathematically impossible to obtain precise values for both the position and momentum of a particle at a given point in time. this became known as the uncertainty principle, formulated by werner heisenberg in 1927. in this concept, for a given accuracy in measuring a position one could only obtain a range of probable values for momentum, and vice versa. this model was able to explain observations of atomic behavior that previous models could not, such as certain structural and spectral patterns of atoms larger than hydrogen. thus, the planetary model of the atom was discarded in favor of one that described atomic orbital zones around the nucleus where a given electron is most likely to be observed. discovery of the neutron the development of the mass spectrometer allowed the mass of atoms to be measured with increased accuracy. the device uses a magnet to bend the trajectory of a beam of ions, and the amount of deflection is determined by the ratio of an atom ' s mass to its charge. the chemist francis william aston used this instrument to show that isotopes had different masses