##ax. specific crops are cultivated in distinct growing regions throughout the world. production is listed in millions of metric tons, based on fao estimates. livestock production systems animal husbandry is the breeding and raising of animals for meat, milk, eggs, or wool, and for work and transport. working animals, including horses, mules, oxen, water buffalo, camels, llamas, alpacas, donkeys, and dogs, have for centuries been used to help cultivate fields, harvest crops, wrangle other animals, and transport farm products to buyers. livestock production systems can be defined based on feed source, as grassland - based, mixed, and landless., 30 % of earth ' s ice - and water - free area was used for producing livestock, with the sector employing approximately 1. 3 billion people. between the 1960s and the 2000s, there was a significant increase in livestock production, both by numbers and by carcass weight, especially among beef, pigs and chickens, the latter of which had production increased by almost a factor of 10. non - meat animals, such as milk cows and egg - producing chickens, also showed significant production increases. global cattle, sheep and goat populations are expected to continue to increase sharply through 2050. aquaculture or fish farming, the production of fish for human consumption in confined operations, is one of the fastest growing sectors of food production, growing at an average of 9 % a year between 1975 and 2007. during the second half of the 20th century, producers using selective breeding focused on creating livestock breeds and crossbreeds that increased production, while mostly disregarding the need to preserve genetic diversity. this trend has led to a significant decrease in genetic diversity and resources among livestock breeds, leading to a corresponding decrease in disease resistance and local adaptations previously found among traditional breeds. grassland based livestock production relies upon plant material such as shrubland, rangeland, and pastures for feeding ruminant animals. outside nutrient inputs may be used, however manure is returned directly to the grassland as a major nutrient source. this system is particularly important in areas where crop production is not feasible because of climate or soil, representing 30 – 40 million pastoralists. mixed production systems use grassland, fodder crops and grain feed crops as feed for ruminant and monogastric ( one stomach ; mainly chickens and pigs ) livestock. manure is typically recycled in mixed systems as a fertilizer for crops. landless systems rely upon feed from outside the farm, representing the de - linking