and other crimes against peace ; war crimes ; and crimes against humanity. the chief united states prosecutor, robert h. jackson, of the u. s. supreme court said, " speer joined in planning and executing the program to dragoon prisoners of war and foreign workers into german war industries, which waxed in output while the workers waned in starvation. " speer ' s attorney, hans flachsner, successfully contrasted speer from other defendants and portrayed him as an artist thrust into political life who had always remained a non - ideologue. speer was found guilty of war crimes and crimes against humanity, principally for the use of slave labor and forced labor. he was acquitted on the other two counts. he had claimed that he was unaware of nazi extermination plans, and the allies had no proof that he was aware. his claim was revealed to be false in a private correspondence written in 1971 and publicly disclosed in 2007. on 1 october 1946, he was sentenced to 20 years ' imprisonment. while three of the eight judges ( two soviet and american francis biddle ) advocated the death penalty for speer, the other judges did not, and a compromise sentence was reached after two days of discussions. imprisonment on 18 july 1947, speer was transferred to spandau prison in berlin to serve his prison term. there he was known as prisoner number five. speer ' s parents died while he was incarcerated. his father, who died in 1947, despised the nazis and was silent upon meeting hitler. his mother died in 1952. as a nazi party member, she had greatly enjoyed dining with hitler. wolters and longtime speer secretary annemarie kempf, while not permitted direct communication with speer in spandau, did what they could to help his family and carry out the requests speer put in letters to his wife — the only written communication he was officially allowed. beginning in 1948, speer had the services of toni proost, a sympathetic dutch orderly to smuggle mail and his writings. in 1949, wolters opened a bank account for speer and began fundraising among those architects and industrialists who had benefited from speer ' s activities during the war. initially, the funds were used only to support speer ' s family, but increasingly the money was used for other purposes. they paid for toni proost to go on holiday, and for bribes to those who might be able to secure speer ' s release. once speer became aware of the existence of the fund, he