have been to secure the release of the king from a vow to go on pilgrimage, if sources from after the norman conquest are to be believed. while in rome, he attended a papal council, along with his fellow english bishop herman. that same year, as ealdred was returning to england he met sweyn, a son of godwin, earl of wessex, and probably absolved sweyn for having abducted the abbess of leominster abbey in 1046. through ealdred ' s intercession, sweyn was restored to his earldom, which he had lost after abducting the abbess and murdering his cousin beorn estrithson. ealdred helped sweyn not only because ealdred was a supporter of earl godwin ' s family but because sweyn ' s earldom was close to his bishopric. as recently as 1049 irish raiders had allied with gruffydd ap rhydderch of gwent in raiding along the river usk. ealdred unsuccessfully tried to drive off the raiders, but was again routed by the welsh. this failure underscored ealdred ' s need for a strong earl in the area to protect against raids. normally, the bishop of hereford would have led the defence in the absence of an earl of hereford, but in 1049 the incumbent, æthelstan, was blind, so ealdred took on the role of defender. diplomatic travels earl godwin ' s rebellion against the king in 1051 came as a blow to ealdred, who was a supporter of the earl and his family. ealdred was present at the royal council at london that banished godwin ' s family. later in 1051, when he was sent to intercept harold godwinson and his brothers as they fled england after their father ' s outlawing, ealdred " could not, or would not " capture the brothers. the banishment of ealdred ' s patron came shortly after the death of ælfric puttoc, the archbishop of york. york and worcester had long had close ties, and the two sees had often been held in plurality, or at the same time. ealdred probably wanted to become archbishop of york after ælfric ' s death, but his patron ' s eclipse led to the king appointing cynesige, a royal chaplain, instead. in september 1052, though, godwin returned from exile and his family was restored to power. by late 1053 ealdred was once more in