##irilli, and j. matthew pinson are four supporters of a return to the teachings of arminius. methodist theologian thomas oden, " evangelical methodists " bible scholar ben witherington iii, and christian apologist david pawson are generally arminian in their theologies. holiness movement theologians henry orton wiley, carl o. bangs and j. kenneth grider can also be mentioned among recent proponents of arminianism. various other theologians or bible scholars as b. j. oropeza, keith d. stanglin, craig s. keener, thomas h. mccall, and grant r. osborne can be mentioned as well. theology theological legacy the original beliefs of jacobus arminius are commonly called arminianism, but more broadly, the term may embrace the teachings of simon episcopius, hugo grotius, john wesley, and others. arminian theology usually falls into one of two groups : classical arminianism, drawn from the teaching of jacobus arminius, and wesleyan arminian, drawing primarily from wesley. the two groups overlap substantially. in 529, at the second council of orange, the question at hand was whether the doctrines of augustine on god ' s providence were to be affirmed, or if semi - pelagianism could be affirmed. semi - pelagianism was a moderate form of pelagianism that teaches that the first step of salvation is by human will and not the grace of god. the determination of the council could be considered " semi - augustinian ". it defined that faith, though a free act of man, resulted, even in its beginnings, from the grace of god, enlightening the human mind and enabling belief. this describes the operation of prevenient grace allowing the unregenerate to repent in faith. on the other hand, the council of orange condemned the augustinian teaching of predestination to damnation. since arminianism is aligned with those characteristic semi - augustinian views it has been seen by some as a reclamation of early church theological consensus. moreover, arminianism can also be seen as a soteriological diversification of calvinism or more specifically, as a theological middle ground between calvinism and semi - pelagianism. classical arminianism classical arminianism is the theological system that was presented by jacobus arminius and maintained by some of the remonstrants. theologians as forlines and olson have referred to this system as " classical arminianism "