, and later egyptian ( 1300 bce - 1300 ce ), which is further subdivided into late egyptian, demotic, and coptic. coptic is the only stage written alphabetically to show vowels, whereas egyptian was previously written in egyptian hieroglyphs, which only represent consonants. in the coptic period, there is evidence for six major dialects, which presumably existed previously but are obscured by pre - coptic writing ; additionally, middle egyptian appears to be based on a different dialect than old egyptian, which in turn shows dialectal similarities to late egyptian. egyptian was replaced by arabic as the spoken language of egypt, but coptic continues to be the liturgical language of the coptic orthodox church. omotic the c. 30 omotic languages are still mostly undescribed by linguists. they are all spoken in southwest ethiopia except for the ganza language, spoken in sudan. omotic is typically split into north omotic ( or aroid ) and south omotic, with the latter more influenced by the nilotic languages ; it is unclear whether the dizoid group of omotic languages belongs to the northern or southern group. the two omotic languages with the most speakers are wolaitta and gamo - gofa - dawro, with about 1. 2 million speakers each. a majority of specialists consider omotic to constitute a sixth branch of afroasiatic. omotic was formerly considered part of the cushitic branch ; some scholars continue to consider it part of cushitic. other scholars have questioned whether it is afroasiatic at all, due its lack of several typical aspects of afroasiatic morphology. semitic there are between 40 and 80 languages in the semitic family. today, semitic languages are spoken across north africa, west asia, and the horn of africa, as well as on the island of malta, making them the sole afroasiatic branch with members originating outside africa. arabic, spoken in both asia and africa, is by far the most widely spoken afroasiatic language today, with around 300 million native speakers, while the ethiopian amharic has around 25 million. most authorities divide semitic into two branches : east semitic, which includes the extinct akkadian language and west semitic, which includes arabic, aramaic, the canaanite languages ( including hebrew ), as well as the ethiopian semitic languages such as ge ' ez and amharic. the classification within west semitic remains contested. the only group with an african origin is ethiopian semitic. the oldest written attestations of semitic languages come from mesopotamia, northern syria