and completed two evas totalling 9hours 24 minutes, which was a record for the longest eva by a lunar crew at the time. in august 1971, just after conclusion of the apollo 15 mission, president richard nixon proposed canceling the two remaining lunar landing missions, apollo 16 and 17. office of management and budget deputy director caspar weinberger was opposed to this, and persuaded nixon to keep the remaining missions. extended missions apollo 15 was launched on july 26, 1971, with david scott, alfred worden and james irwin. scott and irwin landed on july 30 near hadley rille, and spent just under two days, 19 hours on the surface. in over 18 hours of eva, they collected about of lunar material. apollo 16 landed in the descartes highlands on april 20, 1972. the crew was commanded by john young, with ken mattingly and charles duke. young and duke spent just under three days on the surface, with a total of over 20 hours eva. apollo 17 was the last of the apollo program, landing in the taurus – littrow region in december 1972. eugene cernan commanded ronald e. evans and nasa ' s first scientist - astronaut, geologist harrison h. schmitt. schmitt was originally scheduled for apollo 18, but the lunar geological community lobbied for his inclusion on the final lunar landing. cernan and schmitt stayed on the surface for just over three days and spent just over 23 hours of total eva. canceled missions several missions were planned for but were canceled before details were finalized. mission summary source : apollo by the numbers : a statistical reference ( orloff 2004 ) samples returned the apollo program returned over of lunar rocks and soil to the lunar receiving laboratory in houston. today, 75 % of the samples are stored at the lunar sample laboratory facility built in 1979. the rocks collected from the moon are extremely old compared to rocks found on earth, as measured by radiometric dating techniques. they range in age from about 3. 2 billion years for the basaltic samples derived from the lunar maria, to about 4. 6 billion years for samples derived from the highlands crust. as such, they represent samples from a very early period in the development of the solar system, that are largely absent on earth. one important rock found during the apollo program is dubbed the genesis rock, retrieved by astronauts david scott and james irwin during the apollo 15 mission. this anorthosite rock is composed almost exclusively of the calcium - rich feldspar mineral anorthite, and is