, “ no other country but this one has lasted for as long as 2, 000 years with one language, one ethnic group and one dynasty ”. origins the ainu have often been thought to descend from the diverse jomon people who lived in northern japan from the jomon period ( 14, 000 to 300 bce ). one of their, or legends, tells that, " [ t ] he ainu lived in this place a hundred thousand years before the children of the sun came ". recent research suggests that the historical ainu culture originated from a merger of the okhotsk culture with the satsumon culture, thought to have derived from the diverse jomon - period cultures of the japanese archipelago. the historical ainu economy was based on farming, as well as on hunting, fishing, and gathering. according to researchers lee and hasegawa of waseda university, the direct ancestors of the later ainu people formed during the late jomon period from the combination of the local but diverse population of hokkaido, long before the arrival of contemporary yamato japanese people. lee and hasegawa suggest that the ainu language expanded from northern hokkaido and may have originated from a relatively more recent northeast asian / okhotsk population, who established themselves in northern hokkaido and had a significant impact on the formation of hokkaido ' s jomon culture. linguist and historian joran smale similarly found that the ainu language likely originated from the ancient okhotsk people, which had strong cultural influence on the " epi - jomon " of southern hokkaido and northern honshu, but that the ainu people themselves formed from the combination of both ancient groups. additionally, he notes that the historical distribution of ainu dialects and their specific vocabulary correspond to the distribution of the maritime okhotsk culture. a 2021 study confirmed that the hokkaido jomon population formed from " terminal upper - paleolithic people " ( tup people ) indigenous to northern eurasia and from proper jomon people, who arrived from honshu about 15, 000 bce. the ainu, in turn, originated from the hokkaido epi - jomon and from the okhotsk people in hokkaido. another study in 2021 analyzed the indigenous populations of northern japan and the russian far east. they concluded that siberia and northern japan were populated by two distinct waves : confusion with emishi the claim that the ancient emishi were ainu has been largely disproved by current research, although it is still under dispute. the term " emishi " in the nara period ( 710 - 794