the rear axle. this concept is also considered to be the direction for a future mid - engined gas - powered 2 - seat performance coupe. the audi a1 e - tron concept, based on the audi a1 production model, is a hybrid vehicle with a range extending wankel rotary engine to provide power after the initial charge of the battery is depleted. it is the only concept of the three to have range - extending capability. the car is powered through the front wheels, always using electric power. it is all set to be displayed at the auto expo 2012 in new delhi, india, from 5 january. powered by a 1. 4 litre engine, and can cover a distance up to 54 km s on a single charge. the e - tron was also shown in the 2013 blockbuster film iron man 3 and was driven by tony stark ( iron man ). lawsuit on the use of the letter q in early 2005, nissan north america inc. filed a lawsuit against audi over the use of the letter " q " as a model name. audi is using the " q " for the designation of their quattro four - wheel drive system, used in production cars for over twenty - five years ( audi ' s quattro trademark is actually an umbrella term for several types of four - wheel - drive systems developed by torsen, haldex traction ab, and borg - warner, the latter being used in the q7 ). nissan ' s infiniti marque first used q for their 1989 infiniti q45 flagship, but later expanded to its entire lineup, with q for passenger cars ( the q30, q40, q50, and q60 ) and qx for suvs ( the qx30, qx50, qx60, and qx70 ). a settlement between audi ag and nissan was reached in late 2006. the agreement stipulates that audi will only use the q - prefix for three models, the q3, q5 and the q7. audi has since released other q series cars as well, such as the q2, q6, and q8. in video games audi has supported the european version of playstation home, the playstation 3 ' s online community - based service, by releasing a dedicated home space. audi is the first carmaker to develop such a space for home. on 17 december 2009, audi released two spaces ; the audi home terminal and the audi vertical run. the audi home terminal features an audi tv channel delivering video content, an internet browser feature,