surfaces in differential geometry. in analysis, the area of a subset of the plane is defined using lebesgue measure, though not every subset is measurable. in general, area in higher mathematics is seen as a special case of volume for two - dimensional regions. area can be defined through the use of axioms, defining it as a function of a collection of certain plane figures to the set of real numbers. it can be proved that such a function exists. formal definition an approach to defining what is meant by " area " is through axioms. " area " can be defined as a function from a collection m of a special kinds of plane figures ( termed measurable sets ) to the set of real numbers, which satisfies the following properties : for all s in m,. if s and t are in m then so are and, and also. if s and t are in m with then is in m and. if a set s is in m and s is congruent to t then t is also in m and. every rectangle r is in m. if the rectangle has length h and breadth k then. let q be a set enclosed between two step regions s and t. a step region is formed from a finite union of adjacent rectangles resting on a common base, i. e.. if there is a unique number c such that for all such step regions s and t, then. it can be proved that such an area function actually exists. units every unit of length has a corresponding unit of area, namely the area of a square with the given side length. thus areas can be measured in square metres ( m2 ), square centimetres ( cm2 ), square millimetres ( mm2 ), square kilometres ( km2 ), square feet ( ft2 ), square yards ( yd2 ), square miles ( mi2 ), and so forth. algebraically, these units can be thought of as the squares of the corresponding length units. the si unit of area is the square metre, which is considered an si derived unit. conversions calculation of the area of a square whose length and width are 1 metre would be : 1 metre × 1 metre = 1 m2 and so, a rectangle with different sides ( say length of 3 metres and width of 2 metres ) would have an area in square units that can be calculated as : 3 metres × 2 metres = 6 m2. this is equivalent to 6 million square millimetres. other useful conversions are : 1 square kilometre = 1, 000, 000