, the most detailed narrative on alboin ' s death, history and saga intermingle almost inextricably. much earlier and shorter is the story told by marius of aventicum in his chronica, written about a decade after alboin ' s murder. according to his version the king was killed in a conspiracy by a man close to him, called hilmegis ( paul ' s helmechis ), with the connivance of the queen. helmichis then married the widow, but the two were forced to escape to byzantine ravenna, taking with them the royal treasure and part of the army, which hints at the cooperation of byzantium. roger collins describes marius as an especially reliable source because of his early date and his having lived close to lombard italy. also contemporary is gregory of tours ' account presented in the historia francorum, and echoed by the later fredegar. gregory ' s account diverges in several respects from most other sources. in his tale it is told how alboin married the daughter of a man he had slain, and how she waited for a suitable occasion for revenge, eventually poisoning him. she had previously fallen in love with one of her husband ' s servants, and after the assassination tried to escape with him, but they were captured and killed. however, historians including walter goffart place little trust in this narrative. goffart notes other similar doubtful stories in the historia and calls its account of alboin ' s demise " a suitably ironic tale of the doings of depraved humanity ". skull cup elements present in marius ' account are echoed in paul ' s historia langobardorum, which also contains distinctive features. one of the best known aspects unavailable in any other source is that of the skull cup. in paul, the events that led to alboin ' s downfall unfold in verona. during a great feast, alboin gets drunk and orders his wife rosamund to drink from his cup, made from the skull of his father - in - law cunimund after he had slain him in 567 and married rosamund. alboin " invited her to drink merrily with her father ". this reignited the queen ' s determination to avenge her father. the tale has been often dismissed as a fable and paul was conscious of the risk of disbelief. for this reason, he insists that he saw the skull cup personally during the 740s in the royal palace of ticinum in the hands of king rat