. this period also saw alternate history works by s. m. stirling, kim stanley robinson, harry harrison, howard waldrop, peter tieryas, and others. in 1986, a sixteen - part epic comic book series called captain confederacy began examining a world where the confederate states of america won the american civil war. in the series, the captain and others heroes are staged government propaganda events featuring the feats of these superheroes. since the late 1990s, harry turtledove has been the most prolific practitioner of alternate history and has been given the title " master of alternate history " by some. his books include those of timeline 191 ( a. k. a. southern victory, also known as tl - 191 ), in which, while the confederate states of america won the american civil war, the union and imperial germany defeat the entente powers in the two " great war " s of the 1910s and 1940s ( with a nazi - esque confederate government attempting to exterminate its black population ), and the worldwar series, in which aliens invaded earth during world war ii. other stories by turtledove include a different flesh, in which america was not colonized from asia during the last ice age ; in the presence of mine enemies, in which the nazis won world war ii ; and ruled britannia, in which the spanish armada succeeded in conquering england in the elizabethan era, with william shakespeare being given the task of writing the play that will motivate the britons to rise up against their spanish conquerors. he also co - authored a book with actor richard dreyfuss, the two georges, in which the united kingdom retained the american colonies, with george washington and king george iii making peace. he did a two - volume series in which the japanese not only bombed pearl harbor but also invaded and occupied the hawaiian islands. perhaps the most incessantly explored theme in popular alternate history focuses on worlds in which the nazis won world war two. in some versions, the nazis and / or axis powers win ; or in others, they conquer most of the world but a " fortress america " exists under siege ; while in others, there is a nazi / japanese cold war comparable to the us / soviet equivalent in ' our ' timeline. fatherland ( 1992 ), by robert harris, is set in europe following the nazi victory. the novel dominion by c. j. sansom ( 2012 ) is similar in concept but is set in england, with churchill the leader of an anti - german resistance and other historic persons in