proportion. feeding many paleontologists accept allosaurus as an active predator of large animals. there is dramatic evidence for allosaur attacks on stegosaurus, including an allosaurus tail vertebra with a partially healed puncture wound that fits a stegosaurus tail spike, and a stegosaurus neck plate with a u - shaped wound that correlates well with an allosaurus snout. sauropods seem to be likely candidates as both live prey and as objects of scavenging, based on the presence of scrapings on sauropod bones fitting allosaur teeth well and the presence of shed allosaur teeth with sauropod bones. however, as gregory paul noted in 1988, allosaurus was probably not a predator of fully grown sauropods, unless it hunted in packs, as it had a modestly sized skull and relatively small teeth, and was greatly outweighed by contemporaneous sauropods. another possibility is that it preferred to hunt juveniles instead of fully grown adults. research in the 1990s and the first decade of the 21st century may have found other solutions to this question. robert t. bakker, comparing allosaurus to cenozoic saber - toothed carnivorous mammals, found similar adaptations, such as a reduction of jaw muscles and increase in neck muscles, and the ability to open the jaws extremely wide. although allosaurus did not have saber teeth, bakker suggested another mode of attack that would have used such neck and jaw adaptations : the short teeth in effect became small serrations on a saw - like cutting edge running the length of the upper jaw, which would have been driven into prey. this type of jaw would permit slashing attacks against much larger prey, with the goal of weakening the victim. similar conclusions were drawn by another study using finite element analysis on an allosaurus skull. according to their biomechanical analysis, the skull was very strong but had a relatively small bite force. by using jaw muscles only, it could produce a bite force of 805 to 8, 724 n, but the skull could withstand nearly 55, 500 n of vertical force against the tooth row. the authors suggested that allosaurus used its skull like a machete against prey, attacking open - mouthed, slashing flesh with its teeth, and tearing it away without splintering bones, unlike tyrannosaurus, which is thought to have been capable of damaging bones. they also suggested that the architecture of the skull could have permitted the use of different strategies against different prey ; the skull was