in the united states, the single peaked at number - eight on the billboard hot 100 chart and became abba ' s second billboard adult contemporary number - one. it was also re - recorded by andersson and ulvaeus with a slightly different backing track, by french chanteuse mireille mathieu at the end of 1980 – as " bravo tu as gagne ", with french lyrics by alain boublil. in november 1980, abba ' s seventh album super trouper was released, which reflected a certain change in abba ' s style with more prominent use of synthesizers and increasingly personal lyrics. it set a record for the most pre - orders ever received for a uk album after one million copies were ordered before release. the second single from the album, " super trouper ", also hit number - one in the uk, becoming the group ' s ninth and final uk chart - topper. another track from the album, " lay all your love on me ", released in 1981 as a twelve - inch single only in selected territories, managed to top the billboard hot dance club play chart and peaked at number - seven on the uk singles chart becoming, at the time, the highest ever charting 12 - inch release in uk chart history. also in 1980, abba recorded a compilation of spanish - language versions of their hits called gracias por la musica. this was released in spanish - speaking countries as well as in japan and australia. the album became a major success, and along with the spanish version of " chiquitita ", this signalled the group ' s breakthrough in latin america. abba oro : grandes exitos, the spanish equivalent of abba gold : greatest hits, was released in 1999. 1981 – 1982 : the visitors and later performances in january 1981, ulvaeus married lena kallersjo, and manager stig anderson celebrated his 50th birthday with a party. for this occasion, abba recorded the track " hovas vittne " ( a pun on the swedish name for jehovah ' s witness and anderson ' s birthplace, hova ) as a tribute to him, and released it only on 200 red vinyl copies, to be distributed to the guests attending the party. this single has become a sought - after collectable. in mid - february 1981, andersson and lyngstad announced they were filing for divorce. information surfaced that their marriage had been an uphill struggle for years, and benny had already met another woman, mona norklit, whom