wealthy families. it was named the temple school because classes were held at the masonic temple on tremont street in boston. his assistant was elizabeth palmer peabody, later replaced by margaret fuller. mary peabody mann served as a french instructor for a time. the school was briefly famous, and then infamous, because of alcott ' s method of " discarding text - books and teaching by conversation ", his questioning attitude toward the bible, and his reception of " a colored girl " into his classes. before 1830, primary and secondary teaching of writing consisted of rote drills in grammar, spelling, vocabulary, penmanship and transcription of adult texts. in that decade, however, progressive reformers such as alcott, influenced by pestalozzi, friedrich frobel, and johann friedrich herbart, began to advocate compositions based on students ' own experiences. these reformers opposed beginning instruction with rules and preferred to have students learn to write by expressing their personal understanding of the events of their lives. alcott sought to develop instruction on the basis of self - analysis, with an emphasis on conversation and questioning rather than lecturing and drill. a similar interest in instructive conversation was shared by abby may who, describing her idea of a family " post office " set up to curb potential domestic tension, said " i thought it would afford a daily opportunity for the children, indeed all of us, to interchange thought and sentiment ". alongside writing and reading, alcott gave lessons in " spiritual culture ", which included interpretation of the gospels, and advocated object teaching in writing instruction. he even went so far as to decorate his schoolroom with visual elements he thought would inspire learning : paintings, books, comfortable furniture, and busts or portraits of plato, socrates, jesus, and william ellery channing. during this time, the alcotts had another child. born on june 24, 1835, she was named elizabeth peabody alcott in honor of the teaching assistant at the temple school. by age three, however, her mother changed her name to elizabeth sewall alcott, after her own mother, perhaps because of the recent rupture between bronson alcott and elizabeth palmer peabody. in july 1835, peabody published her account as an assistant to the temple school as record of a school : exemplifying the general principles of spiritual culture. while working on a second book, alcott and peabody had a falling out and conversations with children on the gospels was prepared with help from peabody ' s sister sophia, published at the end of december 1836.