to get on its feet in 1838 with the arrival of livestock from victoria, new south wales and tasmania. wool production provided an early basis for the south australian economy. by 1860, wheat farms had been established from encounter bay in the south to clare in the north. george gawler took over from hindmarsh in late 1838 and, despite being under orders from the select committee on south australia in britain not to undertake any public works, promptly oversaw construction of a governor ' s house, the adelaide gaol, police barracks, a hospital, a customs house and a wharf at port adelaide. gawler was recalled and replaced by george edward grey in 1841. grey slashed public expenditure against heavy opposition, although its impact was negligible at this point : silver was discovered in glen osmond that year, agriculture was well underway, and other mines sprung up all over the state, aiding adelaide ' s commercial development. the city exported meat, wool, wine, fruit and wheat by the time grey left in 1845, contrasting with a low point in 1842 when one - third of adelaide houses were abandoned. trade links with the rest of the australian states were established after the murray river was successfully navigated in 1853 by francis cadell, an adelaide resident. south australia became a self - governing colony in 1856 with the ratification of a new constitution by the british parliament. secret ballots were introduced, and a bicameral parliament was elected on 9 march 1857, by which time 109, 917 people lived in the province. in 1860, the thorndon park reservoir was opened, providing an alternative water source to the now turbid river torrens. gas street lighting was implemented in 1867, the university of adelaide was founded in 1874, the south australian art gallery opened in 1881 and the happy valley reservoir opened in 1896. in the 1890s australia was affected by a severe economic depression, ending a hectic era of land booms and tumultuous expansionism. financial institutions in melbourne and banks in sydney closed. the national fertility rate fell and immigration was reduced to a trickle. the value of south australia ' s exports nearly halved. drought and poor harvests from 1884 compounded the problems, with some families leaving for western australia. adelaide was not as badly hit as the larger gold - rush cities of sydney and melbourne, and silver and lead discoveries at broken hill provided some relief. only one year of deficit was recorded, but the price paid was retrenchments and lean public spending. wine and copper were the only industries not to suffer a down