themselves have denied these claims. significant similarities in doctrine include the identification of the father as the only true god and of jesus christ as the first creation of god and the intermediate agent in the creation of all other things. jehovah ' s witnesses differ from arians by stating that the son can fully know the father ( something which arius himself denied ). they also deny the personhood of the holy spirit, which some arians historically affirmed. jehovah ' s witnesses exclusively worship and pray to god the father, or jehovah, only through jesus the son as a mediator. iglesia ni cristo while iglesia ni cristo ' s christology has parallels with arianism in that it affirms that the father is the only true god, it denies the preexistence of christ. thus, iglesia ni cristo is socinian rather than arian in its christology. other socinian groups other biblical unitarians such as the christadelphians and church of god general conference are also typically socinian rather than arian in their christology. the church of jesus christ of latter - day saints the church of jesus christ of latter - day saints ( lds church ) teaches a nontrinitarian theology concerning the nature of the godhead. similarities between lds doctrines and arianism were alleged as early as 1846. however, there are a number of key differences between arianism and latter - day saint theology. whereas arianism is a unitarian christian form of classical theism, latter - day saint theology is a non - trinitarian ( but not unitarian ) form of christianity outside of classical theism. whereas arianism teaches that god is eternal, was never a man, and could not incarnate as a man, the lds church teaches that " god himself is an exalted man, perfected, enthroned, and supreme. " whereas arianism denies that humans can become gods, the lds church affirms that humans can become gods through exaltation. whereas arianism teaches that the son was created, the lds church teaches that he was procreated as a literal spirit child of the heavenly father and the heavenly mother. whereas the creation of christ ex nihilo is a fundamental premise of arianism, the lds church denies any form of creation ex nihilo. whereas arianism teaches that god is incorporeal, the lds church teaches that god has a body of flesh of bones : " the father has a body of flesh and bones as