is against us, and will be so, until, by an independence, we take rank with other nations. " beyond improving their existing association, the records of the second continental congress show that the need for a declaration of independence was intimately linked with the demands of international relations. on june 7, 1776, richard henry lee introduced a resolution before the continental congress declaring the colonies independent ; at the same time, he also urged congress to resolve " to take the most effectual measures for forming foreign alliances " and to prepare a plan of confederation for the newly independent states. congress then created three overlapping committees to draft the declaration, a model treaty, and the articles of confederation. the declaration announced the states ' entry into the international system ; the model treaty was designed to establish amity and commerce with other states ; and the articles of confederation, which established " a firm league " among the thirteen free and independent states, constituted an international agreement to set up central institutions for the conduct of vital domestic and foreign affairs. drafting on june 12, 1776, a day after appointing the committee of five to prepare a draft of the declaration of independence, the second continental congress resolved to appoint a committee of 13 with one representative from each colony to prepare a draft of a constitution for a union of the states. the committee was made up of the following individuals : john dickinson ( pennsylvania, chairman of the committee ) samuel adams ( massachusetts ) josiah bartlett ( new hampshire ) button gwinnett ( georgia ) joseph hewes ( north carolina ) stephen hopkins ( rhode island ) robert r. livingston ( new york ) thomas mckean ( delaware ) thomas nelson ( virginia ) edward rutledge ( south carolina ) roger sherman ( connecticut ) thomas stone ( maryland ) francis hopkinson ( new jersey, added to the committee last ) the committee met frequently, and chairman john dickinson presented their results to the congress on july 12, 1776. afterward, there were long debates on such issues as state sovereignty, the exact powers to be given to congress, whether to have a judiciary, western land claims, and voting procedures. to further complicate work on the constitution, congress was forced to leave philadelphia twice, for baltimore, maryland, in the winter of 1776, and later for lancaster then york, pennsylvania, in the fall of 1777, to evade advancing british troops. even so, the committee continued with its work. the final draft of the articles of confederation and perpetual union was completed on november 15, 1777. consensus was achieved by including language guaranteeing that each state retained its sovereignty, leaving the