a series of bombing raids on the german aircraft factories that were a devastating blow to aircraft production. his political rivals used the opportunity to undermine his authority and damage his reputation with hitler. he lost hitler ' s unconditional support and began to lose power. in response to the allied big week, adolf hitler authorized the creation of a fighter staff committee. its aim was to ensure the preservation and growth of fighter aircraft production. the task force was established by 1 march 1944, orders of speer, with support from erhard milch of the reich aviation ministry. production of german fighter aircraft more than doubled between 1943 and 1944. the growth, however, consisted in large part of models that were becoming obsolescent and proved easy prey for allied aircraft. on 1 august 1944, speer merged the fighter staff into a newly formed armament staff committee. the fighter staff committee was instrumental in bringing about the increased exploitation of slave labor in the war economy. the ss provided 64, 000 prisoners for 20 separate projects from various concentration camps including mittelbau - dora. prisoners worked for junkers, messerschmitt, henschel and bmw, among others. to increase production, speer introduced a system of punishments for his workforce. those who feigned illness, slacked off, sabotaged production or tried to escape were denied food or sent to concentration camps. in 1944, this became endemic ; over half a million workers were arrested. by this time, 140, 000 people were working in speer ' s underground factories. these factories were death - traps ; discipline was brutal, with regular executions. there were so many corpses at the dora underground factory, for example, that the crematorium was overwhelmed. speer ' s own staff described the conditions there as " hell ". the largest technological advance under speer ' s command came through the rocket program. it began in 1932 but had not supplied any weaponry. speer enthusiastically supported the program and in march 1942 made an order for a4 rockets, the predecessor of the world ' s first ballistic missile, the v - 2 rocket. the rockets were researched at a facility in peenemunde along with the v - 1 flying bomb. the v - 2 ' s first target was paris on 8 september 1944. the program while advanced proved to be an impediment to the war economy. the large capital investment was not repaid in military effectiveness. the rockets were built at an underground factory at mittelwerk. labor to build the a4 rockets came from the mittelbau