other neurites, including the original axon, will turn into dendrites. imposing an external force on a neurite, causing it to elongate, will make it become an axon. nonetheless, axonal development is achieved through a complex interplay between extracellular signaling, intracellular signaling and cytoskeletal dynamics. extracellular signaling the extracellular signals that propagate through the extracellular matrix surrounding neurons play a prominent role in axonal development. these signaling molecules include proteins, neurotrophic factors, and extracellular matrix and adhesion molecules. netrin ( also known as unc - 6 ) a secreted protein, functions in axon formation. when the unc - 5 netrin receptor is mutated, several neurites are irregularly projected out of neurons and finally a single axon is extended anteriorly. the neurotrophic factorsnerve growth factor ( ngf ), brain - derived neurotrophic factor ( bdnf ) and neurotrophin - 3 ( ntf3 ) are also involved in axon development and bind to trk receptors. the ganglioside - converting enzyme plasma membrane ganglioside sialidase ( pmgs ), which is involved in the activation of trka at the tip of neutrites, is required for the elongation of axons. pmgs asymmetrically distributes to the tip of the neurite that is destined to become the future axon. intracellular signaling during axonal development, the activity of pi3k is increased at the tip of destined axon. disrupting the activity of pi3k inhibits axonal development. activation of pi3k results in the production of phosphatidylinositol ( 3, 4, 5 ) - trisphosphate ( ptdins ) which can cause significant elongation of a neurite, converting it into an axon. as such, the overexpression of phosphatases that dephosphorylate ptdins leads into the failure of polarization. cytoskeletal dynamics the neurite with the lowest actin filament content will become the axon. pgms concentration and f - actin content are inversely correlated ; when pgms becomes enriched at the tip of a neurite, its f - actin content is substantially decreased. in addition, exposure to actin - depolimerizing drugs and toxin b