along with or instead of schrank ( and, similarly, eiskasten along with kuhlschrank, fridge ), as opposed to kiste ( box ) instead of kasten. kiste in germany means both " box " and " chest ". sessel ( chair ) instead of stuhl. sessel means " " in germany and stuhl means " stool ( faeces ) " in both varieties. dialects classification dialects of the austro - bavarian group, which also comprises dialects from bavaria central austro - bavarian ( along the main rivers isar and danube, spoken in the northern parts of the state of salzburg, upper austria, lower austria, and northern burgenland ) viennese german southern austro - bavarian ( in tyrol, south tyrol, carinthia, styria, and the southern parts of salzburg and burgenland ) vorarlbergerisch, spoken in vorarlberg, is a high alemannic dialect. regional accents in addition to the standard variety, in everyday life most austrians speak one of a number of upper german dialects. while strong forms of the various dialects are not fully mutually intelligible to northern germans, communication is much easier in bavaria, especially rural areas, where the bavarian dialect still predominates as the mother tongue. the central austro - bavarian dialects are more intelligible to speakers of standard german than the southern austro - bavarian dialects of tyrol. viennese, the austro - bavarian dialect of vienna, is seen for many in germany as quintessentially austrian. the people of graz, the capital of styria, speak yet another dialect which is not very styrian and more easily understood by people from other parts of austria than other styrian dialects, for example from western styria. simple words in the various dialects are very similar, but pronunciation is distinct for each and, after listening to a few spoken words, it may be possible for an austrian to realise which dialect is being spoken. however, in regard to the dialects of the deeper valleys of the tyrol, other tyroleans are often unable to understand them. speakers from the different provinces of austria can easily be distinguished from each other by their particular accents ( probably more so than bavarians ), those of carinthia, styria, vienna, upper austria, and the tyrol being very characteristic. speakers from those regions, even those speaking standard german, can usually be easily identified by their accent, even by an untrained listener. several of the dialects have been influenced by contact with non -