the spanish architect santiago calatrava, with steel arches, landscaped gardens, fountains, futuristic glass, and a landmark new blue glass roof which was added to the main stadium. a second olympic complex, next to the sea at the beach of palaio faliro, also features modern stadia, shops and an elevated esplanade. work is underway to transform the grounds of the old athens airport – named elliniko – in the southern suburbs, into one of the largest landscaped parks in europe, to be named the hellenikon metropolitan park. many of the southern suburbs ( such as alimos, palaio faliro, elliniko, glyfada, voula, vouliagmeni and varkiza ) known as the athens riviera, host a number of sandy beaches, most of which are operated by the greek national tourism organisation and require an entrance fee. casinos operate on both mount parnitha, some from downtown athens ( accessible by car or cable car ), and the nearby town of loutraki ( accessible by car via the athens – corinth national highway, or the athens suburban railway ). twin towns – sister cities the concept of a partner city is used under different names in different countries, but they mean the same thing, that two cities in different countries assist each other as partners. athens has quite a number of partners, whether as a " twin ", a " sister ", or a " partner. " demographics the municipality of athens has an official population of 643, 452 people ( in 2021 ). according to the 2021 population and housing census, the four regional units that make up what is referred to as greater athens have a combined population of 2, 611, 713. they together with the regional unit of piraeus ( greater piraeus ) make up the dense athens urban area which reaches a total population of 3, 059, 764 inhabitants ( in 2021 ). the municipality ( center ) of athens is the most populous in greece, with a population of 643, 452 people ( in 2021 ) and an area of, forming the core of the athens urban area within the attica basin. the incumbent mayor of athens is kostas bakoyannis of new democracy. the municipality is divided into seven municipal districts which are mainly used for administrative purposes. for the athenians the most popular way of dividing the downtown is through its neighbourhoods such as pagkrati, ampelokipoi, go