of the empress irene and her attendants, however, made the execution of the plot difficult. in an attempt to have her return to constantinople, the conspirators produced pamphlets that mocked and slandered the empress, and left them in her tent. a search for the author of the publications uncovered the whole plot, yet aron was only banished due to his connection to the royal line of bulgaria, whose blood also flowed in the veins of the empress irene. reform of the monetary system under alexios the debased solidus ( tetarteron and histamenon ) was discontinued and a gold coinage of higher fineness ( generally. 900 –. 950 ) was established in 1092, commonly called the hyperpyron at 4. 45 grs. the hyperpyron was slightly smaller than the solidus. it was introduced along with the electrum aspron trachy worth a third of a hyperpyron and about 25 % gold and 75 % silver, the billon aspron trachy or stamenon, valued at 48 to the hyperpyron and with 7 % silver wash and the copper tetarteron and noummion worth 18 and 36 to the billon aspron trachy. alexios ' reform of the byzantine monetary system was an important basis for the financial recovery and therefore supported the so - called komnenian restoration, as the new coinage restored financial confidence. legacy alexios i had overcome a dangerous crisis and stabilized the byzantine empire, inaugurating a century of imperial prosperity and success. he had also profoundly altered the nature of the byzantine government. by seeking close alliances with powerful noble families, alexios put an end to the tradition of imperial exclusivity and co - opted most of the nobility into his extended family and, through it, his government. those who did not become part of this extended family were deprived of power and prestige. this measure, which was intended to diminish opposition, was paralleled by the introduction of new courtly dignities, like that of panhypersebastos given to nikephoros bryennios, or that of sebastokrator given to the emperor ' s brother isaac komnenos. although this policy met with initial success, it gradually undermined the relative effectiveness of imperial bureaucracy by placing family connections over merit. alexios ' policy of integration of the nobility bore the fruit of continuity : every byzantine emperor who reigned after alexios i komnenos was related