anemone ; this member of the buttercup family has been recorded flowering as early as march, though april is the usual month for the general population. other prairie flora known to flower early are the golden bean ( thermopsis rhombifolia ) and wild rose ( rosa acicularis ). members of the sunflower ( helianthus ) family blossom on the prairie in the summer months between july and september. the southern and east central parts of alberta are covered by short prairie grass, which dries up as summer lengthens, to be replaced by hardy perennials such as the prairie coneflower ( ratibida ), fleabane, and sage ( artemisia ). both yellow and white sweet clover ( melilotus ) can be found throughout the southern and central areas of the province. the trees in the parkland region of the province grow in clumps and belts on the hillsides. these are largely deciduous, typically aspen, poplar, and willow. many species of willow and other shrubs grow in virtually any terrain. north of the north saskatchewan river, evergreen forests prevail for thousands of square kilometres. aspen poplar, balsam poplar ( populus balsamifera ) or in some parts cottonwood ( populus deltoides ), and paper birch ( betula papyrifera ) are the primary large deciduous species. conifers include jack pine ( pinus banksiana ), rocky mountain pine, lodgepole pine ( pinus contorta ), both white and black spruce, and the deciduous conifer tamarack ( larix laricina ). fauna the four climatic regions ( alpine, boreal forest, parkland, and prairie ) of alberta are home to many different species of animals. the south and central prairie was the homeland of the american bison, also known as buffalo, with its grasses providing pasture and breeding ground for millions of buffalo. the buffalo population was decimated during early settlement, but since then, buffalo have made a comeback, living on farms and in parks all over alberta. herbivores are found throughout the province. moose, mule deer, elk, and white - tailed deer are found in the wooded regions, and pronghorn can be found in the prairies of southern alberta. bighorn sheep and mountain goats live in the rocky mountains. rabbits, porcupines, skunks, squirrels, and many species of rodents and reptiles live in every corner of the province. alberta is home to only one venomous snake species, the prairie rattle