he sees the souls of those not given a proper burial, forced to wait by the river until someone buries them. while down there, along with the dead, he is shown the place where the wrongly convicted reside, the fields of sorrow where those who committed suicide and now regret it reside, including aeneas ' former lover, the warriors and shades, tartarus ( where the titans and powerful non - mortal enemies of the olympians reside ) where he can hear the groans of the imprisoned, the palace of pluto, and the fields of elysium where the descendants of the divine and bravest heroes reside. he sees the river of forgetfulness, lethe, which the dead must drink to forget their life and begin anew. lastly, his father shows him all of the future heroes of rome who will live if aeneas fulfills his destiny in founding the city. other eschatological views populate the ancient - greek worldview. for instance, plato argued for reincarnation in several dialogues, including the timaeus. norse religion the poetic and prose eddas, the oldest sources for information on the norse concept of the afterlife, vary in their description of the several realms that are described as falling under this topic. the most well - known are : valhalla : ( lit. " hall of the slain " i. e. " the chosen ones " ) half the warriors who die in battle join the god odin who rules over a majestic hall called valhalla in asgard. folkvangr : ( lit. " field of the host " ) the other half join the goddess freyja in a great meadow known as folkvangr. niflhel : ( lit. " the dark " or " misty hel " ). niflhel is believed to be a place of punishment, where the oathbreakers and other wicked people go. hel : ( lit. " the covered hall " ). hel was the daughter of god loki and her kingdom was located in downward and northward. snorri sturluson ' s gylfaginning tells of evil men going to niflhel via hel. abrahamic religions judaism sheol sheol, in the hebrew bible, is a place of darkness ( job x. 21, 22 ) to which all the dead go, both the righteous and the unrighteous, regardless of the moral choices made in life, ( gen. xxxvii. 36 ; ezek. xxxii. ; isa. xiv. ; job xx