abortion is the termination of a pregnancy by removal or expulsion of an embryo or fetus. an abortion that occurs without intervention is known as a miscarriage or " spontaneous abortion " ; these occur in approximately 30 % to 40 % of all pregnancies. when deliberate steps are taken to end a pregnancy, it is called an induced abortion, or less frequently " induced miscarriage ". the unmodified word abortion generally refers to an induced abortion. the reasons why women have abortions are diverse and vary across the world. reasons include maternal health, an inability to afford a child, domestic violence, lack of support, feeling they are too young, wishing to complete education or advance a career, and not being able or willing to raise a child conceived as a result of rape or incest. when done legally in industrialized societies, induced abortion is one of the safest procedures in medicine. in the united states, the risk of maternal mortality is 14 times lower after induced abortion than after childbirth. unsafe abortions — those performed by people lacking the necessary skills, or in inadequately resourced settings — are responsible for between 5 - 13 % of maternal deaths, especially in the developing world. however, medication abortions that are self - managed are highly effective and safe throughout the first trimester. public health data shows that making safe abortion legal and accessible reduces maternal deaths. modern methods use medication or surgery for abortions. the drug mifepristone in combination with prostaglandin appears to be as safe and effective as surgery during the first and second trimesters of pregnancy. the most common surgical technique involves dilating the cervix and using a suction device. birth control, such as the pill or intrauterine devices, can be used immediately following abortion. when performed legally and safely on a woman who desires it, induced abortions do not increase the risk of long - term mental or physical problems. in contrast, unsafe abortions performed by unskilled individuals, with hazardous equipment, or in unsanitary facilities cause between 22, 000 and 44, 000 deaths and 6. 9 million hospital admissions each year. the world health organization states that " access to legal, safe and comprehensive abortion care, including post - abortion care, is essential for the attainment of the highest possible level of sexual and reproductive health ". historically, abortions have been attempted using herbal medicines, sharp tools, forceful massage, or other traditional methods. around 73 million abortions are performed each year in the world, with about