is the smallest algebraically - closed field containing the rationals and so it is called the algebraic closure of the rationals. the set of real algebraic numbers itself forms a field. related fields numbers defined by radicals any number that can be obtained from the integers using a finite number of additions, subtractions, multiplications, divisions, and taking ( possibly complex ) th roots where is a positive integer are algebraic. the converse, however, is not true : there are algebraic numbers that cannot be obtained in this manner. these numbers are roots of polynomials of degree 5 or higher, a result of galois theory ( see quintic equations and the abel – ruffini theorem ). for example, the equation : has a unique real root that cannot be expressed in terms of only radicals and arithmetic operations. closed - form number algebraic numbers are all numbers that can be defined explicitly or implicitly in terms of polynomials, starting from the rational numbers. one may generalize this to " closed - form numbers ", which may be defined in various ways. most broadly, all numbers that can be defined explicitly or implicitly in terms of polynomials, exponentials, and logarithms are called " elementary numbers ", and these include the algebraic numbers, plus some transcendental numbers. most narrowly, one may consider numbers explicitly defined in terms of polynomials, exponentials, and logarithms – this does not include all algebraic numbers, but does include some simple transcendental numbers such as or ln 2. algebraic integers an algebraic integer is an algebraic number that is a root of a polynomial with integer coefficients with leading coefficient 1 ( a monic polynomial ). examples of algebraic integers are and therefore, the algebraic integers constitute a proper superset of the integers, as the latter are the roots of monic polynomials for all. in this sense, algebraic integers are to algebraic numbers what integers are to rational numbers. the sum, difference and product of algebraic integers are again algebraic integers, which means that the algebraic integers form a ring. the name algebraic integer comes from the fact that the only rational numbers that are algebraic integers are the integers, and because the algebraic integers in any number field are in many ways analogous to the integers. if is a number field, its ring of integers is the subring of algebraic integers in, and is frequently denoted as. these are the prototypical examples of dedekind domains. special classes algebraic solution gaussian integer eisenstein integer quadratic irrational number fundamental unit root of unity gaussian period piso