##t — fighting at the behest of eugenius — at the battle of frigidus. despite sacrificing around 10, 000 of his men, who had been victims of theodosius ' callous tactical decision to overwhelm the enemies front lines using gothic foederati, alaric received little recognition from the emperor. alaric was among the few who survived the protracted and bloody affair. many romans considered it their " gain " and a victory that so many goths had died during the battle of frigidus river. alaric biographer douglas boin ( 2020 ) posited that seeing ten thousand of his ( alaric ' s ) dead kinsmen likely elicited questions about what kind of ruler theodosius actually had been and whether remaining in direct roman service was best for men like him. refused the reward he expected, which included a promotion to the position of magister militum and command of regular roman units, alaric mutinied and began to march against constantinople. on 17 january 395, theodosius died of an illness, leaving his two young and incapable sons arcadius and honorius in stilicho ' s guardianship. modern writers regard alaric as king of the visigoths from 395. according to historian peter heather, it is not entirely clear in the sources if alaric rose to prominence at the time the goths revolted following theodosius ' s death, or if he had already risen within his tribe as early as the war against eugenius. whatever the circumstances, jordanes recorded that the new king persuaded his people to " seek a kingdom by their own exertions rather than serve others in idleness. " semi - independent action in eastern roman interests, eastern roman recognition whether or not alaric was a member of an ancient germanic royal clan — as claimed by jordanes and debated by historians — is less important than his emergence as a leader, the first of his kind since fritigern. theodosius ' s death left the roman field armies collapsing and the empire divided again between his two sons, one taking the eastern and the other the western portion of the empire. stilicho made himself master of the west and attempted to establish control in the east as well, and led an army into greece. alaric rebelled again. historian roger collins points out that while the rivalries created by the two halves of the empire vying for power worked to alaric ' s advantage and that of his people, simply being called to