the atlantic ocean is the second - largest of the world ' s five oceans, with an area of about. it covers approximately 17 % of earth ' s surface and about 24 % of its water surface area. it is known to separate the " old world " of africa, europe, and asia from the " new world " of the americas in the european perception of the world. through its separation of europe, africa, and asia from the americas, the atlantic ocean has played a central role in the development of human society, globalization, and the histories of many nations. while the norse were the first known humans to cross the atlantic, it was the expedition of christopher columbus in 1492 that proved to be the most consequential. columbus ' expedition ushered in an age of exploration and colonization of the americas by european powers, most notably portugal, spain, france, and the united kingdom. from the 16th to 19th centuries, the atlantic ocean was the center of both an eponymous slave trade and the columbian exchange while occasionally hosting naval battles. such naval battles, as well as growing trade from regional american powers like the united states and brazil, both increased in degree during the early 20th century, and while no major military conflicts took place in the atlantic in the present day, the ocean remains a core component of trade around the world. the atlantic ocean occupies an elongated, s - shaped basin extending longitudinally between europe and africa to the east, and the americas to the west. as one component of the interconnected world ocean, it is connected in the north to the arctic ocean, to the pacific ocean in the southwest, the indian ocean in the southeast, and the southern ocean in the south ( other definitions describe the atlantic as extending southward to antarctica ). the atlantic ocean is divided in two parts, the northern and southern atlantic, by the equator. toponymy the oldest known mentions of an " atlantic " sea come from stesichorus around mid - sixth century bc ( sch. a. r. 1. 211 ) : ( greek : ; english : ' the atlantic sea ' ; etym. ' sea of atlas ' ) and in the histories of herodotus around 450 bc ( hdt. 1. 202. 4 ) : ( greek : ; english : ' sea of atlas ' or ' the atlantic sea ' ) where the name refers to " the sea beyond the pillars of heracles " which is said to be part of the sea that surrounds all land. in these uses, the name refers to atlas, the titan in