spite of the fact that this plant does not lend itself to propagation from suckers or from cuttings, it could have been domesticated even before the introduction of grafting ". domesticated almonds appear in the early bronze age ( 3000 – 2000 bc ), such as the archaeological sites of numeira ( jordan ), or possibly earlier. another well - known archaeological example of the almond is the fruit found in tutankhamun ' s tomb in egypt ( c. 1325 bc ), probably imported from the levant. an article on almond tree cultivation in spain is brought down in ibn al - ' awwam ' s 12th - century agricultural work, book on agriculture. of the european countries that the royal botanic garden edinburgh reported as cultivating almonds, germany is the northernmost, though the domesticated form can be found as far north as iceland. varieties almond trees are small to medium sized but commercial cultivars can be grafted onto a different root - stock to produce smaller trees. varieties include : – originates in the 1800s. a large tree that produces large, smooth, thin - shelled almonds with 60 – 65 % edible kernel per nut. requires pollination from other almond varieties for good nut production. – originates in italy. has thicker, hairier shells with only 32 % of edible kernel per nut. the thicker shell gives some protection from pests such as the navel orangeworm. does not require pollination by other almond varieties. mariana – used as a rootstock to result in smaller trees breeding breeding programmes have found the high shell - seal trait. pollination the most widely planted varieties of almond are self - incompatible ; hence these trees require pollen from a tree with different genetic characters to produce seeds. almond orchards therefore must grow mixtures of almond varieties. in addition, the pollen is transferred from flower to flower by insects ; therefore commercial growers must ensure there are enough insects to perform this task. the large scale of almond production in the u. s. creates a significant problem of providing enough pollinating insects. additional pollinating insects are therefore brought to the trees. the pollination of california ' s almonds is the largest annual managed pollination event in the world, with 1. 4 million hives ( nearly half of all beehives in the us ) being brought to the almond orchards each february. much of the supply of bees is managed by pollination brokers, who contract with migratory beekeepers from at least 49 states for the event. this business was heavily affected by colony collapse disorder at