' s museum of modern art hosted a symposium on pop art, during which artists such as warhol were attacked for " capitulating " to consumerism. critics were appalled by warhol ' s open acceptance of market culture, which set the tone for his reception. in early 1963, warhol rented his first studio, an old firehouse at 159 east 87th street. at this studio, he created his elvis series, which included eight elvises ( 1963 ) and triple elvis ( 1963 ). these portraits along with a series of elizabeth taylor portraits were shown at his second exhibition at the ferus gallery in los angeles. later that year, warhol relocated his studio to east 47th street, which would turn into the factory. the factory became a popular gathering spot for a wide range of artists, writers, musicians, and underground celebrities. warhol had his second exhibition at the stable gallery in the spring of 1964, which featured sculptures of commercial boxes stacked and scattered throughout the space to resemble a warehouse. for the exhibition, warhol custom ordered wooden boxes and silkscreened graphics onto them. the sculptures — brillo box, del monte peach box, heinz tomato ketchup box, kellogg ' s cornflakes box, campbell ' s tomato juice box, and mott ' s apple juice box — sold for $ 200 to $ 400 depending on the size of the box. a pivotal event was the american supermarket exhibition at paul bianchini ' s upper east side gallery in the fall of 1964. the show was presented as a typical small supermarket environment, except that everything in it — from the produce, canned goods, meat, posters on the wall, etc. — was created by prominent pop artists of the time, among them sculptor claes oldenburg, mary inman and bob watts. warhol designed a $ 12 paper shopping bag — plain white with a red campbell ' s soup can. his painting of a can of a campbell ' s soup cost $ 1, 500 while each autographed can sold for 3 for $ 18, $ 6. 50 each. the exhibit was one of the first mass events that directly confronted the general public with both pop art and the perennial question of what art is. in 1967 warhol established factory additions for his printmaking and publishing enterprise. as an advertisement illustrator in the 1950s, warhol used assistants to increase his productivity. collaboration would remain a defining ( and controversial ) aspect of his working methods throughout his career ; this was particularly true in the 1960s. one of the most important collaborators