in un - homeric style, comparing helen of troy unfavourably with thetis, the mother of achilles. a drinking poem ( fr. 346 ) the following verses demonstrate some key characteristics of the alcaic style ( square brackets indicate uncertainties in the ancient text ) : the greek meter here is relatively simple, comprising the greater asclepiad, adroitly used to convey, for example, the rhythm of jostling cups ( ). the language of the poem is typically direct and concise and comprises short sentences — the first line is in fact a model of condensed meaning, comprising an exhortation ( " let ' s drink! " ), a rhetorical question ( " why are we waiting for the lamps? " ) and a justifying statement ( " only an inch of daylight left " ). the meaning is clear and uncomplicated, the subject is drawn from personal experience, and there is an absence of poetic ornament, such as simile or metaphor. like many of his poems ( e. g., frs. 38, 326, 338, 347, 350 ), it begins with a verb ( in this case " let ' s drink! " ) and it includes a proverbial expression ( " only an inch of daylight left " ) though it is possible that he coined it himself. a hymn ( fr. 34 ) alcaeus rarely used metaphor or simile and yet he had a fondness for the allegory of the storm - tossed ship of state. the following fragment of a hymn to castor and polydeuces ( the dioscuri ) is possibly another example of this though some scholars interpret it instead as a prayer for a safe voyage. the poem was written in sapphic stanzas, a verse form popularly associated with his compatriot, sappho, but in which he too excelled, here paraphrased in english to suggest the same rhythms. there were probably another three stanzas in the original poem but only nine letters of them remain. the ' far - away light ' ( ) is a reference to st. elmo ' s fire, an electrical discharge supposed by ancient greek mariners to be an epiphany of the dioscuri, but the meaning of the line was obscured by gaps in the papyrus until reconstructed by a modern scholar ; such reconstructions are typical of the extant poetry ( see scholars, fragments and sources below ). this poem does not begin with a verb but with an