of mexico. as early as 1824, jackson had expressed a desire to acquire the region for the united states. in 1829, he attempted to purchase it, but mexico did not want to sell. by 1830, there were twice as many settlers from the united states as from mexico, leading to tensions with the mexican government that started the texas revolution. during the conflict, jackson covertly allowed the settlers to obtain weapons and money from the united states. they defeated the mexican military in april 1836 and soon afterward declared the region an independent country, the republic of texas. the new republic asked jackson to recognize and annex it. although jackson wanted to do so, he was hesitant because he was unsure it could maintain independence from mexico. he also was concerned because texas had legalized slavery, which was an issue that could divide the democrats during the 1836 election. jackson recognized the republic of texas on the last full day of his presidency, march 3, 1837. judicial appointments jackson appointed six justices to the supreme court. most were undistinguished. jackson nominated roger b. taney in january 1835 to the court in reward for his services, but the nomination failed to win senate approval. when chief justice marshall died in 1835, jackson nominated taney for chief justice ; he was confirmed by the new senate, serving as chief justice until 1864. he was regarded with respect during his career on the bench, but he is most remembered for his decision in dred scott v. sandford. states admitted to the union two new states were admitted into the union during jackson ' s presidency : arkansas ( june 15, 1836 ) and michigan ( january 26, 1837 ). both states increased democratic power in congress and helped van buren win the presidency in 1836, as new states tended to support the party that had done the most to admit them. later life and death ( 1837 – 1845 ) in 1837, jackson retired to the hermitage and immediately began putting its affairs in order, as it had been poorly managed in his absence. though jackson was in ill health and had lost some of his popularity because he was blamed for the panic of 1837, he remained influential in national and state politics. jackson supported an independent treasury system as a solution to the panic, which would hold the money balances of the government in the form of gold or silver and would be restricted from printing paper money to prevent further inflation. this system was implemented in 1846. the depression still continued, and van buren became unpopular. the whig party nominated war hero william henry harrison and former democrat john tyler for the 1840 presidential