, and majorana. einstein described schopenhauer ' s thoughts as a " continual consolation " and called him a genius. in his berlin study three figures hung on the wall : faraday, maxwell, schopenhauer. konrad wachsmann recalled : " he often sat with one of the well - worn schopenhauer volumes, and as he sat there, he seemed so pleased, as if he were engaged with a serene and cheerful work. " when erwin schrodinger discovered schopenhauer ( " the greatest savant of the west " ) he considered switching his study of physics to philosophy. he maintained the idealistic views during the rest of his life. wolfgang pauli accepted the main tenet of schopenhauer ' s metaphysics, that the thing - in - itself is will. but most of all schopenhauer is famous for his influence on artists. richard wagner became one of the earliest and most famous adherents of the schopenhauerian philosophy. the admiration was not mutual, and schopenhauer proclaimed : " i remain faithful to rossini and mozart! " so he has been nicknamed " the artist ' s philosopher ". see also influence of schopenhauer on tristan und isolde. under the influence of schopenhauer, leo tolstoy became convinced that the truth of all religions lies in self - renunciation. when he read schopenhauer ' s philosophy, tolstoy exclaimed " at present i am convinced that schopenhauer is the greatest genius among men.... it is the whole world in an incomparably beautiful and clear reflection. " he said that what he has written in war and peace is also said by schopenhauer in the world as will and representation. jorge luis borges remarked that the reason he had never attempted to write a systematic account of his world view, despite his penchant for philosophy and metaphysics in particular, was because schopenhauer had already written it for him. other figures in literature who were strongly influenced by schopenhauer were thomas mann, thomas hardy, afanasy fet, j. - k. huysmans and george santayana. in herman melville ' s final years, while he wrote billy budd, he read schopenhauer ' s essays and marked them heavily. scholar brian yothers notes that melville " marked numerous misanthropic and even suicidal remarks, suggesting an attraction to the most extreme sorts of solitude, but he