western periphery of the pearl river watershed of lingnan, which would have been either a coastal route down the coast of vietnam, or downstream through the mekong river via yunnan. both the reconstructed lexicon of proto - austroasiatic and the archaeological record clearly show that early austroasiatic speakers around 4, 000 b. p. cultivated rice and millet, kept livestock such as dogs, pigs, and chickens, and thrived mostly in estuarine rather than coastal environments. at 4, 500 b. p., this " neolithic package " suddenly arrived in indochina from the lingnan area without cereal grains and displaced the earlier pre - neolithic hunter - gatherer cultures, with grain husks found in northern indochina by 4, 100 b. p. and in southern indochina by 3, 800 b. p. however, sidwell ( 2015c ) found that iron is not reconstructable in proto - austroasiatic, since each austroasiatic branch has different terms for iron that had been borrowed relatively lately from tai, chinese, tibetan, malay, and other languages. during the iron age about 2, 500 b. p., relatively young austroasiatic branches in indochina such as vietic, katuic, pearic, and khmer were formed, while the more internally diverse bahnaric branch ( dating to about 3, 000 b. p. ) underwent more extensive internal diversification. by the iron age, all of the austroasiatic branches were more or less in their present - day locations, with most of the diversification within austroasiatic taking place during the iron age. paul sidwell ( 2018 ) considers the austroasiatic language family to have rapidly diversified around 4, 000 years b. p. during the arrival of rice agriculture in indochina, but notes that the origin of proto - austroasiatic itself is older than that date. the lexicon of proto - austroasiatic can be divided into an early and late stratum. the early stratum consists of basic lexicon including body parts, animal names, natural features, and pronouns, while the names of cultural items ( agriculture terms and words for cultural artifacts, which are reconstructible in proto - austroasiatic ) form part of the later stratum. roger blench ( 2017 ) suggests that vocabulary related to aquatic subsistence strategies ( such as boats, waterways, river fauna, and fish capture techniques ) can be reconstructed for proto - austroasiatic. blench ( 2017 ) finds widespread austroasiatic roots for '