alexander graham bell (, born alexander bell ; march 3, 1847 – august 2, 1922 ) was a scottish - born inventor, scientist and engineer who is credited with patenting the first practical telephone. he also co - founded the american telephone and telegraph company ( at & t ) in 1885. bell ' s father, grandfather, and brother had all been associated with work on elocution and speech, and both his mother and wife were deaf ; profoundly influencing bell ' s life ' s work. his research on hearing and speech further led him to experiment with hearing devices which eventually culminated in bell being awarded the first u. s. patent for the telephone, on march 7, 1876. bell considered his invention an intrusion on his real work as a scientist and refused to have a telephone in his study. many other inventions marked bell ' s later life, including groundbreaking work in optical telecommunications, hydrofoils, and aeronautics. bell also had a strong influence on the national geographic society and its magazine while serving as the second president from january 7, 1898, until 1903. beyond his work in engineering, bell had a deep interest in the emerging science of heredity. his work in this area has been called " the soundest, and most useful study of human heredity proposed in nineteenth - century america... bell ' s most notable contribution to basic science, as distinct from invention. " early life bell was born in edinburgh, scotland, on march 3, 1847. the family home was at south charlotte street, and has a stone inscription marking it as bell ' s birthplace. he had two brothers : melville james bell ( 1845 – 1870 ) and edward charles bell ( 1848 – 1867 ), both of whom would die of tuberculosis. his father was alexander melville bell, a phonetician, and his mother was eliza grace bell ( nee symonds ). born as just " alexander bell ", at age 10, he made a plea to his father to have a middle name like his two brothers. for his 11th birthday, his father acquiesced and allowed him to adopt the name " graham ", chosen out of respect for alexander graham, a canadian being treated by his father who had become a family friend. to close relatives and friends he remained " aleck ". bell and his siblings attended a presbyterian church in their youth. first invention as a child, bell displayed a curiosity about his world ; he gathered botanical specimens and ran experiments at an early age. his best friend was ben herdman, a neighbour whose family operated a flour mill