the type of case and the decision below, appellate review primarily consists of : an entirely new hearing ( a non trial de novo ) ; a hearing where the appellate court gives deference to factual findings of the lower court ; or review of particular legal rulings made by the lower court ( an appeal on the record ). bifurcation of civil and criminal appeals while many appellate courts have jurisdiction over all cases decided by lower courts, some systems have appellate courts divided by the type of jurisdiction they exercise. some jurisdictions have specialized appellate courts, such as the texas court of criminal appeals, which only hears appeals raised in criminal cases, and the u. s. court of appeals for the federal circuit, which has general jurisdiction but derives most of its caseload from patent cases, on one hand, and appeals from the court of federal claims on the other. in the united states, alabama, tennessee, and oklahoma also have separate courts of criminal appeals. texas and oklahoma have the final determination of criminal cases vested in their respective courts of criminal appeals, while alabama and tennessee allow decisions of its court of criminal appeals to be finally appealed to the state supreme court. courts of criminal appeals civilian court of criminal appeal ( england and wales ), abolished 1966 court of criminal appeal ( ireland ), abolished 2014 u. s. states : alabama court of criminal appeals oklahoma court of criminal appeals tennessee court of criminal appeals texas court of criminal appeals military united states army court of criminal appeals navy - marine corps court of criminal appeals ( united states ) coast guard court of criminal appeals ( united states ) air force court of criminal appeals ( united states ) courts of civil appeals alabama court of civil appeals oklahoma court of civil appeals appellate courts by country australia the high court has appellate jurisdiction over all other courts. leave must be granted by the court, before the appeal matter is heard. the high court is paramount to all federal courts. further, it has an constitutionally entrenched general power of appeal from the supreme courts of the states and territories. appeals to the high court are by special leave only, which is generally only granted in cases of public importance, matters involving the interpretation of the commonwealth constitution, or where the law has been inconsistently applied across the states and territories. [ 19 ] therefore, in the vast majority of cases, the appellate divisions of the supreme courts of each state and territory and the federal court are the final courts of appeal. new zealand the court of appeal of new zealand, located in wellington, is new zealand ' s principal intermediate appellate court. in practice, most appeals