the athens metro system, and the new attiki odos motorway. transport athens is the country ' s major transportation hub. the city has greece ' s largest airport and its largest port ; piraeus, too, is the largest container transport port in the mediterranean, and the largest passenger port in europe. athens is a major national hub for intercity ( ktel ) and international buses, as well as for domestic and international rail transport. public transport is serviced by a variety of transportation means, making up the country ' s largest mass transit system. transport for athens operates a large bus and trolleybus fleet, the city ' s metro, a suburban railway service and a tram network, connecting the southern suburbs to the city centre. bus transport osy ( ) ( odikes sygkoinonies s. a. ), a subsidiary company of oasa ( athens urban transport organisation ), is the main operator of buses and trolleybuses in athens. as of 2017, its network consists of around 322 bus lines, spanning the athens metropolitan area, and making up a fleet of 2, 375 buses and trolleybuses. of those 2, 375, 619 buses run on compressed natural gas, making up the largest fleet of natural gas - powered buses in europe, and 354 are electric - powered ( trolleybuses ). all of the 354 trolleybuses are equipped to run on diesel in case of power failure. international links are provided by a number of private companies. national and regional bus links are provided by ktel from two intercity bus terminals ; kifissos bus terminal a and liosion bus terminal b, both located in the north - western part of the city. kifissos provides connections towards peloponnese, north greece, west greece and some ionian islands, whereas liosion is used for most of central greece. railways athens is the hub of the country ' s national railway system ( ose ), connecting the capital with major cities across greece and abroad ( istanbul, sofia, belgrade and bucharest ). the athens suburban railway, referred to as the proastiakos, connects athens international airport to the city of kiato, west of athens, via larissa station, the city ' s central rail station and the port of piraeus. the length of athens ' s commuter rail network extends to, and is expected to stretch to by 2010. the athens metro is operated by stasy s. a. ( ) ( statheres sygkoinonies s. a.