##ic in some positions ; occurs in most of the levant and most of north africa ; and is standard in egypt, coastal yemen, as well as eastern and coastal western oman. generally this corresponds with the pronunciation in the colloquial dialects. in sudan and yemen, as well as in some sudanese and yemeni varieties, it may be either or, representing the original pronunciation of classical arabic. foreign words containing may be transcribed with,,,,, or, depending on the regional practice. in northern egypt, where the arabic letter ( ) is normally pronounced, a separate phoneme, which may be transcribed with, occurs in a small number of mostly non - arabic loanwords, e. g., ' jacket '. ( ) can be pronounced as. in some places of maghreb it can be also pronounced as. and ( ) are velar, post - velar, or uvular. in many varieties, ( ) are epiglottal in west asia. is pronounced as velarized in الله, the name of god, q. e. allah, when the word follows a, a, u or u ( after i or i it is unvelarized : bismi l – lah ). the emphatic consonant was actually pronounced, or possibly — either way, a highly unusual sound. the medieval arabs actually termed their language ' the language of the dad ' ( the name of the letter used for this sound ), since they thought the sound was unique to their language. ( in fact, it also exists in a few other minority semitic languages, e. g., mehri. ) arabic has consonants traditionally termed " emphatic " ( ), which exhibit simultaneous pharyngealization as well as varying degrees of velarization ( depending on the region ), so they may be written with the " velarized or pharyngealized " diacritic ( ) as :. this simultaneous articulation is described as " retracted tongue root " by phonologists. in some transcription systems, emphasis is shown by capitalizing the letter, for example, is written ; in others the letter is underlined or has a dot below it, for example,. vowels and consonants can be phonologically short or long. long ( geminate ) consonants are normally written doubled in latin transcription ( i. e. bb, dd, etc. ), reflecting the presence of the arabic diacritic mark, which indicates doubled consonants. in actual pronunciation, doubled