. the khanashin carbonatite in helmand province contains of rare earth elements. in 2007, a 30 - year lease was granted for the aynak copper mine to the china metallurgical group for $ 3 billion, making it the biggest foreign investment and private business venture in afghanistan ' s history. the state - run steel authority of india won the mining rights to develop the huge hajigak iron ore deposit in central afghanistan. government officials estimate that 30 % of the country ' s untapped mineral deposits are worth at least. one official asserted that " this will become the backbone of the afghan economy " and a pentagon memo stated that afghanistan could become the " saudi arabia of lithium ". the lithium reserves of 21 mio. tons could amount to the ones of bolivia, which is currently viewed as the country with the largest lithium reserves. other larger deposits are the ones of bauxite and cobalt. access to biocapacity in afghanistan is lower than world average. in 2016, afghanistan had 0. 43 global hectares of biocapacity per person within its territory, much less than the world average of 1. 6 global hectares per person. in 2016 afghanistan used 0. 73 global hectares of biocapacity per person - their ecological footprint of consumption. this means they use just under double as much biocapacity as afghanistan contains. as a result, afghanistan is running a biocapacity deficit. infrastructure energy according to the world bank, 98 % of the rural population have access to electricity in 2018, up from 28 % in 2008. overall the figure stands at 98. 7 %. as of 2016, afghanistan produces 1, 400 megawatts of power, but still imports the majority of electricity via transmission lines from iran and the central asian states. the majority of electricity production is via hydropower, helped by the amount of rivers and streams that flow from the mountains. however electricity is not always reliable and blackouts happen, including in kabul. in recent years an increasing number of solar, biomass and wind power plants have been constructed. currently under development are the casa - 1000 project which will transmit electricity from kyrgyzstan and tajikistan, and the turkmenistan - afghanistan - pakistan - india ( tapi ) gas pipeline. power is managed by the da afghanistan breshna sherkat ( dabs, afghanistan electricity company ). important dams include the kajaki dam, dahla dam, and the sardeh band dam. tourism tourism is a small industry in afghanistan due to security issues. nevertheless, some 20,