is alfred ’ s name which is attached to the text. he is recalled as both a scholar – able to translate ancient privileges from english into latin – and as a historian, the collector and redactor of oral traditions. historical value the long neglect in historical scholarship of alfred ’ s history ( until recently available only in its poor early eighteenth century edition ) may be explained by the work ’ s reputation for unoriginality. the editor of the monumenta historica britannica ( 1848 ), henry petrie, described the work as not containing ‘ a single fact that may not be found in bede, florence of worcester, henry of huntingdon, geoffrey of monmouth and symeon of durham ’. [ 10 ] more recent commentators have variously described the work as a ‘ worthless compilation ’, [ 11 ] its author ‘ a dullard ’, [ 12 ] and uninformative. [ 13 ] while the work is certainly derivative - some ninety percent is compiled from the works of others [ 14 ] – it is neither unoriginal nor uninformative. the repackaging of geoffrey of monmouth ’ s pseudo - history is innovative and created a periodization of the rule of the british kings which was later taken over by ranulf higden in his influential universal chronicle, polychronicon ( c. 1320s – 1360s ). from john trevisa ’ s english translation of higden ’ s work ( 1387 ) [ 15 ] it passed to william caxton ’ s printed descripcion of brytayne ( 1480 ) and from thence into tudor historiography. [ 16 ] chapter six of the work sees borrowings which are skilfully woven together to provide an independent account. several sources : geoffrey of monmouth, bede, henry of huntingdon, john of worcester and symeon of durham are quarried to narrate two important turning points in the island ’ s history : the ‘ passage of dominion ’ from the british to the anglo - saxon kings on the island, and the transition from a heptarchy of anglo - saxon kingdoms to the monarchy of england under the west saxon kings. borrowings from henry of huntingdon ’ s ha, the chronicle of john of worcester and the durham hr contain information of interest to the historical student. further evidence for the collaborative and exchange culture in english historical writing in the first half of the twelfth century is provided. the sharing of texts and mutual borrowing that existed between centres of benedictine historical writing at the time