the newly developed craft, artistic work became again possible, chiefly by volterran sculptor albino funaioli. after a short slump, the industry was revived again by the sale of mass - produced mannerist expressionist sculptures, and was further enhanced in the 1920s by a new branch creating ceiling and wall lamps in the art deco style and culminating in the participation at the 1925 international exposition of modern industrial and decorative arts from paris. important names from the evolution of alabaster use after world war ii are volterran umberto borgna, the " first alabaster designer ", and later on the architect and industrial designer angelo mangiarotti. england and wales gypsum alabaster is a common mineral, which occurs in england in the keuper marls of the midlands, especially at chellaston in derbyshire, at fauld in staffordshire, and near newark in nottinghamshire. deposits at all of these localities have been worked extensively. in the 14th and 15th centuries its carving into small statues and sets of relief panels for altarpieces was a valuable local industry in nottingham, as well as a major english export. these were usually painted, or partly painted. it was also used for the effigies, often life size, on tomb monuments, as the typical recumbent position suited the material ' s lack of strength, and it was cheaper and easier to work than good marble. after the english reformation the making of altarpiece sets was discontinued, but funerary monument work in reliefs and statues continued. besides examples of these carvings still in britain ( especially at the nottingham castle museum, british museum, and victoria and albert museum ), trade in mineral alabaster ( rather than just the antiques trade ) has scattered examples in the material that may be found as far afield as the musee de cluny, spain, and scandinavia. alabaster also is found, although in smaller quantity, at watchet in somerset, near penarth in glamorganshire, and elsewhere. in cumbria it occurs largely in the new red rocks, but at a lower geological horizon. the alabaster of nottinghamshire and derbyshire is found in thick nodular beds or " floors " in spheroidal masses known as " balls " or " bowls " and in smaller lenticular masses termed " cakes ". at chellaston, where the local alabaster is known as " patrick ", it has been worked into ornaments under the name of " derbyshire spar " ― a term more properly applied to fluorspar. black ala