rod stewart also recorded " amazing grace " around the same time, and both of their renditions were popular. all four versions were marketed to distinct types of audiences, thereby assuring its place as a pop song. johnny cash recorded it on his 1975 album sings precious memories, dedicating it to his older brother jack, who had been killed in a mill accident when they were boys in dyess, arkansas. cash and his family sang it to themselves while they worked in the cotton fields following jack ' s death. cash often included the song when he toured prisons, saying " for the three minutes that song is going on, everybody is free. it just frees the spirit and frees the person. " the u. s. library of congress has a collection of 3, 000 versions of and songs inspired by " amazing grace ", some of which were first - time recordings by folklorists alan and john lomax, a father and son team who in 1932 travelled thousands of miles across the southern states of the us to capture the different regional styles of the song. more contemporary renditions include samples from such popular artists as sam cooke and the soul stirrers ( 1963 ), the byrds ( 1970 ), elvis presley ( 1971 ), skeeter davis ( 1972 ), mighty clouds of joy ( 1972 ), amazing rhythm aces ( 1975 ), willie nelson ( 1976 ) and the lemonheads ( 1992 ). in american popular culture " amazing grace " is an icon in american culture that has been used for a variety of secular purposes and marketing campaigns. it is referenced in the 2006 film amazing grace, which highlights newton ' s influence on the leading british abolitionist william wilberforce, in the film biography of newton, newton ' s grace, and the 2014 film freedom which tells the story of newton ' s composition of the hymn. since 1954, when an organ instrumental of " new britain " became a best - seller, " amazing grace " has been associated with funerals and memorial services. the hymn has become a song that inspires hope in the wake of tragedy, becoming a sort of " spiritual national anthem " according to authors mary rourke and emily gwathmey. for example, president barack obama recited and later sang the hymn at the memorial service for clementa pinckney, who was one of the nine victims of the charleston church shooting in 2015. modern interpretations in recent years, the words of the hymn have been changed in some religious publications to downplay a sense of imposed self - loathing by its singers.