##s which he promised. j. j. bellermann thinks it is a compound of the egyptian words and, meaning " the honorable and hallowed word ", or " the word is adorable ". samuel sharpe finds in it an egyptian invocation to the godhead, meaning " hurt me not ". hebrew abraham geiger sees in it a grecized form of, " the blessing ", a meaning which charles william king declares philologically untenable. j. b. passerius derives it from, " father ",, " to create ", and negative — " the uncreated father ". giuseppe barzilai goes back for explanation to the first verse of the prayer attributed to nehunya ben hakanah, the literal rendering of which is " o [ god ], with thy mighty right hand deliver the unhappy [ people ] ", forming from the initial and final letters of the words the word abrakd ( pronounced abrakad ), with the meaning " the host of the winged ones ", i. e., angels. while this theory can explain the mystic word abracadabra, the association of this phrase with abrasax is uncertain. greek wendelin discovers a compound of the initial letters, amounting to 365 in numerical value, of four hebrew and three greek words, all written with greek characters : ( " father, son, spirit, holy ; salvation from the cross " ). according to a note of isaac de beausobre ' s, jean hardouin accepted the first three of these, taking the four others for the initials of the greek, " saving mankind by the holy cross ". isaac de beausobre derives abraxas from the greek and, " the beautiful, the glorious savior ". perhaps the word may be included among those mysterious expressions discussed by adolf von harnack, " which belong to no known speech, and by their singular collocation of vowels and consonants give evidence that they belong to some mystic dialect, or take their origin from some supposed divine inspiration ". the egyptian author of the book de mysteriis in reply to porphyry ( vii. 4 ) admits a preference of ' barbarous ' to vernacular names in sacred things, urging a peculiar sanctity in the languages of certain nations, as the egyptians and assyrians ; and origen ( contra cels. i. 24 ) refers to the ' potent names ' used by egyptian sages, persian magi, and indian brahmins,