##rates from october to march and from snow - melt from march to july. flood levels, that had been stable from about 3, 000 to 2, 600 bc, had started falling, and by the akkadian period were a half - meter to a meter lower than recorded previously. even so, the flat country and weather uncertainties made flooding much more unpredictable than in the case of the nile ; serious deluges seem to have been a regular occurrence, requiring constant maintenance of irrigation ditches and drainage systems. farmers were recruited into regiments for this work from august to october — a period of food shortage — under the control of city temple authorities, thus acting as a form of unemployment relief. gwendolyn leick has suggested that this was sargon ' s original employment for the king of kish, giving him experience in effectively organising large groups of men ; a tablet reads, " sargon, the king, to whom enlil permitted no rival — 5, 400 warriors ate bread daily before him ". harvest was in the late spring and during the dry summer months. nomadic amorites from the northwest would pasture their flocks of sheep and goats to graze on the crop residue and be watered from the river and irrigation canals. for this privilege, they would have to pay a tax in wool, meat, milk, and cheese to the temples, who would distribute these products to the bureaucracy and priesthood. in good years, all would go well, but in bad years, wild winter pastures would be in short supply, nomads would seek to pasture their flocks in the grain fields, and conflicts with farmers would result. it would appear that the subsidizing of southern populations by the import of wheat from the north of the empire temporarily overcame this problem, and it seems to have allowed economic recovery and a growing population within this region. foreign trade as a result, sumer and akkad had a surplus of agricultural products but was short of almost everything else, particularly metal ores, timber and building stone, all of which had to be imported. the spread of the akkadian state as far as the " silver mountain " ( possibly the taurus mountains ), the " cedars " of lebanon, and the copper deposits of magan, was largely motivated by the goal of securing control over these imports. one tablet, an old babylonian period copy of an original inscription, reads : international trade developed during the akkadian period. indus - mesopotamia relations also seem to have expanded : sargon of akkad (