the " second of the two in the cave " in reference to the event of hijra, where with muhammad he hid in the cave in jabal thawr from the meccan party that was sent after them. al - sahib he was honorably called " al - sahib " ( the companion ) in the qur ' an describing his role as a companion of the prophet muhammad when hiding from the quraysh in the jabal thawr cave during the hijra to medina : al - atqa in a hadith narrated by ibn abbas of the exegesis of chapter 92 of the qur ' an by imam al - suyuti we find the word " al - atqa " ( ), meaning " the most pious, " " the most righteous, " or " the most god - fearing, " is referring to abu bakr as an example for the believers. al - awwah " al - awwah " ( ) means someone who supplicates abundantly to god, someone who is merciful, and the gentle - hearted. ibrahim al - nakha ' i said that abu bakr has also been called al - awwah for his merciful character. early life abu bakr was born in mecca sometime in 573 ce, to a rich family in the banu taym tribe of the quraysh tribal confederacy. his father ' s name was uthman and given the kunya abu quhafa, and his mother was salma bint sakhar who was given the laqab of umm ul - khair. he spent his early childhood like other arab children of the time, among the bedouins who called themselves ahl - i - ba ' eer - the people of the camel, and developed a particular fondness for camels. in his early years he played with the camel calves and goats, and his love for camels earned him the nickname ( kunya ) " abu bakr ", the father of the camel ' s calf. like other children of the rich meccan merchant families, abu bakr was literate and developed a fondness for poetry. he used to attend the annual fair at ukaz, and participate in poetical symposia. he had a very good memory and had a good knowledge of the genealogy of the arab tribes, their stories and their politics. a story is preserved that once when he was a child, his father took him to the kaaba, and asked him to pray before the idols. his father went away