##dine under these conditions can act both as a brønsted acid and a base. isoelectric point for amino acids with uncharged side - chains the zwitterion predominates at ph values between the two pka values, but coexists in equilibrium with small amounts of net negative and net positive ions. at the midpoint between the two pka values, the trace amount of net negative and trace of net positive ions balance, so that average net charge of all forms present is zero. this ph is known as the isoelectric point pi, so pi = ( pka1 + pka2 ). for amino acids with charged side chains, the pka of the side chain is involved. thus for aspartate or glutamate with negative side chains, the terminal amino group is essentially entirely in the charged form, but this positive charge needs to be balanced by the state with just one c - terminal carboxylate group is negatively charged. this occurs halfway between the two carboxylate pka values : pi = ( pka1 + pka ( r ) ), where pka ( r ) is the side chain pka. similar considerations apply to other amino acids with ionizable side - chains, including not only glutamate ( similar to aspartate ), but also cysteine, histidine, lysine, tyrosine and arginine with positive side chains. amino acids have zero mobility in electrophoresis at their isoelectric point, although this behaviour is more usually exploited for peptides and proteins than single amino acids. zwitterions have minimum solubility at their isoelectric point, and some amino acids ( in particular, with nonpolar side chains ) can be isolated by precipitation from water by adjusting the ph to the required isoelectric point. physicochemical properties the 20 canonical amino acids can be classified according to their properties. important factors are charge, hydrophilicity or hydrophobicity, size, and functional groups. these properties influence protein structure and protein – protein interactions. the water - soluble proteins tend to have their hydrophobic residues ( leu, ile, val, phe, and trp ) buried in the middle of the protein, whereas hydrophilic side chains are exposed to the aqueous solvent. ( in biochemistry, a residue refers to a specific monomer within the polymeric chain of a polysaccharide, protein or nucleic acid. ) the