day, and all cooperating to kill those 32 husbands in a single night ; or in combination with analysis of logistical realities, such as the suggested voyage of all 32 murderous widows to britain without dispersion or diversion, over three thousand miles. rastell was further able to discount the likelihood of any factuality to that ancient tale, due to his failure to discover after diligent research, any authentic record of its origin or explanation as to why such record should be absent. further reading one surviving version of the brut chronicle is a late middle ages manuscript, known as the st albans chronicle. medieval accounts snorri sturlason, in the prologue of the prose edda, tells of the world as parted in three continents : africa, asia and the third part called europe or enea. snorri also tells of a trojan named munon ( or mennon ), who marries the daughter of the high king ( yfirkonungr ) priam called troan and travels to distant lands, marries the sybil and got a son, tror, who, as snorri tells, is identical to thor. this tale resembles some episodes of the aeneid. continuations of trojan matter in the middle ages had their effects on the character of aeneas as well. the 12th - century french roman d ' eneas addresses aeneas ' s sexuality. though virgil appears to deflect all homoeroticism onto nisus and euryalus, making his aeneas a purely heterosexual character, in the middle ages there was at least a suspicion of homoeroticism in aeneas. the roman d ' eneas addresses that charge, when queen amata opposes aeneas ' s marrying lavinia. medieval interpretations of aeneas were greatly influenced by both virgil and other latin sources. specifically, the accounts by dares and dictys, which were reworked by the 13th - century italian writer guido delle colonne ( in historia destructionis troiae ), colored many later readings. from guido, for instance, the pearl poet and other english writers get the suggestion that aeneas ' s safe departure from troy with his possessions and family was a reward for treason, for which he was chastised by hecuba. in sir gawain and the green knight ( late 14th century ) the pearl poet, like many other english writers, employed aeneas to establish a genealogy for the foundation of britain, and explains that aeneas was " impeached for his perfidy