american sign language ( asl ) is a natural language that serves as the predominant sign language of deaf communities in the united states of america and most of anglophone canada. asl is a complete and organized visual language that is expressed by employing both manual and nonmanual features. besides north america, dialects of asl and asl - based creoles are used in many countries around the world, including much of west africa and parts of southeast asia. asl is also widely learned as a second language, serving as a lingua franca. asl is most closely related to french sign language ( lsf ). it has been proposed that asl is a creole language of lsf, although asl shows features atypical of creole languages, such as agglutinative morphology. asl originated in the early 19th century in the american school for the deaf ( asd ) in hartford, connecticut, from a situation of language contact. since then, asl use has been propagated widely by schools for the deaf and deaf community organizations. despite its wide use, no accurate count of asl users has been taken. reliable estimates for american asl users range from 250, 000 to 500, 000 persons, including a number of children of deaf adults and other hearing individuals. asl signs have a number of phonemic components, such as movement of the face, the torso, and the hands. asl is not a form of pantomime although iconicity plays a larger role in asl than in spoken languages. english loan words are often borrowed through fingerspelling, although asl grammar is unrelated to that of english. asl has verbal agreement and aspectual marking and has a productive system of forming agglutinative classifiers. many linguists believe asl to be a subject – verb – object language. however, there are several alternative proposals to account for asl word order. classification asl emerged as a language in the american school for the deaf ( asd ), founded by thomas gallaudet in 1817, which brought together old french sign language, various village sign languages, and home sign systems. asl was created in that situation by language contact. asl was influenced by its forerunners but distinct from all of them. the influence of french sign language ( lsf ) on asl is readily apparent ; for example, it has been found that about 58 % of signs in modern asl are cognate to old french sign language signs. however, that is far less than