each of the families that is written in boldface type below is accepted as a valid clade. by contrast, the relationships between these families within austroasiatic are debated. in addition to the traditional classification, two recent proposals are given, neither of which accepts traditional " mon – khmer " as a valid unit. however, little of the data used for competing classifications has ever been published, and therefore cannot be evaluated by peer review. in addition, there are suggestions that additional branches of austroasiatic might be preserved in substrata of acehnese in sumatra ( diffloth ), the chamic languages of vietnam, and the land dayak languages of borneo ( adelaar 1995 ). diffloth ( 1974 ) diffloth ' s widely cited original classification, now abandoned by diffloth himself, is used in encyclopædia britannica and — except for the breakup of southern mon – khmer — in ethnologue. munda north munda korku kherwarian south munda kharia – juang koraput munda mon – khmer eastern mon – khmer khmer ( cambodian ) pearic bahnaric katuic vietic ( vietnamese, muong ) northern mon – khmer khasi ( meghalaya, india ) palaungic khmuic southern mon – khmer mon aslian ( malaya ) nicobarese ( nicobar islands ) peiros ( 2004 ) peiros is a lexicostatistic classification, based on percentages of shared vocabulary. this means that languages can appear to be more distantly related than they actually are due to language contact. indeed, when sidwell ( 2009 ) replicated peiros ' s study with languages known well enough to account for loans, he did not find the internal ( branching ) structure below. nicobarese munda – khmer munda mon – khmer khasi nuclear mon – khmer mangic ( mang + palyu ) ( perhaps in northern mk ) vietic ( perhaps in northern mk ) northern mon – khmer palaungic khmuic central mon – khmer khmer dialects pearic asli - bahnaric aslian mon – bahnaric monic katu – bahnaric katuic bahnaric diffloth ( 2005 ) diffloth compares reconstructions of various clades, and attempts to classify them based on shared innovations, though like other classifications the evidence has not been published. as a schematic, we have : or in