the 13th century in romanesque and gothic style. it is smaller and less impressive, but it was the first cathedral of aarhus and founded on an even older church constructed in 1060 ; the oldest stone church in scandinavia. langelandsgade kaserne in national romantic style from 1889 is the oldest former military barracks left in the country ; home to the university department of aesthetics and communication since 1989. marselisborg palace ( marselisborg slot ), designed by hack kampmann in neoclassical and art nouveau styles, was donated by the city to prince christian and princess alexandrine as a wedding present in 1898. the aarhus custom house ( toldkammeret ) from 1898, is said to be hack kampmann ' s finest work. tivoli friheden ( tivoli freedom ) opened in 1903 and has since been the largest amusement park in the city and a tourist attraction. aarhus theatre from 1916 in the art nouveau style is the largest provincial theatre in denmark. the early buildings of aarhus university, especially the main building completed in 1932, designed by kay fisker, povl stegmann and by c. f. møller have gained an international reputation for their contribution to functionalist architecture. the city hall ( aarhus radhus ) from 1941 with an iconic tower clad in marble, was designed by arne jacobsen and erik møller in a modern functionalist style. culture aarhus is home to many annual cultural events and festivals, museums, theatres, and sports events of both national and international importance, and presents some of the largest cultural attractions in denmark. there is a long tradition of music from all genres, and many danish bands have emerged from aarhus. libraries, cultural centres and educational institutions present free or easy opportunities for the citizens to participate in, engage in, or be creative with cultural events and productions of all kinds. since 1938, aarhus has marketed itself as smilets by ( city of smiles ) which has become both an informal moniker and official slogan. in 2011, the city council opted to change the slogan to " aarhus. danish for progress " but it was unpopular and abandoned after just a few years. other slogans that have occasionally been used are byen ved havet ( city by the sea ), mellem bugt og bøgeskov ( between bay and beechwood ) and verdens mindste storby ( world ' s smallest big city ). aarhus is featured in popular songs such as hjem til aarhus by pa slaget 12, lav sol