, regardless of social status, included goods for the deceased. funerary texts were often included in the grave, and, beginning in the new kingdom, so were shabti statues that were believed to perform manual labor for them in the afterlife. rituals in which the deceased was magically re - animated accompanied burials. after burial, living relatives were expected to occasionally bring food to the tomb and recite prayers on behalf of the deceased. military the ancient egyptian military was responsible for defending egypt against foreign invasion, and for maintaining egypt ' s domination in the ancient near east. the military protected mining expeditions to the sinai during the old kingdom and fought civil wars during the first and second intermediate periods. the military was responsible for maintaining fortifications along important trade routes, such as those found at the city of buhen on the way to nubia. forts also were constructed to serve as military bases, such as the fortress at sile, which was a base of operations for expeditions to the levant. in the new kingdom, a series of pharaohs used the standing egyptian army to attack and conquer kush and parts of the levant. typical military equipment included bows and arrows, spears, and round - topped shields made by stretching animal skin over a wooden frame. in the new kingdom, the military began using chariots that had earlier been introduced by the hyksos invaders. weapons and armor continued to improve after the adoption of bronze : shields were now made from solid wood with a bronze buckle, spears were tipped with a bronze point, and the khopesh was adopted from asiatic soldiers. the pharaoh was usually depicted in art and literature riding at the head of the army ; it has been suggested that at least a few pharaohs, such as seqenenre tao ii and his sons, did do so. however, it has also been argued that " kings of this period did not personally act as frontline war leaders, fighting alongside their troops. " soldiers were recruited from the general population, but during, and especially after, the new kingdom, mercenaries from nubia, kush, and libya were hired to fight for egypt. technology, medicine and mathematics technology in technology, medicine, and mathematics, ancient egypt achieved a relatively high standard of productivity and sophistication. traditional empiricism, as evidenced by the edwin smith and ebers papyri ( ), is first credited to egypt. the egyptians created their own alphabet and decimal system. faience and glass even before the old kingdom, the ancient egyptians had developed a glassy material