editorial, solzhenitsyn was " choking with pathological hatred for the country where he was born and grew up, for the socialist system, and for soviet people. " during this period, he was sheltered by the cellist mstislav rostropovich, who suffered considerably for his support of solzhenitsyn and was eventually forced into exile himself. expulsion from the soviet union in a discussion of its options in dealing with solzhenitsyn, the members of the politburo considered his arrest and imprisonment and his expulsion to a capitalist country willing to take him. guided by kgb chief yuri andropov, and following a statement from west german chancellor willy brandt that solzhenitsyn could live and work freely in west germany, it was decided to deport the writer directly to that country. in the west on 12 february 1974, solzhenitsyn was arrested and deported the next day from the soviet union to frankfurt, west germany and stripped of his soviet citizenship. the kgb had found the manuscript for the first part of the gulag archipelago. u. s. military attache william odom managed to smuggle out a large portion of solzhenitsyn ' s archive, including the author ' s membership card for the writers ' union and his second world war military citations. solzhenitsyn paid tribute to odom ' s role in his memoir invisible allies ( 1995 ). in west germany, solzhenitsyn lived in heinrich boll ' s house in. he then moved to zurich, switzerland before stanford university invited him to stay in the united states to " facilitate your work, and to accommodate you and your family ". he stayed at the hoover tower, part of the hoover institution, before moving to cavendish, vermont, in 1976. he was given an honorary literary degree from harvard university in 1978 and on 8 june 1978 he gave a commencement address, condemning, among other things, the press, the lack of spirituality and traditional values, and the anthropocentrism of western culture. solzhenitsyn also received an honorary degree from the college of the holy cross in 1984. on 19 september 1974, yuri andropov approved a large - scale operation to discredit solzhenitsyn and his family and cut his communications with soviet dissidents. the plan was jointly approved by vladimir kryuchkov, philipp bobkov, and grigorenko ( heads of first, second and fifth kgb directorates ). the residencies in geneva,