##byce, syria ( modern manbij ), according to the treatise de dea syria, the sanctuary of the syrian goddess contained a robed and bearded image of apollo. divination was based on spontaneous movements of this image. at patara, in lycia, there was a seasonal winter oracle of apollo, said to have been the place where the god went from delos. as at delphi the oracle at patara was a woman. in segesta in sicily. oracles were also given by sons of apollo. in oropus, north of athens, the oracle amphiaraus, was said to be the son of apollo ; oropus also had a sacred spring. in labadea, east of delphi, trophonius, another son of apollo, killed his brother and fled to the cave where he was also afterwards consulted as an oracle. temples of apollo many temples were dedicated to apollo in greece and the greek colonies. they show the spread of the cult of apollo and the evolution of greek architecture, which was mostly based on the rightness of form and on mathematical relations. some of the earliest temples, especially in crete, do not belong to any greek order. it seems that the first peripteral temples were rectangular wooden structures. the different wooden elements were considered divine, and their forms were preserved in the marble or stone elements of the temples of doric order. the greeks used standard types because they believed that the world of objects was a series of typical forms which could be represented in several instances. the temples should be canonic, and the architects were trying to achieve this esthetic perfection. from the earliest times there were certain rules strictly observed in rectangular peripteral and prostyle buildings. the first buildings were built narrowly in order to hold the roof, and when the dimensions changed some mathematical relations became necessary in order to keep the original forms. this probably influenced the theory of numbers of pythagoras, who believed that behind the appearance of things there was the permanent principle of mathematics. the doric order dominated during the 6th and the 5th century bc but there was a mathematical problem regarding the position of the triglyphs, which couldn ' t be solved without changing the original forms. the order was almost abandoned for the ionic order, but the ionic capital also posed an insoluble problem at the corner of a temple. both orders were abandoned for the corinthian order gradually during the hellenistic age and under rome. the most important temples are : greek temples the