aoc is used. zf – zermelo – fraenkel set theory omitting the axiom of choice. zfc – zermelo – fraenkel set theory, extended to include the axiom of choice. variants there are many other equivalent statements of the axiom of choice. these are equivalent in the sense that, in the presence of other basic axioms of set theory, they imply the axiom of choice and are implied by it. one variation avoids the use of choice functions by, in effect, replacing each choice function with its range : given any set x of pairwise disjoint non - empty sets, there exists at least one set c that contains exactly one element in common with each of the sets in x. this guarantees for any partition of a set x the existence of a subset c of x containing exactly one element from each part of the partition. another equivalent axiom only considers collections x that are essentially powersets of other sets : for any set a, the power set of a ( with the empty set removed ) has a choice function. authors who use this formulation often speak of the choice function on a, but this is a slightly different notion of choice function. its domain is the power set of a ( with the empty set removed ), and so makes sense for any set a, whereas with the definition used elsewhere in this article, the domain of a choice function on a collection of sets is that collection, and so only makes sense for sets of sets. with this alternate notion of choice function, the axiom of choice can be compactly stated as every set has a choice function. which is equivalent to for any set a there is a function f such that for any non - empty subset b of a, f ( b ) lies in b. the negation of the axiom can thus be expressed as : there is a set a such that for all functions f ( on the set of non - empty subsets of a ), there is a b such that f ( b ) does not lie in b. restriction to finite sets the usual statement of the axiom of choice does not specify whether the collection of nonempty sets is finite or infinite, and thus implies that every finite collection of nonempty sets has a choice function. however, that particular case is a theorem of the zermelo – fraenkel set theory without the axiom of choice ( zf ) ; it is easily proved by the principle of finite induction. in the even simpler case of