. they both united on the day the walls of troy were built. she bore to apollo a son, whom apollo named ileus, after the city of his birth, ilion ( troy ). ileus was very dear to apollo. thero, daughter of phylas, a maiden as beautiful as the moonbeams, was loved by the radiant apollo, and she loved him in return. through their union, she became the mother of chaeron, who was famed as " the tamer of horses ". he later built the city chaeronea. hyrie or thyrie was the mother of cycnus. apollo turned both the mother and son into swans when they jumped into a lake and tried to kill themselves. hecuba was the wife of king priam of troy, and apollo had a son with her named troilus. an oracle prophesied that troy would not be defeated as long as troilus reached the age of twenty alive. he was ambushed and killed by achilleus, and apollo avenged his death by killing achilles. after the sack of troy, hecuba was taken to lycia by apollo. coronis was daughter of phlegyas, king of the lapiths. while pregnant with asclepius, coronis fell in love with ischys, son of elatus and slept with him. when apollo found out about her infidelity through his prophetic powers or thanks to his raven who informed him, he sent his sister, artemis, to kill coronis. apollo rescued the baby by cutting open koronis ' belly and gave it to the centaur chiron to raise. dryope, the daughter of dryops, was impregnated by apollo in the form of a snake. she gave birth to a son named amphissus. in euripides ' play ion, apollo fathered ion by creusa, wife of xuthus. he used his powers to conceal her pregnancy from her father. later, when creusa left ion to die in the wild, apollo asked hermes to save the child and bring him to the oracle at delphi, where he was raised by a priestess. apollo loved and kidnapped an oceanid nymph, melia. her father oceanus sent one of his sons, caanthus, to find her, but caanthus could not take her back from apollo, so he burned apollo ' s sanctuary. in retaliation, apollo shot and killed caanthus. male