, and thus unsuitable for language classification, rendering the hypothesis of an ana language family untenable. safaitic and hismaic, previously considered ana, should be considered old arabic due to the fact that they participate in the innovations common to all forms of arabic. the earliest attestation of continuous arabic text in an ancestor of the modern arabic script are three lines of poetry by a man named garm ( ' ) allahe found in en avdat, israel, and dated to around 125 ce. this is followed by the namara inscription, an epitaph of the king imru ' al - qays bar ' amro, dating to 328 ce, found at namaraa, syria. from the 4th to the 6th centuries, the nabataean script evolves into the arabic script recognizable from the early islamic era. there are inscriptions in an undotted, 17 - letter arabic script dating to the 6th century ce, found at four locations in syria ( zabad, jabal ' usays,, ). the oldest surviving papyrus in arabic dates to 643 ce, and it uses dots to produce the modern 28 - letter arabic alphabet. the language of that papyrus and of the qur ' an are referred to by linguists as " quranic arabic ", as distinct from its codification soon thereafter into " classical arabic ". old hejazi and classical arabic in late pre - islamic times, a transdialectal and transcommunal variety of arabic emerged in the hejaz, which continued living its parallel life after literary arabic had been institutionally standardized in the 2nd and 3rd century of the hijra, most strongly in judeo - christian texts, keeping alive ancient features eliminated from the " learned " tradition ( classical arabic ). this variety and both its classicizing and " lay " iterations have been termed middle arabic in the past, but they are thought to continue an old higazi register. it is clear that the orthography of the qur ' an was not developed for the standardized form of classical arabic ; rather, it shows the attempt on the part of writers to record an archaic form of old higazi. in the late 6th century ad, a relatively uniform intertribal " poetic koine " distinct from the spoken vernaculars developed based on the bedouin dialects of najd, probably in connection with the court of al - hira. during the first islamic century, the majority of arabic poets and arabic - writing persons spoke arabic as their mother tongue. their