##ranchisement of blacks in 1901, the state became part of the " solid south ", a system in which the democratic party operated as effectively the only viable political party in every southern state. for nearly a hundred years local and state elections in alabama were decided in the democratic party primary, with generally only token republican challengers running in the general election. since the mid - to late 20th century, however, white conservatives started shifting to the republican party. in alabama, majority - white districts are now expected to regularly elect republican candidates to federal, state and local office. members of the nine seats on the supreme court of alabama and all ten seats on the state appellate courts are elected to office. until 1994, no republicans held any of the court seats. in that general election, the then - incumbent chief justice, ernest c. hornsby, refused to leave office after losing the election by approximately 3, 000 votes to republican perry o. hooper sr. hornsby sued alabama and defiantly remained in office for nearly a year before finally giving up the seat after losing in court. the democrats lost the last of the nineteen court seats in august 2011 with the resignation of the last democrat on the bench. in the early 21st century, republicans hold all seven of the statewide elected executive branch offices. republicans hold six of the eight elected seats on the alabama state board of education. in 2010, republicans took large majorities of both chambers of the state legislature, giving them control of that body for the first time in 136 years. the last remaining statewide democrat, who served on the alabama public service commission, was defeated in 2012. only three republican lieutenant governors have been elected since the end of reconstruction, when republicans generally represented reconstruction government, including the newly emancipated freedmen who had gained the franchise. the three gop lieutenant governors are steve windom ( 1999 – 2003 ), kay ivey ( 2011 – 2017 ), and will ainsworth ( 2019 – present ). local elections many local offices ( county commissioners, boards of education, tax assessors, mayors, etc. ) in the state are still held by democrats. many metropolitan and suburban counties have voters who are majority democrats, resulting in local elections being decided in the democratic primary. similarly most rural counties are majority - republican and elections are effectively decided in the republican primary. however, since local governments in alabama are weaker than in other parts of the country, republicans have the upper hand in government. alabama ' s 67 county sheriffs are elected in partisan, at - large races, and