( artaxerxes v ) however, briant adds, alexander reasserted " his claim to legitimacy as the avenger of darius iii ". a plot against his life was revealed, and one of his officers, philotas, was executed for failing to alert alexander. the death of the son necessitated the death of the father, and thus parmenion, who had been charged with guarding the treasury at ecbatana, was assassinated at alexander ' s command, to prevent attempts at vengeance. most infamously, alexander personally killed the man who had saved his life at granicus, cleitus the black, during a violent drunken altercation at maracanda ( modern day samarkand in uzbekistan ), in which cleitus accused alexander of several judgmental mistakes and most especially, of having forgotten the macedonian ways in favour of a corrupt oriental lifestyle. later, in the central asian campaign, a second plot against his life was revealed, this one instigated by his own royal pages. his official historian, callisthenes of olynthus, was implicated in the plot, and in the anabasis of alexander, arrian states that callisthenes and the pages were then tortured on the rack as punishment, and likely died soon after. it remains unclear if callisthenes was actually involved in the plot, for prior to his accusation he had fallen out of favour by leading the opposition to the attempt to introduce proskynesis. macedon in alexander ' s absence when alexander set out for asia, he left his general antipater, an experienced military and political leader and part of philip ii ' s " old guard ", in charge of macedon. alexander ' s sacking of thebes ensured that greece remained quiet during his absence. the one exception was a call to arms by spartan king agis iii in 331 bc, whom antipater defeated and killed in the battle of megalopolis. antipater referred the spartans ' punishment to the league of corinth, which then deferred to alexander, who chose to pardon them. there was also considerable friction between antipater and olympias, and each complained to alexander about the other. in general, greece enjoyed a period of peace and prosperity during alexander ' s campaign in asia. alexander sent back vast sums from his conquest, which stimulated the economy and increased trade across his empire. however, alexander ' s constant demands for troops and the migration of macedonians throughout his empire depleted macedon ' s strength, greatly weakening