##bed steel akm and newer plastic 7. 62×39mm magazines are about shorter. the transition from steel to mainly plastic magazines yields a significant weight reduction and allows a soldier to carry more ammunition for the same weight. all 7. 62×39mm ak magazines are backward compatible with older ak variants. 10. 12 kg ( 22. 3 lb ) is the maximum amount of ammo that the average soldier can comfortably carry. it also allows for the best comparison of the three most common 7. 62×39mm ak magazines. most yugoslavian and some east german ak magazines were made with cartridge followers that hold the bolt open when empty ; however, most ak magazine followers allow the bolt to close when the magazine is empty. accessories accessories supplied with the rifle include a long 6h3 bayonet featuring a long spear point blade. the ak - 47 bayonet is installed by slipping the diameter muzzle ring around the muzzle and latching the handle down on the bayonet lug under the front sight base. all current model akm rifles can mount under - barrel 40 mm grenade launchers such as the gp - 25 and its variants, which can fire up to 20 rounds per minute and have an effective range of up to 400 meters. the main grenade is the vog - 25 ( vog - 25m ) fragmentation grenade which has a 6 m ( 9 m ) ( 20 ft ( 30 ft ) ) lethality radius. the vog - 25p / vog - 25pm ( " jumping " ) variant explodes above the ground. the ak - 47 can also mount a ( rarely used ) cup - type grenade launcher, the kalashnikov grenade launcher that fires standard rgd - 5 soviet hand grenades. the maximum effective range is approximately 150 meters. this launcher can also be used to launch tear gas and riot control grenades. all current aks ( 100 series ) and some older models have side rails for mounting a variety of scopes and sighting devices, such as the pso - 1 optical sniper sight. the side rails allow for the removal and remounting of optical accessories without interfering with the zeroing of the optic. however, the 100 series side folding stocks cannot be folded with the optics mounted. characteristics service life the ak - 47 and its variants have been and are made in dozens of countries, with " quality ranging from finely engineered weapons to pieces of questionable workmanship. " as a result, the ak - 47 has a service / system life of approximately 6, 000, to 10, 000, to