implies that every set of reals is lebesgue measurable, has the property of baire, and has the perfect set property ( all three of these results are refuted by ac itself ). zf + dc + ad is consistent provided that a sufficiently strong large cardinal axiom is consistent ( the existence of infinitely many woodin cardinals ). quine ' s system of axiomatic set theory, new foundations ( nf ), takes its name from the title ( " new foundations for mathematical logic " ) of the 1937 article which introduced it. in the nf axiomatic system, the axiom of choice can be disproved. statements consistent with the negation of ac there are models of zermelo - fraenkel set theory in which the axiom of choice is false. we shall abbreviate " zermelo - fraenkel set theory plus the negation of the axiom of choice " by zf¬c. for certain models of zf¬c, it is possible to prove the negation of some standard facts. any model of zf¬c is also a model of zf, so for each of the following statements, there exists a model of zf in which that statement is true. there is a set that can be partitioned into strictly more equivalence classes than the original set has elements, and a function whose domain is strictly smaller than its range. in fact, this is the case in all known models. there is a function f from the real numbers to the real numbers such that f is not continuous at a, but f is sequentially continuous at a, i. e., for any sequence { xn } converging to a, limn f ( xn ) = f ( a ). there is an infinite set of real numbers without a countably infinite subset. the real numbers are a countable union of countable sets. this does not imply that the real numbers are countable : as pointed out above, to show that a countable union of countable sets is itself countable requires the axiom of countable choice. there is a field with no algebraic closure. in all models of zf¬c there is a vector space with no basis. there is a vector space with two bases of different cardinalities. there is a free complete boolean algebra on countably many generators. there is a set that cannot be linearly ordered. there exists a model of zf¬c in which every set in rn is