confirmed. orchids have simultaneous microsporogenesis and inferior ovaries, two characters that are typical of the ' lower asparagales '. however, their nectaries are rarely in the septa of the ovaries, and most orchids have dust - like seeds, atypical of the rest of the order. ( some members of vanilloideae and cypripedioideae have crustose seeds, probably associated with dispersal by birds and mammals that are attracted by fermenting fleshy fruit releasing fragrant compounds, e. g. vanilla. ) in terms of the number of species, orchidaceae diversification is remarkable. however, although the other asparagales may be less rich in species, they are more variable morphologically, including tree - like forms. boryaceae to hypoxidaceae the four families excluding boryaceae form a well - supported clade in studies based on dna sequence analysis. all four contain relatively few species, and it has been suggested that they be combined into one family under the name hypoxidaceae sensu lato. the relationship between boryaceae ( which includes only two genera, borya and alania ), and other asparagales has remained unclear for a long time. the boryaceae are mycorrhizal, but not in the same way as orchids. morphological studies have suggested a close relationship between boryaceae and blandfordiaceae. there is relatively low support for the position of boryaceae in the tree shown above. ixioliriaceae to xeronemataceae the relationship shown between ixioliriaceae and tecophilaeaceae is still unclear. some studies have supported a clade of these two families, others have not. the position of doryanthaceae has also varied, with support for the position shown above, but also support for other positions. the clade from iridaceae upwards appears to have stronger support. all have some genetic characteristics in common, having lost arabidopsis - type telomeres. iridaceae is distinctive among the asparagales in the unique structure of the inflorescence ( a rhipidium ), the combination of an inferior ovary and three stamens, and the common occurrence of unifacial leaves whereas bifacial leaves are the norm in other asparagales. members of the clade from iridaceae upwards have infra - locular septal nectaries, which rudall interpreted as a driver towards secondarily