the kalashnikov assault rifle abroad were of the akm variant, partially due to the much easier production of the stamped receiver. this model is the most commonly encountered, having been produced in much greater quantities. all rifles based on the kalashnikov design are often colloquially referred to as " ak - 47s " in the west and some parts of asia, although this is only correct when applied to rifles based on the original three receiver types. in most former eastern bloc countries, the weapon is known simply as the " kalashnikov " or " ak ". the differences between the milled and stamped receivers includes the use of rivets rather than welds on the stamped receiver, as well as the placement of a small dimple above the magazine well for stabilization of the magazine. replacement in 1974, the soviets began replacing their ak - 47 and akm rifles with a newer design, the ak - 74, which uses 5. 45×39mm ammunition. this new rifle and cartridge had only started to be manufactured in eastern european nations when the soviet union collapsed, drastically slowing the production of the ak - 74 and other weapons of the former soviet bloc. design the ak - 47 was designed to be a simple, reliable fully automatic rifle that could be manufactured quickly and cheaply, using mass production methods that were state of the art in the soviet union during the late 1940s. the ak - 47 uses a long - stroke gas system generally associated with high reliability in adverse conditions. the large gas piston, generous clearance between moving parts, and tapered cartridge case design allow the gun to endure large amounts of foreign matter and fouling without failing to cycle. cartridge the ak fires the 7. 62×39mm cartridge with a muzzle velocity of. the cartridge weight is, and the projectile weight is. the original soviet m43 bullets are 123 - grain boat - tail bullets with a copper - plated steel jacket, a large steel core, and some lead between the core and the jacket. the ak has excellent penetration when shooting through heavy foliage, walls, or a common vehicle ' s metal body and into an opponent attempting to use these things as cover. the 7. 62×39mm m43 projectile does not generally fragment when striking an opponent and has an unusual tendency to remain intact even after making contact with bone. the 7. 62×39mm round produces significant wounding in cases where the bullet tumbles ( yaws ) in tissue, but produces relatively minor wounds in cases where the bullet exits before beginning to yaw. in the absence of