tissue of quotations drawn from the innumerable centers of culture " ; it is never original. with this, the perspective of the author is removed from the text, and the limits formerly imposed by the idea of one authorial voice, one ultimate and universal meaning, are destroyed. the explanation and meaning of a work does not have to be sought in the one who produced it, " as if it were always in the end, through the more or less transparent allegory of the fiction, the voice of a single person, the author ' confiding ' in us. " the psyche, culture, fanaticism of an author can be disregarded when interpreting a text, because the words are rich enough themselves with all of the traditions of language. to expose meanings in a written work without appealing to the celebrity of an author, their tastes, passions, vices, is, to barthes, to allow language to speak, rather than author. michel foucault argues in his essay " what is an author? " ( 1969 ) that all authors are writers, but not all writers are authors. he states that " a private letter may have a signatory — it does not have an author. " for a reader to assign the title of author upon any written work is to attribute certain standards upon the text which, for foucault, are working in conjunction with the idea of " the author function. " foucault ' s author function is the idea that an author exists only as a function of a written work, a part of its structure, but not necessarily part of the interpretive process. the author ' s name " indicates the status of the discourse within a society and culture, " and at one time was used as an anchor for interpreting a text, a practice which barthes would argue is not a particularly relevant or valid endeavour. expanding upon foucault ' s position, alexander nehamas writes that foucault suggests " an author [... ] is whoever can be understood to have produced a particular text as we interpret it, " not necessarily who penned the text. it is this distinction between producing a written work and producing the interpretation or meaning in a written work that both barthes and foucault are interested in. foucault warns of the risks of keeping the author ' s name in mind during interpretation, because it could affect the value and meaning with which one handles an interpretation. literary critics barthes and foucault suggest that readers should not