anna sergeyevna kournikova ( ; born 7 june 1981 ) is a russian former professional tennis player and american television personality. her appearance and celebrity status made her one of the best known tennis stars worldwide. at the peak of her fame, fans looking for images of kournikova made her name one of the most common search strings on google search. despite never winning a singles title, she reached no. 8 in the world in 2000. she achieved greater success playing doubles, where she was at times the world no. 1 player. with martina hingis as her partner, she won grand slam titles in australia in 1999 and 2002, and the wta championships in 1999 and 2000. they referred to themselves as the " spice girls of tennis ". kournikova retired from professional tennis in 2003 due to serious back and spinal problems, including a herniated disk. she lives in miami beach, florida, and played in occasional exhibitions and in doubles for the st. louis aces of world team tennis before the team folded in 2011. she was a new trainer for season 12 of the television show the biggest loser, replacing jillian michaels, but did not return for season 13. in addition to her tennis and television work, kournikova serves as a global ambassador for population services international ' s " five & alive " program, which addresses health crises facing children under the age of five and their families. early life kournikova was born in moscow, russia, on 7 june 1981. her father, sergei kournikov ( born 1961 ), a former greco - roman wrestling champion, eventually earned a phd and was a professor at the university of physical culture and sport in moscow. as of 2001, he was still a part - time martial arts instructor there. her mother alla ( born 1963 ) had been a 400 - metre runner. her younger half - brother, allan, is a youth golf world champion who was featured in the 2013 documentary film the short game. sergei kournikov has said, " we were young and we liked the clean, physical life, so anna was in a good environment for sport from the beginning ". kournikova received her first tennis racquet as a new year gift in 1986 at the age of five. describing her early regimen, she said, " i played two times a week from age six. it was a children ' s program. and it was just for fun ; my parents didn ' t know i was going to play professionally, they just wanted me to