abydos ( or ; sahidic ) is one of the oldest cities of ancient egypt, and also of the eighth nome in upper egypt. it is located about west of the nile at latitude 26° 10 ' n, near the modern egyptian towns of el araba el madfuna and el balyana. in the ancient egyptian language, the city was called abdju ( or abdw ) ( arabic abdu عبد - و ). the english name abydos comes from the greek, a name borrowed by greek geographers from the unrelated city of abydos on the hellespont. abydos name in hieroglyphs considered one of the most important archaeological sites in egypt, the sacred city of abydos was the site of many ancient temples, including umm el - qa ' ab, a royal necropolis where early pharaohs were entombed. these tombs began to be seen as extremely significant burials and in later times it became desirable to be buried in the area, leading to the growth of the town ' s importance as a cult site. today, abydos is notable for the memorial temple of seti i, which contains an inscription from the nineteenth dynasty known to the modern world as the abydos king list. this is a chronological list showing cartouches of most dynastic pharaohs of egypt from menes until seti i ' s father, ramesses i. it is also notable for the abydos graffiti, ancient phoenician and aramaic graffiti found on the walls of the temple of seti i. the great temple and most of the ancient town are buried under the modern buildings to the north of the seti temple. many of the original structures and the artifacts within them are considered irretrievable and lost ; many may have been destroyed by the new construction. history most of upper egypt became unified under rulers from abydos during the naqada iii period ( 3200 – 3000 bce ), at the expense of rival cities such as hierakonpolis. the conflicts leading to the supremacy of abydos may appear on numerous reliefs of the naqada ii period, such as the gebel el - arak knife, or the frieze of tomb 100 at hierakonpolis. tombs and at least one temple of rulers of the predynastic period have been found at umm el qa ' ab including that of narmer, dating to. the temple and town continued to be rebuilt at intervals