and optimize campaigns over multiple screens. later that year, on september 15, aol expanded the product with one by aol : creative, which is geared towards creative and media agencies to similarly connect marketing and ad distribution efforts. on may 8, 2015, aol reported its first - quarter revenue of $ 625. 1 million, $ 483. 5 million of which came from advertising and related operations, marking a 7 % increase from q1 2014. over that year, the aol platforms division saw a 21 % increase in revenue, but a drop in adjusted oibda due to increased investments in the company ' s video and programmatic platforms. on june 29, 2015, aol announced a deal with microsoft to take over the majority of its digital advertising business. under the pact, as many as 1, 200 microsoft employees involved with the business will be transferred to aol, and the company will take over the sale of display, video, and mobile ads on various microsoft platforms in nine countries, including brazil, canada, the united states, and the united kingdom. additionally, google search will be replaced on aol properties with bing — which will display advertising sold by microsoft. both advertising deals are subject to affiliate marketing revenue sharing. on july 22, 2015, aol received two news and documentary emmy nominations, one for makers in the outstanding historical programming category, and the other for true trans with laura jane grace, which documented the story of laura jane grace, a transgender musician best known as the founder, lead singer, songwriter and guitarist of the punk rock band against me!, and her decision to come out publicly and overall transition experience. on september 3, 2015, aol agreed to buy millennial media for $ 238 million. on october 23, 2015, aol completed the acquisition. on october 1, 2015, go90, a free ad - supported mobile video service aimed at young adult and teen viewers that verizon owns and aol oversees and operates launched its content publicly after months of beta testing. the initial launch line - up included content from comedy central, huffpost, nerdist news, univision news, vice, espn and mtv. on april 20, 2016, aol acquired virtual reality studio ryot to bring immersive 360 degree video and vr content to huffpost ' s global audience across desktop, mobile, and apps. in july 2016, verizon communications announced its intent to purchase the core internet business of yahoo!. verizon merged aol with yahoo into a new company