total factor productivity of agriculture, according to which agriculture in the united states is roughly 1. 7 times more productive than it was in 1948. despite increases in agricultural production and productivity, between 702 and 828 million people were affected by hunger in 2021. food insecurity and malnutrition can be the result of conflict, climate extremes and variability and economic swings. it can also be caused by a country ' s structural characteristics such as income status and natural resource endowments as well as its political economy. the international fund for agricultural development posits that an increase in smallholder agriculture may be part of the solution to concerns about food prices and overall food security, given the favorable experience of vietnam. workforce agriculture provides about one - quarter of all global employment, more than half in sub - saharan africa and almost 60 percent in low - income countries. as countries develop, other jobs have historically pulled workers away from agriculture, and labour - saving innovations increase agricultural productivity by reducing labour requirements per unit of output. over time, a combination of labour supply and labour demand trends have driven down the share of population employed in agriculture. during the 16th century in europe, between 55 and 75 % of the population was engaged in agriculture ; by the 19th century, this had dropped to between 35 and 65 %. in the same countries today, the figure is less than 10 %. at the start of the 21st century, some one billion people, or over 1 / 3 of the available work force, were employed in agriculture. this constitutes approximately 70 % of the global employment of children, and in many countries constitutes the largest percentage of women of any industry. the service sector overtook the agricultural sector as the largest global employer in 2007. in many developed countries, immigrants help fill labour shortages in high - value agriculture activities that are difficult to mechanize. foreign farm workers from mostly eastern europe, north africa and south asia constituted around one - third of the salaried agricultural workforce in spain, italy, greece and portugal in 2013. in the united states of america, more than half of all hired farmworkers ( roughly 450, 000 workers ) were immigrants in 2019, although the number of new immigrants arriving in the country to work in agriculture has fallen by 75 percent in recent years and rising wages indicate this has led to a major labor shortage on u. s. farms. around the world, women make up a large share of the population employed in agriculture. this share is growing in all developing regions except east and southeast asia where women already make up about 50 percent