horses, sir wattie, ridden by ian stark, won two silver medals at the 1988 summer olympics. on dame jean ' s death the abbotsford trust was established to safeguard the estate. in 2005, scottish borders council considered an application by a property developer to build a housing estate on the opposite bank of the river tweed from abbotsford, to which historic scotland and the national trust for scotland objected. there have been modifications to the proposed development, but it is still being opposed in 2020. sir walter scott rescued the " jougs " from threave castle in dumfries and galloway and attached them to the castellated gateway he built at abbotsford. tweedbank railway station is located near to abbotsford. miscellaneous abbotsford gave its name to the abbotsford club, founded by william barclay turnbull in 1833 or 1834 in scott ' s honour, and a successor to the bannatyne and maitland clubs. it was a text publication society, which existed to print and publish historical works connected with scott ' s writings. its publications extended from 1835 to 1864. in august 2012, a new visitor centre opened at abbotsford which houses a small exhibition, gift shop and ochiltree ' s cafe with views over the house and grounds. the house re - opened to the public after extensive renovations in july 2013. in 2014 it won the european union prize for cultural heritage / europa nostra award for its then recent conservation project. see also list of places in the scottish borders notes references attribution external links abbotsford – the home of sir walter scott – official site rcahms / canmore site record for abbotsford edinburgh university library abbotsford ( by w s crockett – 1904 illustrated book pub. a & c black ) abbotsford and newstead abbey by washington irving, from project gutenberg category a listed buildings in the scottish borders category a listed houses in scotland scottish baronial architecture walter scott inventory of gardens and designed landscapes gardens in the scottish borders literary museums in scotland historic house museums in the scottish borders country houses in the scottish borders houses completed in 1824 galashiels