early as may 1817, at arago ' s suggestion, fresnel applied for membership of the academie des sciences, but received only one vote. the successful candidate on that occasion was joseph fourier. in november 1822, fourier ' s elevation to permanent secretary of the academie created a vacancy in the physics section, which was filled in february 1823 by pierre louis dulong, with 36 votes to fresnel ' s 20. but in may 1823, after another vacancy was left by the death of jacques charles, fresnel ' s election was unanimous. in 1824, fresnel was made a chevalier de la legion d ' honneur ( knight of the legion of honour ). meanwhile, in britain, the wave theory was yet to take hold ; fresnel wrote to thomas young in november 1824, saying in part : but " the praise of english scholars " soon followed. on 9 june 1825, fresnel was made a foreign member of the royal society of london. in 1827 he was awarded the society ' s rumford medal for the year 1824, " for his development of the undulatory theory as applied to the phenomena of polarized light, and for his various important discoveries in physical optics. " a monument to fresnel at his birthplace was dedicated on 14 september 1884 with a speech by, permanent secretary of the academie des sciences. " " is among the 72 names embossed on the eiffel tower ( on the south - east side, fourth from the left ). in the 19th century, as every lighthouse in france acquired a fresnel lens, every one acquired a bust of fresnel, seemingly watching over the coastline that he had made safer. the lunar features promontorium fresnel and rimae fresnel were later named after him. decline and death fresnel ' s health, which had always been poor, deteriorated in the winter of 1822 – 1823, increasing the urgency of his original research, and ( in part ) preventing him from contributing an article on polarization and double refraction for the encyclopædia britannica. the memoirs on circular and elliptical polarization and optical rotation, and on the detailed derivation of the fresnel equations and their application to total internal reflection, date from this period. in the spring he recovered enough, in his own view, to supervise the lens installation at cordouan. soon afterwards, it became clear that his condition was tuberculosis. in 1824, he was advised that if he wanted to live longer, he needed to scale