##ifist ideas, from 1914 to 1945, was ernest barnes, bishop of birmingham from 1924 to 1953. he opposed both world wars. in 1937, the anglican pacifist fellowship emerged as a distinct reform organisation, seeking to make pacifism a clearly defined part of anglican theology. the group rapidly gained popularity amongst anglican intellectuals, including vera brittain, evelyn underhill, and the former british political leader george lansbury. furthermore, dick sheppard, who during the 1930s was one of britain ' s most famous anglican priests due to his landmark sermon broadcasts for bbc radio, founded the peace pledge union, a secular pacifist organisation for the non - religious that gained considerable support throughout the 1930s. whilst never actively endorsed by anglican churches, many anglicans unofficially have adopted the augustinian " just war " doctrine. the anglican pacifist fellowship remains highly active throughout the anglican world. it rejects this doctrine of " just war " and seeks to reform the church by reintroducing the pacifism inherent in the beliefs of many of the earliest christians and present in their interpretation of christ ' s sermon on the mount. the principles of the anglican pacifist fellowship are often formulated as a statement of belief that " jesus ' teaching is incompatible with the waging of war... that a christian church should never support or justify war... [ and ] that our christian witness should include opposing the waging or justifying of war. " confusing the matter was that the 37th article of religion in the book of common prayer states that " it is lawful for christian men, at the commandment of the magistrate, to wear weapons, and serve in the wars. " therefore, the lambeth council in the modern era has sought to provide a clearer position by repudiating modern war and developed a statement that has been affirmed at each subsequent meeting of the council. this statement was strongly reasserted when " the 67th general convention of the episcopal church reaffirms the statement made by the anglican bishops assembled at lambeth in 1978 and adopted by the 66th general convention of the episcopal church in 1979, calling " christian people everywhere... to engage themselves in non - violent action for justice and peace and to support others so engaged, recognising that such action will be controversial and may be personally very costly... this general convention, in obedience to this call, urges all members of this church to support by prayer and by such other means as they deem appropriate, those who engaged in such non - violent action, and