##rcho - capitalism. in his work power and market, rothbard stated : somalia from 1991 to 2006 economist alex tabarrok argued that somalia in its stateless period provided a " unique test of the theory of anarchy ", in some aspects near of that espoused by anarcho - capitalists david d. friedman and murray rothbard. nonetheless, both anarchists and some anarcho - capitalists argue that somalia was not an anarchist society. analysis and criticism state, justice and defense anarchists such as brian morris argue that anarcho - capitalism does not in fact get rid of the state. he says that anarcho - capitalists " simply replaced the state with private security firms, and can hardly be described as anarchists as the term is normally understood ". in " libertarianism : bogus anarchy ", anarchist peter sabatini notes : similarly, bob black argues that an anarcho - capitalist wants to " abolish the state to his own satisfaction by calling it something else ". he states that they do not denounce what the state does, they just " object to who ' s doing it ". paul birch argues that legal disputes involving several jurisdictions and different legal systems will be too complex and costly. he therefore argues that anarcho - capitalism is inherently unstable, and would evolve, entirely through the operation of free market forces, into either a single dominant private court with a natural monopoly of justice over the territory ( a de facto state ), a society of multiple city states, each with a territorial monopoly, or a ' pure anarchy ' that would rapidly descend into chaos. randall g. holcombe argues that anarcho - capitalism turns justice into a commodity as private defense and court firms would favour those who pay more for their services. he argues that defense agencies could form cartels and oppress people without fear of competition. philosopher albert meltzer argued that since anarcho - capitalism promotes the idea of private armies, it actually supports a " limited state ". he contends that it " is only possible to conceive of anarchism which is free, communistic and offering no economic necessity for repression of countering it ". libertarian robert nozick argues that a competitive legal system would evolve toward a monopoly government — even without violating individuals ' rights in the process. in anarchy, state, and utopia, nozick defends minarchism and argues that an anarcho - capitalist society would inevitably transform into a minarchist state through the eventual emergence of