was commanded by god to call people to islam openly. the first public address inviting people to offer allegiance to muhammad was delivered by abu bakr. in a fit of fury, the young men of the quraysh tribe rushed at abu bakr and beat him until he lost consciousness. following this incident, abu bakr ' s mother converted to islam. abu bakr was persecuted many times by the quraysh. though abu bakr ' s beliefs would have been defended by his own clan, it would not be so for the entire quraysh tribe. last years in mecca in 617, the quraysh enforced a boycott against the banu hashim. muhammad along with his supporters from banu hashim, were cut off in a pass away from mecca. all social relations with the banu hashim were cut off and their state was that of imprisonment. before it many muslims migrated to abyssinia ( now ethiopia ). abu bakr, feeling distressed, set out for yemen and then to abyssinia from there. he met a friend of his named ad - dughna ( chief of the qarah tribe ) outside mecca, who invited abu bakr to seek his protection against the quraysh. abu bakr went back to mecca, it was a relief for him, but soon due to the pressure of quraysh, ad - dughna was forced to renounce his protection. once again the quraysh were free to persecute abu bakr. in 620, muhammad ' s uncle and protector, abu talib ibn abd al - muttalib, and muhammad ' s wife khadija died. abu bakr ' s daughter aisha was betrothed to muhammad ; however, it was decided that the actual marriage ceremony would be held later. in 620 abu bakr was the first person to testify to muhammad ' s isra and mi ' raj ( night journey ). migration to medina in 622, on the invitation of the muslims of medina, muhammad ordered muslims to migrate to medina. the migration began in batches. ali was the last to remain in mecca, entrusted with responsibility for settling any loans the muslims had taken out, and famously slept in the bed of muhammad when the quraysh, led by ikrima, attempted to murder muhammad as he slept. meanwhile, abu bakr accompanied muhammad to medina. due to the danger posed by the quraysh, they did not take the road, but moved in the opposite direction, taking refuge in a cave in ja