##s laertes to throw his spear and to kill eupeithes, the father of antinous. punishment myths the gorgoneion appears to have originated as an apotropaic symbol intended to ward off evil. in a late myth invented to explain the origins of the gorgon, medusa is described as having been a young priestess who served in the temple of athena in athens. poseidon lusted after medusa, and raped her in the temple of athena, refusing to allow her vow of chastity to stand in his way. upon discovering the desecration of her temple, athena transformed medusa into a hideous monster with serpents for hair whose gaze would turn any mortal to stone. in his twelfth pythian ode, pindar recounts the story of how athena invented the aulos, a kind of flute, in imitation of the lamentations of medusa ' s sisters, the gorgons, after she was beheaded by the hero perseus. according to pindar, athena gave the aulos to mortals as a gift. later, the comic playwright melanippides of melos ( 480 - 430 bc ) embellished the story in his comedy marsyas, claiming that athena looked in the mirror while she was playing the aulos and saw how blowing into it puffed up her cheeks and made her look silly, so she threw the aulos away and cursed it so that whoever picked it up would meet an awful death. the aulos was picked up by the satyr marsyas, who was later killed by apollo for his hubris. later, this version of the story became accepted as canonical and the athenian sculptor myron created a group of bronze sculptures based on it, which was installed before the western front of the parthenon in around 440 bc. a myth told by the early third - century bc hellenistic poet callimachus in his hymn 5 begins with athena bathing in a spring on mount helicon at midday with one of her favorite companions, the nymph chariclo. chariclo ' s son tiresias happened to be hunting on the same mountain and came to the spring searching for water. he inadvertently saw athena naked, so she struck him blind to ensure he would never again see what man was not intended to see. chariclo intervened on her son ' s behalf and begged athena to have mercy. athena replied that she could not restore tiresias ' s eyesight, so, instead, she gave him the ability to understand the language of