notable rise in political activism, particularly among the students, which ultimately lead to a transformation in the prevailing order. subsequent to the attainment of widespread in the first multi - party elections of 1991, the communist party maintained a stronghold in the parliament until their defeat in the parliamentary elections of 1992 directed by the democratic party. considerable economic and financial resources were devoted to pyramid schemes that were widely supported by the government. the schemes swept up somewhere between one sixth and one third of the population of the country. despite the warnings of the international monetary fund, sali berisha defended the schemes as large investment firms, leading more people to redirect their remittances and sell their homes and cattle for cash to deposit in the schemes. the schemes began to collapse in late 1996, leading many of the investors to join initially peaceful protests against the government, requesting their money back. the protests turned violent in february 1997 as government forces responded by firing on the demonstrators. in march, the police and republican guard deserted, leaving their armouries open. these were promptly emptied by militias and criminal gangs. the resulting civil war caused a wave of evacuations of foreign nationals and refugees. the crisis led both aleksander meksi and sali berisha to resign from office in the wake of the general election. in april 1997, operation alba, a un peacekeeping force led by italy, entered the country with two goals exclusively to assist with the evacuation of expatriates and to secure the ground for international organisations. the main international organisation that was involved was the western european union ' s multinational albanian police element, which worked with the government to restructure the judicial system and simultaneously the albanian police. contemporary following the disintegration of the communist system, albania embarked on an active path towards westernisation with the ambition to obtain membership in the european union ( eu ) and the north atlantic treaty organization ( nato ). a notable milestone was reached in 2009 when the country attained membership in nato, marking a pioneering achievement among the nations of southeast europe. in adherence to its vision for further integration into the eu, it formally applied for membership on 28 april 2009. another milestone was reached on 24 june 2014, when the country was granted official candidate status. edi rama of the socialist party won both the 2013 and 2017 parliamentary elections. as prime minister, he implemented numerous reforms focused on modernising the economy, as well as democratising state institutions, including the country ' s judiciary and law enforcement. unemployment has been steadily reduced, with albania achieving the 4th lowest unemployment