new pope and the pope ' s nephew, camillo pamphilj. algardi ' s portraits were highly prized, and their formal severity contrasts with bernini ' s more vivacious expression. a large hieratic bronze of innocent x by algardi is now to be found in the capitoline museums. algardi was not renowned for his architectural abilities. although he was in charge of the project for the papal villa, the villa pamphili, now villa doria pamphili, outside the porta san pancrazio in rome, he may have had professional guidance on the design of the casino from the architect / engineer girolamo rainaldi and help with supervising its construction from his assistant giovanni francesco grimaldi. the casino was a showcase for the pamphili collection of sculpture, ancient and contemporary, on which algardi was well able to advise. in the villa grounds, algardi and his studio executed sculpture - encrusted fountains and other garden features, where some of his free - standing sculpture and bas - reliefs remain. in 1650 algardi met diego velazquez, who obtained commissions for his work from spain. as a consequence there are four chimney - pieces by algardi in the royal palace of aranjuez, and in the gardens, the figures on the fountain of neptune are also by him. the augustinian monastery at salamanca contains the tomb of the count and countess de monterey, another work by algardi. fuga d ' attila relief algardi ' s large, dramatic, high - relief marble panel of pope leo and attila, created from 1646 to 1653, is commonly referred to as fuga d ' attila or flight of attila. it was created for st peter ' s basilica, and it reinvigorated the use of such marble reliefs. there had been large marble reliefs used previously in roman churches, but for most patrons, sculpted marble altarpieces were far too costly. in this relief, the two principal figures, the stern and courageous pope and the dismayed and frightened attila, surge forward from the center into three dimensions. only they two see the descending angelic warriors rallying to the pope ' s defense, while all others in the background reliefs, persist in performing their respective earthly duties. the subject was apt for a papal state seeking to increase its power, since it depicts the historical legend wherein saint leo the great, the first pope to receive the epithet, with supernatural aid, deterred the huns