and disagreements about the nature of the apocrypha continued for centuries and even into trent, which provided the first infallible definition of the catholic canon in 1546. this canon came to see appropriately 1, 000 years of nearly uniform use by the majority, even after the 11th - century schism that separated the church into the branches known as the roman catholic and eastern orthodox churches. in the 16th century, the protestant reformers challenged the canonicity of the books and partial - books found in the surviving septuagint but not in the masoretic text. in response to this challenge, after the death of martin luther ( february 8, 1546 ) the ecumenical council of trent officially ( " infallibly " ) declared these books ( called " deuterocanonical " by catholics ) to be part of the canon in april, 1546 a. d. while the protestant reformers rejected the parts of the canon that were not part of the hebrew bible, they included the four new testament books luther considered of doubtful canonicity along with the apocrypha in his non - binding luther ' s canon ( although most were separately included in his bible, as they were in some editions of the kjv bible until 1947 ). protestantism therefore established a 66 book canon with the 39 books based on the ancient hebrew canon, along with the traditional 27 books of the new testament. protestants also rejected the catholic term " deuterocanonical " for these writings, preferring to apply the term " apocryphal " which was already in use for other early and disputed writings. as today ( but along with other reasons ), various reformers argued that those books contained doctrinal or other errors and thus should not have been added to the canon for that reason. the differences between canons can be seen under biblical canon and development of the christian biblical canon. explaining the eastern orthodox church ' s canon is made difficult because of differences of perspective with the roman catholic church in the interpretation of how it was done. those differences ( in matters of jurisdictional authority ) were contributing factors in the separation of the roman catholics and orthodox around 1054, but the formation of the canon which trent would later officially definitively settle was largely complete by the fifth century, if not settled, six centuries before the separation. in the eastern part of the church, it took much of the fifth century also to come to agreement, but in the end it was accomplished. the canonical books thus established by the undivided church became the predominant