received at goldstone in the united states, but with better fidelity by honeysuckle creek tracking station near canberra in australia. minutes later the feed was switched to the more sensitive parkes radio telescope in australia. despite some technical and weather difficulties, black and white images of the first lunar eva were received and broadcast to at least 600 million people on earth. copies of this video in broadcast format were saved and are widely available, but recordings of the original slow scan source transmission from the lunar surface were likely destroyed during routine magnetic tape re - use at nasa. after describing the surface dust as " very fine - grained " and " almost like a powder ", at 02 : 56 : 15, six and a half hours after landing, armstrong stepped off eagle landing pad and declared : " that ' s one small step for [ a ] man, one giant leap for mankind. " armstrong intended to say " that ' s one small step for a man ", but the word " a " is not audible in the transmission, and thus was not initially reported by most observers of the live broadcast. when later asked about his quote, armstrong said he believed he said " for a man ", and subsequent printed versions of the quote included the " a " in square brackets. one explanation for the absence may be that his accent caused him to slur the words " for a " together ; another is the intermittent nature of the audio and video links to earth, partly because of storms near parkes observatory. a more recent digital analysis of the tape claims to reveal the " a " may have been spoken but obscured by static. other analysis points to the claims of static and slurring as " face - saving fabrication ", and that armstrong himself later admitted to misspeaking the line. about seven minutes after stepping onto the moon ' s surface, armstrong collected a contingency soil sample using a sample bag on a stick. he then folded the bag and tucked it into a pocket on his right thigh. this was to guarantee there would be some lunar soil brought back in case an emergency required the astronauts to abandon the eva and return to the lm. twelve minutes after the sample was collected, he removed the tv camera from the mesa and made a panoramic sweep, then mounted it on a tripod. the tv camera cable remained partly coiled and presented a tripping hazard throughout the eva. still photography was accomplished with a hasselblad camera that could be operated hand - held or mounted on armstrong ' s apollo space suit. aldrin joined