second largest employer in sa ( 2009 – 10 ), with 91, 900 jobs, and 12 per cent of the state workforce. manufacturing, defence technology, high - tech electronic systems and research, commodity export and corresponding service industries all play a role in the sa economy. almost half of all cars produced in australia were made in adelaide at the general motors holden plant in elizabeth. the site ceased operating in november 2017. the collapse of the state bank in 1992 resulted in large levels of state public debt ( as much as a $ 4 billion ). the collapse meant that successive governments enacted lean budgets, cutting spending, which was a setback to the further economic development of the city and state. the debt has more recently been reduced with the state government once again receiving a aaa + credit rating. the global media conglomerate news corporation was founded in, and until 2004 incorporated in, adelaide and it is still considered its " spiritual " home by its founder, rupert murdoch. australia ' s largest oil company, santos, prominent south australian brewery, coopers, and national retailer harris scarfe also call adelaide their home. in 2018, at which time more than 80 organisations employed 800 people in the space sector in south australia, adelaide was chosen for the headquarters of a new australian space agency. the agency opened its in 2020. it is working to triple the size of the australian space industry and create 20, 000 new jobs by 2030. defence industry adelaide is home to a large proportion of australia ' s defence industries, which contribute over a $ 1 billion to south australia ' s gross state product. the principal government military research institution, the defence science and technology organisation, and other defence technology organisations such as bae systems australia and lockheed martin australia, are north of salisbury and west of elizabeth in an area now called " edinburgh parks ", adjacent to raaf base edinburgh. others, such as saab systems and raytheon, are in or near technology park. asc pty ltd, is based in the industrial suburb of osborne and is also a part of technology park. south australia was charged with constructing australia ' s s and more recently the a $ 6 billion contract to construct the royal australian navy ' s new air - warfare destroyers. employment statistics, greater adelaide had an unemployment rate of 7. 4 % with a youth unemployment rate of 15 %. the median weekly individual income for people aged 15 years and over was $ 447 per week in 2006, compared with $ 466 nationally. the median family income was $ 1, 137 per week, compared with $ 1