late carnian 230 ma ) of italy, where four microscopic ( 0. 2 – 0. 1 mm ) mites, triasacarus, ampezzoa, minyacarus and cheirolepidoptus, and a poorly preserved nematoceran fly were found in millimetre - sized droplets of amber. the oldest amber with significant numbers of arthropod inclusions comes from lebanon. this amber, referred to as lebanese amber, is roughly 125 – 135 million years old, is considered of high scientific value, providing evidence of some of the oldest sampled ecosystems. in lebanon, more than 450 outcrops of lower cretaceous amber were discovered by dany azar, a lebanese paleontologist and entomologist. among these outcrops, 20 have yielded biological inclusions comprising the oldest representatives of several recent families of terrestrial arthropods. even older jurassic amber has been found recently in lebanon as well. many remarkable insects and spiders were recently discovered in the amber of jordan including the oldest zorapterans, clerid beetles, umenocoleid roaches, and achiliid planthoppers. burmese amber from the hukawng valley in northern myanmar is the only commercially exploited cretaceous amber. uranium – lead dating of zircon crystals associated with the deposit have given an estimated depositional age of approximately 99 million years ago. over 1, 300 species have been described from the amber, with over 300 in 2019 alone. baltic amber is found as irregular nodules in marine glauconitic sand, known as blue earth, occurring in upper eocene strata of sambia in prussia. it appears to have been partly derived from older eocene deposits and it occurs also as a derivative phase in later formations, such as glacial drift. relics of an abundant flora occur as inclusions trapped within the amber while the resin was yet fresh, suggesting relations with the flora of eastern asia and the southern part of north america. heinrich goppert named the common amber - yielding pine of the baltic forests pinites succiniter, but as the wood does not seem to differ from that of the existing genus it has been also called pinus succinifera. it is improbable that the production of amber was limited to a single species ; and indeed a large number of conifers belonging to different genera are represented in the amber - flora. paleontological significance amber is a unique preservational mode, preserving otherwise unfossilizable parts of organisms ; as