arminianism is a movement of protestantism initiated in the early 17th century, based on the theological ideas of the dutch reformed theologian jacobus arminius and his historic supporters known as remonstrants. dutch arminianism was originally articulated in the remonstrance ( 1610 ), a theological statement submitted to the states general of the netherlands. this expressed an attempt to moderate the doctrines of calvinism related to its interpretation of predestination. classical arminianism, to which arminius is the main contributor, and wesleyan arminianism, to which john wesley is the main contributor, are the two main schools of thought. central arminian beliefs are that god ' s preparing ( prevenient ) grace to regeneration is universal, and that god ' s justifying grace allowing regeneration is resistible. many christian denominations have been influenced by arminian views, notably the baptists in the 17th century, the methodists in the 18th century, and the pentecostals in the 20th century. history precursor movements and theological influences according to roger e. olson, arminius ’ beliefs, i. e. arminianism, did not begin with him. denominations such as the waldensians and other groups prior to the reformation have, similarly to arminianism, affirmed that each person may choose the contingent response of either resisting god ' s grace or yielding to it. anabaptist theologian balthasar hubmaier also promoted much the same view as arminius nearly a century before him. the soteriological doctrines of arminianism and anabaptism are roughly equivalent. in particular, mennonites have been historically arminian whether they distinctly espoused the arminian viewpoint or not, and rejected calvinism soteriology. anabaptist theology seems to have influenced jacobus arminius. at least, he was " sympathetic to the anabaptist point of view, and anabaptists were commonly in attendance on his preaching. " similarly, arminius mentions danish lutheran theologian niels hemmingsen as holding the basic view of soteriology he held and he may have been influenced by hemmingsen. emergence of arminianism jacobus arminius was a dutch pastor and theologian in the late 16th and early 17th centuries. he was taught by theodore beza, calvin ' s hand - picked successor, but after examination of the scriptures, he rejected his teacher ' s theology that it is god who unconditionally elects some for salvation. instead armini