in polarization due to total internal reflection, as exploited in the fresnel rhomb. defenders of the established corpuscular theory could not match his quantitative explanations of so many phenomena on so few assumptions. fresnel had a lifelong battle with tuberculosis, to which he succumbed at the age of 39. although he did not become a public celebrity in his lifetime, he lived just long enough to receive due recognition from his peers, including ( on his deathbed ) the rumford medal of the royal society of london, and his name is ubiquitous in the modern terminology of optics and waves. after the wave theory of light was subsumed by maxwell ' s electromagnetic theory in the 1860s, some attention was diverted from the magnitude of fresnel ' s contribution. in the period between fresnel ' s unification of physical optics and maxwell ' s wider unification, a contemporary authority, humphrey lloyd, described fresnel ' s transverse - wave theory as " the noblest fabric which has ever adorned the domain of physical science, newton ' s system of the universe alone excepted. " early life family augustin - jean fresnel ( also called augustin jean or simply augustin ), born in broglie, normandy, on 10 may 1788, was the second of four sons of the architect jacques fresnel ( 1755 – 1805 ) and his wife augustine, nee merimee ( 1755 – 1833 ). in 1790, following the revolution, broglie became part of the departement of eure. the family moved twice — in 1789 / 90 to cherbourg, and in 1794 to jacques ' s home town of mathieu, where madame fresnel would spend 25 years as a widow, outliving two of her sons. the first son, louis ( 1786 – 1809 ), was admitted to the ecole polytechnique, became a lieutenant in the artillery, and was killed in action at jaca, spain, the day before his 23rd birthday. the third, leonor ( 1790 – 1869 ), followed augustin into civil engineering, succeeded him as secretary of the lighthouse commission, and helped to edit his collected works. the fourth, fulgence fresnel ( 1795 – 1855 ), became a noted linguist, diplomat, and orientalist, and occasionally assisted augustin with negotiations. fulgence died in bagdad in 1855 having led a mission to explore babylon. leonor apparently was the only one of the four who married. their mother ' s younger brother, jean francois " leonor "