april 1847, where he remained until he received news of the death of muhammad shah qajar. hasan ali shah left for bombay and the british attempted to obtain permission for his return to persia. although some of his lands were restored to the control of his relatives, his safe return could not be arranged, and hasan ali shah was forced to remain a permanent resident of india. while in india, hasan ali shah continued his close relationship with the british, and was even visited by the prince of wales ( the future king edward vii ) when he was on a state visit to india. the british came to address hasan ali shah as his highness. hasan ali shah received protection from the british government in british india as the spiritual head of an important muslim community. khoja reassumption and dispute the vast majority of his khoja ismaili followers in india welcomed him warmly, but some dissident members, sensing their loss of prestige with the arrival of the imam, wished to maintain control over communal properties. because of this, hasan ali shah decided to secure a pledge of loyalty from the members of the community to himself and to the ismaili form of islam. although most of the members of the community signed a document issued by hasan ali shah summarizing the practices of the ismailis, a group of dissenting khojas surprisingly asserted that the community had always been sunni. this group was outcast by the unanimous vote of all the khojas assembled in bombay. in 1866, these dissenters filed a suit in the bombay high court against hasan ali shah, claiming that the khojas had been sunni muslims from the very beginning. the case, commonly referred to as the aga khan case, was heard by sir joseph arnould. the hearing lasted several weeks, and included testimony from hasan ali shah himself. after reviewing the history of the community, justice arnould gave a definitive and detailed judgement against the plaintiffs and in favour of hasan ali shah and other defendants. the judgement was significant in that it legally established the status of the khojas as a community referred to as shia nizari ismailis, and of hasan ali shah as the spiritual head of that community. hasan ali shah ' s authority thereafter was not seriously challenged again. final years hasan ali shah spent his final years in bombay with occasional visits to pune. maintaining the traditions of the iranian nobility to which he belonged, he kept excellent stables and became a well - known figure at the bombay racecourse. hasan ali shah died after an imamate of sixty - four