, about the conduct of the war by joseph stalin, whom he called " khozyain " ( " the boss " ), and " balabos " ( yiddish rendering of hebrew baal ha - bayit for " master of the house " ). he also had talks with the same friend about the need for a new organization to replace the soviet regime. solzhenitsyn was accused of anti - soviet propaganda under article 58, paragraph 10 of the soviet criminal code, and of " founding a hostile organization " under paragraph 11. solzhenitsyn was taken to the lubyanka prison in moscow, where he was interrogated. on 9 may 1945, it was announced that germany had surrendered and all of moscow broke out in celebrations with fireworks and searchlights illuminating the sky to celebrate the victory in the great patriotic war. from his cell in the lubyanka, solzhenitsyn remembered : " above the muzzle of our window, and from all the other cells of the lubyanka, and from all the windows of the moscow prisons, we too, former prisoners of war and former front - line soldiers, watched the moscow heavens, patterned with fireworks and crisscrossed with beams of searchlights. there was no rejoicing in our cells and no hugs and no kisses for us. that victory was not ours. " on 7 july 1945, he was sentenced in his absence by special council of the nkvd to an eight - year term in a labour camp. this was the usual sentence for most crimes under article 58 at the time. the first part of solzhenitsyn ' s sentence was served in several work camps ; the " middle phase ", as he later referred to it, was spent in a sharashka ( a special scientific research facility run by ministry of state security ), where he met lev kopelev, upon whom he based the character of lev rubin in his book the first circle, published in a self - censored or " distorted " version in the west in 1968 ( an english translation of the full version was eventually published by harper perennial in october 2009 ). in 1950, solzhenitsyn was sent to a " special camp " for political prisoners. during his imprisonment at the camp in the town of ekibastuz in kazakhstan, he worked as a miner, bricklayer, and foundry foreman. his experiences at ekibastuz formed the basis for the book one day in the life of ivan denisovich. one of his fellow