in old english ; attila, atilla, and etele in hungarian ( attila is the most popular ) ; attila, atilla, atilay, or atila in turkish ; and adil and edil in kazakh or adil ( " same / similar " ) or edil ( " to use " ) in mongolian. attila and hun tradition in the medieval hungarian royal court the basic premise of the hungarian medieval chronicle tradition that the huns, i. e. the hungarians coming out twice from scythia, the guiding principle of the chronicles was the hun - hungarian continuity. the hungarian state founder royal dynasty, the arpad dynasty claimed to be a direct descendant of the great hun leader attila. medieval hungarian chronicles claimed that grand prince arpad of hungary was the descendants of attila. arpad, grand prince of the hungarians says in the gesta hungarorum : king matthias of hungary ( 1458 – 1490 ) was happy to be described as " the second attila ". the chronica hungarorum by johannes thuroczy set the goal of glorifying attila, which was undeservedly neglected, moreover, he introduced the famous " scourge of god " characterization to the later hungarian writers, because the earlier chronicles remained hidden for a long time. thuroczy worked hard to endear attila, the hun king with an effort far surpassing his predecessor chroniclers. he made attila a model for his victorious ruler, king matthias of hungary who had attila ' s abilities, with this he almost brought " the hammer of the world " to life. legends about attila and the sword of mars jordanes embellished the report of priscus, reporting that attila had possessed the " holy war sword of the scythians ", which was given to him by mars and made him a " prince of the entire world ". lampert of hersfeld ' s contemporary chronicles report that shortly before the year 1071, the sword of attila had been presented to otto of nordheim by the exiled queen of hungary, anastasia of kiev. this sword, a cavalry sabre now in the kunsthistorisches museum in vienna, appears to be the work of hungarian goldsmiths of the ninth or tenth century. legends about attila and his meeting with pope leo i an anonymous chronicler of the medieval period represented the meeting of pope leo and atilla as attended also by saint peter and saint paul, " a miraculous tale