n9b, which is also found among udege people of eastern siberia and is more common among europeans than eastern asians. the n9b haplogroup is also notably absent from geographically close kanto jomon period samples, which have a higher frequency of m7a7, commonly found among east and southeast asians. according to the authors, these results add to the internal - diversity observed among the jomon period population and show that a significant percentage of the jomon period people had ancestry from a northeast asian source population ; this is suggested to be the source of the proto - ainu language and culture, which is not detected in samples from kanto. a study by adachi et al. 2018 concluded, our results suggest that the ainu were formed from the hokkaido jomon people, but subsequently underwent considerable admixture with adjacent populations. the present study strongly recommends revision of the widely accepted dual - structure model for the population history of the japanese, in which the ainu are assumed to be the direct descendants of the jomon people. autosomal dna a 2004 reevaluation of cranial traits suggests that the ainu resemble the okhotsk more than they do the jomon, though there are large variations. this agrees with the hypothesis of ainu as a merger of okhotsk and satsumon populations, referenced earlier. similarly, more recent studies link the ainu to the local hokkaido jomon period samples, such as the 3, 800 year old rebun sample. genetic analyses of hla i and hla ii genes as well as hla - a, b, and drb1 gene frequencies link the ainu to indigenous peoples of the americas. the genetics of a variety of asian groups show ainu and native americans can both be traced back to paleolithic groups in siberia. hideo matsumoto ( 2009 ) suggested, based on immunoglobulin analyses, that the ainu ( and jomon ) have a siberian origin. compared with other east asian populations, the ainu have the highest amount of siberian immunoglobulin components, higher than mainland japanese people. a 2012 genetic study revealed that the closest known genetic relatives of the ainu are the ryukyuan people, followed by the yamato people and nivkh. a genetic analysis in 2016 showed that although the ainu have some genetic relations to yamato japanese people and eastern siberians ( especially itelmens and chukchis ), they are not