, connecting the towns of montrose and arbroath and on the east coast. the a947 exits the city at dyce and goes on to newmachar, oldmeldrum and turriff finally ending at banff and macduff. in 2019, the aberdeen western peripheral route bypass was completed. aberdeen harbour is important as the largest in the north of scotland and serves the ferry route to orkney and shetland. established in 1136, the harbour has been referred to as the oldest business in britain. firstgroup operates the city buses under the name first aberdeen, as the successor of grampian regional transport ( grt ) and aberdeen corporation tramways. aberdeen is the global headquarters of firstgroup plc, having grown from the grt group. first is still based at the former aberdeen tramways depot on king street, which has now been redeveloped into a new headquarters and bus depot. national express operate express coach services to london twice daily. the 590 service, operated by bruce ' s coaches of salsburgh operates in the morning and runs through the day, calling at dundee, perth, glasgow, hamilton, carlisle, milton keynes, golders green and victoria coach station, whilst the 592 ( operated by parks of hamilton ) leaves in the evening and travels overnight, calling at dundee, glasgow, hamilton, carlisle, heathrow airport and victoria coach station. aberdeen is connected to the uk national cycle network, and has a track to the south connecting to cities such as dundee and edinburgh and one to the north that forks about from the city into two different tracks heading to inverness and fraserburgh respectively. two popular footpaths along old railway lines are the deeside way to banchory ( which will eventually connect to ballater ) and the formartine and buchan way to ellon, both used by a mixture of cyclists, walkers and occasionally horses. the dee estuary, aberdeen ' s harbour, has continually been improved. starting out as a fishing port, moving onto steam trawlers, the oil industry, it is now a major port of departure for the baltic and scandinavia. education universities and colleges aberdeen has two universities, the ancient university of aberdeen, and robert gordon university, a modern university often referred to as rgu. aberdeen ' s student rate of 11. 5 % is higher than the national average of 7 %. the university of aberdeen began as king ' s college, aberdeen, which was founded in 1495 by william elphinstone ( 1431 – 1514 ), bishop of aberdeen and chancellor of