park that was codenamed delilah. by using statistical techniques to optimise the trial of different possibilities in the code breaking process, turing made an innovative contribution to the subject. he wrote two papers discussing mathematical approaches, titled the applications of probability to cryptography and paper on statistics of repetitions, which were of such value to gc & cs and its successor gchq that they were not released to the uk national archives until april 2012, shortly before the centenary of his birth. a gchq mathematician, " who identified himself only as richard, " said at the time that the fact that the contents had been restricted under the official secrets act for some 70 years demonstrated their importance, and their relevance to post - war cryptanalysis : turing had a reputation for eccentricity at bletchley park. he was known to his colleagues as " prof " and his treatise on enigma was known as the " prof ' s book ". according to historian ronald lewin, jack good, a cryptanalyst who worked with turing, said of his colleague : peter hilton recounted his experience working with turing in hut 8 in his " reminiscences of bletchley park " from a century of mathematics in america : hilton echoed similar thoughts in the nova pbs documentary decoding nazi secrets. while working at bletchley, turing, who was a talented long - distance runner, occasionally ran the to london when he was needed for meetings, and he was capable of world - class marathon standards. turing tried out for the 1948 british olympic team, but he was hampered by an injury. his tryout time for the marathon was only 11 minutes slower than british silver medallist thomas richards ' olympic race time of 2 hours 35 minutes. he was walton athletic club ' s best runner, a fact discovered when he passed the group while running alone. when asked why he ran so hard in training he replied : due to the problems of counterfactual history, it is hard to estimate the precise effect ultra intelligence had on the war. however, official war historian harry hinsley estimated that this work shortened the war in europe by more than two years and saved over 14 million lives. at the end of the war, a memo was sent to all those who had worked at bletchley park, reminding them that the code of silence dictated by the official secrets act did not end with the war but would continue indefinitely. thus, even though turing was appointed an officer of the order of the british empire ( obe ) in 1946 by king george vi