##rons are produced in terrestrial gamma ray flashes created by electrons accelerated by strong electric fields in the clouds. antiprotons have also been found to exist in the van allen belts around the earth by the pamela module. antiparticles are also produced in any environment with a sufficiently high temperature ( mean particle energy greater than the pair production threshold ). it is hypothesized that during the period of baryogenesis, when the universe was extremely hot and dense, matter and antimatter were continually produced and annihilated. the presence of remaining matter, and absence of detectable remaining antimatter, is called baryon asymmetry. the exact mechanism that produced this asymmetry during baryogenesis remains an unsolved problem. one of the necessary conditions for this asymmetry is the violation of cp symmetry, which has been experimentally observed in the weak interaction. recent observations indicate black holes and neutron stars produce vast amounts of positron - electron plasma via the jets. observation in cosmic rays satellite experiments have found evidence of positrons and a few antiprotons in primary cosmic rays, amounting to less than 1 % of the particles in primary cosmic rays. this antimatter cannot all have been created in the big bang, but is instead attributed to have been produced by cyclic processes at high energies. for instance, electron - positron pairs may be formed in pulsars, as a magnetized neutron star rotation cycle shears electron - positron pairs from the star surface. therein the antimatter forms a wind that crashes upon the ejecta of the progenitor supernovae. this weathering takes place as " the cold, magnetized relativistic wind launched by the star hits the non - relativistically expanding ejecta, a shock wave system forms in the impact : the outer one propagates in the ejecta, while a reverse shock propagates back towards the star. " the former ejection of matter in the outer shock wave and the latter production of antimatter in the reverse shock wave are steps in a space weather cycle. preliminary results from the presently operating alpha magnetic spectrometer ( ams - 02 ) on board the international space station show that positrons in the cosmic rays arrive with no directionality, and with energies that range from 10 gev to 250 gev. in september, 2014, new results with almost twice as much data were presented in a talk at cern and published in