of each succeeding person that sat on the throne, transmitted to his successors in office, regardless of their previous membership in the imperial family. secondly, the res privata, the " private " properties tied to the personal maintenance of the emperor and his family, something like a privy purse. an anecdote in the historia augusta biography, where antoninus replies to faustina ( who complained about his stinginess ) that " we have gained an empire [ and ] lost even what we had before " possibly relates to antoninus ' actual concerns at the creation of the res privata. while still a private citizen, antoninus had increased his personal fortune greatly by means of various legacies, the consequence of his caring scrupulously for his relatives. also, antoninus left behind him a reputation for stinginess and was probably determined not to leave his personal property to be " swallowed up by the demands of the imperial throne ". the res privata lands could be sold and / or given away, while the patrimonium properties were regarded as public. it was a way of pretending that the imperial function — and most properties attached to it — was a public one, formally subject to the authority of the senate and the roman people. that the distinction played no part in subsequent political history — that the personal power of the princeps absorbed his role as office - holder — proves that the autocratic logic of the imperial order had already subsumed the old republican institutions. of the public transactions of this period there is only the scantiest of information, but, to judge by what is extant, those twenty - two years were not remarkably eventful in comparison to those before and after the reign. however, antoninus did take a great interest in the revision and practice of the law throughout the empire. one of his chief concerns was to having local communities conform their legal procedures to existing roman norms : in a case concerning repression of banditry by local police officers ( " irenarchs ", greek for " peace keepers " ) in asia minor, antoninus ordered that these officers should not treat suspects as already condemned, and also keep a detailed copy of their interrogations, to be used in the possibility of an appeal to the roman governor. also, although antoninus was not an innovator, he would not always follow the absolute letter of the law ; rather he was driven by concerns over humanity and equality, and introduced into roman law many important new principles based upon this notion. in this, the emperor was assisted by five chief