, a major transform fault separates tierra del fuego from the small scotia plate. across the wide drake passage lie the mountains of the antarctic peninsula south of the scotia plate which appear to be a continuation of the andes chain. the far east regions of the andes experience a series of changes resulting from the andean orogeny. parts of the sunsas orogen in amazonian craton disappeared from the surface of the earth being overridden by the andes. the sierras de cordoba, where the effects of the ancient pampean orogeny can be observed, owe their modern uplift and relief to the andean orogeny in the tertiary. further south in southern patagonia the onset of the andean orogeny caused the magallanes basin to evolve from being an extensional back - arc basin in the mesozoic to being a compressional foreland basin in the cenozoic. volcanism the andes range has many active volcanoes distributed in four volcanic zones separated by areas of inactivity. the andean volcanism is a result of the subduction of the nazca plate and antarctic plate underneath the south american plate. the belt is subdivided into four main volcanic zones that are separated from each other by volcanic gaps. the volcanoes of the belt are diverse in terms of activity style, products and morphology. while some differences can be explained by which volcanic zone a volcano belongs to, there are significant differences inside volcanic zones and even between neighbouring volcanoes. despite being a typical location for calc - alkalic and subduction volcanism, the andean volcanic belt has a large range of volcano - tectonic settings, such as rift systems and extensional zones, transpressional faults, subduction of mid - ocean ridges and seamount chains apart from a large range of crustal thicknesses and magma ascent paths, and different amount of crustal assimilations. ore deposits and evaporates the andes mountains host large ore and salt deposits and some of their eastern fold and thrust belts act as traps for commercially exploitable amounts of hydrocarbons. in the forelands of the atacama desert some of the largest porphyry copper mineralizations occur making chile and peru the first - and second - largest exporters of copper in the world. porphyry copper in the western slopes of the andes has been generated by hydrothermal fluids ( mostly water ) during the cooling of plutons or volcanic systems. the porphyry mineralization further benefited from the dry climate that let them largely out of the disturbing