##s assumed that multiplication is performed first, for example, is interpreted as ; in this case, the insertion of parentheses is required when translating the formulas to an algorithmic language. in addition, it is common to write an argument of a function without parenthesis, which also may lead to ambiguity. in the scientific journal style, one uses roman letters to denote elementary functions, whereas variables are written using italics. for example, in mathematical journals the expression does not denote the sine function, but the product of the three variables,,, although in the informal notation of a slide presentation it may stand for. commas in multi - component subscripts and superscripts are sometimes omitted ; this is also potentially ambiguous notation. for example, in the notation, the reader can only infer from the context whether it means a single - index object, taken with the subscript equal to product of variables, and, or it is an indication to a trivalent tensor. examples of potentially confusing ambiguous mathematical expressions an expression such as can be understood to mean either or. often the author ' s intention can be understood from the context, in cases where only one of the two makes sense, but an ambiguity like this should be avoided, for example by writing or. the expression means in several texts, though it might be thought to mean, since commonly means. conversely, might seem to mean, as this exponentiation notation usually denotes function iteration : in general, means. however, for trigonometric and hyperbolic functions, this notation conventionally means exponentiation of the result of function application. the expression can be interpreted as meaning ; however, it is more commonly understood to mean. notations in quantum optics and quantum mechanics it is common to define the coherent states in quantum optics with and states with fixed number of photons with. then, there is an " unwritten rule " : the state is coherent if there are more greek characters than latin characters in the argument, and photon state if the latin characters dominate. the ambiguity becomes even worse, if is used for the states with certain value of the coordinate, and means the state with certain value of the momentum, which may be used in books on quantum mechanics. such ambiguities easily lead to confusions, especially if some normalized adimensional, dimensionless variables are used. expression may mean a state with single photon, or the coherent state with mean amplitude equal to 1, or state with momentum equal to unity, and so on. the reader is supposed to guess from the