the afroasiatic languages ( or afro - asiatic, sometimes afrasian ), also known as hamito - semitic or semito - hamitic, are a language family ( or " phylum " ) of about 400 languages spoken predominantly in west asia, north africa, the horn of africa, and parts of the sahara and sahel. over 500 million people are native speakers of an afroasiatic language, constituting the fourth - largest language family after indo - european, sino - tibetan, and niger – congo. most linguists divide the family into six branches : berber, chadic, cushitic, egyptian, semitic, and omotic. the vast majority of afroasiatic languages are considered indigenous to the african continent, including all those not belonging to the semitic branch. arabic, if counted as a single language, is by far the most widely spoken within the family, with around 300 million native speakers concentrated primarily in the middle east and north africa. other major afroasiatic languages include the chadic hausa language with over 34 million native speakers, the semitic amharic language with 34 million, the cushitic oromo language with 35 million, and the cushitic somali language with 22 million. other afroasiatic languages with millions of native speakers include the cushitic sidaama language, the semitic tigrinya language and the omotic wolaitta language, though most languages within the family are much smaller in size. there are many well - attested afroasiatic languages from antiquity that have since died or gone extinct, including egyptian and the semitic languages akkadian, biblical hebrew, phoenician, amorite, and ugaritic. there is no consensus among historical linguists as to precisely where or when the common ancestor of all afroasiatic languages, known as proto - afroasiatic, was originally spoken. however, most agree that the proto - afroasiatic homeland was located somewhere in northeastern africa, with specific proposals including the horn of africa, egypt, the eastern sahara. a significant minority of scholars argues for an origin in the levant. the reconstructed timelines of when proto - afroasiatic was spoken vary extensively, with dates ranging from 18, 000 bc to 8, 000 bc. even the latest plausible dating makes afroasiatic the oldest language family accepted by contemporary linguists. comparative study of afroasiatic is hindered by the massive disparities in textual attestation between its branches : while the semitic and egyptian branches are attested in writing as early as the fourth millennium