this group was the concert virtuoso john serry, sr. jacobson, marion ( 2012 ). squeeze this : a cultural history of the accordion in america. university of illinois press, chicago, p. 61. during the 1950s through the 1980s the accordion received significant exposure on television with performances by myron floren on the lawrence welk show. in the late 1950s and early 1960s, the accordion declined in popularity because of the rise of rock and roll. the first accordionist to appear and perform at the newport jazz festival was angelo dipippo. he can be seen playing his accordion in the motion picture the godfather. he also composed and performed with his accordion on part of the soundtrack of woody allen ' s movie to rome with love. he was featured twice on the tonight show with johnny carson. richard galliano is an internationally known accordionist whose repertoire covers jazz, tango nuevo, latin, and classical. some popular bands use the instrument to create distinctive sounds. a notable example is grammy award - winning parodist " weird al " yankovic, who plays the accordion on many of his musical tracks, particularly his polkas. yankovic was trained in the accordion as a child. the accordion has also been used in the rock genre, most notably by john linnell of they might be giants, featuring more prominently in the band ' s earlier works. the instrument is still frequently used during live performances, and continues to make appearances in their studio albums. accordion is also used in the music of the dropkick murphys and gogol bordello. accordionists in heavy metal music make their most extensive appearances in the folk metal subgenre, and are otherwise generally rare. full - time accordionists in folk metal seem even rarer, but they are still utilized for studio work, as flexible keyboardists are usually more accessible for live performances. the finnish symphonic folk - metal band turisas used to have a full - time accordionist, employing classical and polka sensibilities alongside a violinist. one of their accordionists, netta skog, is now a member of ensiferum, another folk - metal band. another finnish metal band, korpiklaani, invokes a type of finnish polka called humppa, and also has a full - time accordionist. sarah kiener, the former hurdy - gurdy player for the swiss melodic - death - folk metal band eluveitie, played a helvetic accordion known as a zugerorgeli. use in