and by the visigoths under their king alaric i ( ) in 396, however, dealt a heavy blow to the city ' s fabric and fortunes, and athens was henceforth confined to a small fortified area that embraced a fraction of the ancient city. the emperor justinian i ( ) banned the teaching of philosophy by pagans in 529, an event whose impact on the city is much debated, but is generally taken to mark the end of the ancient history of athens. athens was sacked by the slavs in 582, but remained in imperial hands thereafter, as highlighted by the visit of the emperor constans ii ( ) in 662 / 3 and its inclusion in the theme of hellas. middle ages the city was threatened by saracen raids in the 8th – 9th centuries — in 896, athens was raided and possibly occupied for a short period, an event which left some archaeological remains and elements of arabic ornamentation in contemporary buildings — but there is also evidence of a mosque existing in the city at the time. in the great dispute over byzantine iconoclasm, athens is commonly held to have supported the iconophile position, chiefly due to the role played by empress irene of athens in the ending of the first period of iconoclasm at the second council of nicaea in 787. a few years later, another athenian, theophano, became empress as the wife of staurakios ( r. 811 – 812 ). invasion of the empire by the turks after the battle of manzikert in 1071, and the ensuing civil wars, largely passed the region by and athens continued its provincial existence unharmed. when the byzantine empire was rescued by the resolute leadership of the three komnenos emperors alexios, john and manuel, attica and the rest of greece prospered. archaeological evidence tells us that the medieval town experienced a period of rapid and sustained growth, starting in the 11th century and continuing until the end of the 12th century. the agora ( marketplace ) had been deserted since late antiquity, began to be built over, and soon the town became an important centre for the production of soaps and dyes. the growth of the town attracted the venetians, and various other traders who frequented the ports of the aegean, to athens. this interest in trade appears to have further increased the economic prosperity of the town. the 11th and 12th centuries were the golden age of byzantine art in athens. almost all of the most important middle byzantine churches