where the prestigious family could draw attention to themselves. in 1906, josep batllo still owned the home. the batllo family was very well known in barcelona for its contribution to the textile industry in the city. mr. josep batllo i casanovas was a textile industrialist who owned a few factories in the city. mr. batllo married amalia godo belaunzaran, from the family that founded the newspaper la vanguardia. josep wanted an architect that would design a house that was like no other and stood out as being audacious and creative. both josep and his wife were open to anything and they decided not to limit gaudi. josep did not want his house to resemble any of the houses of the rest of the batllo family, such as casa pia, built by the josep vilaseca. he chose the architect who had designed park guell because he wanted him to come up with a risky plan. the family lived on the principal floor of until the middle of the 1950s. renovation ( 1904 - 1906 ) in 1904, josep batllo hired gaudi to design his home ; at first his plans were to tear down the building and construct a completely new house. gaudi convinced josep that a renovation was sufficient and was also able to submit the planning application the same year. the building was completed and refurbished in 1906. he completely changed the main apartment which became the residence for the batllo family. he expanded the central well in order to supply light to the whole building and also added new floors. in the same year the barcelona city council selected the house as a candidate for that year ' s best building award. the award was given to another architect that year despite gaudi ' s design. refurbishments josep batllo died in 1934 and the house was kept in order by the wife until her death in 1940. after the death of the two parents, the house was kept and managed by the children until 1954. in 1954, an insurance company named seguros iberia acquired casa batllo and set up offices there. in 1970, the first refurbishment occurred mainly in several of the interior rooms of the house. in 1983, the exterior balconies were restored to their original colour and a year later the exterior facade was illuminated in the ceremony of la merce. multiple uses in 1993, the current owners of casa batllo bought the home and continued refurbishments throughout the whole building. two years later, in 1995, casa batllo began to hire out its facilities for different