##ltskog and ulvaeus, now married, started performing together with andersson on a regular basis at the swedish folkparks in the middle of 1971. stig anderson, founder and owner of polar music, was determined to break into the mainstream international market with music by andersson and ulvaeus. " one day the pair of you will write a song that becomes a worldwide hit, " he predicted. stig anderson encouraged ulvaeus and andersson to write a song for melodifestivalen, and after two rejected entries in 1971, andersson and ulvaeus submitted their new song " sag det med en sang " ( " say it with a song " ) for the 1972 contest, choosing newcomer lena anderson to perform. the song came in third place, encouraging stig anderson, and became a hit in sweden. the first signs of foreign success came as a surprise, as the andersson and ulvaeus single " she ' s my kind of girl " was released through epic records in japan in march 1972, giving the duo a top 10 hit. two more singles were released in japan, " en carousel " ( " en karusell " in scandinavia, an earlier version of " merry - go - round " ) and " love has its ways " ( a song they wrote with koichi morita ). first hit as bjorn, benny, agnetha and anni - frid ulvaeus and andersson persevered with their songwriting and experimented with new sounds and vocal arrangements. " people need love " was released in june 1972, featuring guest vocals by the women, who were now given much greater prominence. stig anderson released it as a single, credited to bjorn & benny, agnetha & anni - frid. the song peaked at number 17 in the swedish combined single and album charts, enough to convince them they were on to something. " people need love " also became the first record to chart for the quartet in the united states, where it peaked at number 114 on the cashbox singles chart and number 117 on the record world singles chart. labelled as bjorn & benny ( with svenska flicka ) meaning swedish girl, it was released there through playboy records. according to stig anderson, " people need love " could have been a much bigger american hit, but a small label like playboy records did not have the distribution resources to meet the demand for the single from retailers and radio programmers. " ring ring " in 1973, the band and their manager stig anderson decided to have another try