leader of the ( christian ) union of the center and of the european people ' s party of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe luca volonte of accepting large bribes from representatives of the azerbaijani government. two people with high - level experience of the council of europe ' s parliamentary assembly ( pace ) have told the guardian they believe its members have been offered bribes for votes by azerbaijan. former azerbaijani diplomat, arif mammadov, alleged that a member of azerbaijan ' s delegation at the council of europe had €30m ( £25m ) to spend on lobbying its institutions, including the council of europe assembly. pace ratified the terms of reference of an independent external investigation body to carry out a detailed independent inquiry into the allegations of corruption at the council involving azerbaijan. esisc report on 6 march 2017, esisc ( european strategic intelligence and security center ) published a scandalous report called " the armenian connection " where it veraciously attacked human rights ngos and research organisations criticising human rights violations and corruption in azerbaijan, turkey, and russia. esisc in that report asserted that " caviar diplomacy " report elaborated by esi aimed to create climate of suspicion based on slander to form a network of mps that would engage in a political war against azerbaijan. in the second chapter of the report called " the armenian connection : « mr x », nils muiznieks, council of europe commissioner for human rights " that was published on 18 april 2017 esisc asserted that the network composed of european pms, armenian officials and some ngos : human rights watch, amnesty international, " human rights house foundation ", " open dialog ", european stability initiative, and helsinki committee for human rights, was financed by the soros foundation. according to esisc the key figure of the network since 2012 has been nils muiznieks, commissioner for human rights of the council of europe and the network has served to the interests of george soros and the republic of armenia. " the report is written in the worst traditions of authoritarian propaganda, makes absurd claims, and is clearly aimed at deflecting the wave of criticism against cover - up of unethical lobbying and corruption in pace and demands for change in the assembly ", said freedom files analytical centre. according robert coalson ( radio free europe ), esisc is a part of baku ' s lobbying efforts to extend to the use of front think tanks to shift public opinion. european stability initiative said that " esisc report is full of lies ( such