and bleda a clear path through illyricum into the balkans, which they invaded in 441. the hunnish army sacked margus and viminacium, and then took singidunum ( belgrade ) and sirmium. during 442, theodosius recalled his troops from sicily and ordered a large issue of new coins to finance operations against the huns. he believed that he could defeat the huns and refused the hunnish kings ' demands. attila responded with a campaign in 443. for the first time ( as far as the romans knew ) his forces were equipped with battering rams and rolling siege towers, with which they successfully assaulted the military centers of ratiara and naissus ( nis ) and massacred the inhabitants. priscus said " when we arrived at naissus we found the city deserted, as though it had been sacked ; only a few sick persons lay in the churches. we halted at a short distance from the river, in an open space, for all the ground adjacent to the bank was full of the bones of men slain in war. " advancing along the nisava river, the huns next took serdica ( sofia ), philippopolis ( plovdiv ), and arcadiopolis ( luleburgaz ). they encountered and destroyed a roman army outside constantinople but were stopped by the double walls of the eastern capital. they defeated a second army near callipolis ( gelibolu ). theodosius, unable to make effective armed resistance, admitted defeat, sending the magister militum per orientem anatolius to negotiate peace terms. the terms were harsher than the previous treaty : the emperor agreed to hand over 6, 000 roman pounds ( c. 2000 kg ) of gold as punishment for having disobeyed the terms of the treaty during the invasion ; the yearly tribute was tripled, rising to 2, 100 roman pounds ( c. 700 kg ) in gold ; and the ransom for each roman prisoner rose to 12 solidi. their demands were met for a time, and the hun kings withdrew into the interior of their empire. bleda died following the huns ' withdrawal from byzantium ( probably around 445 ). attila then took the throne for himself, becoming the sole ruler of the huns. solitary kingship in 447, attila again rode south into the eastern roman empire through moesia. the roman army, under gothic magister militum arne