a few cities. the only city with over a million residents is its capital, kabul, located in the east of the country. the other large cities are located generally in the " ring " around the central highlands, namely kandahar in the south, herat in the west, mazar - i - sharif, kunduz in the north, and jalalabad in the east. education education in afghanistan is overseen by the ministry of education and the ministry of higher education. there are over 16, 000 schools in the country and roughly 9 million students. of this, about 60 % are males and 40 % females. however, the new regime has thus far forbidden female teachers and female students from returning to secondary schools. over 174, 000 students are enrolled in different universities around the country. about 21 % of these are females. former education minister ghulam farooq wardak had stated that construction of 8, 000 schools is required for the remaining children who are deprived of formal learning. as of 2018 the literacy rate of the population age 15 and older is 43. 02 % ( males 55. 48 % and females 29. 81 % ). the top universities in afghanistan are the american university of afghanistan ( auaf ) followed by kabul university ( ku ), both of which are located in kabul. the national military academy of afghanistan, modeled after the united states military academy at west point, was a four - year military development institution dedicated to graduating officers for the afghan armed forces. the afghan defense university was constructed near qargha in kabul. major universities outside of kabul include kandahar university in the south, herat university in the northwest, balkh university and kunduz university in the north, nangarhar university and khost university in the east. after the taliban regained power in 2021, it became unclear to what extent female education would continue in the country. in march 2022, after they had been closed for some time, it was announced that secondary education would be reopened shortly. however, shortly before reopening, the order was rescinded and schools for older girls remained closed. despite the ban, six provinces, balkh, kunduz, jowzjan, sar - i - pul, faryab, and the day kundi, still allow girl ' s schools from grade 6 and up. health according to the human development index, afghanistan is the 15th least developed country in the world. the average life expectancy is estimated to be around 60 years. the country '