##yeshtha in the hindu calendar ( which falls in may – june in the gregorian calendar ) married women observe a fast, tie threads around a banyan tree, and pray for the well - being of their husbands. thimmamma marrimanu, sacred to indian religions, has branches spread over five acres and was listed as the world ' s largest banyan tree in the guinness world records in 1989. in hinduism, the leaf of the banyan tree is said to be the resting place for the god krishna. in the bhagavat gita, krishna said, " there is a banyan tree which has its roots upward and its branches down, and the vedic hymns are its leaves. one who knows this tree is the knower of the vedas. " ( bg 15. 1 ) in buddhism ' s pali canon, the banyan ( pali : nigrodha ) is referenced numerous times. typical metaphors allude to the banyan ' s epiphytic nature, likening the banyan ' s supplanting of a host tree as comparable to the way sensual desire ( kama ) overcomes humans. mun ( also known as munism or bongthingism ) is the traditional polytheistic, animist, shamanistic, and syncretic religion of the lepcha people. chinese religions shendao ( ) is a term originated by chinese folk religions influenced by, mohist, confucian and taoist philosophy, referring to the divine order of nature or the wuxing. japan and shinto shinto is the traditional japanese folk religion and has many animist aspects. the, a class of supernatural beings, are central to shinto. all things, including natural forces and well - known geographical locations, are thought to be home to the kami. the kami are worshipped at kamidana household shrines, family shrines, and jinja public shrines. the ryukyuan religion of the ryukyu islands is distinct from shinto, but shares similar characteristics. kalash people kalash people of northern pakistan follow an ancient animistic religion identified with an ancient form of hinduism. korea muism, the native korean belief, has many animist aspects. the various deities, called kwisin, are capable of interacting with humans and causing problems if they are not honoured appropriately. philippines indigenous religions in the indigenous philippine folk religions, pre - colonial religions of philippines and philippine mythology, animism is part of their core beliefs as demonstrated by