canal system and narrow canal houses with gabled facades ; well - preserved legacies of the city ' s 17th - century golden age, and the establishment of the van gogh museum, displaying the work of the famous dutch modern artist, have attracted millions of visitors to amsterdam annually. the amsterdam stock exchange, founded in 1602, is considered the oldest " modern " securities market stock exchange in the world. as the commercial capital of the netherlands and one of the top financial centres in europe, amsterdam is considered an alpha world city by the globalization and world cities research network. the city is also the cultural capital of the netherlands. many large dutch institutions have their headquarters in the city, including : the philips conglomerate, akzonobel, booking. com, tomtom, and ing. many of the world ' s largest companies are based in amsterdam or have established their european headquarters in the city, such as leading technology companies uber, netflix and tesla. in 2022, amsterdam was ranked the ninth - best city in the world to live in by the economist intelligence unit and 12th globally on quality of living for environment and infrastructure by mercer. the city was ranked 4th place globally as top tech hub in the savills tech cities 2019 report ( 2nd in europe ), and 3rd in innovation by australian innovation agency 2thinknow in their innovation cities index 2009. the port of amsterdam is the fifth largest in europe. the klm hub and amsterdam ' s main airport, schiphol, is the busiest airport in the netherlands, the third busiest in europe, and the 11th busiest airport in the world. the dutch capital is considered one of the most multicultural cities in the world, with at least 177 nationalities represented. immigration and ethnic segregation in amsterdam is a current issue. a few of amsterdam ' s notable residents throughout its history include painters rembrandt and vincent van gogh, seventeenth - century philosophers baruch spinoza, john locke, rene descartes, and the holocaust victim and diarist anne frank. history prehistory due to its geographical location in what used to be wet peatland, the founding of amsterdam is later than other urban centres in the low countries. however, around the area of what later became amsterdam, farmers settled as early as three millennia ago. they lived along the prehistoric ij river and upstream of its tributary amstel. the prehistoric ij was a shallow and quiet stream in peatland behind beach ridges. this secluded area was able to grow into an important local settlement centre, especially in the late bronze age, the iron age