statement such as, " elizabeth is a fool " ( said of a person named " elizabeth " who has done something that we regard as foolish ). in korzybski ' s system, one ' s assessment of elizabeth belongs to a higher order of abstraction than elizabeth herself. korzybski ' s remedy was to deny identity ; in this example, to be aware continually that " elizabeth " is not what we call her. we find elizabeth not in the verbal domain, the world of words, but the nonverbal domain ( the two, he said, amount to different orders of abstraction ). this was expressed by korzybski ' s most famous premise, " the map is not the territory ". note that this premise uses the phrase " is not ", a form of " to be " ; this and many other examples show that he did not intend to abandon " to be " as such. in fact, he said explicitly that there were no structural problems with the verb " to be " when used as an auxiliary verb or when used to state existence or location. it was even acceptable at times to use the faulty forms of the verb " to be, " as long as one was aware of their structural limitations. anecdotes one day, korzybski was giving a lecture to a group of students, and he interrupted the lesson suddenly in order to retrieve a packet of biscuits, wrapped in white paper, from his briefcase. he muttered that he just had to eat something, and he asked the students on the seats in the front row if they would also like a biscuit. a few students took a biscuit. " nice biscuit, don ' t you think, " said korzybski, while he took a second one. the students were chewing vigorously. then he tore the white paper from the biscuits, in order to reveal the original packaging. on it was a big picture of a dog ' s head and the words " dog cookies. " the students looked at the package, and were shocked. two of them wanted to vomit, put their hands in front of their mouths, and ran out of the lecture hall to the toilet. " you see, " korzybski remarked, " i have just demonstrated that people don ' t just eat food, but also words, and that the taste of the former is often outdone by the taste of the latter. " william burroughs went to a korzybski workshop in the autumn of 1939. he was 25 years old, and