daniel pauly expressed concerns that china was over reporting its catch from wild fisheries in the 1990s. they said that made it appear that the global catch since 1988 was increasing annually by 300, 000 tonnes, whereas it was really shrinking annually by 350, 000 tonnes. watson and pauly suggested this may have been related to chinese policies where state entities that monitored the economy were also tasked with increasing output. also, until more recently, the promotion of chinese officials was based on production increases from their own areas. china disputed this claim. the official xinhua news agency quoted yang jian, director general of the agriculture ministry ' s bureau of fisheries, as saying that china ' s figures were " basically correct ". however, the fao accepted there were issues with the reliability of china ' s statistical returns, and for a period treated data from china, including the aquaculture data, apart from the rest of the world. aquacultural methods mariculture mariculture refers to the cultivation of marine organisms in seawater, usually in sheltered coastal or offshore waters. the farming of marine fish is an example of mariculture, and so also is the farming of marine crustaceans ( such as shrimp ), mollusks ( such as oysters ), and seaweed. channel catfish ( ictalurus punctatus ), hard clams ( mercenaria mercenaria ) and atlantic salmon ( salmo salar ) are prominent in the u. s. mariculture. mariculture may consist of raising the organisms on or in artificial enclosures such as in floating netted enclosures for salmon and on racks for oysters. in the case of enclosed salmon, they are fed by the operators ; oysters on racks filter feed on naturally available food. abalone have been farmed on an artificial reef consuming seaweed which grows naturally on the reef units. integrated integrated multi - trophic aquaculture ( imta ) is a practice in which the byproducts ( wastes ) from one species are recycled to become inputs ( fertilizers, food ) for another. fed aquaculture ( for example, fish, shrimp ) is combined with inorganic extractive and organic extractive ( for example, shellfish ) aquaculture to create balanced systems for environmental sustainability ( biomitigation ), economic stability ( product diversification and risk reduction ) and social acceptability ( better management practices ). " multi - trophic " refers to the incorporation of species from different trophic or nutritional levels in the same system. this is one potential distinction from