is an integral part of the controversial austric hypothesis, which also includes the austronesian languages, and in some proposals also the kra – dai languages and the hmong – mien languages. hmong - mien several lexical resemblances are found between the hmong - mien and austroasiatic language families ( ratliff 2010 ), some of which had earlier been proposed by haudricourt ( 1951 ). this could imply a relation or early language contact along the yangtze. according to cai ( et al. 2011 ), hmong – mien people are genetically related to austroasiatic speakers, and their languages were heavily influenced by sino - tibetan, especially tibeto - burman languages. indo - aryan languages it is suggested that the austroasiatic languages have some influence on indo - aryan languages including sanskrit and middle indo - aryan languages. indian linguist suniti kumar chatterji pointed that a specific number of substantives in languages such as hindi, punjabi and bengali were borrowed from munda languages. additionally, french linguist jean przyluski suggested a similarity between the tales from the austroasiatic realm and the indian mythological stories of matsyagandha ( satyavati from mahabharata ) and the nagas. austroasiatic migrations and archaeogenetics mitsuru sakitani suggests that haplogroup o1b1, which is common in austroasiatic people and some other ethnic groups in southern china, and haplogroup o1b2, which is common in today ' s japanese and koreans, are the carriers of early rice agriculture from southern china. another study suggests that the haplogroup o1b1 is the major austroasiatic paternal lineage and o1b2 the " para - austroasiatic " lineage of the koreans and yayoi people. a full genomic study by lipson et al. ( 2018 ) identified a characteristic lineage that can be associated with the spread of austroasiatic languages in southeast asia and which can be traced back to remains of neolithic farmers from man bac ( ca. 2000 bce ) in the red river delta in northern vietnam, and to closely related ban chiang and vat komnou remains in thailand and cambodia respectively. this austroasiatic lineage can be modeled as a sister group of the austronesian peoples with significant admixture ( ca. 30 % ) from a deeply diverging eastern eurasian source ( modeled by the authors as sharing some genetic drift with the onge, a modern andaman