of the principality. on 7 march, he arrived in the provisional capital of durres and started to organise his government, appointing turhan pasha permeti to form the first albanian cabinet. in november 1913, the albanian pro - ottoman forces had offered the throne of albania to the ottoman war minister of albanian origin, ahmed izzet pasha. the pro - ottoman peasants believed that the new regime was a tool of the six christian great powers and local landowners, that owned half of the arable land. in february 1914, the autonomous republic of northern epirus was proclaimed in gjirokaster by the local greek population against incorporation to albania. this initiative was short - lived, and in 1921 the southern provinces were incorporated into the albanian principality. meanwhile, the revolt of albanian peasants against the new albanian regime erupted under the leadership of the group of muslim clerics gathered around essad pasha toptani, who proclaimed himself the saviour of albania and islam. in order to gain support of the mirdita catholic volunteers from the northern part of albania, prince wied appointed their leader, prenk bibe doda, to be the foreign minister of the principality of albania. in may and june 1914, the international gendarmerie was joined by isa boletini and his men, mostly from kosovo, and northern mirdita catholics, were defeated by the rebels who captured most of central albania by the end of august 1914. the regime of prince wied collapsed, and he left the country on 3 september 1914. first republic the interwar period in albania was marked by persistent economic and social difficulties, political instability and foreign interventions. after world war i, albania lacked an established government and internationally recognised borders, rendering it vulnerable to neighboring entities such as greece, italy and yugoslavia, all of which sought to expand their influence. this led to political uncertainty, highlighted in 1918 when the congress of durres sought paris peace conference protection but was denied, further complicating albania ' s position on the international stage. territorial tensions escalated as yugoslavia, particularly serbia, sought control of northern albania, while greece aimed dominance in southern albania. the situation deteriorated in 1919 when the serbs launched attacks on albanian inhabitants, among others in gusinje and plav, resulting in massacres and large - scale displacement. meanwhile, italian influence continued to expand during this time driven by economic interests and political ambitions. fan noli, renowned for his idealism, assumed the role of prime minister in the year of 1924, with a vision to institute a western