subject of much criticism. it was given the nickname " la pedrera ", meaning " the quarry ". casa mila appeared in many satirical magazines. joan junceda presented it as a traditional " easter cake " by means of cartoons in patufet. joaquim garcia made a joke about the difficulty of setting the damask wrought iron balconies in his magazine. homeowners in passeig de gracia became angry with mila and ceased to greet him, arguing that the weird building by gaudi would lower the price of land in the area. administrative problems casa mila also caused some administrative problems. in december 1907 the city hall stopped work on the building because of a pillar which occupied part of the sidewalk, not respecting the alignment of facades. again on august 17, 1908, more problems occurred when the building surpassed the predicted height and borders of its construction site by. the council called for a fine of 100, 000 pesetas ( approximately 25 % of the cost of work ) or for the demolition of the attic and roof. the dispute was resolved a year and a half later, december 28, 1909, when the commission certified that it was a monumental building and thus not required to have a ' strict compliance ' with the bylaws. design competitions the owner entered la pedrera in the annual sponsored by the barcelona city council ( ayuntament ). other entries in the competition included two works by sagnier ( calle mallorca 264, and one on corsica and av. diagonal ), the by architect, and the, designed by. although the most dramatic and clear favorite was casa mila, the jury opined that even though the facades were complete, " there ' s still a lot left to do before it ' s fully completed, finalized and in a perfect state of appreciation. " the winner in 1910 was samanillo perez, for his building which now houses the headquarters of the circulo ecuestre. design disagreements gaudi ' s relations with segimon deteriorated during the construction and decoration of the house. there were many disagreements between them, one example was the monumental bronze virgin del rosario, which gaudi wanted as the statue on the front of the building in homage to the name of the owner, that the artist carles mani i roig was to sculpt. the statue was not made although the words " ave gratia m plena dominus tecum " were written at the top of the facade. continuing disagreements led gaudi