hard. historian gary gallagher cites general sherman, who in early 1864 commented, " the devils seem to have a determination that cannot but be admired. " despite their loss of slaves and wealth, with starvation looming, sherman continued, " yet i see no sign of let - up — some few deserters — plenty tired of war, but the masses determined to fight it out. " also important were lincoln ' s eloquence in rationalizing the national purpose and his skill in keeping the border states committed to the union cause. the emancipation proclamation was an effective use of the president ' s war powers. the confederate government failed in its attempt to get europe involved in the war militarily, particularly great britain and france. southern leaders needed to get european powers to help break up the blockade the union had created around the southern ports and cities. lincoln ' s naval blockade was 95 % effective at stopping trade goods ; as a result, imports and exports to the south declined significantly. the abundance of european cotton and britain ' s hostility to the institution of slavery, along with lincoln ' s atlantic and gulf of mexico naval blockades, severely decreased any chance that either britain or france would enter the war. historian don doyle has argued that the union victory had a major impact on the course of world history. the union victory energized popular democratic forces. a confederate victory, on the other hand, would have meant a new birth of slavery, not freedom. historian fergus bordewich, following doyle, argues that : scholars have debated what the effects of the war were on political and economic power in the south. the prevailing view is that the southern planter elite retained its powerful position in the south. however, a 2017 study challenges this, noting that while some southern elites retained their economic status, the turmoil of the 1860s created greater opportunities for economic mobility in the south than in the north. casualties the war resulted in at least 1, 030, 000 casualties ( 3 percent of the population ), including about 620, 000 soldier deaths — two - thirds by disease — and 50, 000 civilians. binghamton university historian j. david hacker believes the number of soldier deaths was approximately 750, 000, 20 percent higher than traditionally estimated, and possibly as high as 850, 000. a novel way of calculating casualties by looking at the deviation of the death rate of men of fighting age from the norm through analysis of census data found that at least 627, 000 and at most 888, 000 people, but most likely 761, 000 people, died