may be personally very costly... this general convention, in obedience to this call, urges all members of this church to support by prayer and by such other means as they deem appropriate, those who engaged in such non - violent action, and particularly those who suffer for conscience ' sake as a result ; and be it further resolved, that this general convention calls upon all members of this church seriously to consider the implications for their own lives of this call to resist war and work for peace for their own lives. " after world war ii the focus on other social issues became increasingly diffuse after the second world war. on the one hand, the growing independence and strength of anglican churches in the global south brought new emphasis to issues of global poverty, the inequitable distribution of resources, and the lingering effects of colonialism. in this regard, figures such as desmond tutu and ted scott were instrumental in mobilising anglicans worldwide against the apartheid policies of south africa. rapid social change in the industrialised world during the 20th century compelled the church to examine issues of gender, sexuality, and marriage. ordinariates within the roman catholic church on 4 november 2009, pope benedict xvi issued an apostolic constitution, anglicanorum coetibus, to allow groups of former anglicans to enter into full communion with the roman catholic church as members of personal ordinariates. 20 october 2009 announcement of the imminent constitution mentioned : pope benedict xvi approved, within the apostolic constitution, a canonical structure that provides for personal ordinariates which will allow former anglicans to enter full communion with the roman catholic church while preserving elements of distinctive anglican spiritual patrimony. for each personal ordinariate, the ordinary may be a former anglican bishop or priest. it was expected that provision would be made to allow the retention of aspects of anglican liturgy. notes references citations sources further reading buchanan, colin. historical dictionary of anglicanism ( 2nd ed. 2015 ) excerpt external links anglican communion website what it means to be an anglican article anglican history website anglicans online website online anglican resources protestant denominations established in the 16th century christian denominations founded in great britain