most spoken european language after english was spanish, spoken by approximately 4. 0 % of the state population. collectively, asian and pacific islander languages were spoken by 5. 6 % of alaskans. since 2010, a total of 5. 2 % of alaskans speak one of the state ' s 20 indigenous languages, known locally as " native languages ". the alaska native language center at the university of alaska fairbanks claims that at least 20 alaskan native languages exist and there are also some languages with different dialects. most of alaska ' s native languages belong to either the eskimo – aleut or na - dene language families ; however, some languages are thought to be isolates ( e. g. haida ) or have not yet been classified ( e. g. tsimshianic ). nearly all of alaska ' s native languages were classified as either threatened, shifting, moribund, nearly extinct, or dormant languages. in october 2014, the governor of alaska signed a bill declaring the state ' s 20 indigenous languages to have official status. this bill gave them symbolic recognition as official languages, though they have not been adopted for official use within the government. the 20 languages that were included in the bill are : inupiaq siberian yupik central alaskan yup ' ik alutiiq unangax dena ' ina deg xinag holikachuk koyukon upper kuskokwim gwich ' in tanana upper tanana tanacross han ahtna eyak tlingit haida tsimshian religion multiple surveys have ranked alaska among the most irreligious states. according to statistics collected by the association of religion data archives ( arda ) from 2010, about 34 % of alaska residents were members of religious congregations. of the religious population, 100, 960 people identified as evangelical protestants ; 50, 866 as roman catholic ; and 32, 550 as mainline protestants. roughly 4 % were mormon, 0. 5 % jewish, 0. 5 % muslim, 1 % buddhist, 0. 2 % bahaʼi, and 0. 5 % hindu. the largest religious denominations in alaska was the roman catholic church with 50, 866 adherents ; non - denominational evangelicals with 38, 070 adherents ; the church of jesus christ of latter - day saints with 32, 170 adherents ; and the southern baptist convention with 19, 891 adherents. alaska has been identified, along with washington and oregon in the pacific northwest, as being the least religious states in the united