and the currency was stable, but jackson saw the bank as a fourth branch of government run by an elite, what he called the " money power " that sought to control the labor and earnings of the " real people ", who depend on their own efforts to succeed : the planters, farmers, mechanics, and laborers. additionally, jackson ' s own near bankruptcy in 1804 due to credit - fuelled land speculation had biased him against paper money and toward a policy favorable to hard money. in his first annual address in december 1829, jackson openly challenged the bank by questioning its constitutionality and the soundness of its money. jackson ' s supporters further alleged that it gave preferential loans to speculators and merchants over artisans and farmers, that it used its money to bribe congressmen and the press, and that it had ties with foreign creditors. biddle responded to jackson ' s challenge in early 1830 by using the bank ' s vast financial holding to ensure the bank ' s reputation, and his supporters argued that the bank was the key to prosperity and stable commerce. by the time of the 1832 election, biddle had spent over $ 250, 000, ( ), in printing pamphlets, lobbying for pro - bank legislation, hiring agents and giving loans to editors and congressmen. on the surface, jackson ' s and biddle ' s positions did not appear irreconcilable. jackson seemed open to keeping the bank if it could include some degree of federal oversight, limit its real estate holdings, and have its property subject to taxation by the states. many of jackson ' s cabinet members thought a compromise was possible. in 1831, treasury secretary louis mclane told biddle that jackson was open to chartering a modified version of the bank, but biddle did not consult jackson directly. privately, jackson expressed opposition to the bank ; publicly, he announced that he would leave the decision concerning the bank in the hands of the people. biddle was finally convinced to take open action by henry clay, who had decided to run for president against jackson in the 1832 election. biddle would agree to seek renewal of the charter two years earlier than scheduled. clay argued that jackson was in a bind. if he vetoed the charter, he would lose the votes of his pro - bank constituents in pennsylvania ; but if he signed the charter, he would lose his anti - bank constituents. after the recharter bill was passed, jackson vetoed it on july 10, 1832, arguing that the country should not surrender the will of the majority to the