short selection of well - established places where you can have a drink and socialise, include the fashionable lounge and night club kupe at the harbourfront, the relaxed ris ras filliongongong offering waterpipes and an award - winning beer selection, fatter eskild with a broad selection of danish bands playing mostly blues and rock, the wine and book cafe løve ' s in nørregade, sherlock holmes, a british - style pub with live music, and the brew pub of sct. clemens, with a hereford beefstouw restaurant across the cathedral. a few nightlife spots are aimed at gays and lesbians specifically, including gbar ( nightclub ) and cafe sappho. the arhus set ( danish : arhus sæt ) is a set of drinks often ordered together, named for the city and consisting of two beverages, one ceres top beer and one shot arnbitter, both originally from aarhus. ordering " a set " suffices in most bars and pubs. aarhus bryghus is a local craft brewery with a sizeable production. the brewery is located in the southern district of viby and a large variety of their craft brews are available there, in most larger well - assorted stores in the city, and in some bars and restaurants as well. they also export. local dialect the aarhus dialect, commonly called aarhusiansk ( aarhusian in english ), is a jutlandic dialect in the mid - eastern jutland dialect area, traditionally spoken in and around aarhus. aarhusian, as with most local dialects in denmark, has diminished in use through the 20th century and most danes today speak some version of standard danish with slight regional features. aarhusian, however, still has a strong presence in older segments of the population and in areas with high numbers of immigrants. some examples of common, traditional and unique aarhusian words are : træls ( ' tiresome ' ), noller ( ' silly ' or ' dumb ' ) and dælme ( excl. ' damn me! ' ). the dialect is notable for single - syllable words ending in " d " being pronounced with stød while the same letter in multiple - syllable words is pronounced as " j ", i. e., odder is pronounced " ojjer ". like other dialects in east jutland, it has two grammatical genders, similar to standard danish, but different from west jutlandic dialects, which have only one. in