if the slice is observed in a highly convergent cone of light, that dependence becomes significant, so that a chromatic - polarization experiment will show a pattern of concentric rings. but most minerals, when observed in this manner, show a more complicated pattern of rings involving two foci and a lemniscate curve, as if they had two optic axes. the two classes of minerals naturally become known as uniaxal and biaxal — or, in later literature, uniaxial and biaxial. in 1813, brewster observed the simple concentric pattern in " beryl, emerald, ruby & c. " the same pattern was later observed in calcite by wollaston, biot, and seebeck. biot, assuming that the concentric pattern was the general case, tried to calculate the colors with his theory of chromatic polarization, and succeeded better for some minerals than for others. in 1818, brewster belatedly explained why : seven of the twelve minerals employed by biot had the lemniscate pattern, which brewster had observed as early as 1812 ; and the minerals with the more complicated rings also had a more complicated law of refraction. in a uniform crystal, according to huygens ' s theory, the secondary wavefront that expands from the origin in unit time is the ray - velocity surface — that is, the surface whose " distance " from the origin in any direction is the ray velocity in that direction. in calcite, this surface is two - sheeted, consisting of a sphere ( for the ordinary wave ) and an oblate spheroid ( for the extraordinary wave ) touching each other at opposite points of a common axis — touching at the north and south poles, if we may use a geographic analogy. but according to malus ' s corpuscular theory of double refraction, the ray velocity was proportional to the reciprocal of that given by huygens ' s theory, in which case the velocity law was of the form where and were the ordinary and extraordinary ray velocities according to the corpuscular theory, and was the angle between the ray and the optic axis. by malus ' s definition, the plane of polarization of a ray was the plane of the ray and the optic axis if the ray was ordinary, or the perpendicular plane ( containing the ray ) if the ray was extraordinary. in fresnel ' s model, the direction of vibration was normal to the plane of polarization. hence, for the sphere ( the ordinary wave