to give up their stake in araya salt. after hostilities resumed, the dutch established the west india company ( wic ) with the main objective of engaging in strategic military actions and privateering organization against spain. this was the or reason for the existence of the wic. their secondary objective was focused on commerce and colonization, a choice that ultimately led to the downfall of the wic in 1674. the wic also gathered information on spanish treasure fleets. in 1623, the first official fleet of the new wic, a small squadron of only three ships commanded by pieter schouten, set sail for the caribbean to engage in looting and plundering in the lesser antilles and the yucatan peninsula. it was during this voyage that the dutch first encountered aruba. the dutch herring production reached its peak in the seventeenth century, earning it the nickname " gold mine of the republic " by the dutch government in 1624. around 1828 or 1829, the dutch started obtaining salt regularly on tortuga. governor francisco nunez melian of venezuela destroyed the saltpans and took some dutch prisoners, forced them to cut brazilwood in curacao. one of these dutchmen, jan janszoon otzen, carefully assessed the island ' s excellent harbor and profitable saltpans, which he later communicated to the wic. recognizing their struggle for salt, the dutch realized the need to establish a base in these waters to secure curacao. johannes van walbeeck, a renowned company agent with a commendable record in brazil, was appointed as the expedition ' s commander and future governor of curacao, bonaire, and aruba. curacao was captured and acquired by the wic in june 1634, primarily by their desire to obtain salt. in van walbeeck ' s report of 1634, aruba is mentioned only in relation to curacao, where he refers to bonaire and aruba collectively as the " islands of curacao ". spain had another reason to regret its past neglect of the islas inutiles ( usless islands ) as they came under control of foreign invaders disputing spain ' s arrogant claims. however, the dutch were dissatisfied with the available salt supply. the natural salt pans were inadequate, and their attempts to create an artificial one at the entrance of sint ann bay were a complete failure. although the salt pans in bonaire showed more potential, they never developed into a major salt trading center. in 1816, aruba possessed seven salt pans, all of