sun. on july 19 at 17 : 21 : 50 utc, apollo 11 passed behind the moon and fired its service propulsion engine to enter lunar orbit. in the thirty orbits that followed, the crew saw passing views of their landing site in the southern sea of tranquility about southwest of the crater sabine d. the site was selected in part because it had been characterized as relatively flat and smooth by the automated ranger 8 and surveyor 5 landers and the lunar orbiter mapping spacecraft, and because it was unlikely to present major landing or eva challenges. it lay about southeast of the surveyor 5 landing site, and southwest of ranger 8 ' s crash site. lunar descent at 12 : 52 : 00 utc on july 20, aldrin and armstrong entered eagle, and began the final preparations for lunar descent. at 17 : 44 : 00 eagle separated from columbia. collins, alone aboard columbia, inspected eagle as it pirouetted before him to ensure the craft was not damaged, and that the landing gear was correctly deployed. armstrong exclaimed : " the eagle has wings! " as the descent began, armstrong and aldrin found themselves passing landmarks on the surface two or three seconds early, and reported that they were " long " ; they would land miles west of their target point. eagle was traveling too fast. the problem could have been mascons — concentrations of high mass in a region or regions of the moon ' s crust that contains a gravitational anomaly, potentially altering eagle trajectory. flight director gene kranz speculated that it could have resulted from extra air pressure in the docking tunnel, or a result of eagles pirouette maneuver. five minutes into the descent burn, and above the surface of the moon, the lm guidance computer ( lgc ) distracted the crew with the first of several unexpected 1201 and 1202 program alarms. inside mission control center, computer engineer jack garman told guidance officer steve bales it was safe to continue the descent, and this was relayed to the crew. the program alarms indicated " executive overflows ", meaning the guidance computer could not complete all its tasks in real - time and had to postpone some of them. margaret hamilton, the director of apollo flight computer programming at the mit charles stark draper laboratory later recalled : during the mission, the cause was diagnosed as the rendezvous radar switch being in the wrong position, causing the computer to process data from both the rendezvous and landing radars at the same time. software engineer don eyles concluded in a 2005 guidance and control conference paper that the problem was