were a political blank slate ; in mao ' s words, “ a clean sheet of paper has no blotches, and so the newest and most beautiful words can be written on it ”. during the chinese civil war and the second sino - japanese war, mao and the chinese communist party made extensive use of peasants and rural bases in their military tactics, often eschewing the cities. following the eventual victory of the communist party in both wars, the countryside and how it should be run remained a focus for mao. in 1958, mao launched the great leap forward, a social and economic campaign which, amongst other things, altered many aspects of rural chinese life. it introduced mandatory collective farming and forced the peasantry to organize itself into communal living units which were known as people ' s communes. these communes, which consisted of 5, 000 people on average, were expected to meet high production quotas while the peasants who lived on them adapted to this radically new way of life. the communes were run as co - operatives where wages and money were replaced by work points. peasants who criticised this new system were persecuted as " rightists " and " counter - revolutionaries ". leaving the communes was forbidden and escaping from them was difficult or impossible, and those who attempted it were subjected to party - orchestrated " public struggle sessions, " which further jeopardized their survival. these public criticism sessions were often used to intimidate the peasants into obeying local officials and they often devolved into little more than public beatings. on the communes, experiments were conducted in order to find new methods of planting crops, efforts were made to construct new irrigation systems on a massive scale, and the communes were all encouraged to produce steel backyard furnaces as part of an effort to increase steel production. however, following the anti - rightist campaign, mao had instilled a mass distrust of intellectuals into china, and thus engineers often were not consulted with regard to the new irrigation systems and the wisdom of asking untrained peasants to produce good quality steel from scrap iron was not publicly questioned. similarly, the experimentation with the crops did not produce results. in addition to this the four pests campaign was launched, in which the peasants were called upon to destroy sparrows and other wild birds that ate crop seeds, in order to protect fields. pest birds were shot down or scared away from landing until they dropped from exhaustion. this campaign resulted in an ecological disaster that saw an explosion of the vermin population, especially crop - eating insects, which was consequently not in danger of