the geography of alabama describes a state in the southeastern united states in north america. it extends from high mountains to low valleys and sandy beaches. alabama is 30th in size and borders four u. s. states : mississippi, tennessee, georgia, and florida. it also borders the gulf of mexico. physical features extending entirely across the state of alabama for about northern boundary, and in the middle stretching farther north, is the cumberland plateau, or tennessee valley region, broken into broad tablelands by the dissection of rivers. in the northern part of this plateau, west of jackson county, there are about of level highlands from above sea level. south of these highlands, occupying a narrow strip on each side of the tennessee river, is a country of gentle rolling lowlands varying in elevation from. to the northeast of these highlands and lowlands is a rugged section with steep mountain - sides, deep narrow coves and valleys, and flat mountain - tops. its elevations range from. in the remainder of this region, the southern portion, the most prominent feature is little mountain, extending about from east to west between two valleys, and rising precipitously on the north side above them or above the sea. adjoining the cumberland plateau region on the southeast is the appalachian valley ( locally known as coosa valley ) region, which is the southern extremity of the appalachian mountains, and occupies an area within the state of about. this is a limestone belt with parallel hard rock ridges left standing by erosion to form mountains. although the general direction of the mountains, ridges, and valleys is northeast and southwest, irregularity is one of the most prominent characteristics. in the northeast are several flat - topped mountains, of which raccoon and lookout are the most prominent, having a maximum elevation near the georgia line of little more than and gradually decreasing in height toward the southwest, where sand mountain is a continuation of raccoon. south of these the mountains are marked by steep northwest sides, sharp crests and gently sloping southeast sides. southeast of the appalachian valley region, the piedmont plateau also crosses the alabama border from the n. e. and occupies a small triangular - shaped section of which randolph and clay counties, together with the northern part of tallapoosa and chambers, form the principal portion. its surface is gently undulating and has an elevation of about above sea level. the piedmont plateau is a lowland worn down by erosion on hard crystalline rocks, then uplifted to form a plateau. the remainder of the state is occupied by the coastal plain. this is crossed