##poused philosophical anarchism in england, morally delegitimising the state, max stirner ' s thinking paved the way to individualism and pierre - joseph proudhon ' s theory of mutualism found fertile soil in france. by the late 1870s, various anarchist schools of thought had become well - defined and a wave of then unprecedented globalisation occurred from 1880 to 1914. this era of classical anarchism lasted until the end of the spanish civil war and is considered the golden age of anarchism. drawing from mutualism, mikhail bakunin founded collectivist anarchism and entered the international workingmen ' s association, a class worker union later known as the first international that formed in 1864 to unite diverse revolutionary currents. the international became a significant political force, with karl marx being a leading figure and a member of its general council. bakunin ' s faction ( the jura federation ) and proudhon ' s followers ( the mutualists ) opposed state socialism, advocating political abstentionism and small property holdings. after bitter disputes, the bakuninists were expelled from the international by the marxists at the 1872 hague congress. anarchists were treated similarly in the second international, being ultimately expelled in 1896. bakunin famously predicted that if revolutionaries gained power by marx ' s terms, they would end up the new tyrants of workers. in response to their expulsion from the first international, anarchists formed the st. imier international. under the influence of peter kropotkin, a russian philosopher and scientist, anarcho - communism overlapped with collectivism. anarcho - communists, who drew inspiration from the 1871 paris commune, advocated for free federation and for the distribution of goods according to one ' s needs. by the turn of the 20th century, anarchism had spread all over the world. it was a notable feature of the international syndicalist movement. in china, small groups of students imported the humanistic pro - science version of anarcho - communism. tokyo was a hotspot for rebellious youth from east asian countries, who moved to the japanese capital to study. in latin america, argentina was a stronghold for anarcho - syndicalism, where it became the most prominent left - wing ideology. during this time, a minority of anarchists adopted tactics of revolutionary political violence, known as propaganda of the deed. the dismemberment of the french socialist movement into many groups and the execution and exile of many communards to penal colonies following the suppression of