many private television channels such as tolo and shamshad tv. the first afghan newspaper was published in 1873, and there are hundreds of print outlets today. by the 1920s, radio kabul was broadcasting local radio services. voice of america, bbc, and radio free europe / radio liberty ( rfe / rl ) broadcast in both of afghanistan ' s official languages on radio. press restrictions have been gradually relaxed and private media diversified since 2002, after more than two decades of tight controls. afghans have long been accustomed to watching indian bollywood films and listening to its filmi songs. it has been claimed that afghanistan is among the biggest markets for the hindi film industry. the stereotypes of afghans in india ( kabuliwala or pathani ) have also been represented in some bollywood films by actors. many bollywood film stars have roots in afghanistan, including salman khan, saif ali khan, aamir khan, feroz khan, kader khan, naseeruddin shah, zarine khan, celina jaitly, and a number of others. several bollywood films have been shot inside afghanistan, including dharmatma, khuda gawah, escape from taliban, and kabul express. music afghan classical music has close historical links with indian classical music and use the same hindustani terminology and theories like raga. genres of this style of music include ghazal ( poetic music ) and instruments such as the indian tabla, sitar and harmonium, and local instruments like zerbaghali, as well as dayereh and tanbur which are also known in central asia, the caucasus and the middle east. the rubab is the country ' s national instrument and precurses the indian sarod instrument. some of the famous artists of classical music include ustad sarahang and sarban. pop music developed in the 1950s through radio kabul and was influential in social change. during this time female artists also started appearing, at first mermon parwin. perhaps the most famous artist of this genre was ahmad zahir, who synthesized many genres and continues to be renowned for his voice and rich lyrics long after his death in 1979. other notable masters of traditional or popular afghan music include nashenas, ubaidullah jan, mahwash, ahmad wali, farhad darya, and naghma. attan is the national dance of afghanistan, a group dance popularly performed by afghans of all backgrounds. the dance is considered part of afghan identity. cuisine afghan cuisine is largely based upon the nation ' s chief crops