and affected by personal experience. optics was translated into latin by an unknown scholar at the end of the 12th century or the beginning of the 13th century. this work enjoyed a great reputation during the middle ages. the latin version of de aspectibus was translated at the end of the 14th century into italian vernacular, under the title de li aspecti. it was printed by friedrich risner in 1572, with the title opticae thesaurus : alhazeni arabis libri septem, nuncprimum editi ; eiusdem liber de crepusculis et nubium ascensionibus ( english : treasury of optics : seven books by the arab alhazen, first edition ; by the same, on twilight and the height of clouds ). risner is also the author of the name variant " alhazen " ; before risner he was known in the west as alhacen. works by alhazen on geometric subjects were discovered in the bibliotheque nationale in paris in 1834 by e. a. sedillot. in all, a. mark smith has accounted for 18 full or near - complete manuscripts, and five fragments, which are preserved in 14 locations, including one in the bodleian library at oxford, and one in the library of bruges. theory of optics two major theories on vision prevailed in classical antiquity. the first theory, the emission theory, was supported by such thinkers as euclid and ptolemy, who believed that sight worked by the eye emitting rays of light. the second theory, the intromission theory supported by aristotle and his followers, had physical forms entering the eye from an object. previous islamic writers ( such as al - kindi ) had argued essentially on euclidean, galenist, or aristotelian lines. the strongest influence on the book of optics was from ptolemy ' s optics, while the description of the anatomy and physiology of the eye was based on galen ' s account. alhazen ' s achievement was to come up with a theory that successfully combined parts of the mathematical ray arguments of euclid, the medical tradition of galen, and the intromission theories of aristotle. alhazen ' s intromission theory followed al - kindi ( and broke with aristotle ) in asserting that " from each point of every colored body, illuminated by any light, issue light and color along every straight line that can be drawn from that point ". this left him with the problem of explaining how a coherent image was formed from