mean ( which for a data set is denoted as ). the arithmetic mean can be similarly defined for vectors in multiple dimensions, not only scalar values ; this is often referred to as a centroid. more generally, because the arithmetic mean is a convex combination ( meaning its coefficients sum to ), it can be defined on a convex space, not only a vector space. motivating properties the arithmetic mean has several properties that make it interesting, especially as a measure of central tendency. these include : if numbers have mean, then. since is the distance from a given number to the mean, one way to interpret this property is by saying that the numbers to the left of the mean are balanced by the numbers to the right. the mean is the only number for which the residuals ( deviations from the estimate ) sum to zero. this can also be interpreted as saying that the mean is translationally invariant in the sense that for any real number,. if it is required to use a single number as a " typical " value for a set of known numbers, then the arithmetic mean of the numbers does this best since it minimizes the sum of squared deviations from the typical value : the sum of. the sample mean is also the best single predictor because it has the lowest root mean squared error. if the arithmetic mean of a population of numbers is desired, then the estimate of it that is unbiased is the arithmetic mean of a sample drawn from the population. the arithmetic mean is independent of scale of the units of measurement, in the sense that so, for example, calculating a mean of liters and then converting to gallons is the same as converting to gallons first and then calculating the mean. this is also called first order homogeneity. additional properties the arithmetic mean of a sample is always between the largest and smallest values in that sample. the arithmetic mean of any amount of equal - sized number groups together is the arithmetic mean of the arithmetic means of each group. contrast with median the arithmetic mean may be contrasted with the median. the median is defined such that no more than half the values are larger, and no more than half are smaller than it. if elements in the data increase arithmetically when placed in some order, then the median and arithmetic average are equal. for example, consider the data sample. the mean is, as is the median. however, when we consider a sample that cannot be arranged to increase arithmetically, such as, the median and arithmetic average can differ significantly. in this case, the