raise the child to age five, then take him to anchises. according to other sources, anchises later brags about his encounter with aphrodite, and as a result is struck in the foot with a thunderbolt by zeus. thereafter he is lame in that foot, so that aeneas has to carry him from the flames of troy. homer ' s iliad aeneas is a minor character in the iliad, where he is twice saved from death by the gods as if for an as - yet - unknown destiny, but is an honorable warrior in his own right. having held back from the fighting, aggrieved with priam because in spite of his brave deeds he was not given his due share of honour, he leads an attack against idomeneus to recover the body of his brother - in - law alcathous at the urging of deiphobus. he is the leader of the trojans ' dardanian allies, as well as a second cousin and principal lieutenant of hector, son and heir of the trojan king priam. aeneas ' s mother aphrodite frequently comes to his aid on the battlefield, and he is a favorite of apollo. aphrodite and apollo rescue aeneas from combat with diomedes of argos, who nearly kills him, and carry him away to pergamos for healing. even poseidon, who usually favors the greeks, comes to aeneas ' s rescue after he falls under the assault of achilles, noting that aeneas, though from a junior branch of the royal family, is destined to become king of the trojan people. bruce louden presents aeneas as " type " : the sole virtuous individual ( or family ) spared from general destruction, following the mytheme of utnapishtim, baucis and philemon, noah, and lot. pseudo - apollodorus in his bibliotheca explains that "... the greeks [ spared ] him alone, on account of his piety. " other sources the roman mythographer gaius julius hyginus ( – ce 17 ) in his fabulae credits aeneas with killing 28 enemies in the trojan war. aeneas also appears in the trojan narratives attributed to dares phrygius and dictys of crete. roman myth and literature the history of aeneas was continued by roman authors. one influential source was the account of rome ' s founding in cato the elder ' s origines. the aeneas legend