gulch. fred kinnan is a labor leader and member of the looter cabal. unlike the others, however, kinnan is straightforward and honest about his purpose. kinnan is the only one to openly state the true motivations of himself and his fellow conspirators. at the end of galt ' s three - hour speech, he expresses admiration for the man, as he says what he means. despite this, kinnan admits that he is one of the people galt is out to destroy. paul larkin is an unsuccessful, middle - aged businessman, a friend of the rearden family. he meets with the other looters to work out a plan to bring rearden down. james taggart knows he is friends with hank rearden and challenges his loyalty, and larkin assures taggart that he will go along with them. eugene lawson heads the community bank of madison, then gets a job with the government when his bank goes bankrupt due to new government policies. one of the looter ' s cabal, he is a collectivist who abhors production and money - making. mort liddy is a hack composer who writes trite scores for movies and modern symphonies to which no one listens. he believes melody is a primitive vulgarity. he is one of lillian rearden ' s friends and a member of the cultural elite. clifton locey is a friend of jim taggart who takes the position of vice - president of operation when dagny taggart quits. pat logan is the engineer on the first run of the john galt line. he later strikes. kay ludlow is a beautiful actress who quit holywood because of the roles she was given and married secretly the pirate ragnar danneskjold. roger marsh is a producer of electrical equipment who joins the strike. dagny finds him growing cabbage in galt ' s gulch. dick mcnamara is a contractor who finished the san sebastian line. dagny taggart plans to hire him to lay the new rearden metal track for the rio norte line, but before she does so, he mysteriously disappears. she later discovers that he has joined the strike and settled in galt ' s gulch. cuffy meigs is the director of unification for the railroad business. he carries a pistol and a lucky rabbit ' s foot, and he dresses in a military uniform, and has been described as " impervious to thought ". meigs seizes control of project x and accidentally destroys it, demolishing the country