, in an attempt to classify all anime styled works of non - japanese origin. some creators of these works cite anime as a source of inspiration, for example the french production team for oban star - racers that moved to tokyo to collaborate with a japanese production team. when anime is defined as a " style " rather than as a national product, it leaves open the possibility of anime being produced in other countries, but this has been contentious amongst fans, with john oppliger stating, " the insistence on referring to original american art as japanese " anime " or " manga " robs the work of its cultural identity. " a u. a. e. - filipino produced tv series called torkaizer is dubbed as the " middle east ' s first anime show ", and is currently in production and looking for funding. netflix has produced multiple anime series in collaboration with japanese animation studios, and in doing so, has offered a more accessible channel for distribution to western markets. the web - based series rwby, produced by texas - based company rooster teeth, is produced using an anime art style, and the series has been described as " anime " by multiple sources. for example, adweek, in the headline to one of its articles, described the series as " american - made anime ", and in another headline, the huffington post described it as simply " anime ", without referencing its country of origin. in 2013, monty oum, the creator of rwby, said " some believe just like scotch needs to be made in scotland, an american company can ' t make anime. i think that ' s a narrow way of seeing it. anime is an art form, and to say only one country can make this art is wrong. " rwby has been released in japan with a japanese language dub ; the ceo of rooster teeth, matt hullum, commented " this is the first time any american - made anime has been marketed to japan. it definitely usually works the other way around, and we ' re really pleased about that. " media franchises in japanese culture and entertainment, media mix is a strategy to disperse content across multiple representations : different broadcast media, gaming technologies, cell phones, toys, amusement parks, and other methods. it is the japanese term for a transmedia franchise. the term gained its circulation in late 1980s, but the origins of the strategy can be traced back to the 1960s with the proliferation of anime, with its interconnection of media and commodity goods. a number of anime and manga media franchises