dominated china in what later became known as the " century of humiliation ", with the british - supported opium trade and later opium wars resulting in china being forced into an unprecedented situation of importing more than it exported. foreign domination of china was furthered by the empire of japan, which controlled most of east asia and much of southeast asia, new guinea and the pacific islands during this era ; japan ' s domination was enabled by its rapid rise that had taken place during the meiji era of the late 19th century, in which it applied industrial knowledge learned from the west and thus overtook the rest of asia. with the end of world war ii in 1945 and the wartime ruination of europe and imperial japan, many countries in asia were able to rapidly free themselves of colonial rule. the independence of india came along with the carving out of a separate nation for the majority of indian muslims, which today has become the countries pakistan and bangladesh. some arab countries took economic advantage of massive oil deposits that were discovered in their territory, becoming globally influential. east asian nations ( along with singapore in southeast asia ) became economically prosperous with high - growth " tiger economies ", with china regaining its place among the top two economies of the world by the 21st century. india has grown significantly because of economic liberalisation that started in the 1990s, with extreme poverty now below 20 %. geography asia is the largest continent on earth. it covers 9 % of the earth ' s total surface area ( or 30 % of its land area ), and has the longest coastline, at. asia is generally defined as comprising the eastern four - fifths of eurasia. it is located to the east of the suez canal and the ural mountains, and south of the caucasus mountains ( or the kuma – manych depression ) and the caspian and black seas. it is bounded on the east by the pacific ocean, on the south by the indian ocean and on the north by the arctic ocean. asia is subdivided into 49 countries, five of them ( georgia, azerbaijan, russia, kazakhstan and turkey ) are transcontinental countries lying partly in europe. geographically, russia is partly in asia, but is considered a european nation, both culturally and politically. the gobi desert is in mongolia and the arabian desert stretches across much of the middle east. the yangtze river in china is the longest river in the continent. the himalayas between nepal and china is the tallest mountain range in the world. tropical rainforests stretch across much of southern asia and coniferous and deciduous forests lie farther north. main regions