this to the same degree as does steel. the base metal iron of the iron - carbon alloy known as steel, undergoes a change in the arrangement ( allotropy ) of the atoms of its crystal matrix at a certain temperature ( usually between and, depending on carbon content ). this allows the smaller carbon atoms to enter the interstices of the iron crystal. when this diffusion happens, the carbon atoms are said to be in solution in the iron, forming a particular single, homogeneous, crystalline phase called austenite. if the steel is cooled slowly, the carbon can diffuse out of the iron and it will gradually revert to its low temperature allotrope. during slow cooling, the carbon atoms will no longer be as soluble with the iron, and will be forced to precipitate out of solution, nucleating into a more concentrated form of iron carbide ( fe3c ) in the spaces between the pure iron crystals. the steel then becomes heterogeneous, as it is formed of two phases, the iron - carbon phase called cementite ( or carbide ), and pure iron ferrite. such a heat treatment produces a steel that is rather soft. if the steel is cooled quickly, however, the carbon atoms will not have time to diffuse and precipitate out as carbide, but will be trapped within the iron crystals. when rapidly cooled, a diffusionless ( martensite ) transformation occurs, in which the carbon atoms become trapped in solution. this causes the iron crystals to deform as the crystal structure tries to change to its low temperature state, leaving those crystals very hard but much less ductile ( more brittle ). while the high strength of steel results when diffusion and precipitation is prevented ( forming martensite ), most heat - treatable alloys are precipitation hardening alloys, that depend on the diffusion of alloying elements to achieve their strength. when heated to form a solution and then cooled quickly, these alloys become much softer than normal, during the diffusionless transformation, but then harden as they age. the solutes in these alloys will precipitate over time, forming intermetallic phases, which are difficult to discern from the base metal. unlike steel, in which the solid solution separates into different crystal phases ( carbide and ferrite ), precipitation hardening alloys form different phases within the same crystal. these intermetallic alloys appear homogeneous in crystal structure, but tend to behave heterogeneously, becoming