the preliminaries, he was not a signer of the conclusive treaty. the whig negotiators for lord rockingham and his successor, prime minister lord shelburne, included long - time friend of benjamin franklin from his time in london, david hartley and richard oswald, who had negotiated laurens ' release from the tower of london. the preliminary peace signed on november 30 met four key congressional demands : independence, territory up to the mississippi, navigation rights into the gulf of mexico, and fishing rights in newfoundland. british strategy was to strengthen the u. s. sufficiently to prevent france from regaining a foothold in north america, and they had little interest in these proposals. however, divisions between their opponents allowed them to negotiate separately with each to improve their overall position, starting with the american delegation in september 1782. the french and spanish sought to improve their position by creating the u. s. dependent on them for support against britain, thus reversing the losses of 1763. both parties tried to negotiate a settlement with britain excluding the americans ; france proposed setting the western boundary of the us along the appalachians, matching the british 1763 proclamation line. the spanish suggested additional concessions in the vital mississippi river basin, but required the cession of georgia in violation of the franco - american alliance. facing difficulties with spain over claims involving the mississippi river, and from france who was still reluctant to agree to american independence until all her demands were met, john jay promptly told the british that he was willing to negotiate directly with them, cutting off france and spain, and prime minister lord shelburne, in charge of the british negotiations, agreed. key agreements for the united states in obtaining peace included recognition of united states independence, including recognition that the u. s. would gain all of the area east of the mississippi river, north of florida and south of canada, and the granting of fishing rights in the grand banks, off the coast of newfoundland and in the gulf of saint lawrence ; the united states and great britain were each given perpetual access to the mississippi river. an anglo - american preliminary peace was formally entered into in november 1782, and congress endorsed the settlement on april 15, 1783. it announced the achievement of peace with independence, and the conclusive treaty was signed on september 2, 1783, in paris, effective the following day on september 3, 1783, when britain signed its treaty with france. john adams, who helped draft the treaty, claimed it represented " one of the most important political events that ever happened on the globe ". ratified