. because of this, many cultures have included acropolises in their societies, however, do not use the same name for them. differing acropoleis the acropolis of a city was used in many ways, with regards to ancient time and through references. because an acropolis was built at the highest part of a city, it served as a highly functional form of protection, a fortress, and was as well as a home to the royal of a city and a centre for religion through the worshipping of different gods. there have been many classical and ancient acropolises, including the most commonly - known, acropolis of athens, as well as the tepecik acropolis at patara, ankara acropolis, acropolis of la blanca, acropolis at the maya site in guatemala, and the acropolis at halieis. the most famous example is the athenian acropolis, which is a collection of structures featuring a citadel on the highest part of land in ancient ( and modern - day ) athens, greece. many notable structures at the site were constructed in the 5th century bce, including the propylaea, erechtheion, and the temple of athena. the temple is also commonly known as the parthenon, which is derived from the divine athena parthenos. there were often dances, music and plays held at the acropolis, which it served as a community centre for the city of athens. it became a prime tourist destination by the 2nd century ad during the roman empire and was known as " the greece of greece, " as coined by an unknown poet. although originating in the mainland of greece, use of the acropolis model quickly spread to greek colonies such as the dorian lato on crete during the archaic period. the tepecik acropolis at patara served as a harbor to nearby communities and naval forces, such as antigonos i monopthalmos and demetrios poliorketes, and combined land and sea. its fortification wall and bastion date back to the classical period. the acropolis was constructed in the fourth century bce by the hekatomnids that ultimately led to its seizure in 334 bce by alexander the great. the acropolis contributed significantly to the overall development that took place during the hellenistic empires. this acropolis was the earliest place of settlement, probably dating back to the third millennium bce. during excavations that took place in 1989, ceramic items, terracotta figurines, coins, bone and stone objects were found that date to the fourth century