held together by the electromagnetic attraction from the positive ions to the delocalised electrons. as the atoms increase in size going down the group ( because their atomic radius increases ), the nuclei of the ions move further away from the delocalised electrons and hence the metallic bond becomes weaker so that the metal can more easily melt and boil, thus lowering the melting and boiling points. ( the increased nuclear charge is not a relevant factor due to the shielding effect. ) density the alkali metals all have the same crystal structure ( body - centred cubic ) and thus the only relevant factors are the number of atoms that can fit into a certain volume and the mass of one of the atoms, since density is defined as mass per unit volume. the first factor depends on the volume of the atom and thus the atomic radius, which increases going down the group ; thus, the volume of an alkali metal atom increases going down the group. the mass of an alkali metal atom also increases going down the group. thus, the trend for the densities of the alkali metals depends on their atomic weights and atomic radii ; if figures for these two factors are known, the ratios between the densities of the alkali metals can then be calculated. the resultant trend is that the densities of the alkali metals increase down the table, with an exception at potassium. due to having the lowest atomic weight and the largest atomic radius of all the elements in their periods, the alkali metals are the least dense metals in the periodic table. lithium, sodium, and potassium are the only three metals in the periodic table that are less dense than water : in fact, lithium is the least dense known solid at room temperature. compounds the alkali metals form complete series of compounds with all usually encountered anions, which well illustrate group trends. these compounds can be described as involving the alkali metals losing electrons to acceptor species and forming monopositive ions. this description is most accurate for alkali halides and becomes less and less accurate as cationic and anionic charge increase, and as the anion becomes larger and more polarisable. for instance, ionic bonding gives way to metallic bonding along the series nacl, na2o, na2s, na3p, na3as, na3sb, na3bi, na. hydroxides all the alkali metals react vigorously or explosively with cold water, producing an aqueous solution of a strongly basic alkali metal hydroxide and releasing hydrogen gas.