soon had another pregnancy but the child was stillborn ). as schopenhauer was preparing to escape from berlin in 1831, due to a cholera epidemic, he offered to take her with him on the condition that she left her young son behind. she refused and he went alone ; in his will he left her a significant sum of money, but insisted that it should not be spent in any way on her second son. schopenhauer claimed that, in his last year in berlin, he had a prophetic dream that urged him to escape from the city. as he arrived in his new home in frankfurt, he supposedly had another supernatural experience, an apparition of his dead father and his mother, who was still alive. this experience led him to spend some time investigating paranormal phenomena and magic. he was quite critical of the available studies and claimed that they were mostly ignorant or fraudulent, but he did believe that there are authentic cases of such phenomena and tried to explain them through his metaphysics as manifestations of the will. upon his arrival in frankfurt, he experienced a period of depression and declining health. he renewed his correspondence with his mother, and she seemed concerned that he might commit suicide like his father. by now johanna and adele were living very modestly. johanna ' s writing did not bring her much income, and her popularity was waning. their correspondence remained reserved, and arthur seemed undisturbed by her death in 1838. his relationship with his sister grew closer and he corresponded with her until she died in 1849. in july 1832, schopenhauer left frankfurt for mannheim but returned in july 1833 to remain there for the rest of his life, except for a few short journeys. he lived alone except for a succession of pet poodles named atman and butz. in 1836, he published on the will in nature. in 1836, he sent his essay " on the freedom of the will " to the contest of the royal norwegian society of sciences and won the prize for the following year. he sent another essay, " on the basis of morality ", to the royal danish society for scientific studies, but did not win the prize despite being the only contestant. the society was appalled that several distinguished contemporary philosophers were mentioned in a very offensive manner, and claimed that the essay missed the point of the set topic and that the arguments were inadequate. schopenhauer, who had been very confident that he would win, was enraged by this rejection. he published both essays as the two basic problems of ethics. the first