, and parween pazhwak. holidays and festivals afghanistan ' s official new year starts with nowruz, an ancient tradition that started as a zoroastrian celebration in present - day iran, and with which it shares the annual celebration along with several other countries. it occurs every year at the vernal equinox. in afghanistan, nowruz is typically celebrated with music and dance, as well as holding buzkashi tournaments. yalda, another nationally celebrated ancient tradition, commemorates the ancient goddess mithra and marks the longest night of the year on the eve of the winter solstice ( ; usually falling on 20 or 21 december ), during which families gather together to recite poetry and eat fruit. as a predominantly muslim country, islamic events and festivals such as ramadan, eid al - fitr and ashura are widely celebrated annually in afghanistan. the sikh festival of vaisakhi is celebrated by the sikh community and the hindu festival diwali by the hindu community. national independence day is celebrated on 19 august to mark the anglo - afghan treaty of 1919 and the country ' s full independence. several international celebrations are also officially held in afghanistan, such as international workers ' day and international women ' s day. some regional festivals include the pamir festival, which celebrates the culture of the wakhi and kyrgyz peoples, the red flower festival ( during nowruz ) in mazar - i - sharif and the damboora festival in bamyan province. sports sport in afghanistan is managed by the afghan sports federation. cricket and association football are the two most popular sports in the country. the afghan sports federation promotes cricket, association football, basketball, volleyball, golf, handball, boxing, taekwondo, weightlifting, bodybuilding, track and field, skating, bowling, snooker, chess, and other sports. the afghanistan national basketball team won the first team sports title at the 2010 south asian games. in 2012, the country ' s 3x3 basketball team won the gold medal at the 2012 asian beach games. in 2013, afghanistan ' s football team followed as it won the saff championship. the afghan national cricket team, which was formed in 2001, won the 2009 – 10 icc intercontinental cup. it won the acc twenty20 cup in 2007, 2009, 2011 and 2013. the team played in the 2015, 2019, and 2023 cricket world cups. the afghanistan cricket board ( acb ) is the official governing body of the sport and is headquartered in kabul. the alokozay