is placed the seat of the hegumenos or abbot. this apartment is chiefly used as a meeting place, with the monks usually taking their meals in their separate cells. adoption of the roman villa plan monasticism in the west began with the activities of benedict of nursia ( born 480 ad ). near nursia, a town in perugia, italy, a first abbey was established at monte cassino ( 529 ad ). between 520 and 700 ad, monasteries were built which were spacious and splendid. all the city states of italy hosted a benedictine convent as did the cities of england, france and spain. by 1415 ad, the time of the council of constance, 15, 070 benedictine monasteries had been established. the early benedictine monasteries, including the first at monte cassino, were constructed on the plan of the roman villa. the layout of the roman villa was quite consistent throughout the roman empire and where possible, the monks reused available villas in sound repair. this was done at monte cassino. however, over time, changes to the common villa lay out occurred. the monks required buildings which suited their religious and day - to - day activities. no overriding specification was demanded of the monks but the similarity of their needs resulted in uniformity of design of abbeys across europe. eventually, the buildings of a benedictine abbey were built in a uniform lay out, modified where necessary, to accommodate local circumstances. abbey of st gall the plan of the abbey of saint gall ( 719 ad ) in what is now switzerland indicates the general arrangement of a benedictine monastery of its day. according to the architect robert willis ( architect ) ( 1800 – 1875 ) the abbey ' s lay out is that of a town of individual houses with streets running between them. the abbey was planned in compliance with the benedictine rule that, if possible, a monastery should be self - contained. for instance, there was a mill, a bakehouse, stables, and cattle stalls. in all, there were thirty - three separate structures ; mostly one level wooden buildings. the abbey church occupied the centre of a quadrangular area, about square. on the eastern side of the north transept of the church was the " scriptorium " or writing - room, with a library above. the church and nearby buildings ranged about the cloister, a court about which there was a covered arcade which allowed sheltered movement between the buildings. the nave of the church was on the north boundary of the cloister. on the east side of the cloister