all four arithmetic operations, plus comparisons and optionally square roots. initially ( 1838 ) it was conceived as a difference engine curved back upon itself, in a generally circular layout, with the long store exiting off to one side. later drawings ( 1858 ) depict a regularised grid layout. like the central processing unit ( cpu ) in a modern computer, the mill would rely upon its own internal procedures, to be stored in the form of pegs inserted into rotating drums called " barrels ", to carry out some of the more complex instructions the user ' s program might specify. the programming language to be employed by users was akin to modern day assembly languages. loops and conditional branching were possible, and so the language as conceived would have been turing - complete as later defined by alan turing. three different types of punch cards were used : one for arithmetical operations, one for numerical constants, and one for load and store operations, transferring numbers from the store to the arithmetical unit or back. there were three separate readers for the three types of cards. babbage developed some two dozen programs for the analytical engine between 1837 and 1840, and one program later. these programs treat polynomials, iterative formulas, gaussian elimination, and bernoulli numbers. in 1842, the italian mathematician luigi federico menabrea published a description of the engine in french, based on lectures babbage gave when he visited turin in 1840. in 1843, the description was translated into english and extensively annotated by ada lovelace, who had become interested in the engine eight years earlier. in recognition of her additions to menabrea ' s paper, which included a way to calculate bernoulli numbers using the machine ( widely considered to be the first complete computer program ), she has been described as the first computer programmer. construction late in his life, babbage sought ways to build a simplified version of the machine, and assembled a small part of it before his death in 1871. in 1878, a committee of the british association for the advancement of science described the analytical engine as " a marvel of mechanical ingenuity ", but recommended against constructing it. the committee acknowledged the usefulness and value of the machine, but could not estimate the cost of building it, and were unsure whether the machine would function correctly after being built. intermittently from 1880 to 1910, babbage ' s son henry prevost babbage was constructing a part of the mill and the printing apparatus. in 1910, it was able to calculate a ( faulty )