). alboin counted the years of his reign from the capture of milan, when he assumed the title of dominus italiae ( lord of italy ). his success also meant the collapse of byzantine defences in the northern part of the po plain, and large movements of refugees to byzantine areas. several explanations have been advanced to explain the swiftness and ease of the initial lombard advance in northern italy. it has been suggested that the towns ' doors may have been opened by the betrayal of the gothic auxiliaries in the byzantine army, but historians generally hold that lombard success occurred because italy was not considered by byzantium as a vital part of the empire, especially at a time when the empire was imperilled by the attacks of avars and slavs in the balkans and sassanids in the east. the byzantine decision not to contest the lombard invasion reflects the desire of justinian ' s successors to reorient the core of the empire ' s policies eastward. impact of the migration on annonarian italy the impact of the lombard migration on the late roman aristocracy was disruptive, especially in combination with the gothic war ; the latter conflict had finished in the north only in 562, when the last gothic stronghold, verona, was taken. many men of means ( paul ' s possessores ) either lost their lives or their goods, but the exact extent of the despoliation of the roman aristocracy is a subject of heated debate. the clergy was also greatly affected. the lombards were mostly pagans, and displayed little respect for the clergy and church property. many churchmen left their sees to escape from the lombards, like the two most senior bishops in the north, honoratus and paulinus. however, most of the suffragan bishops in the north sought an accommodation with the lombards, as did in 569 the bishop of tarvisium, felix, when he journeyed to the piave river to parley with alboin, obtaining respect for the church and its goods in return for this act of homage. it seems certain that many sees maintained an uninterrupted episcopal succession through the turmoil of the invasion and the following years. the transition was eased by the hostility existing among the northern italian bishops towards the papacy and the empire due to the religious dispute involving the " three - chapter controversy ". in lombard territory, churchmen were at least sure to avoid imperial religious persecution. in the view of pierre riche, the disappearance of 220 bishops ' seats indicates that the lombard migration was a crip