this century on avicenna ( ibn sina ) ( 980 – 1037 ). it has two main features on which its distinction as a major contribution to avicennan studies may be said to rest : the first is its clarity and readability ; the second is the comparative approach adopted by the author.... ( ian richard netton, journal of the royal asiatic society, third series, vol. 4, no. 2, july 1994, pp. 263 – 264 ) y. t. langermann ( ed. ), avicenna and his legacy. a golden age of science and philosophy, brepols publishers, 2010, for a new understanding of his early career, based on a newly discovered text, see also : michot, yahya, ibn sina : lettre au vizir abu sa ' d. editio princeps d ' apres le manuscrit de bursa, traduction de l ' arabe, introduction, notes et lexique ( beirut - paris : albouraq, 2000 ). this german publication is both one of the most comprehensive general introductions to the life and works of the philosopher and physician avicenna ( ibn sina, d. 1037 ) and an extensive and careful survey of his contribution to the history of science. its author is a renowned expert in greek and arabic medicine who has paid considerable attention to avicenna in his recent studies.... ( amos bertolacci, isis, vol. 96, no. 4, december 2005, p. 649 ) shaikh al rais ibn sina ( special number ) 1958 – 59, ed. hakim syed zillur rahman, tibbia college magazine, aligarh muslim university, aligarh, india. medicine browne, edward g. islamic medicine. fitzpatrick lectures delivered at the royal college of physicians in 1919 – 1920, reprint : new delhi : goodword books, 2001. pormann, peter & savage - smith, emilie. medieval islamic medicine, washington : georgetown university press, 2007. prioreschi, plinio. byzantine and islamic medicine, a history of medicine, vol. 4, omaha : horatius press, 2001. syed ziaur rahman. pharmacology of avicennian cardiac drugs ( metaanalysis of researches and studies in avicennian cardiac drugs along with english translation of risalah al adwiya al qalbiyah ), ibn sina academy of medieval medicine and sciences, aligarh