##ρων νησοι, makaron nesoi ) or the homeric elysium with the stream oceanus which according to greek mythology surrounds the inhabited world, which should have accounted for the identification of the northern strands of the euxine with it. guy hedreen has found further evidence for this connection of achilles with the northern margin of the inhabited world in a poem by alcaeus, speaking of " achilles lord of scythia " and the opposition of north and south, as evoked by achilles ' fight against the aethiopian prince memnon, who in his turn would be removed to his homeland by his mother eos after his death. the periplus of the euxine sea ( ) gives the following details : the greek geographer dionysius periegetes, who likely lived during the first century ce, wrote that the island was called leuce " because the wild animals which live there are white. it is said that there, in leuce island, reside the souls of achilles and other heroes, and that they wander through the uninhabited valleys of this island ; this is how jove rewarded the men who had distinguished themselves through their virtues, because through virtue they had acquired everlasting honour ". similarly, others relate the island ' s name to its white cliffs, snakes or birds dwelling there. pausanias has been told that the island is " covered with forests and full of animals, some wild, some tame. in this island there is also achilles ' temple and his statue ". leuce had also a reputation as a place of healing. pausanias reports that the delphic pythia sent a lord of croton to be cured of a chest wound. ammianus marcellinus attributes the healing to waters ( aquae ) on the island. strabo mentioned that the cape of the racecourse of achilles was sacred to achilles and although it was treeless, was called alsos ( αλσος ). alsos in greek means " grove ". a number of important commercial port cities of the greek waters were dedicated to achilles. herodotus, pliny the elder and strabo reported on the existence of a town achilleion ( αχιλλειον ), built by settlers from mytilene in the sixth century bc, close to the hero ' s presumed burial mound in the troad. later attestations point to an achilleion in messenia ( according to stephan