and bible and is often termed oriental alabaster, since the early examples came from the far east. the greek name alabastrites is said to be derived from the town of alabastron in egypt, where the stone was quarried. the locality probably owed its name to the mineral ; the origin of the mineral name is obscure ( though see above ). the " oriental " alabaster was highly esteemed for making small perfume bottles or ointment vases called alabastra ; the vessel name has been suggested as a possible source of the mineral name. in egypt, craftsmen used alabaster for canopic jars and various other sacred and sepulchral objects. the sarcophagus of seti i, found in his tomb near thebes, is on display in sir john soane ' s museum, london ; it is carved in a single block of translucent calcite alabaster from alabastron. algerian onyx - marble has been quarried largely in the province of oran. calcite alabaster was quarried in ancient israel in the cave known today as the twins cave near beit shemesh. herod used this alabaster for baths in his palaces. north america in mexico, there are famous deposits of a delicate green variety at la pedrara, in the district of tecali, near puebla. onyx - marble occurs also in the district of tehuacan and at several localities in the us including california, arizona, utah, colorado and virginia. gypsum alabaster gypsum alabaster is the softer of the two varieties, the other being calcite alabaster. it was used primarily in medieval europe, and is also used in modern times. ancient and classical near east " mosul marble " is a kind of gypsum alabaster found in the north of modern iraq, which was used for the assyrian palace reliefs of the 9th to 7th centuries bc ; these are the largest type of alabaster sculptures to have been regularly made. the relief is very low and the carving detailed, but large rooms were lined with continuous compositions on slabs around high. the lion hunt of ashurbanipal and military lachish reliefs, both 7th century and in the british museum, are some of the best known. gypsum alabaster was widely used for small sculpture for indoor use in the ancient world, especially in ancient egypt and mesopotamia. fine detail could be obtained in a material with an attractive finish without