with the hittites. ancient egypt has left a lasting legacy. its art and architecture were widely copied, and its antiquities were carried off to far corners of the world. its monumental ruins have inspired the imaginations of travelers and writers for millennia. a newfound respect for antiquities and excavations in the early modern period by europeans and egyptians has led to the scientific investigation of egyptian civilization and a greater appreciation of its cultural legacy. history the nile has been the lifeline of its region for much of human history. the fertile floodplain of the nile gave humans the opportunity to develop a settled agricultural economy and a more sophisticated, centralized society that became a cornerstone in the history of human civilization. nomadic modern human hunter - gatherers began living in the nile valley through the end of the middle pleistocene some 120, 000 years ago. by the late paleolithic period, the arid climate of northern africa had become increasingly hot and dry, forcing the populations of the area to concentrate along the river region. predynastic period in predynastic and early dynastic times, the egyptian climate was much less arid than it is today. large regions of egypt were covered in treed savanna and traversed by herds of grazing ungulates. foliage and fauna were far more prolific in all environs, and the nile region supported large populations of waterfowl. hunting would have been common for egyptians, and this is also the period when many animals were first domesticated. by about 5500 bc, small tribes living in the nile valley had developed into a series of cultures demonstrating firm control of agriculture and animal husbandry, and identifiable by their pottery and personal items, such as combs, bracelets, and beads. the largest of these early cultures in upper ( southern ) egypt was the badarian culture, which probably originated in the western desert ; it was known for its high - quality ceramics, stone tools, and its use of copper. the badari was followed by the naqada culture : the amratian ( naqada i ), the gerzeh ( naqada ii ), and semainean ( naqada iii ). these brought a number of technological improvements. as early as the naqada i period, predynastic egyptians imported obsidian from ethiopia, used to shape blades and other objects from flakes. in naqada ii times, early evidence exists of contact with the near east, particularly canaan and the byblos coast. over a period of about 1, 000 years, the na