##bullah collapsed in 1992. the soviet - afghan war had drastic social effects on afghanistan. the militarization of society led to heavily armed police, private bodyguards, openly armed civil defense groups, and other such things becoming the norm in afghanistan for decades thereafter. the traditional power structure had shifted from clergy, community elders, intelligentsia, and military in favor of powerful warlords. post – cold war conflict another civil war broke out after the creation of a dysfunctional coalition government between leaders of various mujahideen factions. amid a state of anarchy and factional infighting, various mujahideen factions committed widespread rape, murder and extortion, while kabul was heavily bombarded and partially destroyed by the fighting. several failed reconciliations and alliances occurred between different leaders. the taliban emerged in september 1994 as a movement and militia of students ( talib ) from islamic madrassas ( schools ) in pakistan, who soon had military support from pakistan. taking control of kandahar city that year, they conquered more territories until finally driving out the government of rabbani from kabul in 1996, where they established an emirate. the taliban were condemned internationally for the harsh enforcement of their interpretation of islamic sharia law, which resulted in the brutal treatment of many afghans, especially women. during their rule, the taliban and their allies committed massacres against afghan civilians, denied un food supplies to starving civilians and conducted a policy of scorched earth, burning vast areas of fertile land and destroying tens of thousands of homes. after the fall of kabul to the taliban, ahmad shah massoud and abdul rashid dostum formed the northern alliance, later joined by others, to resist the taliban. dostum ' s forces were defeated by the taliban during the battles of mazar - i - sharif in 1997 and 1998 ; pakistan ' s chief of army staff, pervez musharraf, began sending thousands of pakistanis to help the taliban defeat the northern alliance. by 2000, the northern alliance only controlled 10 % of territory, cornered in the northeast. on 9 september 2001, massoud was assassinated by two arab suicide attackers in panjshir valley. around 400, 000 afghans died in internal conflicts between 1990 and 2001. us invasion and islamic republic in october 2001, the united states invaded afghanistan to remove the taliban from power after they refused to hand over osama bin laden, the prime suspect of the september 11 attacks, who was a " guest " of the taliban and was operating his al - qaeda network in afghanistan. the majority of afghans