schools. the languages taught in schools are english, italian, french and german. the country has a school life expectancy of 16 years and a literacy rate of 98. 7 %, with 99. 2 % for males and 98. 3 % for females. compulsory primary education is divided into two levels, elementary and secondary school, from grade one to five and six to nine, respectively. pupils are required to attend school from the age of six until they turn 16. upon successful completion of primary education, all pupils are entitled to attend high schools with specialising in any particular field including arts, sports, languages, sciences or technology. the country ' s tertiary education, an optional stage of formal learning following secondary education, has undergone a thorough reformation and restructuring in compliance with the principles of the bologna process. there is a significant number of private and public institutions of higher education well dispersed in the major cities of albania. studies in tertiary education are organised at three successive levels which include the bachelor, master and doctorate. health the constitution of albania guarantees equal, free and universal health care for all its citizens. the health care system of the country is currently organised in three levels, among others primary, secondary and tertiary healthcare, and is in a process of modernisation and development. the life expectancy at birth in albania is at 77. 8 years and ranks 37th in the world outperforming several developed countries. the average healthy life expectancy is at 68. 8 years and ranks as well 37th in the world. the country ' s infant mortality rate is estimated at 12 per 1, 000 live births in 2015. in 2000, the country had the 55th best healthcare performance in the world, as defined by the world health organization. cardiovascular disease remain the principal cause of death in the country accounting 52 % of total deaths. accidents, injuries, malignant and respiratory diseases are other primary causes of death. neuropsychiatric disease has also increased due to recent demographic, social and economic changes in the country. in 2009, the country had a fruit and vegetable supply of 886 grams per capita per day, the fifth highest supply in europe. in comparison to other developed and developing countries, albania has a relatively low rate of obesity probably thanks to the health benefits of the mediterranean diet. according to world health organization data from 2016, 21. 7 % of adults in the country are clinically overweight, with a body mass index ( bmi ) score of 25 or more. energy due to its geographical location and natural resources, albania has a wide variety of energy