##a. daughters according to sri lankan tradition, ashoka had a daughter named sanghamitta, who became a buddhist nun. a section of historians, such as romila thapar, doubt the historicity of sanghamitta, based on the following points : the name " sanghamitta ", which literally means the friend of the buddhist order ( sangha ), is unusual, and the story of her going to ceylon so that the ceylonese queen could be ordained appears to be an exaggeration. the mahavamsa states that she married ashoka ' s nephew agnibrahma, and the couple had a son named sumana. the contemporary laws regarding exogamy would have forbidden such a marriage between first cousins. according to the mahavamsa, she was 18 years old when she was ordained as a nun. the narrative suggests that she was married two years earlier, and that her husband as well as her child were ordained. it is unlikely that she would have been allowed to become a nun with such a young child. another source mentions that ashoka had a daughter named charumati, who married a kshatriya named devapala. brothers according to the ashokavadana, ashoka had an elder half - brother named susima. according to sri lankan tradition, this brother was tissa, who initially lived a luxurious life, without worrying about the world. to teach him a lesson, ashoka put him on the throne for a few days, then accused him of being an usurper, and sentenced him to die after seven days. during these seven days, tissa realised that the buddhist monks gave up pleasure because they were aware of the eventual death. he then left the palace, and became an arhat. the theragatha commentary calls this brother vitashoka. according to this legend, one day, vitashoka saw a grey hair on his head, and realised that he had become old. he then retired to a monastery, and became an arhat. faxian calls the younger brother mahendra, and states that ashoka shamed him for his immoral behaviour. the brother than retired to a dark cave, where he meditated, and became an arhat. ashoka invited him to return to the family, but he preferred to live alone on a hill. so, ashoka had a hill built for him within pataliputra. the ashoka - vadana states that ashoka ' s brother was mistaken for a nirg