the medibank international sydney, losing to lindsay davenport. at the australian open, she reached the fourth round in singles and the semi - finals in doubles. that season, kournikova reached eight semi - finals ( sydney, scottsdale, stanford, san diego, luxembourg, leipzig and tour championships ), seven quarterfinals ( gold coast, tokyo, amelia island, hamburg, eastbourne, zurich and philadelphia ) and one final. on 20 november 2000 she broke into top 10 for the first time, reaching no. 8. she was also ranked no. 4 in doubles at the end of the season. kournikova was once again, more successful in doubles. she reached the final of the us open in mixed doubles, partnering with max mirnyi, but they lost to jared palmer and arantxa sanchez vicario. she also won six doubles titles – gold coast ( with julie halard ), hamburg ( with natasha zvereva ), filderstadt, zurich, philadelphia and the tour championships ( with martina hingis ). 2001 – 2003 : injuries and final years her 2001 season was plagued by injuries, including a left foot stress fracture which made her withdraw from 12 tournaments, including the french open and wimbledon. she underwent surgery in april. she reached her second career grand slam quarterfinals, at the australian open. kournikova then withdrew from several events due to continuing problems with her left foot and did not return until leipzig. with barbara schett, she won the doubles title in sydney. she then lost in the finals in tokyo, partnering with iroda tulyaganova, and at san diego, partnering with martina hingis. hingis and kournikova also won the kremlin cup. at the end of the 2001 season, she was ranked no. 74 in singles and no. 26 in doubles. kournikova regained some success in 2002. she reached the semi - finals of auckland, tokyo, acapulco and san diego, and the final of the china open, losing to anna smashnova. this was kournikova ' s last singles final. with martina hingis, she lost in the final at sydney, but they won their second grand slam title together, the australian open. they also lost in the quarterfinals of the us open. with chanda rubin, kournikova played the semi - finals of wimbledon, but they lost to serena and venus williams. partnering with janet lee, she won the shanghai title. at the end of 2002 season