ashoka (, ; also asoka ; – 232 bce ), popularly known as ashoka the great, was the third mauryan emperor of magadha in the indian subcontinent during to 232 bce. his empire covered a large part of the indian subcontinent, stretching from present - day afghanistan in the west to present - day bangladesh in the east, with its capital at pataliputra. a patron of buddhism, he is credited with playing an important role in the spread of buddhism across ancient asia. ashoka ' s edicts state that during his eighth regnal year ( ), he conquered kalinga after a brutal war. ashoka subsequently devoted himself to the propagation of " dhamma " or righteous conduct, the major theme of the edicts. ashoka ' s edicts suggest that a few years after the kalinga war, he was gradually drawn towards buddhism. buddhist and other legends from across the subcontinent and beyond credit ashoka with establishing a large number of stupas, patronising the third buddhist council, supporting buddhist missionaries, making generous donations to the sangha, and possibly even persecuting non - buddhists. ashoka ' s existence as a historical emperor had almost been forgotten, but since the decipherment of sources written in brahmi script in the 19th century, ashoka holds a reputation as one of the greatest indian emperors. the emblem of the modern republic of india is an adaptation of the lion capital of ashoka. ashoka ' s wheel, the ashoka chakra is adopted at the centre of the national flag of india. sources of information information about ashoka comes from his inscriptions ; other inscriptions that mention him or are possibly from his reign ; and ancient literature, especially buddhist texts. these sources often contradict each other, although various historians have attempted to correlate their testimony. so, for example, while ashoka is often attributed with building many hospitals during his time, there is no clear evidence that any hospitals existed in ancient india during the 3rd century bc or that ashoka was responsible for commissioning the construction of any. inscriptions ashoka ' s inscriptions are the earliest self - representations of imperial power in the indian subcontinent. however, these inscriptions are focused mainly on the topic of dhamma, and provide little information regarding other aspects of the maurya state or society. even on the topic of dhamma, the content of these inscriptions cannot be taken at face value. in the words of american academic john s. strong, it is sometimes helpful to think of ashoka '