. among the various men he met there was one named kjell carlson. kjell intended to visit turing in the uk but the authorities intercepted kjell ' s postcard detailing his travel arrangements and were able to intercept and deport him before the two could meet. it was also during this time that turing started consulting a psychiatrist, dr franz greenbaum, with whom he got on well and subsequently becoming a family friend. death on 8 june 1954, at his house at 43 adlington road, wilmslow, turing ' s housekeeper found him dead. a post mortem was held that evening which determined that he had died the previous day at the age of 41 with cyanide poisoning cited as the cause of death. when his body was discovered, an apple lay half - eaten beside his bed, and although the apple was not tested for cyanide, it was speculated that this was the means by which turing had consumed a fatal dose. turing ' s brother john identified the body the following day and took the advice given by dr. greenbaum to accept the verdict of the inquest as there was little prospect of establishing that the death was accidental. the inquest was held the following day which determined the cause of death to be suicide. turing ' s remains were cremated at woking crematorium just two days later on 12 june 1954 with just three people attending and his ashes were scattered in the gardens of the crematorium, just as his father ' s had been. turing ' s mother was on holiday in italy at the time of his death and returned home after the inquest. she never accepted the verdict of suicide. andrew hodges and another biographer, david leavitt, have both speculated that turing was re - enacting a scene from the walt disney film snow white and the seven dwarfs ( 1937 ), his favourite fairy tale. both men noted that ( in leavitt ' s words ) he took " an especially keen pleasure in the scene where the wicked queen immerses her apple in the poisonous brew ". philosopher jack copeland has questioned various aspects of the coroner ' s historical verdict. he suggested an alternative explanation for the cause of turing ' s death : the accidental inhalation of cyanide fumes from an apparatus used to electroplate gold onto spoons. the potassium cyanide was used to dissolve the gold. turing had such an apparatus set up in his tiny spare room. copeland noted that the autopsy findings were more consistent with inhalation than with ingestion of the poison. turing