##s in oxide forms, from which isotopes of americium can be separated. in a typical procedure, the spent reactor fuel ( e. g. mox fuel ) is dissolved in nitric acid, and the bulk of uranium and plutonium is removed using a purex - type extraction ( plutonium – uranium extraction ) with tributyl phosphate in a hydrocarbon. the lanthanides and remaining actinides are then separated from the aqueous residue ( raffinate ) by a diamide - based extraction, to give, after stripping, a mixture of trivalent actinides and lanthanides. americium compounds are then selectively extracted using multi - step chromatographic and centrifugation techniques with an appropriate reagent. a large amount of work has been done on the solvent extraction of americium. for example, a 2003 eu - funded project codenamed " europart " studied triazines and other compounds as potential extraction agents. a bis - triazinyl bipyridine complex was proposed in 2009 as such a reagent is highly selective to americium ( and curium ). separation of americium from the highly similar curium can be achieved by treating a slurry of their hydroxides in aqueous sodium bicarbonate with ozone, at elevated temperatures. both am and cm are mostly present in solutions in the + 3 valence state ; whereas curium remains unchanged, americium oxidizes to soluble am ( iv ) complexes which can be washed away. metallic americium is obtained by reduction from its compounds. americium ( iii ) fluoride was first used for this purpose. the reaction was conducted using elemental barium as reducing agent in a water - and oxygen - free environment inside an apparatus made of tantalum and tungsten. an alternative is the reduction of americium dioxide by metallic lanthanum or thorium : physical properties in the periodic table, americium is located to the right of plutonium, to the left of curium, and below the lanthanide europium, with which it shares many physical and chemical properties. americium is a highly radioactive element. when freshly prepared, it has a silvery - white metallic lustre, but then slowly tarnishes in air. with a density of 12 g / cm3, americium is less dense than both curium ( 13. 52 g / cm3 ) and plutonium ( 19. 8