the international resource panel ' s metal stocks in society report, the global per capita stock of aluminium in use in society ( i. e. in cars, buildings, electronics, etc. ) is. much of this is in more - developed countries ( per capita ) rather than less - developed countries ( per capita ). bayer process bauxite is converted to alumina by the bayer process. bauxite is blended for uniform composition and then is ground. the resulting slurry is mixed with a hot solution of sodium hydroxide ; the mixture is then treated in a digester vessel at a pressure well above atmospheric, dissolving the aluminium hydroxide in bauxite while converting impurities into relatively insoluble compounds : after this reaction, the slurry is at a temperature above its atmospheric boiling point. it is cooled by removing steam as pressure is reduced. the bauxite residue is separated from the solution and discarded. the solution, free of solids, is seeded with small crystals of aluminium hydroxide ; this causes decomposition of the [ al ( oh ) 4 ] − ions to aluminium hydroxide. after about half of aluminium has precipitated, the mixture is sent to classifiers. small crystals of aluminium hydroxide are collected to serve as seeding agents ; coarse particles are converted to alumina by heating ; the excess solution is removed by evaporation, ( if needed ) purified, and recycled. hall – heroult process the conversion of alumina to aluminium metal is achieved by the hall – heroult process. in this energy - intensive process, a solution of alumina in a molten ( ) mixture of cryolite ( na3alf6 ) with calcium fluoride is electrolyzed to produce metallic aluminium. the liquid aluminium metal sinks to the bottom of the solution and is tapped off, and usually cast into large blocks called aluminium billets for further processing. anodes of the electrolysis cell are made of carbon — the most resistant material against fluoride corrosion — and either bake at the process or are prebaked. the former, also called soderberg anodes, are less power - efficient and fumes released during baking are costly to collect, which is why they are being replaced by prebaked anodes even though they save the power, energy, and labor to prebake the cathodes. carbon for anodes should be preferably pure so that neither aluminium nor the electrolyte is contaminated with ash. despite carbon ' s