descent propulsion stage, which would be left on the moon. this design would have required development of the extremely powerful saturn c - 8 or nova launch vehicle to carry a payload to the moon. earth orbit rendezvous ( eor ) : multiple rocket launches ( up to 15 in some plans ) would carry parts of the direct ascent spacecraft and propulsion units for translunar injection ( tli ). these would be assembled into a single spacecraft in earth orbit. lunar surface rendezvous : two spacecraft would be launched in succession. the first, an automated vehicle carrying propellant for the return to earth, would land on the moon, to be followed some time later by the crewed vehicle. propellant would have to be transferred from the automated vehicle to the crewed vehicle. lunar orbit rendezvous ( lor ) : this turned out to be the winning configuration, which achieved the goal with apollo 11 on july 20, 1969 : a single saturn v launched a spacecraft that was composed of a apollo command and service module which remained in orbit around the moon and a two - stage apollo lunar module spacecraft which was flown by two astronauts to the surface, flown back to dock with the command module and was then discarded. landing the smaller spacecraft on the moon, and returning an even smaller part ( ) to lunar orbit, minimized the total mass to be launched from earth, but this was the last method initially considered because of the perceived risk of rendezvous and docking. in early 1961, direct ascent was generally the mission mode in favor at nasa. many engineers feared that rendezvous and docking, maneuvers that had not been attempted in earth orbit, would be nearly impossible in lunar orbit. lor advocates including john houbolt at langley research center emphasized the important weight reductions that were offered by the lor approach. throughout 1960 and 1961, houbolt campaigned for the recognition of lor as a viable and practical option. bypassing the nasa hierarchy, he sent a series of memos and reports on the issue to associate administrator robert seamans ; while acknowledging that he spoke " somewhat as a voice in the wilderness ", houbolt pleaded that lor should not be discounted in studies of the question. seamans ' s establishment of an ad hoc committee headed by his special technical assistant nicholas e. golovin in july 1961, to recommend a launch vehicle to be used in the apollo program, represented a turning point in nasa ' s mission mode decision. this committee recognized that the chosen mode was an important part of the launch vehicle choice, and recommended in favor of a hybrid eor