of the chinese abacus appeared during the han dynasty, and the beads are oval. the song dynasty and earlier used the 1 : 4 type or four - beads abacus similar to the modern abacus including the shape of the beads commonly known as japanese - style abacus. in the early ming dynasty, the abacus began to appear in a 1 : 5 ratio. the upper deck had one bead and the bottom had five beads. in the late ming dynasty, the abacus styles appeared in a 2 : 5 ratio. the upper deck had two beads, and the bottom had five. various calculation techniques were devised for suanpan enabling efficient calculations. some schools teach students how to use it. in the long scroll along the river during the qingming festival painted by zhang zeduan during the song dynasty ( 960 – 1297 ), a suanpan is clearly visible beside an account book and doctor ' s prescriptions on the counter of an apothecary ' s ( feibao ). the similarity of the roman abacus to the chinese one suggests that one could have inspired the other, given evidence of a trade relationship between the roman empire and china. however, no direct connection has been demonstrated, and the similarity of the abacuses may be coincidental, both ultimately arising from counting with five fingers per hand. where the roman model ( like most modern korean and japanese ) has 4 plus 1 bead per decimal place, the standard suanpan has 5 plus 2. incidentally, this allows use with a hexadecimal numeral system ( or any base up to 18 ) which may have been used for traditional chinese measures of weight. ( instead of running on wires as in the chinese, korean, and japanese models, the roman model used grooves, presumably making arithmetic calculations much slower. ) another possible source of the suanpan is chinese counting rods, which operated with a decimal system but lacked the concept of zero as a placeholder. the zero was probably introduced to the chinese in the tang dynasty ( 618 – 907 ) when travel in the indian ocean and the middle east would have provided direct contact with india, allowing them to acquire the concept of zero and the decimal point from indian merchants and mathematicians. india the abhidharmakosabhasya of vasubandhu ( 316 - 396 ), a sanskrit work on buddhist philosophy, says that the second - century ce philosopher vasumitra said that " placing a wick ( sanskrit vartika ) on the number one