sales, which led to a 20 % drop in apple ' s stock price. during this period, the relationship between sculley and gassee deteriorated, leading sculley to effectively demote gassee in january 1990 by appointing michael spindler as the chief operating officer. gassee left the company later that year. 1990 – 1997 : decline and restructuring the company pivoted strategy and in october 1990 introduced three lower - cost models, the macintosh classic, the macintosh lc, and the macintosh iisi, all of which saw significant sales due to pent - up demand. in 1991, apple introduced the hugely successful powerbook with a design that set the current shape for almost all modern laptops. the same year, apple introduced system 7, a major upgrade to the macintosh operating system, adding color to the interface and introducing new networking capabilities. the success of the lower - cost macs and powerbook brought increasing revenue. for some time, apple was doing incredibly well, introducing fresh new products and generating increasing profits in the process. the magazine macaddict named the period between 1989 and 1991 as the " first golden age " of the macintosh. the success of apple ' s lower - cost consumer models, especially the lc, also led to the cannibalization of their higher - priced machines. to address this, management introduced several new brands, selling largely identical machines at different price points, aimed at different markets : the high - end quadra models, the mid - range centris line, and the consumer - marketed performa series. this led to significant market confusion, as customers did not understand the difference between models. the early 1990s also saw the discontinuation of the apple ii series, which was expensive to produce, and the company felt was still taking sales away from lower - cost macintosh models. after the launch of the lc, apple began encouraging developers to create applications for macintosh rather than apple ii, and authorized salespersons to direct consumers towards macintosh and away from apple ii. the apple iie was discontinued in 1993. throughout this period, microsoft continued to gain market share with its windows graphical user interface that it sold to manufacturers of generally less expensive pc clones. while the macintosh was more expensive, it offered a more tightly integrated user experience, but the company struggled to make the case to consumers. apple also experimented with a number of other unsuccessful consumer targeted products during the 1990s, including digital cameras, portable cd audio players, speakers, video game consoles, the eworld online service, and tv appliances. most notably, enormous