but the goddess saved us ; she brought ambrosia and put it under our nostrils. " homer speaks of ambrosial raiment, ambrosial locks of hair, even the gods ' ambrosial sandals. among later writers, ambrosia has been so often used with generic meanings of " delightful liquid " that such late writers as athenaeus, paulus and dioscurides employ it as a technical term in contexts of cookery, medicine, and botany. pliny used the term in connection with different plants, as did early herbalists. additionally, some modern ethnomycologists, such as danny staples, identify ambrosia with the hallucinogenic mushroom amanita muscaria : " it was the food of the gods, their ambrosia, and nectar was the pressed sap of its juices ", staples asserts. w. h. roscher thinks that both nectar and ambrosia were kinds of honey, in which case their power of conferring immortality would be due to the supposed healing and cleansing powers of honey, and because fermented honey ( mead ) preceded wine as an entheogen in the aegean world ; on some minoan seals, goddesses were represented with bee faces ( compare merope and melissa ). etymology the concept of an immortality drink is attested in at least two ancient indo - european languages : greek and sanskrit. the greek αμβροσια ( ambrosia ) is semantically linked to the sanskrit ( amrta ) as both words denote a drink or food that gods use to achieve immortality. the two words appear to be derived from the same indo - european form * n - mr - tos, " un - dying " ( n - : negative prefix from which the prefix a - in both greek and sanskrit are derived ; mr : zero grade of * mer -, " to die " ; and - to - : adjectival suffix ). a semantically similar etymology exists for nectar, the beverage of the gods ( greek : νεκταρ nektar ) presumed to be a compound of the pie roots * nek -, " death ", and - * tar, " overcoming ". other examples in mythology in one version of the story of the birth of achilles, thetis anoints the infant with ambrosia and passes the child through the fire to make him immortal but peleus, appalled, stops her, leaving only his heel unimmorta