dynasty. after the death of nader shah ( r. 1736 – 1747 ), many of his former subjects capitalized on the eruption of instability. numerous self - ruling khanates with various forms of autonomy emerged in the area. the rulers of these khanates were directly related to the ruling dynasties of iran and were vassals and subjects of the iranian shah. the khanates exercised control over their affairs via international trade routes between central asia and the west. thereafter, the area was under the successive rule of the iranian zands and qajars. from the late 18th century, imperial russia switched to a more aggressive geo - political stance towards its two neighbors and rivals to the south, namely iran and the ottoman empire. russia now actively tried to gain possession of the caucasus region which was, for the most part, in the hands of iran. in 1804, the russians invaded and sacked the iranian town of ganja, sparking the russo - persian war of 1804 – 1813. the militarily superior russians ended the russo - persian war of 1804 – 1813 with a victory. following qajar iran ' s loss in the 1804 – 1813 war, it was forced to concede suzerainty over most of the khanates, along with georgia and dagestan to the russian empire, per the treaty of gulistan. the area to the north of the river aras, amongst which territory lies the contemporary republic of azerbaijan, was iranian territory until russia occupied it in the 19th century. about a decade later, in violation of the gulistan treaty, the russians invaded iran ' s erivan khanate. this sparked the final bout of hostilities between the two, the russo - persian war of 1826 – 1828. the resulting treaty of turkmenchay, forced qajar iran to cede sovereignty over the erivan khanate, the nakhchivan khanate and the remainder of the talysh khanate, comprising the last parts of the soil of the contemporary azerbaijani republic that were still in iranian hands. after the incorporation of all caucasian territories from iran into russia, the new border between the two was set at the aras river, which, upon the soviet union ' s disintegration, subsequently became part of the border between iran and the azerbaijan republic. qajar iran was forced to cede its caucasian territories to russia in the 19th century, which thus included the territory of the modern - day azerbaijan republic, while as a result of that cession, the azerbaijani ethnic group is nowadays parted between