tawqi, rayhan, and notably naskh, which is used in print and by computers, and ruqʻah, which is commonly used for correspondence. originally arabic was made up of only rasm without diacritical marks later diacritical points ( which in arabic are referred to as nuqat ) were added ( which allowed readers to distinguish between letters such as b, t, th, n and y ). finally signs known as tashkil were used for short vowels known as harakat and other uses such as final postnasalized or long vowels. calligraphy after khalil ibn ahmad al farahidi finally fixed the arabic script around 786, many styles were developed, both for the writing down of the quran and other books, and for inscriptions on monuments as decoration. arabic calligraphy has not fallen out of use as calligraphy has in the western world, and is still considered by arabs as a major art form ; calligraphers are held in great esteem. being cursive by nature, unlike the latin script, arabic script is used to write down a verse of the quran, a hadith, or a proverb. the composition is often abstract, but sometimes the writing is shaped into an actual form such as that of an animal. one of the current masters of the genre is hassan massoudy. in modern times the intrinsically calligraphic nature of the written arabic form is haunted by the thought that a typographic approach to the language, necessary for digitized unification, will not always accurately maintain meanings conveyed through calligraphy. romanization there are a number of different standards for the romanization of arabic, i. e. methods of accurately and efficiently representing arabic with the latin script. there are various conflicting motivations involved, which leads to multiple systems. some are interested in transliteration, i. e. representing the spelling of arabic, while others focus on transcription, i. e. representing the pronunciation of arabic. ( they differ in that, for example, the same letter is used to represent both a consonant, as in " you " or " yet ", and a vowel, as in " me " or " eat ". ) some systems, e. g. for scholarly use, are intended to accurately and unambiguously represent the phonemes of arabic, generally making the phonetics more explicit than the original word in the arabic script. these systems are heavily reliant on diacritical marks such as " s " for the sound equivalently