crooked house ( from " there was a crooked man " ), a pocket full of rye ( from " sing a song of sixpence " ), hickory dickory dock ( from " hickory dickory dock " ), and three blind mice ( from " three blind mice " ). critical reception christie is regularly referred to as the " queen of crime " — which is now trademarked by the christie estate — or " queen of mystery ", and is considered a master of suspense, plotting, and characterisation. in 1955, she became the first recipient of the mystery writers of america ' s grand master award. she was named " best writer of the century " and the hercule poirot series of books was named " best series of the century " at the 2000 bouchercon world mystery convention. in 2013, she was voted " best crime writer " in a survey of 600 members of the crime writers ' association of professional novelists. however, the writer raymond chandler criticised the artificiality of her books, as did writer julian symons. the literary critic edmund wilson described her prose as banal and her characterisations as superficial. in 2011, christie was named by the digital crime drama tv channel alibi as the second most financially successful crime writer of all time in the united kingdom, after james bond author ian fleming, with total earnings around £100 million. in 2012, christie was among the people selected by the artist peter blake to appear in a new version of his most famous work, the beatles ' sgt. pepper ' s lonely hearts club band album cover, " to celebrate the british cultural figures he most admires ". on the record - breaking longevity of christie ' s the mousetrap which had marked its 60th anniversary in 2012, stephen moss in the guardian wrote, " the play and its author are the stars ". in 2015, marking the 125th anniversary of her birth date, 25 contemporary mystery writers and one publisher gave their views on christie ' s works. many of the authors had read christie ' s novels first, before other mystery writers, in english or in their native language, influencing their own writing, and nearly all still viewed her as the " queen of crime " and creator of the plot twists used by mystery authors. nearly all had one or more favourites among christie ' s mysteries and found her books still good to read nearly 100 years after her first novel was published. just one of the 25 authors held with wilson ' s views. book sales in her prime, christie was rarely out of the bestseller list.