al - akhir, also known by other names ), on which the world will come to an end and god will raise all mankind ( as well as the jinn ) from the dead and evaluate their worldly actions. the resurrected will be judged according to their deeds, records of which are kept on two books compiled for every human being — one for their good deeds and one for their evil ones. having been judged, the resurrected will cross the bridge of as - sirat over the pit of hell ; when the condemned attempt to they will be made to fall off into hellfire below ; while the righteous will have no trouble and continue on to their eternal abode of heaven. afterlife in islam actually begins before the last day. after death, humans will be questioned about their faith by two angels, munkar and nakir. those who die as martyrs go immediately to paradise. others who have died and been buried, will receive a taste of their eternal reward from the al - qabr or " the grave " ( compare the jewish concept of sheol ). those bound for hell will suffer " punishment of the grave ", while those bound for heaven will find the grave " peaceful and blessed ". islamic scripture — the quran and hadith ( reports of the words and deeds of the islamic prophet muhammad who is believed to have visited heaven and hell during his isra and mi ' raj journey ) – give vivid descriptions of the pleasures of paradise ( jannah ) and sufferings of hell ( jahannam ). the gardens of jannah have cool shade adorned couchs and cushions rich carpets spread out, cups full of wine and every meat and fruit. men will be provided with perpetually youthful, beautiful hur, " untouched beforehand by man or jinn ", with large, beautiful eyes. ( in recent years some have argued that the term hur refers both to pure men and pure women, and / or that quranic references to " immortal boys " (, ) or " young men " ( ) ( ghilman, wildan, and suqah ) who serve wine and meals to the blessed, are the male equivalents of hur. ) in contrast, those in jahannam will dwell in a land infested with thousands of serpents and scorpions ; be " burnt " by " scorching fire " and when " their skins are roasted through, we shall change them for fresh skins " to repeat the process forever ; they will have nothing to drink but " boiling water and running sores