a separate " country labor party " with the aec ; this occurred in october 2000. the country labor designation was most frequently used in new south wales. according to the alp ' s financial statements for the 2015 – 16 financial year, nsw country labor had around 2, 600 members ( around 17 percent of the party total ), but almost no assets. it recorded a severe funding shortfall at the 2015 new south wales election, and had to rely on a $ 1. 68 - million loan from the party proper to remain solvent. it had been initially assumed that the party proper could provide the money from its own resources, but the nsw electoral commission ruled that this was impermissible because the parties were registered separately. instead the party proper had to loan country labor the required funds at a commercial interest rate. the country labor party was de - registered by the new south wales electoral commission in 2021. australian young labor australian young labor is the youth wing of the australian labor party, where all members under age 26 are automatically members. it is the peak youth body within the alp. former presidents of ayl have included former nsw premier bob carr, federal leader of the house tony burke, former special minister of state senator john faulkner, former australian workers union national secretary, current member for maribyrnong and former federal labor leader bill shorten as well as dozens of state ministers and mps. the current national president is jason byrne from south australia. networks the australian labor party is beginning to formally recognise single interest groups within the party. the national platform currently encourages state branches to formally establish these groups known as policy action caucuses. examples of such groups include the labor environment action network, rainbow labor, labor for choice, labor women ' s network, labor for drug law reform labor for refugees, labor for housing, labor teachers network, aboriginal labor network, and recently, labor enabled - the action group for disability advocacy the tasmanian branch of the australian labor party recently gave these groups voting and speaking rights at their state conference. ideology and factions labor ' s constitution has long stated : " the australian labor party is a democratic socialist party and has the objective of the democratic socialisation of industry, production, distribution and exchange, to the extent necessary to eliminate exploitation and other anti - social features in these fields ". this " socialist objective " was introduced in 1921, but was later qualified by two further objectives : " maintenance of and support for a competitive non - monopolistic private sector " and " the right to own private property ". labor governments have not attempted