took over three private straw - fired heating plants and the year after, a new 77 mw combined heat and power biomass plant at lisbjerg power station was completed while studstrup power station finished a refit to move from coal to wood chips. in conjunction with the development of the docklands district there are plans for a utility - scale seawater heat pump which will take advantage of fluctuating electricity prices to supply the district heating system. since 2015, the city has been implementing energy - saving led technology in street lighting ; by january 2019, about half of the municipal street lighting had been changed. apart from reducing the city ' s co2 emissions, it saves 30 % on the electricity bill, thereby making it a self - financed project over a 20 - year period. the municipality aims for a coherent and holistic administration of the water cycle to protect against, or clean up, previous pollution and encourage green growth and self - sufficiency. the main issues are excessive nutrients, adapting to increased ( and increasing ) levels of precipitation brought on by climate change, and securing the water supply. these goals have manifested in a number of large water treatment projects often in collaboration with private partners. in the 2000s, underground rainwater basins were built across the city while the two lakes arslev engsø and ega engsø were created in 2003 and 2006 respectively. the number of sewage treatment plants is planned to be reduced from 17 to 2 by 2025, as the treatment plants in marselisborg and ega are scheduled for expansion to take over all waste water treatment. they have already been refitted for biogas production to become net producers of electricity and heat. to aid the new treatment plants, and avoid floodings, sewage and stormwater throughout the municipality is planned to be separated into two different drainage systems. construction began in 2017 in several areas, but it is a long process that is scheduled to be finished by 2085. afforestation projects have been undertaken to prevent groundwater pollution, secure drinking water, sequester, increase biodiversity, create an attractive countryside, provide easy access to nature and offer outdoor activities to the public. in 2000, the first project, the new forests of aarhus, was completed, which aimed to double the forest cover in the municipality and, in 2009, another phase was announced to double forest cover once more before the year 2030. the afforestation plans were realised as a local project in collaboration with private landowners, under a larger national agenda. other projects to expand natural habitats include a re