must learn how to control and fly the space shuttle and, it is vital that they are familiar with the international space station so they know what they must do when they get there. nasa candidacy requirements the candidate must be a citizen of the united states. the candidate must complete a master ' s degree in a stem field, including engineering, biological science, physical science, computer science or mathematics. the candidate must have at least two years of related professional experience obtained after degree completion or at least 1, 000 hours pilot - in - command time on jet aircraft. the candidate must be able to pass the nasa long - duration flight astronaut physical. the candidate must also have skills in leadership, teamwork and communications. the master ' s degree requirement can also be met by : two years of work toward a doctoral program in a related science, technology, engineering or math field. a completed doctor of medicine or doctor of osteopathic medicine degree. completion of a nationally recognized test pilot school program. mission specialist educator applicants must have a bachelor ' s degree with teaching experience, including work at the kindergarten through twelfth grade level. an advanced degree, such as a master ' s degree or a doctoral degree, is not required, but is strongly desired. mission specialist educators, or " educator astronauts ", were first selected in 2004, and as of 2007, there are three nasa educator astronauts : joseph m. acaba, richard r. arnold, and dorothy metcalf - lindenburger. barbara morgan, selected as back - up teacher to christa mcauliffe in 1985, is considered to be the first educator astronaut by the media, but she trained as a mission specialist. the educator astronaut program is a successor to the teacher in space program from the 1980s. health risks of space travel astronauts are susceptible to a variety of health risks including decompression sickness, barotrauma, immunodeficiencies, loss of bone and muscle, loss of eyesight, orthostatic intolerance, sleep disturbances, and radiation injury. a variety of large scale medical studies are being conducted in space via the national space biomedical research institute ( nsbri ) to address these issues. prominent among these is the advanced diagnostic ultrasound in microgravity study in which astronauts ( including former iss commanders leroy chiao and gennady padalka ) perform ultrasound scans under the guidance of remote experts to diagnose and potentially treat hundreds of medical conditions in space. this study ' s techniques are now being applied to cover professional and olympic sports injuries as well