##a basin. the meteorology of athens is deemed to be one of the most complex in the world because its mountains cause a temperature inversion phenomenon which, along with the greek government ' s difficulties controlling industrial pollution, was responsible for the air pollution problems the city has faced. this issue is not unique to athens ; for instance, los angeles and mexico city also suffer from similar atmospheric inversion problems. the cephissus river, the ilisos and the eridanos stream are the historical rivers of athens. environment by the late 1970s, the pollution of athens had become so destructive that according to the then greek minister of culture, constantine trypanis, "... the carved details on the five the caryatids of the erechtheum had seriously degenerated, while the face of the horseman on the parthenon ' s west side was all but obliterated. " a series of measures taken by the authorities of the city throughout the 1990s resulted in the improvement of air quality ; the appearance of smog ( or nefos as the athenians used to call it ) has become less common. measures taken by the greek authorities throughout the 1990s have improved the quality of air over the attica basin. nevertheless, air pollution still remains an issue for athens, particularly during the hottest summer days. in late june 2007, the attica region experienced a number of brush fires, including a blaze that burned a significant portion of a large forested national park in mount parnitha, considered critical to maintaining a better air quality in athens all year round. damage to the park has led to worries over a stalling in the improvement of air quality in the city. the major waste management efforts undertaken in the last decade ( particularly the plant built on the small island of psytalia ) have greatly improved water quality in the saronic gulf, and the coastal waters of athens are now accessible again to swimmers. parks and zoos parnitha national park is punctuated by well - marked paths, gorges, springs, torrents and caves dotting the protected area. hiking and mountain - biking in all four mountains are popular outdoor activities for residents of the city. the national garden of athens was completed in 1840 and is a green refuge of 15. 5 hectares in the centre of the greek capital. it is to be found between the parliament and zappeion buildings, the latter of which maintains its own garden of seven hectares. parts of the city centre have been redeveloped under a masterplan called the unification of archeological sites of athens