other material in the united states, and typically contains approximately 5 – 6 % bitumen binder. asphalt shingles typically contain 20 – 40 % bitumen binder. bitumen naturally becomes stiffer over time due to oxidation, evaporation, exudation, and physical hardening. for this reason, recycled asphalt is typically combined with virgin asphalt, softening agents, and / or rejuvenating additives to restore its physical and chemical properties. for information on the processing and performance of rap and ras, see asphalt concrete. for information on the different types of ras and associated health and safety concerns, see asphalt shingles. for information on in - place recycling methods used to restore pavements and roadways, see road surface. economics although bitumen typically makes up only 4 to 5 percent ( by weight ) of the pavement mixture, as the pavement ' s binder, it is also the most expensive part of the cost of the road - paving material. during bitumen ' s early use in modern paving, oil refiners gave it away. however, bitumen is a highly traded commodity today. its prices increased substantially in the early 21st century. a u. s. government report states : " in 2002, asphalt sold for approximately $ 160 per ton. by the end of 2006, the cost had doubled to approximately $ 320 per ton, and then it almost doubled again in 2012 to approximately $ 610 per ton. " the report indicates that an " average " 1 - mile ( 1. 6 - kilometer ) - long, four - lane highway would include " 300 tons of asphalt, " which, " in 2002 would have cost around $ 48, 000. by 2006 this would have increased to $ 96, 000 and by 2012 to $ 183, 000... an increase of about $ 135, 000 for every mile of highway in just 10 years. " health and safety people can be exposed to bitumen in the workplace by breathing in fumes or skin absorption. the national institute for occupational safety and health ( niosh ) has set a recommended exposure limit of 5 mg / m3 over a 15 - minute period. bitumen is basically an inert material that must be heated or diluted to a point where it becomes workable for the production of materials for paving, roofing, and other applications. in examining the potential health hazards associated with bitumen, the international agency for research on cancer ( iarc ) determined that it is the application parameters, predominantly temperature, that affect occupational exposure and the potential bioava