use ( and beryllium is very toxic ). aluminium is not as strong or stiff as steel, but the low density makes up for this in the aerospace industry and for many other applications where light weight and relatively high strength are crucial. pure aluminium is quite soft and lacking in strength. in most applications various aluminium alloys are used instead because of their higher strength and hardness. the yield strength of pure aluminium is 7 – 11 mpa, while aluminium alloys have yield strengths ranging from 200 mpa to 600 mpa. aluminium is ductile, with a percent elongation of 50 - 70 %, and malleable allowing it to be easily drawn and extruded. it is also easily machined and cast. aluminium is an excellent thermal and electrical conductor, having around 60 % the conductivity of copper, both thermal and electrical, while having only 30 % of copper ' s density. aluminium is capable of superconductivity, with a superconducting critical temperature of 1. 2 kelvin and a critical magnetic field of about 100 gauss ( 10 milliteslas ). it is paramagnetic and thus essentially unaffected by static magnetic fields. the high electrical conductivity, however, means that it is strongly affected by alternating magnetic fields through the induction of eddy currents. chemistry aluminium combines characteristics of pre - and post - transition metals. since it has few available electrons for metallic bonding, like its heavier group 13 congeners, it has the characteristic physical properties of a post - transition metal, with longer - than - expected interatomic distances. furthermore, as al3 + is a small and highly charged cation, it is strongly polarizing and bonding in aluminium compounds tends towards covalency ; this behavior is similar to that of beryllium ( be2 + ), and the two display an example of a diagonal relationship. the underlying core under aluminium ' s valence shell is that of the preceding noble gas, whereas those of its heavier congeners gallium, indium, thallium, and nihonium also include a filled d - subshell and in some cases a filled f - subshell. hence, the inner electrons of aluminium shield the valence electrons almost completely, unlike those of aluminium ' s heavier congeners. as such, aluminium is the most electropositive metal in its group, and its hydroxide is in fact more basic than that of gallium. aluminium also bears minor similarities to the metalloid boron in the same group : alx3 compounds