1492 ; the cossack massacres in ukraine, between 1648 and 1657 ; various anti - jewish pogroms in the russian empire, between 1821 and 1906 ; the dreyfus affair, between 1894 and 1906 ; the holocaust by the axis powers during world war ii ; and various soviet anti - jewish policies. historically, most of the world ' s violent antisemitic events have taken place in christian europe. however, since the early 20th century, there has been a sharp rise in antisemitic incidents across the arab world, largely due to the surge in arab antisemitic conspiracy theories, which have been cultivated to an extent under the aegis of european antisemitic conspiracy theories. in the contemporary era, a manifestation known as " new antisemitism " was identified. this concept addresses the exploitation of the arab – israeli conflict by a large number of concealed antisemites, who may attempt to gain traction or legitimacy for their antisemitic hoaxes by portraying themselves as criticizing the israeli government ' s actions ; this is distinct from people who view israeli government policies negatively, which is not inherently antisemitic. likewise, as the state of israel has a jewish - majority population, it is common for antisemitic rhetoric to be manifested in expressions of sentiments against the form or existence of israel as a state, or sentiments against the need or right to a state for jewish people ( anti - zionism ), particularly around jerusalem, though this is not always the case and such expressions may sometimes be part of wider anti – middle eastern sentiment without an exclusively antisemitic motive. due to the root word semite, the term is prone to being invoked as a misnomer by those who interpret it as referring to racist hatred directed at all " semitic people " ( i. e., those who speak semitic languages, such as arabs, assyrians, and arameans ). this usage is erroneous ; the compound word ( ) was first used in print in germany in 1879 as a " scientific - sounding term " for ( ), and it has since been used to refer to anti - jewish sentiment alone. origin and usage etymology the origin of " antisemitic " terminologies is found in the responses of moritz steinschneider to the views of ernest renan. as alex bein writes : " the compound anti - semitism appears to have been used first by steinschneider, who challenged renan on account of his ' anti - semitic