1935 ) ; cards on the table ( 1936 ) ; and death on the nile ( 1937 ), a tale of multiple murders upon a nile steamer. death on the nile was judged by the famed detective novelist john dickson carr to be among the ten greatest mystery novels of all time. the 1942 novel five little pigs ( a. k. a. murder in retrospect ), in which poirot investigates a murder committed sixteen years before by analysing various accounts of the tragedy, has been called " the best christie of all " by critic and mystery novelist robert barnard. in 2014, the poirot canon was added to by sophie hannah, the first author to be commissioned by the christie estate to write an original story. the novel was called the monogram murders, and was set in the late 1920s, placing it chronologically between the mystery of the blue train and peril at end house. a second hannah - penned poirot came out in 2016, called closed casket, and a third, the mystery of three quarters, in 2018. portrayals stage the first actor to portray poirot was charles laughton. he appeared on the west end in 1928 in the play alibi which had been adapted by michael morton from the novel the murder of roger ackroyd. in 1932, the play was performed as the fatal alibi on broadway. another poirot play, black coffee opened in london at the embassy theatre on 8 december 1930 and starred francis l. sullivan as poirot. another production of black coffee ran in dublin, ireland from 23 to 28 june 1931, starring robert powell. american playwright ken ludwig adapted murder on the orient express into a play, which premiered at the mccarter theatre in princeton, new jersey on 14 march 2017. it starred allan corduner in the role of hercule poirot. film austin trevor austin trevor debuted the role of poirot on screen in the 1931 british film alibi. the film was based on the stage play. trevor reprised the role of poirot twice, in black coffee and lord edgware dies. trevor said once that he was probably cast as poirot simply because he could do a french accent. notably, trevor ' s poirot did not have a moustache. leslie s. hiscott directed the first two films, and henry edwards took over for the third. tony randall tony randall portrayed poirot in the alphabet murders, a 1965 film also known as the abc murders. this was more a satire of po