of efforts to assist domestic and other asian utilities to accelerate their transition to carbon neutrality. in october 2021, the first international conference on fuel ammonia ( icfa2021 ) was held. in june 2022, ihi corporation succeeded in reducing greenhouse gases by over 99 % during combustion of liquid ammonia in a 2, 000 - kilowatt - class gas turbine achieving truly - free power generation. in july 2022, quad nations of japan, the u. s., australia and india agreed to promote technological development for clean - burning hydrogen and ammonia as fuels at the security grouping ' s first energy meeting., however, significant amounts of are produced. nitrous oxide may also be a problem. other remediation of gaseous emissions ammonia is used to scrub from the burning of fossil fuels, and the resulting product is converted to ammonium sulfate for use as fertiliser. ammonia neutralises the nitrogen oxide ( ) pollutants emitted by diesel engines. this technology, called scr ( selective catalytic reduction ), relies on a vanadia - based catalyst. ammonia may be used to mitigate gaseous spills of phosgene. as a hydrogen carrier due to its attributes, being liquid at ambient temperature under its own vapour pressure and having high volumetric and gravimetric energy density, ammonia is considered a suitable carrier for hydrogen, and may be cheaper than direct transport of liquid hydrogen. refrigeration – r717 because of ammonia ' s vapourization properties, it is a useful refrigerant. it was commonly used before the popularisation of chlorofluorocarbons ( freons ). anhydrous ammonia is widely used in industrial refrigeration applications and hockey rinks because of its high energy efficiency and low cost. it suffers from the disadvantage of toxicity, and requiring corrosion resistant components, which restricts its domestic and small - scale use. along with its use in modern vapour - compression refrigeration it is used in a mixture along with hydrogen and water in absorption refrigerators. the kalina cycle, which is of growing importance to geothermal power plants, depends on the wide boiling range of the ammonia – water mixture. ammonia coolant is also used in the s1 radiator aboard the international space station in two loops that are used to regulate the internal temperature and enable temperature - dependent experiments. the potential importance of ammonia as a refrigerant has increased with the discovery that vented cfcs and hfcs are extremely potent and