resigns himself to a quiet life of books and fishing. he is not one of those who joined john galt ' s strike, his resignation being a personal choice of his own. ken danagger owns danagger coal in pennsylvania. he helps hank rearden illegally make rearden metal, then later decides to quit and join galt ' s strike moments before dagny arrives to try to persuade him otherwise. quentin daniels is an enterprising engineer hired by dagny taggart to reconstruct john galt ' s motor. partway through this process, quentin withdraws his effort for the same reasons john galt himself had. dagny ' s pursuit of quentin leads her to galt ' s gulch. galt recognizes in him a younger version of himself, having emulated both galt ' s achievements in physics and galt ' s social reasoning. balph eubank is called " the literary leader of the age ", despite the fact that no book he has written has sold more than 3, 000 copies. he complains that it is disgraceful that artists are treated as peddlers, and that there should be a law limiting the sales of books to 10, 000 copies. he is a misogynist who thinks it disgusting that dagny taggart is a railroad vice - president. the fishwife is one of the strikers, who earns her living by providing the fish for hammond ' s grocery market ; she is described as having " dark, disheveled hair and large eyes ", and is a writer. galt says she " wouldn ' t be published outside. she believes that when one deals with words, one deals with the mind. " this character represents rand herself ; it is her cameo appearance in her own novel. richard halley is dagny taggart ' s favorite composer, who mysteriously disappeared after the evening of his greatest triumph. halley spent years as a struggling and unappreciated composer. at age 24, his opera phaethon was performed for the first time, to an audience who booed and heckled it. after 19 years, phaethon was performed again, but this time it was received to the greatest ovation the opera house had ever heard. the following day, halley retired, sold the rights to his music, and disappeared. it is later revealed that he has joined the strike and settled in galt ' s gulch. lawrence hammond runs hammond cars in colorado, one of the few companies in existence that still produces top - quality