aphrodite appears to anchises in the form of a tall, beautiful, mortal virgin while he is alone in his home. anchises sees her dressed in bright clothing and gleaming jewelry, with her breasts shining with divine radiance. he asks her if she is aphrodite and promises to build her an altar on top of the mountain if she will bless him and his family. aphrodite lies and tells him that she is not a goddess, but the daughter of one of the noble families of phrygia. she claims to be able to understand the trojan language because she had a trojan nurse as a child and says that she found herself on the mountainside after she was snatched up by hermes while dancing in a celebration in honor of artemis, the goddess of virginity. aphrodite tells anchises that she is still a virgin and begs him to take her to his parents. anchises immediately becomes overcome with mad lust for aphrodite and swears that he will have sex with her. anchises takes aphrodite, with her eyes cast downwards, to his bed, which is covered in the furs of lions and bears. he then strips her naked and makes love to her. after the lovemaking is complete, aphrodite reveals her true divine form. anchises is terrified, but aphrodite consoles him and promises that she will bear him a son. she prophesies that their son will be the demigod aeneas, who will be raised by the nymphs of the wilderness for five years before going to troy to become a nobleman like his father. the story of aeneas ' s conception is also mentioned in hesiod ' s theogony and in book ii of homer ' s iliad. adonis the myth of aphrodite and adonis is probably derived from the ancient sumerian legend of inanna and dumuzid. the greek name ( adonis, ) is derived from the canaanite word ʼadon, meaning " lord ". the earliest known greek reference to adonis comes from a fragment of a poem by the lesbian poet sappho ( – ), in which a chorus of young girls asks aphrodite what they can do to mourn adonis ' s death. aphrodite replies that they must beat their breasts and tear their tunics. later references flesh out the story with more details. according to the retelling of the story found in the