those were all the things that i didn ' t want to change anyway, that i didn ' t think i ' should ' want to change... other people could change their attitudes but not me ". in exploring warhol ' s biography, many turn to this period — the late 1950s and early 1960s — as a key moment in the development of his persona. some have suggested that his frequent refusal to comment on his work, to speak about himself ( confining himself in interviews to responses like " um, no " and " um, yes ", and often allowing others to speak for him ) — and even the evolution of his pop style — can be traced to the years when warhol was first dismissed by the inner circles of the new york art world. religion warhol was a practicing ruthenian catholic. he regularly volunteered at homeless shelters in new york city, particularly during the busier times of the year, and described himself as a religious person. many of warhol ' s later works depicted religious subjects, including two series, details of renaissance paintings ( 1984 ) and the last supper ( 1986 ). in addition, a body of religious - themed works was found posthumously in his estate. warhol regularly attended mass, and the priest at warhol ' s church, saint vincent ferrer, said that the artist went there almost daily, although he was not observed taking communion or going to confession and sat or knelt in the pews at the back. the priest thought he was afraid of being recognized ; warhol said he was self - conscious about being seen in a latin catholic church crossing himself " in the orthodox way " ( right to left instead of the reverse ). warhol ' s art is noticeably influenced by the eastern christian tradition which was so evident in his places of worship. warhol ' s brother has described the artist as " really religious, but he didn ' t want people to know about that because [ it was ] private ". despite the private nature of his faith, in warhol ' s eulogy john richardson depicted it as devout : " to my certain knowledge, he was responsible for at least one conversion. he took considerable pride in financing his nephew ' s studies for the priesthood ". collections warhol was an avid collector. his friends referred to his numerous collections, which filled not only his four - story townhouse, but also a nearby storage unit, as " andy ' s stuff ". the true extent of his collections was not discovered until after his death, when the andy warhol museum in pittsburgh