her father oceanus sent one of his sons, caanthus, to find her, but caanthus could not take her back from apollo, so he burned apollo ' s sanctuary. in retaliation, apollo shot and killed caanthus. male lovers hyacinth ( or hyacinthus ), a beautiful and athletic spartan prince, was one of apollo ' s favourite lovers. the pair was practicing throwing the discus when a discus thrown by apollo was blown off course by the jealous zephyrus and struck hyacinthus in the head, killing him instantly. apollo is said to be filled with grief. out of hyacinthus ' blood, apollo created a flower named after him as a memorial to his death, and his tears stained the flower petals with the interjection, meaning alas. he was later resurrected and taken to heaven. the festival hyacinthia was a national celebration of sparta, which commemorated the death and rebirth of hyacinthus. another male lover was cyparissus, a descendant of heracles. apollo gave him a tame deer as a companion but cyparissus accidentally killed it with a javelin as it lay asleep in the undergrowth. cyparissus was so saddened by its death that he asked apollo to let his tears fall forever. apollo granted the request by turning him into the cypress named after him, which was said to be a sad tree because the sap forms droplets like tears on the trunk. admetus, the king of pherae, was also apollo ' s lover. during his exile, which lasted either for one year or nine years, apollo served admetus as a herdsman. the romantic nature of their relationship was first described by callimachus of alexandria, who wrote that apollo was " fired with love " for admetus. plutarch lists admetus as one of apollo ' s lovers and says that apollo served admetus because he doted upon him. latin poet ovid in his said that even though he was a god, apollo forsook his pride and stayed in as a servant for the sake of admetus. tibullus describes apollo ' s love to the king as servitium amoris ( slavery of love ) and asserts that apollo became his servant not by force but by choice. he would also make cheese and serve it to admetus. his domestic actions caused embarrassment to his family. when admetus wanted to marry princess alcestis, apollo provided a chariot pulled