( albedo ) effect is generally to cool the planet ; the indirect effect ( the particles act as cloud condensation nuclei and thereby change cloud properties ) is less certain. as per spracklen et al. the effects are : aerosol direct effect. aerosols directly scatter and absorb radiation. the scattering of radiation causes atmospheric cooling, whereas absorption can cause atmospheric warming. aerosol indirect effect. aerosols modify the properties of clouds through a subset of the aerosol population called cloud condensation nuclei. increased nuclei concentrations lead to increased cloud droplet number concentrations, which in turn leads to increased cloud albedo, increased light scattering and radiative cooling ( first indirect effect ), but also leads to reduced precipitation efficiency and increased lifetime of the cloud ( second indirect effect ). in extremely polluted cities like delhi, aerosol pollutants influence local weather and induce an urban cool island effect during the day. black carbon another albedo - related effect on the climate is from black carbon particles. the size of this effect is difficult to quantify : the intergovernmental panel on climate change estimates that the global mean radiative forcing for black carbon aerosols from fossil fuels is + 0. 2 w m−2, with a range + 0. 1 to + 0. 4 w m−2. black carbon is a bigger cause of the melting of the polar ice cap in the arctic than carbon dioxide due to its effect on the albedo. astronomical albedo in astronomy, the term albedo can be defined in several different ways, depending upon the application and the wavelength of electromagnetic radiation involved. optical or visual albedo the albedos of planets, satellites and minor planets such as asteroids can be used to infer much about their properties. the study of albedos, their dependence on wavelength, lighting angle ( " phase angle " ), and variation in time composes a major part of the astronomical field of photometry. for small and far objects that cannot be resolved by telescopes, much of what we know comes from the study of their albedos. for example, the absolute albedo can indicate the surface ice content of outer solar system objects, the variation of albedo with phase angle gives information about regolith properties, whereas unusually high radar albedo is indicative of high metal content in asteroids. enceladus, a moon of saturn, has one of the highest known optical albedos of any body in the solar system, with an albedo of 0. 99. another