decided a century later to include numidia to become the new master of north africa. they built more than 500 cities. like the rest of north africa, algeria was one of the breadbaskets of the empire, exporting cereals and other agricultural products. saint augustine was the bishop of hippo regius ( modern - day annaba, algeria ), located in the roman province of africa. the germanic vandals of geiseric moved into north africa in 429, and by 435 controlled coastal numidia. they did not make any significant settlement on the land, as they were harassed by local tribes. in fact, by the time the byzantines arrived leptis magna was abandoned and the msellata region was occupied by the indigenous laguatan who had been busy facilitating an amazigh political, military and cultural revival. furthermore, during the rule of the romans, byzantines, vandals, carthaginians, and ottomans the berber people were the only or one of the few in north africa who remained independent. the berber people were so resistant that even during the muslim conquest of north africa they still had control and possession over their mountains. the collapse of the western roman empire led to the establishment of a native kingdom based in altava ( modern day algeria ) known as the mauro - roman kingdom. it was succeeded by another kingdom based in altava, the kingdom of altava. during the reign of kusaila its territory extended from the region of modern - day fez in the west to the western aures and later kairaouan and the interior of ifriqiya in the east. middle ages after negligible resistance from the locals, muslim arabs of the umayyad caliphate conquered algeria in the early 8th century. large numbers of the indigenous berber people converted to islam. christians, berber and latin speakers remained in the great majority in tunisia until the end of the 9th century and muslims only became a vast majority some time in the 10th. after the fall of the umayyad caliphate, numerous local dynasties emerged, including the rustamids, aghlabids, fatimids, zirids, hammadids, almoravids, almohads and the zayyanids. the christians left in three waves : after the initial conquest, in the 10th century and the 11th. the last were evacuated to sicily by the normans and the few remaining died out in the 14th century. during the middle ages, north africa was home to many great scholars,