, byzantine and a smaller number of ottoman monuments, while its historical urban core features elements of continuity through its millennia of history. athens is home to two unesco world heritage sites, the acropolis of athens and the medieval daphni monastery. landmarks of the modern era, dating back to the establishment of athens as the capital of the independent greek state in 1834, include the hellenic parliament and the architectural trilogy of athens, consisting of the national library of greece, the national and kapodistrian university of athens, and the academy of athens. athens is also home to several museums and cultural institutions, such as the national archeological museum, featuring the world ' s largest collection of ancient greek antiquities, the acropolis museum, the museum of cycladic art, the benaki museum, and the byzantine and christian museum. athens was the host city of the first modern - day olympic games in 1896, and 108 years later it hosted the 2004 summer olympics, making it one of five cities to have hosted the summer olympics on multiple occasions. athens joined the unesco global network of learning cities in 2016. etymology and names in ancient greek, the name of the city was ( athenai, in classical attic ) a plural. in earlier greek, such as homeric greek, the name had been current in the singular form though, as ( athene ). it was possibly rendered in the plural later on, like those of ( thebai ) and ( μukenai ). the root of the word is probably not of greek or indo - european origin, and is possibly a remnant of the pre - greek substrate of attica. in antiquity, it was debated whether athens took its name from its patron goddess athena ( attic, athena, ionic, athene, and doric, athana ) or athena took her name from the city. modern scholars now generally agree that the goddess takes her name from the city, because the ending - ene is common in names of locations, but rare for personal names. according to the ancient athenian founding myth, athena, the goddess of wisdom and war, competed against poseidon, the god of the seas, for patronage of the yet - unnamed city ; they agreed that whoever gave the athenians the better gift would become their patron and appointed cecrops, the king of athens, as the judge. according to the account given by pseudo - apollodorus, poseidon struck the ground with his trident and a salt water spring welled up. in an alternative version of the myth from vergil ' s