, premiered in 2002. a script created by the yonki no kai ( " club of the four knights " ) ( kurosawa, keisuke kinoshita, masaki kobayashi, and kon ichikawa ), around the time that dodeskaden was made, finally was filmed and released ( in 2000 ) as dora - heita, by the only surviving founding member of the club, kon ichikawa. huayi brothers media and ckf pictures in china announced in 2017 plans to produce a film of kurosawa ' s posthumous screenplay of the masque of the red death by edgar allan poe for 2020, to be entitled the mask of the black death. patrick frater writing for variety magazine in may 2017 stated that another two unfinished films by kurosawa were planned, with silvering spear to start filming in 2018. kurosawa production company in september 2011, it was reported that remake rights to most of kurosawa ' s movies and unproduced screenplays were assigned by the akira kurosawa 100 project to the l. a. - based company splendent. splendent ' s chief sakiko yamada, stated that he aimed to " help contemporary film - makers introduce a new generation of moviegoers to these unforgettable stories ". kurosawa production co., established in 1959, continues to oversee many of the aspects of kurosawa ' s legacy. the director ' s son, hisao kurosawa, is the current head of the company. its american subsidiary, kurosawa enterprises, is located in los angeles. rights to kurosawa ' s works were then held by kurosawa production and the film studios under which he worked, most notably toho. these rights were then assigned to the akira kurosawa 100 project before being reassigned in 2011 to the l. a. based company splendent. kurosawa production works closely with the akira kurosawa foundation, established in december 2003 and also run by hisao kurosawa. the foundation organizes an annual short film competition and spearheads kurosawa - related projects, including a recently shelved one to build a memorial museum for the director. film studios in 1981, the kurosawa film studio was opened in yokohama ; two additional locations have since been launched in japan. a large collection of archive material, including scanned screenplays, photos and news articles, has been made available through the akira kurosawa digital archive, a japanese proprietary website maintained by ryuko