" allosauridae " include gilmore, 1920, von huene, 1926, romer, 1956 and 1966, steel, 1970, and walker, 1964. following the publication of madsen ' s influential monograph, allosauridae became the preferred family assignment, but it too was not strongly defined. semi - technical works used allosauridae for a variety of large theropods, usually those that were larger and better - known than megalosaurids. typical theropods that were thought to be related to allosaurus included indosaurus, piatnitzkysaurus, piveteausaurus, yangchuanosaurus, acrocanthosaurus, chilantaisaurus, compsosuchus, stokesosaurus, and szechuanosaurus. given modern knowledge of theropod diversity and the advent of cladistic study of evolutionary relationships, none of these theropods is now recognized as an allosaurid, although several, like acrocanthosaurus and yangchuanosaurus, are members of closely related families. below is a cladogram based on the analysis of benson et al. in 2010. allosauridae is one of four families in allosauroidea ; the other three are neovenatoridae, carcharodontosauridae and sinraptoridae. allosauridae has at times been proposed as ancestral to the tyrannosauridae ( which would make it paraphyletic ), one example being gregory s. paul ' s predatory dinosaurs of the world, but this has been rejected, with tyrannosaurids identified as members of a separate branch of theropods, the coelurosauria. allosauridae is the smallest of the carnosaur families, with only saurophaganax and a currently unnamed french allosauroid accepted as possible valid genera besides allosaurus in the most recent review. another genus, epanterias, is a potential valid member, but it and saurophaganax may turn out to be large examples of allosaurus. recent reviews have kept the genus saurophaganax and included epanterias with allosaurus. paleobiology life history the wealth of allosaurus fossils, from nearly all ages of individuals, allows scientists to study how the animal grew and how long its lifespan may have been. remains may reach as far back in the lifespan as eggs — crushed eggs from colorado have been suggested as those of allosaurus. based on histological analysis of limb bones