an android is a humanoid robot or other artificial being often made from a flesh - like material. historically, androids were completely within the domain of science fiction and frequently seen in film and television, but advances in robot technology now allow the design of functional and realistic humanoid robots. terminology the oxford english dictionary traces the earliest use ( as " androides " ) to ephraim chambers ' 1728 cyclopaedia, in reference to an automaton that st. albertus magnus allegedly created. by the late 1700s, " androides ", elaborate mechanical devices resembling humans performing human activities, were displayed in exhibit halls. the term " android " appears in us patents as early as 1863 in reference to miniature human - like toy automatons. the term android was used in a more modern sense by the french author auguste villiers de l ' isle - adam in his work tomorrow ' s eve ( 1886 ). this story features an artificial humanlike robot named hadaly. as said by the officer in the story, " in this age of realien advancement, who knows what goes on in the mind of those responsible for these mechanical dolls. " the term made an impact into english pulp science fiction starting from jack williamson ' s the cometeers ( 1936 ) and the distinction between mechanical robots and fleshy androids was popularized by edmond hamilton ' s captain future stories ( 1940 – 1944 ). although karel capek ' s robots in r. u. r. ( rossum ' s universal robots ) ( 1921 ) — the play that introduced the word robot to the world — were organic artificial humans, the word " robot " has come to primarily refer to mechanical humans, animals, and other beings. the term " android " can mean either one of these, while a cyborg ( " cybernetic organism " or " bionic man " ) would be a creature that is a combination of organic and mechanical parts. the term " droid ", popularized by george lucas in the original star wars film and now used widely within science fiction, originated as an abridgment of " android ", but has been used by lucas and others to mean any robot, including distinctly non - human form machines like r2 - d2. the word " android " was used in star trek : the original series episode " what are little girls made of? " the abbreviation " andy ", coined as a pejorative by writer philip k. dick in his novel do androids dream of electric sheep?, has seen some further usage, such as