##by ' s, london. forbes magazine ranked winnie the pooh the most valuable fictional character in 2002 ; winnie the pooh merchandising products alone had annual sales of more than $ 5. 9 billion. in 2005, winnie the pooh generated $ 6 billion, a figure surpassed only by mickey mouse. a memorial plaque in ashdown forest, unveiled by christopher robin in 1979, commemorates the work of a. a. milne and shepard in creating the world of pooh. the inscription states they " captured the magic of ashdown forest, and gave it to the world ". milne once wrote of ashdown forest : " in that enchanted place on the top of the forest a little boy and his bear will always be playing. " in 2003, winnie - the - pooh was ranked number 7 on the bbc ' s the big read poll which determined the uk ' s " best - loved novels ". in 2006, winnie - the - pooh received a star on the hollywood walk of fame, marking the 80th birthday of milne ' s creation. marking the 90th anniversary of milne ' s creation of the character, and the 90th birthday of queen elizabeth ii, winnie - the - pooh meets the queen ( 2016 ) sees pooh meet the queen at buckingham palace. the illustrated and audio adventure is narrated by the actor jim broadbent. also in 2016, a new character, a penguin, was unveiled in the best bear in all the world, which was inspired by a long - lost photograph of milne and his son christopher with a toy penguin. an exhibition entitled winnie - the - pooh : exploring a classic appeared at the victoria and albert museum in london from 9 december 2017 to 8 april 2018. several of milne ' s children ' s poems were set to music by the composer harold fraser - simson. his poems have been parodied many times, including with the books when we were rather older and now we are sixty. the 1963 film the king ' s breakfast was based on milne ' s poem of the same name. milne has been portrayed in television and film. domhnall gleeson plays him in goodbye christopher robin, a 2017 biographical drama film. in the 2018 fantasy film christopher robin, an extension of the disney winnie the pooh franchise, tristan sturrock plays milne, and filming took place at ashdown forest. an elementary school in houston, texas, operated by the houston independent school district ( hisd ), is named after milne. the school, a. a. milne elementary school