failures, about developments in the 19th century. the first part of the book covered the major scientific and technical advances of the century ; the second part covered what wallace considered to be its social failures including the destruction and waste of wars and arms races, the rise of the urban poor and the dangerous conditions in which they lived and worked, a harsh criminal justice system that failed to reform criminals, abuses in a mental health system based on privately owned sanatoriums, the environmental damage caused by capitalism, and the evils of european colonialism. wallace continued his social activism for the rest of his life, publishing the book the revolt of democracy just weeks before his death. further scientific work in 1880, he published island life as a sequel to the geographic distribution of animals. in november 1886, wallace began a ten - month trip to the united states to give a series of popular lectures. most of the lectures were on darwinism ( evolution through natural selection ), but he also gave speeches on biogeography, spiritualism, and socio - economic reform. during the trip, he was reunited with his brother john who had emigrated to california years before. he spent a week in colorado, with the american botanist alice eastwood as his guide, exploring the flora of the rocky mountains and gathering evidence that would lead him to a theory on how glaciation might explain certain commonalities between the mountain flora of europe, asia and north america, which he published in 1891 in the paper " english and american flowers ". he met many other prominent american naturalists and viewed their collections. his 1889 book darwinism used information he collected on his american trip and information he had compiled for the lectures. death on 7 november 1913, wallace died at home, aged 90, in the country house he called old orchard, which he had built a decade earlier. his death was widely reported in the press. the new york times called him " the last of the giants [ belonging ] to that wonderful group of intellectuals composed of darwin, huxley, spencer, lyell, owen, and other scientists, whose daring investigations revolutionized and evolutionized the thought of the century ". another commentator in the same edition said : " no apology need be made for the few literary or scientific follies of the author of that great book on the ' malay archipelago '. " some of wallace ' s friends suggested that he be buried in westminster abbey, but his wife followed his wishes and had him buried in the small cemetery at broadstone, dorset. several prominent british scientists formed a committee to