from 2016, 21. 7 % of adults in the country are clinically overweight, with a body mass index ( bmi ) score of 25 or more. energy due to its geographical location and natural resources, albania has a wide variety of energy resources ranging from gas, oil and coal, to wind, solar and water as well as other renewable sources. according to the 2023 energy transition index ( eti ) published by the world economic forum, the country was ranked at position number 21 globally highlighting the notable progress in its energy transition agenda. currently, the electricity generation sector of albania is dependent on hydroelectricity simultaneously ranking fifth in the world in percentage terms. the drin, located in the north, hosts four hydroelectric power stations, including fierza, koman, skavica and vau i dejes. two other power stations, such as the banje and moglice, are located along the devoll in the south. albania has considerable deposits of oil. it has the 10th largest oil reserves in europe and the 58th in the world. the country ' s main petroleum deposits are located around the albanian adriatic sea coast and myzeqe plain within the western lowlands, where the country ' s largest reserve is located. patos - marinza, also located within the area, is the largest onshore oil field in europe. the trans adriatic pipeline ( tap ), part of the planned southern gas corridor, runs for across albania ' s territory before entering the albanian adriatic sea coast approximately northwest of fier. the water resources of albania are particularly abundant in all the regions of the country and comprise lakes, rivers, springs and groundwater aquifers. the country ' s available average quantity of fresh water is estimated at per inhabitant per year, which is one of the highest rates in europe. according to the data presented by the joint monitoring programme for water supply and sanitation ( jmp ) in 2015, about 93 % of the country ' s total population had access to improved sanitation. media the freedom of press and speech, and the right to free expression is guaranteed in the constitution of albania. albania was ranked 84th on the press freedom index of 2020 compiled by the reporters without borders, with its score steadily declining since 2003. nevertheless, in the 2020 report of freedom in the world, the freedom house classified the freedoms of press and speech in albania as partly free from political interference and manipulation. radio televizioni shqiptar ( rtsh ) is the national broadcaster corporation of albania operating numerous television and