actaeon, torn apart by dogs incited by artemis, finds another near eastern parallel in the ugaritic hero aqht, torn apart by eagles incited by anath who wanted his hunting bow. the virginal artemis of classical times is not directly comparable to ishtar of the many lovers, but the mytheme of artemis shooting orion, was linked to her punishment of actaeon by t. c. w. stinton ; < ref > stinton " euripides and the judgement of paris " ( london, 1965 : 45 note 14 ) reprinted in stinton, collected papers on greek tragedy ( london, 1990 : 51 note 14 ). < / ref > the greek context of the mortal ' s reproach to the amorous goddess is translated to the episode of anchises and aphrodite. daphnis too was a herdsman loved by a goddess and punished by her : see theocritus ' first idyll. symbolism regarding actaeon in greek mythology, actaeon is widely thought to symbolize ritual human sacrifice in attempt to please a god or goddess : the dogs symbolize the sacrificers and actaeon symbolizes the sacrifice. actaeon may symbolize human curiosity or irreverence. the myth is seen by jungian psychologist wolfgang giegerich as a symbol of spiritual transformation and / or enlightenment. actaeon often symbolizes a cuckold, as when he is turned into a stag, he becomes " horned ". this is alluded to in shakespeare ' s merry wives, robert burton ' s anatomy of melancholy, and others. gordon williams, [ a dictionary of sexual language and imagery in shakespearean and stuart literature ], 2001,, p. 8 - 9. cultural depictions the two main scenes are actaeon surprising artemis / diana, and his death. in classical art actaeon is normally shown as fully human, even as his hounds are killing him ( sometimes he has small horns ), but in renaissance art he is often given a deer ' s head with antlers even in the scene with diana, and by the time he is killed he has at the least this head, and has often completely transformed into the shape of a deer. aeschylus and other tragic poets made use of the story, which was a favourite subject in ancient works of art. there is a well - known small marble group in the british museum illustrative of the story, in gallery 83 / 84. two paintings by the 16th century