the synaptic connections with neurons with the help of guidepost cells. this is also referred to as neuroregeneration. nogo - a is a type of neurite outgrowth inhibitory component that is present in the central nervous system myelin membranes ( found in an axon ). it has a crucial role in restricting axonal regeneration in adult mammalian central nervous system. in recent studies, if nogo - a is blocked and neutralized, it is possible to induce long - distance axonal regeneration which leads to enhancement of functional recovery in rats and mouse spinal cord. this has yet to be done on humans. a recent study has also found that macrophages activated through a specific inflammatory pathway activated by the dectin - 1 receptor are capable of promoting axon recovery, also however causing neurotoxicity in the neuron. length regulation axons vary largely in length from a few micrometers up to meters in some animals. this emphasizes that there must be a cellular length regulation mechanism allowing the neurons both to sense the length of their axons and to control their growth accordingly. it was discovered that motor proteins play an important role in regulating the length of axons. based on this observation, researchers developed an explicit model for axonal growth describing how motor proteins could affect the axon length on the molecular level. these studies suggest that motor proteins carry signaling molecules from the soma to the growth cone and vice versa whose concentration oscillates in time with a length - dependent frequency. classification the axons of neurons in the human peripheral nervous system can be classified based on their physical features and signal conduction properties. axons were known to have different thicknesses ( from 0. 1 to 20 µm ) and these differences were thought to relate to the speed at which an action potential could travel along the axonits conductance velocity. erlanger and gasser proved this hypothesis, and identified several types of nerve fiber, establishing a relationship between the diameter of an axon and its nerve conduction velocity. they published their findings in 1941 giving the first classification of axons. axons are classified in two systems. the first one introduced by erlanger and gasser, grouped the fibers into three main groups using the letters a, b, and c. these groups, group a, group b, and group c include both the sensory fibers ( afferents ) and the motor fibers ( efferents ). the first group a, was subdivided into alpha, beta, gamma, and delta fibers