since the conclusion of the second world war. pardons are normally granted only when the person is technically innocent, and a request has been made by the family or other interested party ; neither condition was met in regard to turing ' s conviction. in september 2016, the government announced its intention to expand this retroactive exoneration to other men convicted of similar historical indecency offences, in what was described as an " alan turing law ". the alan turing law is now an informal term for the law in the united kingdom, contained in the policing and crime act 2017, which serves as an amnesty law to retroactively pardon men who were cautioned or convicted under historical legislation that outlawed homosexual acts. the law applies in england and wales. on 19 july 2023, following an apology to lgbt veterans from the uk government, defence secretary ben wallace suggested turing should be honoured with a permanent statue on the fourth plinth of trafalgar square, describing dr turing as " probably the greatest war hero, in my book, of the second world war, [ whose ] achievements shortened the war, saved thousands of lives, helped defeat the nazis. and his story is a sad story of a society and how it treated him. " see also legacy of alan turing list of things named after alan turing notes and references notes references sources in and turing ' s mother, who survived him by many years, wrote this 157 - page biography of her son, glorifying his life. it was published in 1959, and so could not cover his war work. scarcely 300 copies were sold ( sara turing to lyn newman, 1967, library of st john ' s college, cambridge ). the six - page foreword by lyn irvine includes reminiscences and is more frequently quoted. it was re - published by cambridge university press in 2012, to honour the centenary of his birth, and included a new foreword by martin davis, as well as a never - before - published memoir by turing ' s older brother john f. turing. this 1986 hugh whitemore play tells the story of turing ' s life and death. in the original west end and broadway runs, derek jacobi played turing and he recreated the role in a 1997 television film based on the play made jointly by the bbc and wgbh, boston. the play is published by amber lane press, oxford, asin : b000b7tm0q further reading articles books ( originally published in 1983 ) ; basis of the film the imitation game ( originally published in 1959 by