##9 ; early english usages emphasised a sense of disorder. various factions within the french revolution labelled their opponents as anarchists, although few such accused shared many views with later anarchists. many revolutionaries of the 19th century such as william godwin ( 1756 – 1836 ) and wilhelm weitling ( 1808 – 1871 ) would contribute to the anarchist doctrines of the next generation but did not use anarchist or anarchism in describing themselves or their beliefs. the first political philosopher to call himself an anarchist ( ) was pierre - joseph proudhon ( 1809 – 1865 ), marking the formal birth of anarchism in the mid - 19th century. since the 1890s and beginning in france, libertarianism has often been used as a synonym for anarchism and its use as a synonym is still common outside the united states. some usages of libertarianism refer to individualistic free - market philosophy only, and free - market anarchism in particular is termed libertarian anarchism. while the term libertarian has been largely synonymous with anarchism, its meaning has more recently been diluted by wider adoption from ideologically disparate groups, including both the new left and libertarian marxists, who do not associate themselves with authoritarian socialists or a vanguard party, and extreme cultural liberals, who are primarily concerned with civil liberties. additionally, some anarchists use libertarian socialist to avoid anarchism ' s negative connotations and emphasise its connections with socialism. anarchism is broadly used to describe the anti - authoritarian wing of the socialist movement. anarchism is contrasted to socialist forms which are state - oriented or from above. scholars of anarchism generally highlight anarchism ' s socialist credentials and criticise attempts at creating dichotomies between the two. some scholars describe anarchism as having many influences from liberalism, and being both liberal and socialist but more so. many scholars reject anarcho - capitalism as a misunderstanding of anarchist principles. while opposition to the state is central to anarchist thought, defining anarchism is not an easy task for scholars, as there is a lot of discussion among scholars and anarchists on the matter, and various currents perceive anarchism slightly differently. major definitional elements include the will for a non - coercive society, the rejection of the state apparatus, the belief that human nature allows humans to exist in or progress toward such a non - coercive society, and a suggestion on how to act to pursue the ideal of anarchy. history pre - modern era before the creation of towns and cities, established