dating, imperial regnal year dating, and creation dating. although the last non - imperial consul, basilius, was appointed in 541 by emperor justinian i, later emperors through to constans ii ( 641 – 668 ) were appointed consuls on the first of january after their accession. all of these emperors, except justinian, used imperial post - consular years for the years of their reign, along with their regnal years. long unused, this practice was not formally abolished until novell xciv of the law code of leo vi did so in 888. another calculation had been developed by the alexandrian monk annianus around the year ad 400, placing the annunciation on 25 march ad 9 ( julian ) — eight to ten years after the date that dionysius was to imply. although this incarnation was popular during the early centuries of the byzantine empire, years numbered from it, an era of incarnation, were exclusively used and are still used in ethiopia. this accounts for the seven - or eight - year discrepancy between the gregorian and ethiopian calendars. byzantine chroniclers like maximus the confessor, george syncellus, and theophanes dated their years from annianus ' creation of the world. this era, called anno mundi, " year of the world " ( abbreviated am ), by modern scholars, began its first year on 25 march 5492 bc. later byzantine chroniclers used anno mundi years from 1 september 5509 bc, the byzantine era. no single anno mundi epoch was dominant throughout the christian world. eusebius of caesarea in his chronicle used an era beginning with the birth of abraham, dated in 2016 bc ( ad 1 = 2017 anno abrahami ). spain and portugal continued to date by the spanish era ( also called era of the caesars ), which began counting from 38 bc, well into the middle ages. in 1422, portugal became the last catholic country to adopt the anno domini system. the era of martyrs, which numbered years from the accession of diocletian in 284, who launched the most severe persecution of christians, was used by the church of alexandria and is still used, officially, by the coptic orthodox and coptic catholic churches. it was also used by the ethiopian and eritrean churches. another system was to date from the crucifixion of jesus, which as early as hippolytus and tertullian was believed to have occurred in the consulate of the gemini