ion, which due to its small size forms tetrahedral tetrahydrate complexes ( [ li ( h2o ) 4 ) ] + ) ; the alkali metals form these complexes because their ions are attracted by electrostatic forces of attraction to the polar water molecules. because of this, anhydrous salts containing alkali metal cations are often used as desiccants. alkali metals also readily form complexes with crown ethers ( e. g. 12 - crown - 4 for li +, 15 - crown - 5 for na +, 18 - crown - 6 for k +, and 21 - crown - 7 for rb + ) and cryptands due to electrostatic attraction. ammonia solutions the alkali metals dissolve slowly in liquid ammonia, forming ammoniacal solutions of solvated metal cation m + and solvated electron e−, which react to form hydrogen gas and the alkali metal amide ( mnh2, where m represents an alkali metal ) : this was first noted by humphry davy in 1809 and rediscovered by w. weyl in 1864. the process may be speeded up by a catalyst. similar solutions are formed by the heavy divalent alkaline earth metals calcium, strontium, barium, as well as the divalent lanthanides, europium and ytterbium. the amide salt is quite insoluble and readily precipitates out of solution, leaving intensely coloured ammonia solutions of the alkali metals. in 1907, charles a. kraus identified the colour as being due to the presence of solvated electrons, which contribute to the high electrical conductivity of these solutions. at low concentrations ( below 3 m ), the solution is dark blue and has ten times the conductivity of aqueous sodium chloride ; at higher concentrations ( above 3 m ), the solution is copper - coloured and has approximately the conductivity of liquid metals like mercury. in addition to the alkali metal amide salt and solvated electrons, such ammonia solutions also contain the alkali metal cation ( m + ), the neutral alkali metal atom ( m ), diatomic alkali metal molecules ( m2 ) and alkali metal anions ( m− ). these are unstable and eventually become the more thermodynamically stable alkali metal amide and hydrogen gas. solvated electrons are powerful reducing agents and are often used in chemical synthesis. organometallic organolithium being the smallest al