##a ' s own inscriptions are fairly detailed but make no mention of his ancestors. other sources, such as the puranas and the mahavamsa state that his father was the mauryan emperor bindusara, and his grandfather was chandragupta – the founder of the empire. the ashokavadana also names his father as bindusara, but traces his ancestry to buddha ' s contemporary king bimbisara, through ajatashatru, udayin, munda, kakavarnin, sahalin, tulakuchi, mahamandala, prasenajit, and nanda. the 16th century tibetan monk taranatha, whose account is a distorted version of the earlier traditions, describes ashoka as the illegitimate son of king nemita of champarana from the daughter of a merchant. ashokavadana states that ashoka ' s mother was the daughter of a brahmin from champa, and was prophesied to marry a king. accordingly, her father took her to pataliputra, where she was inducted into bindusara ' s harem, and ultimately, became his chief queen. the ashokavadana does not mention her by name, although other legends provide different names for her. for example, the asokavadanamala calls her subhadrangi. the vamsatthapakasini or mahavamsa - tika, a commentary on mahavamsa, calls her " dharma " ( " dhamma " in pali ), and states that she belonged to the moriya kshatriya clan. a divyavadana legend calls her janapada - kalyani ; according to scholar ananda w. p. guruge, this is not a name, but an epithet. according to the 2nd - century historian appian, chandragupta entered into a marital alliance with the greek ruler seleucus i nicator, which has led to speculation that either chandragupta or his son bindusara married a greek princess. however, there is no evidence that ashoka ' s mother or grandmother was greek, and most historians have dismissed the idea. as a prince ashoka ' s own inscriptions do not describe his early life, and much of the information on this topic comes from apocryphal legends written hundreds of years after him. while these legends include obviously fictitious details such as narratives of ashoka ' s past lives, they have some plausible historical information about ashoka ' s period.