relatives living on different sides of the national border. at one fell stroke, these families could be torn apart by a new dividing line, the border of a military bloc. " on the holodomor solzhenitsyn gave a speech to afl – cio in washington, d. c., on 30 june 1975 in which he mentioned how the system created by the bolsheviks in 1917 caused dozens of problems in the soviet union. he described how this system was responsible for the holodomor : " it was a system which, in time of peace, artificially created a famine, causing 6 million people to die in the ukraine in 1932 and 1933. " solzhenitsyn added, " they died on the very edge of europe. and europe didn ' t even notice it. the world didn ' t even notice it — 6 million people! " shortly before his death, solzhenitsyn opined in an interview published 2 april 2008 in izvestia that, while the famine in ukraine was both artificial and caused by the state, it was no different from the russian famine of 1921 – 1922. solzhenitsyn expressed the belief that both famines were caused by systematic armed robbery of the harvests from both russian and ukrainian peasants by bolshevik units, which were under orders from the politburo to bring back food for the starving urban population centers while refusing for ideological reasons to permit any private sale of food supplies in the cities or to give any payment to the peasants in return for the food that was seized. solzhenitsyn further alleged that the theory that the holodomor was a genocide which only victimized the ukrainian people was created decades later by believers in an anti - russian form of extreme ukrainian nationalism. solzhenitsyn also cautioned that the ultranationalists ' claims risked being accepted without question in the west due to widespread ignorance and misunderstanding there of both russian and ukrainian history. legacy the aleksandr solzhenitsyn center in worcester, massachusetts promotes the author and hosts the official english - language website dedicated to him. television documentaries on solzhenitsyn in october 1983, french literary journalist bernard pivot made an hour - long television interview with solzhenitsyn at his rural home in vermont, us. solzhenitsyn discussed his writing, the evolution of his language and style, his family and his outlook on the future — and stated his wish to return to russia in his lifetime, not just to see his books eventually printed there. apostrophes :