to the american bombe design was far from enthusiastic : during this trip, he also assisted at bell labs with the development of secure speech devices. he returned to bletchley park in march 1943. during his absence, hugh alexander had officially assumed the position of head of hut 8, although alexander had been de facto head for some time ( turing having little interest in the day - to - day running of the section ). turing became a general consultant for cryptanalysis at bletchley park. alexander wrote of turing ' s contribution : turingery in july 1942, turing devised a technique termed turingery ( or jokingly turingismus ) for use against the lorenz cipher messages produced by the germans ' new geheimschreiber ( secret writer ) machine. this was a teleprinter rotor cipher attachment codenamed tunny at bletchley park. turingery was a method of wheel - breaking, i. e., a procedure for working out the cam settings of tunny ' s wheels. he also introduced the tunny team to tommy flowers who, under the guidance of max newman, went on to build the colossus computer, the world ' s first programmable digital electronic computer, which replaced a simpler prior machine ( the heath robinson ), and whose superior speed allowed the statistical decryption techniques to be applied usefully to the messages. some have mistakenly said that turing was a key figure in the design of the colossus computer. turingery and the statistical approach of banburismus undoubtedly fed into the thinking about cryptanalysis of the lorenz cipher, but he was not directly involved in the colossus development. delilah following his work at bell labs in the us, turing pursued the idea of electronic enciphering of speech in the telephone system. in the latter part of the war, he moved to work for the secret service ' s radio security service ( later hmgcc ) at hanslope park. at the park, he further developed his knowledge of electronics with the assistance of reme officer donald bayley. together they undertook the design and construction of a portable secure voice communications machine codenamed delilah. the machine was intended for different applications, but it lacked the capability for use with long - distance radio transmissions. in any case, delilah was completed too late to be used during the war. though the system worked fully, with turing demonstrating it to officials by encrypting and decrypting a recording of a winston churchill speech, delilah was not adopted