into a historical cliche. he appears to have believed himself a deity, or at least sought to deify himself. olympias always insisted to him that he was the son of zeus, a theory apparently confirmed to him by the oracle of amun at siwa. he began to identify himself as the son of zeus - ammon. alexander adopted elements of persian dress and customs at court, notably proskynesis, which was one aspect of alexander ' s broad strategy aimed at securing the aid and support of the iranian upper classes ; however the practise of proskynesis was disapproved by the macedonians, and they were unwilling to perform it. this behaviour cost him the sympathies of many of his countrymen. however, alexander also was a pragmatic ruler who understood the difficulties of ruling culturally disparate peoples, many of whom lived in kingdoms where the king was divine. thus, rather than megalomania, his behaviour may have been a practical attempt at strengthening his rule and keeping his empire together. personal relationships alexander married three times : roxana, daughter of the sogdian nobleman oxyartes of bactria, out of love ; and the persian princesses stateira and parysatis, the former a daughter of darius iii and the latter a daughter of artaxerxes iii, for political reasons. he apparently had two sons, alexander iv of macedon by roxana and, possibly, heracles of macedon from his mistress barsine. he lost another child when roxana miscarried at babylon. alexander also had a close relationship with his friend, general, and bodyguard hephaestion, the son of a macedonian noble. hephaestion ' s death devastated alexander. this event may have contributed to alexander ' s failing health and detached mental state during his final months. alexander ' s sexuality has been the subject of speculation and controversy in modern times. the roman era writer athenaeus says, based on the scholar dicaearchus, who was alexander ' s contemporary, that the king " was quite excessively keen on boys ", and that alexander kissed the eunuch bagoas in public. this episode is also told by plutarch, probably based on the same source. none of alexander ' s contemporaries, however, are known to have explicitly described alexander ' s relationship with hephaestion as sexual, though the pair was often compared to achilles and patroclus, whom classical greek culture painted as a couple.