were again largely socinians, not arians. in 1683, when anthony ashley cooper, 1st earl of shaftesbury, lay dying in amsterdam — driven into exile by his outspoken opposition to king charles ii — he spoke to the minister robert ferguson, and professed himself an arian. in the 18th century the " dominant trend " in britain, particularly in latitudinarianism, was towards arianism, with which the names of samuel clarke, benjamin hoadly, william whiston and isaac newton are associated. to quote the encyclopædia britannica article on arianism : " in modern times some unitarians are virtually arians in that they are unwilling either to reduce christ to a mere human being or to attribute to him a divine nature identical with that of the father. " a similar view was held by the ancient anti - nicene pneumatomachi ( greek :, " breath " or " spirit " and " fighters ", combining as " fighters against the spirit " ), so called because they opposed the deifying of the nicene holy ghost. although the pneumatomachi ' s beliefs were somewhat reminiscent of arianism, they were a distinct group. today many american evangelicals agree that jesus is not eternal but is the greatest creature made by god. the percentage of evangelicals that agree with this statement range between 44 % and 68 %. the teachings of the first two ecumenical councils — which entirely reject arianism — are held by the catholic church, the eastern orthodox church, the oriental orthodox churches, the assyrian church of the east and almost all historic protestant churches including lutheran, reformed ( presbyterian, continental reformed, and congregationalist ), anglican, methodist, baptist, and free evangelical entirely reject the teachings associated with arianism. modern groups which currently appear to embrace some of the principles of arianism include unitarians and jehovah ' s witnesses. although the origins of their beliefs are not necessarily attributed to the teachings of arius, many of the core beliefs of unitarians and jehovah ' s witnesses are very similar to them. jehovah ' s witnesses jehovah ' s witnesses are often referred to as " modern - day arians, " usually by their opponents, although jehovah ' s witnesses themselves have denied these claims. significant similarities in doctrine include the identification of the father as the only true god and of jesus christ as the first creation of god and the intermediate agent in the creation of all other things. jehovah ' s witnesses differ