to 18th centuries in 1601 the tribunal de corts ( high court of justice ) was created as a result of huguenot rebellions in france, inquisition courts coming from spain and witchcraft - related beliefs native to the area, in the context of the reformation and counter - reformation. with the passage of time, the co - title to andorra passed to the kings of navarre. after henry iii of navarre became king of france, he issued an edict in 1607 that established the head of the french state and the bishop of urgell as co - princes of andorra, a political arrangement that still holds. during 1617, communal councils form the sometent ( popular militia or army ) to deal with the rise of bandolerisme ( brigandage ) and the consell de la terra was defined and structured in terms of its composition, organization and competences current today. andorra continued with the same economic system that it had during the 12th – 14th centuries with a large production of metallurgy ( fargues, a system similar to farga catalana ) and with the introduction of tobacco circa 1692 and import trade. in 1371 and 1448, the co - princes ratified the fair of andorra la vella, the most important annual national festival commercially ever since. the country had a unique and experienced guild of weavers, confraria de paraires i teixidors, in escaldes - engordany. founded in 1604, it took advantage of the local thermal waters. by this time, the country was characterized by the social system of prohoms ( wealthy society ) and casalers ( rest of the population with smaller economic acquisition ), deriving from the tradition of pubilla and hereu. three centuries after its foundation, the consell de la terra located its headquarters and the tribunal de corts in casa de la vall in 1702. the manor house built in 1580 served as a noble fortress of the busquets family. inside the parliament was placed the closet of the six keys ( armari de les sis claus ), representative of each andorran parish, where the andorran constitution and other documents and laws were later kept. in both the reapers ' war and the war of the spanish succession, the andorran people ( while professing to be a neutral country ) supported the catalans who saw their rights reduced in 1716. the reaction was the promotion of catalan writings in andorra, with cultural works such as the book of privileges ( llibre de