sacred to apollo because he had been born under one in delos. animals sacred to apollo included wolves, dolphins, roe deer, swans, cicadas ( symbolizing music and song ), ravens, hawks, crows ( apollo had hawks and crows as his messengers ), snakes ( referencing apollo ' s function as the god of prophecy ), mice and griffins, mythical eagle – lion hybrids of eastern origin. homer and porphyry wrote that apollo had a hawk as his messenger. in many myths apollo is transformed into a hawk. in addition, claudius aelianus wrote that in ancient egypt people believed that hawks were sacred to the god and that according to the ministers of apollo in egypt there were certain men called " hawk - keepers " ( ιερακοβοσκοι ) who fed and tended the hawks belonging to the god. eusebius wrote that the second appearance of the moon is held sacred in the city of apollo in egypt and that the city ' s symbol is a man with a hawklike face ( horus ). claudius aelianus wrote that egyptians called apollo horus in their own language. as god of colonization, apollo gave oracular guidance on colonies, especially during the height of colonization, 750 – 550 bce. according to greek tradition, he helped cretan or arcadian colonists found the city of troy. however, this story may reflect a cultural influence which had the reverse direction : hittite cuneiform texts mention an asia minor god called appaliunas or apalunas in connection with the city of wilusa attested in hittite inscriptions, which is now generally regarded as being identical with the greek ilion by most scholars. in this interpretation, apollo ' s title of lykegenes can simply be read as " born in lycia ", which effectively severs the god ' s supposed link with wolves ( possibly a folk etymology ). in literary contexts, apollo represents harmony, order, and reason — characteristics contrasted with those of dionysus, god of wine, who represents ecstasy and disorder. the contrast between the roles of these gods is reflected in the adjectives apollonian and dionysian. however, the greeks thought of the two qualities as complementary : the two gods are brothers, and when apollo at winter left for hyperborea, he would leave the delphic oracle to dionysus. this contrast appears to be shown on the two sides of the borghese vase. apollo is often associated with the golden mean. this is the greek ideal