form. the correct form is whichever is the statutorily prescribed or customary form for a particular court and particular jurisdiction ; in other words, one should never write " court of appeal " when the court at issue clearly prefers to be called a " court of appeals ", and vice versa. historically, certain jurisdictions have titled their appellate court a court of errors ( or court of errors and appeals ), on the premise that it was intended to correct errors made by lower courts. examples of such courts include the new jersey court of errors and appeals ( which existed from 1844 to 1947 ), the connecticut supreme court of errors ( which has been renamed the connecticut supreme court ), the kentucky court of errors ( renamed the kentucky supreme court ), and the mississippi high court of errors and appeals ( since renamed the supreme court of mississippi ). in some jurisdictions, a court able to hear appeals is known as an appellate division. the phrase " court of appeals " most often refers to intermediate appellate courts. however, the new york court of appeals is the highest appellate court in new york. the new york supreme court is a trial court of general jurisdiction. the supreme court of maryland was known as the court of appeals, and the appellate court of maryland was known as the court of special appeals, until a 2022 constitutional amendment changed their names. depending on the system, certain courts may serve as both trial courts and appellate courts, hearing appeals of decisions made by courts with more limited jurisdiction. see also court of criminal appeal ( disambiguation ) court of appeal ( hong kong ) high court ( hong kong ) court of appeal ( england and wales ) court of cassation references citations sources lax, jeffrey r. " constructing legal rules on appellate courts. " american political science review 101. 3 ( 2007 ) : 591 – 604. sociological abstracts ; worldwide political science abstracts. web. 29 may 2012. courts by type appellate courts jurisdiction