##o de forcas especiais ). both the brife and the effe are directly under the directorate of special forces of the general staff of the armed forces. the marines ( fuzileiros navais ) constitute the marines brigade of the angolan navy. the marines brigade is not permanently dependent of the directorate of special forces, but can detach their units and elements to be put under the command of that body for the conduction of exercises or real operations. since the disbandment of the angolan parachute battalion in 2004, the faa do not have a specialized paratrooper unit. however, elements of the commandos, special operations and marines are parachute qualified. territorial troops the directorate of people ' s defense and territorial troops of the defence ministry or odp was established in late 1975. it had 600, 000 members, having personnel in virtually every village by 1979. it had both armed and unarmed units dispersed in villages throughout the country. the people ' s vigilance brigades ( ) also serve a similar purpose. training establishments armed forces academy the military academy ( ) is a military university public higher education establishment whose mission is to train officers of the permanent staff of the army. it has been in operation since 21 august 2009 by presidential decree. its headquarters are in lobito. it trains in the following specialties : infantry tanks land artillery anti - air defense military engineering logistics telecommunications hidden direction of troops military administration armament and technique chemical defense operational military intelligence technical repair and maintenance platoon of auto and armored technique navy naval war institute ( insg ) naval academy naval specialist school air force angolan military aviation school pilot basic training school ( lobito ) institutions / other units museum of the armed forces military hospitals the military hospital of the faa is the main military hospital. it has the following lineage : 1961 – evacuation infirmary 1962 – military hospital of luanda 1975 – military hospital 1976 – central military hospital 1989 – main military hospital it provides specialized medical assistance in accordance with the military health system ; it also promotes post - graduate education and scientific research. currently, the main military hospital serves 39 special medical specialties. it is a headed by a director general whose main supporting body is the board of directors. supreme military court the supreme military court is the highest organ of the hierarchy of military courts. the presiding judge, the deputy presiding judge and the other counselor judges of the supreme military court are appointed by the president of the republic. the composition, organization, powers and functioning of the supreme military court are established by law. military bands the faa