##less aircraft rely on the same general rule to achieve stability, the aft surface being the stabilising one. a rotary wing is typically unstable in yaw, requiring a vertical stabiliser. a balloon is typically very stable in pitch and roll due to the way the payload is slung underneath the center of lift. control flight control surfaces enable the pilot to control an aircraft ' s flight attitude and are usually part of the wing or mounted on, or integral with, the associated stabilizing surface. their development was a critical advance in the history of aircraft, which had until that point been uncontrollable in flight. aerospace engineers develop control systems for a vehicle ' s orientation ( attitude ) about its center of mass. the control systems include actuators, which exert forces in various directions, and generate rotational forces or moments about the aerodynamic center of the aircraft, and thus rotate the aircraft in pitch, roll, or yaw. for example, a pitching moment is a vertical force applied at a distance forward or aft from the aerodynamic center of the aircraft, causing the aircraft to pitch up or down. control systems are also sometimes used to increase or decrease drag, for example to slow the aircraft to a safe speed for landing. the two main aerodynamic forces acting on any aircraft are lift supporting it in the air and drag opposing its motion. control surfaces or other techniques may also be used to affect these forces directly, without inducing any rotation. environmental impact aircraft permit long distance, high speed travel and may be a more fuel efficient mode of transportation in some circumstances. aircraft have environmental and climate impacts beyond fuel efficiency considerations, however. they are also relatively noisy compared to other forms of travel and high altitude aircraft generate contrails, which experimental evidence suggests may alter weather patterns. uses for aircraft aircraft are produced in several different types optimized for various uses ; military aircraft, which includes not just combat types but many types of supporting aircraft, and civil aircraft, which include all non - military types, experimental and model. military a military aircraft is any aircraft that is operated by a legal or insurrectionary armed service of any type. military aircraft can be either combat or non - combat : combat aircraft are aircraft designed to destroy enemy equipment using its own armament. combat aircraft divide broadly into fighters and bombers, with several in - between types, such as fighter - bombers and attack aircraft, including attack helicopters. non - combat aircraft are not designed for combat as their primary function, but may carry weapons for self - defense. non - combat roles include search and rescue