there early in his career. despite grass being his worst surface, his first major win was at the slick grass of wimbledon in 1992, a tournament that he professed to hating at the time. his strongest surface over the course of his career, was indeed hardcourt, where he won six of his eight majors. business ventures agassi established a limited liability company named andre agassi ventures ( formerly named agassi enterprises ). agassi, along with five athlete partners ( including wayne gretzky, joe montana, shaquille o ' neal, ken griffey jr., and monica seles ) opened a chain of sports - themed restaurant named official all star cafe in april 1996. the restaurant closed down in 2001. in 1999, he paid $ 1 million for a 10 percent stake in nevada first bank and made a $ 10 million profit when it was sold to western alliance bancorp in 2006. in 2002, he joined the tennis channel to promote the channel to consumers and cable and satellite industry, and made an equity investment in the network. after meeting chef michael mina at one of his restaurants in san francisco, agassi partnered with him in 2002 to start mina group inc. and opened 18 concept restaurants in san francisco, san jose, dana point, atlantic city and las vegas. agassi was an equity investor of a group that acquired golden nugget las vegas and golden nugget laughlin from mgm mirage for $ 215 million in 2004. one year later, the group sold the hotel - casino to landry ' s, inc. for $ 163 million in cash and $ 182 million in assumed debt. in 2007, he sat on the board of meadows bank, an independent bank in nevada. he has invested in start - up companies backed by allen & company. agassi and graf formed a company called agassi graf holdings. they invested in pure, a nightclub at caesars palace, which opened in 2004, and sold it to angel management group in 2010. in august 2006, agassi and graf developed a joint venture with high - end furniture maker kreiss enterprises. they launched a furniture line called agassi graf collection. in september, agassi and graf, through their company agassi graf development llc, along with bayview financial lp, finalized an agreement to develop a condominium hotel, fairmont tamarack, at tamarack resort in donnelly, idaho. owing to difficult market conditions and delays, they withdrew from the project in 2009. the group still owns