, two money services businesses, more than 40 company managers, more than 50 insurers, 12 brokers, more than 250 captive intermediaries, more than 50 mutual funds, and eight trust companies. anguilla has become a popular tax haven, having no capital gains, estate, profit, sales, or corporate taxes. in april 2011, faced with a mounting deficit, it introduced a 3 % " interim stabilisation levy ", anguilla ' s first form of income tax. anguilla also has a 0. 75 % property tax. anguilla aims to obtain 15 % of its energy from solar power to become less reliant on expensive imported diesel. the climate & development knowledge network is helping the government gather the information it needs to change the territory ' s legislation, so that it can integrate renewables into its grid. barbados has also made good progress in switching to renewables, but many other small island developing states are still at the early stages of planning how to integrate renewable energy into their grids. " for a small island we ' re very far ahead, " said beth barry, coordinator of the anguilla renewable energy office. " we ' ve got an energy policy and a draft climate change policy and have been focusing efforts on the question of sustainable energy supply for several years now. as a result, we have a lot of information we can share with other islands. " according to a bloomberg report, due to a skyrocketing interest in artificial intelligence, anguilla was expected to profit in 2023 from a surge in demand for web addresses ending with the country ' s top - level domain. ai. the total number of registrations of. ai domain names had already doubled in 2022, and according to vince cate, who has managed the top - level domain, anguilla will bring in as much as $ 30 million in domain - registration fees for 2023. transportation air anguilla is served by clayton j. lloyd international airport ( prior to 4 july 2010 known as wallblake airport ). the primary runway at the airport is in length and can accommodate moderate - sized aircraft. regional scheduled passenger services connect to various other caribbean islands via local airlines. in december 2021 anguilla inaugurated its first ever international regular commercial jet service flight to and from the mainland u. s. american eagle operating on behalf of american airlines began nonstop embraer 175 regional jet service to anguilla from miami in an aviation watershed moment for anguilla with the airport also currently attempting