library, with an english translation by sir james george frazer, f. b. a., f. r. s. in 2 volumes. cambridge, massachusetts, harvard university press ; london, william heinemann ltd. 1921. online version at the perseus digital library. athenaeus, the learned banqueters, volume vi : books 12 - 13. 594b, edited and translated by s. douglas olson, loeb classical library no. 345, cambridge, massachusetts, harvard university press, 2011.. online version at harvard university press. collard, christopher and martin cropp ( 2008a ), euripides fragments : aegeus – meleanger, loeb classical library no. 504, cambridge, massachusetts, harvard university press, 2008.. online version at harvard university press. collard, christopher and martin cropp ( 2008b ), euripides fragments : oedipus - chrysippus : other fragments, loeb classical library no. 506, cambridge, massachusetts, harvard university press, 2008.. online version at harvard university press. dictys cretensis, the trojan war. the chronicles of dictys of crete and dares the phrygian, translated by r. m. frazer ( jr. ). indiana university press. 1966. euripides, helen, translated by e. p. coleridge in the complete greek drama, edited by whitney j. oates and eugene o ' neill, jr. volume 2. new york. random house. 1938. online version at the perseus digital library. euripides, iphigenia in tauris, translated by robert potter in the complete greek drama, edited by whitney j. oates and eugene o ' neill, jr. volume 2. new york. random house. 1938. online version at the perseus digital library. euripides, orestes, translated by e. p. coleridge in the complete greek drama, edited by whitney j. oates and eugene o ' neill, jr. volume 1. new york. random house. 1938. online version at the perseus digital library. gantz, timothy, early greek myth : a guide to literary and artistic sources, johns hopkins university press, 1996, two volumes : ( vol. 1 ), ( vol. 2 ). grimal, pierre, the dictionary of classical mythology, wiley - blackwell, 1996.. hard, robin, the routledge handbook of greek mythology : based on