mole of gaseous ions with electric charge + 1. the factors affecting the first ionisation energy are the nuclear charge, the amount of shielding by the inner electrons and the distance from the most loosely held electron from the nucleus, which is always an outer electron in main group elements. the first two factors change the effective nuclear charge the most loosely held electron feels. since the outermost electron of alkali metals always feels the same effective nuclear charge ( + 1 ), the only factor which affects the first ionisation energy is the distance from the outermost electron to the nucleus. since this distance increases down the group, the outermost electron feels less attraction from the nucleus and thus the first ionisation energy decreases. ( this trend is broken in francium due to the relativistic stabilisation and contraction of the 7s orbital, bringing francium ' s valence electron closer to the nucleus than would be expected from non - relativistic calculations. this makes francium ' s outermost electron feel more attraction from the nucleus, increasing its first ionisation energy slightly beyond that of caesium. ) the second ionisation energy of the alkali metals is much higher than the first as the second - most loosely held electron is part of a fully filled electron shell and is thus difficult to remove. reactivity the reactivities of the alkali metals increase going down the group. this is the result of a combination of two factors : the first ionisation energies and atomisation energies of the alkali metals. because the first ionisation energy of the alkali metals decreases down the group, it is easier for the outermost electron to be removed from the atom and participate in chemical reactions, thus increasing reactivity down the group. the atomisation energy measures the strength of the metallic bond of an element, which falls down the group as the atoms increase in radius and thus the metallic bond must increase in length, making the delocalised electrons further away from the attraction of the nuclei of the heavier alkali metals. adding the atomisation and first ionisation energies gives a quantity closely related to ( but not equal to ) the activation energy of the reaction of an alkali metal with another substance. this quantity decreases going down the group, and so does the activation energy ; thus, chemical reactions can occur faster and the reactivity increases down the group. electronegativity electronegativity is a chemical property that describes the tendency of an atom or a functional group to attract electrons ( or electron density ) towards itself.