the orthography got established and because english has acquired a large number of loanwords at different times, retaining their original spelling at varying levels. however, even english has general, albeit complex, rules that predict pronunciation from spelling. rules like this are usually successful. however, rules to predict spelling from pronunciation have a higher failure rate. sometimes, countries have the written language undergo a spelling reform to realign the writing with the contemporary spoken language. these can range from simple spelling changes and word forms to switching the entire writing system. for example, turkey switched from the arabic alphabet to a latin - based turkish alphabet, and when kazakh changed from an arabic script to a cyrillic script due to the soviet union ' s influence, and in 2021, it made a transition to the latin alphabet, similar to turkish. the cyrillic script used to be official in uzbekistan and turkmenistan before they all switched to the latin alphabet, including uzbekistan that is having a reform of the alphabet to use diacritics on the letters that are marked by apostrophes and the letters that are digraphs. the standard system of symbols used by linguists to represent sounds in any language, independently of orthography, is called the international phonetic alphabet. see also abecedarium acrophony akshara alphabet book alphabet effect alphabet song alphabetical order butterfly alphabet character encoding constructed script fingerspelling nato phonetic alphabet lipogram list of writing systems pangram thoth transliteration unicode references bibliography overview of modern and some ancient writing systems. chapter 3 traces and summarizes the invention of alphabetic writing. chapter 4 traces the invention of writing further reading josephine quinn, " alphabet politics " ( review of silvia ferrara, the greatest invention : a history of the world in nine mysterious scripts, translated from the italian by todd portnowitz, farrar, straus and giroux, 2022, 289 pp. ; and johanna drucker, inventing the alphabet : the origins of letters from antiquity to the present, university of chicago press, 2022, 380 pp. ), the new york review of books, vol. lxx, no. 1 ( 19 january 2023 ), pp. 6, 8, 10. external links the origins of abc " language, writing and alphabet : an interview with christophe rico ", damqatum 3 ( 2007 ) michael everson ' s alphabets of europe evolution of alphabets, animation by prof. robert fradkin at the university of maryland how the alphabet was born from hieroglyphs — biblical archaeology review an