, mikhail romm, allowed his students considerable freedom and emphasized the independence of the film director. tarkovsky was, according to fellow student shavkat abdusalmov, fascinated by japanese films. he was amazed by how every character on the screen is exceptional and how everyday events such as a samurai cutting bread with his sword are elevated to something special and put into the limelight. tarkovsky has also expressed interest in the art of haiku and its ability to create " images in such a way that they mean nothing beyond themselves ". tarkovsky was also a deeply religious orthodox christian, who believed great art should have a higher spiritual purpose. he was a perfectionist not given to humor or humility : his signature style was ponderous and literary, having many characters that pondered over religious themes and issues regarding faith. tarkovsky perceived that the art of cinema has only been truly mastered by very few filmmakers, stating in a 1970 interview with naum abramov that " they can be counted on the fingers of one hand ". in 1972, tarkovsky told film historian leonid kozlov his ten favorite films. the list includes : diary of a country priest and mouchette by robert bresson ; winter light, wild strawberries, and persona by ingmar bergman ; nazarin by luis bunuel ; city lights by charlie chaplin ; ugetsu by kenji mizoguchi ; seven samurai by akira kurosawa, and woman in the dunes by hiroshi teshigahara. among his favorite directors were bunuel, mizoguchi, bergman, bresson, kurosawa, michelangelo antonioni, jean vigo, and carl theodor dreyer. with the exception of city lights, the list does not contain any films of the early silent era. the reason is that tarkovsky saw film as an art as only a relatively recent phenomenon, with the early film - making forming only a prelude. the list has also no films or directors from tarkovsky ' s native russia, although he rated soviet directors such as boris barnet, sergei parajanov and alexander dovzhenko highly. he said of dovzhenko ' s earth : " i have lived a lot among very simple farmers and met extraordinary people. they spread calmness, had such tact, they conveyed a feeling of dignity and displayed wisdom that i have seldom come across on such a scale. dovzhenko had obviously understood wherein the sense of life resides. [... ] this trespassing of the border between nature and mankind is an ideal