the public, alexander complained " thou hast not done well to publish thy acroamatic doctrines ; for in what shall i surpass other men if those doctrines wherein i have been trained are to be all men ' s common property? " hellenistic science after theophrastus, the lyceum failed to produce any original work. though interest in aristotle ' s ideas survived, they were generally taken unquestioningly. it is not until the age of alexandria under the ptolemies that advances in biology can be again found. the first medical teacher at alexandria, herophilus of chalcedon, corrected aristotle, placing intelligence in the brain, and connected the nervous system to motion and sensation. herophilus also distinguished between veins and arteries, noting that the latter pulse while the former do not. though a few ancient atomists such as lucretius challenged the teleological viewpoint of aristotelian ideas about life, teleology ( and after the rise of christianity, natural theology ) would remain central to biological thought essentially until the 18th and 19th centuries. ernst mayr states that there was " nothing of any real consequence in biology after lucretius and galen until the renaissance. " byzantine scholars greek christian scribes played a crucial role in the preservation of aristotle by copying all the extant greek language manuscripts of the corpus. the first greek christians to comment extensively on aristotle were philoponus, elias, and david in the sixth century, and stephen of alexandria in the early seventh century. john philoponus stands out for having attempted a fundamental critique of aristotle ' s views on the eternity of the world, movement, and other elements of aristotelian thought. philoponus questioned aristotle ' s teaching of physics, noting its flaws and introducing the theory of impetus to explain his observations. after a hiatus of several centuries, formal commentary by eustratius and michael of ephesus reappeared in the late eleventh and early twelfth centuries, apparently sponsored by anna comnena. medieval islamic world aristotle was one of the most revered western thinkers in early islamic theology. most of the still extant works of aristotle, as well as a number of the original greek commentaries, were translated into arabic and studied by muslim philosophers, scientists and scholars. averroes, avicenna and alpharabius, who wrote on aristotle in great depth, also influenced thomas aquinas and other western christian scholastic philosophers. alkindus greatly admired aristotle ' s philosophy, and averroes spoke of aristotle as the " exemplar " for all