a " gallant officer... remarkably cool and at the very front of battle. " he was wounded when an artillery shell exploded near his horse, throwing him to the ground in a violent fall. he received a brevet promotion to lieutenant colonel in the regular army for his actions at antietam and was promoted in march 1863 to major general of volunteers, to rank from november 29, 1862. at fredericksburg in december 1862, his division mostly sat idle. during the winter, the i corps was reorganized and doubleday assumed command of the 3rd division. at chancellorsville in may 1863, the division was kept in reserve. gettysburg at the start of the battle of gettysburg, july 1, 1863, doubleday ' s division was the second infantry division on the field to reinforce the cavalry division of brigadier general john buford. when his corps commander, major general john f. reynolds, was killed very early in the fighting, doubleday found himself in command of the corps at 10 : 50 am. his men fought well in the morning, putting up a stout resistance, but as overwhelming confederate forces massed against them, their line eventually broke and they retreated back through the town of gettysburg to the relative safety of cemetery hill south of town. it was doubleday ' s finest performance during the war, five hours leading 9, 500 men against ten confederate brigades that numbered more than 16, 000. seven of those brigades sustained casualties that ranged from 35 to 50 percent, indicating the ferocity of the union defense. on cemetery hill, however, the i corps could muster only a third of its men as effective for duty, and the corps was essentially destroyed as a combat force for the rest of the battle ; it would be decommissioned in march 1864, its surviving units consolidated into other corps. on july 2, 1863, army of the potomac commander maj. gen. george g. meade replaced doubleday with major general john newton, a more junior officer from another corps. the ostensible reason was a false report by xi corps commander major general oliver o. howard that doubleday ' s corps broke first, causing the entire union line to collapse, but meade also had a long history of disdain for doubleday ' s combat effectiveness, dating back to south mountain. doubleday was humiliated by this snub and held a lasting grudge against meade, but he returned to division command and fought well for the remainder of the battle. he was wounded in the neck on the second day of gettysburg and received a brevet promotion to colonel in the regular