ajax ( aias means " of the earth ". ) was a greek mythological hero, son of oileus, the king of locris. he was called the " lesser " or " locrian " ajax, to distinguish him from ajax the great, son of telamon. he was the leader of the locrian contingent during the trojan war. he is a significant figure in homer ' s iliad and is also mentioned in the odyssey, in virgil ' s aeneid and in euripides ' the trojan women. in etruscan legend, he was known as aivas vilates. description in the account of dares the phrygian, ajax was described as " stocky, powerfully built, swarthy, a pleasant person, and brave. " mythology life ajax ' s mother ' s name was eriopis. according to strabo, he was born in naryx in locris, where ovid calls him narycius heros. according to the iliad, he led his locrians in forty ships against troy. he is described as one of the great heroes among the greeks. in battle, he wore a linen cuirass ( ), was brave and intrepid, especially skilled in throwing the spear and, next to achilles, the swiftest of all the greeks. the chronicler malalas portrayed him as " tall, strong, tawny, squinting, good nose, curly hair, black hair, thick beard, long face, daring warrior, magnanimous, a womanizer. " in the funeral games at the pyre of patroclus, ajax contended with odysseus and antilochus for the prize in the footrace ; but athena, who was hostile towards him and favored odysseus, made him stumble and fall, so that he won only the second prize. in later traditions, this ajax is called a son of oileus and the nymph rhene and is also mentioned among the suitors of helen. after the taking of troy, he rushed into the temple of athena, where cassandra had taken refuge, and was embracing the statue of the goddess in supplication. ajax violently dragged her away to the other captives. according to some writers, he raped cassandra inside the temple. odysseus called for ajax ' s death by stoning for this crime, but ajax saved himself by claiming innocence with an oath to athena, clutching her statue in supplication.