maize ) and barley. the green revolution popularized the use of conventional hybridization to sharply increase yield by creating " high - yielding varieties ". for example, average yields of corn ( maize ) in the us have increased from around 2. 5 tons per hectare ( t / ha ) ( 40 bushels per acre ) in 1900 to about 9. 4 t / ha ( 150 bushels per acre ) in 2001. similarly, worldwide average wheat yields have increased from less than 1 t / ha in 1900 to more than 2. 5 t / ha in 1990. south american average wheat yields are around 2 t / ha, african under 1 t / ha, and egypt and arabia up to 3. 5 to 4 t / ha with irrigation. in contrast, the average wheat yield in countries such as france is over 8 t / ha. variations in yields are due mainly to variation in climate, genetics, and the level of intensive farming techniques ( use of fertilizers, chemical pest control, and growth control to avoid lodging ). genetic engineering genetically modified organisms ( gmo ) are organisms whose genetic material has been altered by genetic engineering techniques generally known as recombinant dna technology. genetic engineering has expanded the genes available to breeders to use in creating desired germlines for new crops. increased durability, nutritional content, insect and virus resistance and herbicide tolerance are a few of the attributes bred into crops through genetic engineering. for some, gmo crops cause food safety and food labeling concerns. numerous countries have placed restrictions on the production, import or use of gmo foods and crops. the biosafety protocol, an international treaty, regulates the trade of gmos. there is ongoing discussion regarding the labeling of foods made from gmos, and while the eu currently requires all gmo foods to be labeled, the us does not. herbicide - resistant seeds have a gene implanted into their genome that allows the plants to tolerate exposure to herbicides, including glyphosate. these seeds allow the farmer to grow a crop that can be sprayed with herbicides to control weeds without harming the resistant crop. herbicide - tolerant crops are used by farmers worldwide. with the increasing use of herbicide - tolerant crops, comes an increase in the use of glyphosate - based herbicide sprays. in some areas glyphosate resistant weeds have developed, causing farmers to switch to other herbicides. some studies also link widespread glyphosate usage to iron deficiencies in some crops, which