point of 250 – 300 °c. heated above, amber decomposes, yielding an oil of amber, and leaves a black residue which is known as " amber colophony ", or " amber pitch " ; when dissolved in oil of turpentine or in linseed oil this forms " amber varnish " or " amber lac ". molecular polymerization, resulting from high pressures and temperatures produced by overlying sediment, transforms the resin first into copal. sustained heat and pressure drives off terpenes and results in the formation of amber. for this to happen, the resin must be resistant to decay. many trees produce resin, but in the majority of cases this deposit is broken down by physical and biological processes. exposure to sunlight, rain, microorganisms, and extreme temperatures tends to disintegrate the resin. for the resin to survive long enough to become amber, it must be resistant to such forces or be produced under conditions that exclude them. fossil resins from europe fall into two categories, the baltic ambers and another that resembles the agathis group. fossil resins from the americas and africa are closely related to the modern genus hymenaea, while baltic ambers are thought to be fossil resins from plants of the family sciadopityaceae that once lived in north europe. the abnormal development of resin in living trees ( succinosis ) can result in the formation of amber. impurities are quite often present, especially when the resin has dropped onto the ground, so the material may be useless except for varnish - making. such impure amber is called firniss. such inclusion of other substances can cause the amber to have an unexpected color. pyrites may give a bluish color. bony amber owes its cloudy opacity to numerous tiny bubbles inside the resin. however, so - called black amber is really a kind of jet. in darkly clouded and even opaque amber, inclusions can be imaged using high - energy, high - contrast, high - resolution x - rays. extraction and processing distribution and mining amber is globally distributed, mainly in rocks of cretaceous age or younger. historically, the coast west of konigsberg in prussia was the world ' s leading source of amber. the first mentions of amber deposits there date back to the 12th century. juodkrante in lithuania was established in the mid. 19 century as a mining town of amber. about 90 % of the world ' s extractable amber is still located in that area, which was transferred