for any angle θ in standard position is the positive acute angle between the terminal side of θ and the x - axis ( positive or negative ). procedurally, the magnitude of the reference angle for a given angle may determined by taking the angle ' s magnitude modulo turn, 180°, or radians, then stopping if the angle is acute, otherwise taking the supplementary angle, 180° minus the reduced magnitude. for example, an angle of 30 degrees is already a reference angle, and an angle of 150 degrees also has a reference angle of 30 degrees ( 180° − 150° ). angles of 210° and 510° correspond to a reference angle of 30 degrees as well ( 210° mod 180° = 30°, 510° mod 180° = 150° whose supplementary angle is 30° ). related quantities for an angular unit, it is definitional that the angle addition postulate holds. some quantities related to angles where the angle addition postulate does not hold include : the slope or gradient is equal to the tangent of the angle ; a gradient is often expressed as a percentage. for very small values ( less than 5 % ), the slope of a line is approximately the measure in radians of its angle with the horizontal direction. the spread between two lines is defined in rational geometry as the square of the sine of the angle between the lines. as the sine of an angle and the sine of its supplementary angle are the same, any angle of rotation that maps one of the lines into the other leads to the same value for the spread between the lines. although done rarely, one can report the direct results of trigonometric functions, such as the sine of the angle. angles between curves the angle between a line and a curve ( mixed angle ) or between two intersecting curves ( curvilinear angle ) is defined to be the angle between the tangents at the point of intersection. various names ( now rarely, if ever, used ) have been given to particular cases : — amphicyrtic ( gr., on both sides, κυρτος, convex ) or cissoidal ( gr. κισσος, ivy ), biconvex ; xystroidal or sistroidal ( gr. ξυστρις, a tool for scraping ), concavo - convex ; amphicoelic ( gr. κοιλη, a hollow ) or angulus lunularis, biconcave. bisecting and