sherkat ( dabs, afghanistan electricity company ). important dams include the kajaki dam, dahla dam, and the sardeh band dam. tourism tourism is a small industry in afghanistan due to security issues. nevertheless, some 20, 000 foreign tourists visit the country annually as of 2016. in particular an important region for domestic and international tourism is the picturesque bamyan valley, which includes lakes, canyons and historical sites, helped by the fact it is in a safe area away from insurgent activity. smaller numbers visit and trek in regions such as the wakhan valley, which is also one of the world ' s most remote communities. from the late 1960s onwards, afghanistan was a popular stop on the famous hippie trail, attracting many europeans and americans. coming from iran, the trail traveled through various afghan provinces and cities including herat, kandahar and kabul before crossing to northern pakistan, northern india, and nepal. tourism peaked in 1977, the year before the start of political instability and armed conflict. the city of ghazni has significant history and historical sites, and together with bamyan city have in recent years been voted islamic cultural capital and south asia cultural capital respectively. the cities of herat, kandahar, balkh, and zaranj are also very historic. the minaret of jam in the hari river valley is a unesco world heritage site. a cloak reputedly worn by islam ' s prophet muhammad is kept in the shrine of the cloak in kandahar, a city founded by alexander the great and the first capital of afghanistan. the citadel of alexander in the western city of herat has been renovated in recent years and is a popular attraction. in the north of the country is the shrine of ali, believed by many to be the location where ali was buried. the national museum of afghanistan in kabul hosts a large number of buddhist, bactrian greek and early islamic antiquities ; the museum suffered greatly by civil war but has been slowly restoring since the early 2000s. communication telecommunication services in afghanistan are provided by afghan telecom, afghan wireless, etisalat, mtn group, and roshan. the country uses its own space satellite called afghansat 1, which provides services to millions of phone, internet, and television subscribers. by 2001 following years of civil war, telecommunications was virtually a non - existent sector, but by 2016 it had grown to a $ 2 billion industry, with 22 million mobile phone subscribers and 5 million internet users. the sector employs at least 120, 000 people nationwide. transportation