uranius mentioned in an extract from the theodosian code ). ashley suggests that ambrosius aurelianus was related to the two aurelii ambrosii. tim venning points out that the name " aurelianus " could be the result of a roman adoption. when a boy was adopted into a new gens ( clan ), he received the family names of his new family but was often additionally called by a cognomen indicating his descent from his original family. the additional cognomen often had the form " - anus ". when gaius octavius from gens octavia was adopted by his uncle gaius julius caesar, he was often distinguished from his adoptive father by the addition " octavianus ". in this case, ambrosius may have been a member of gens aurelia who was adopted by another gens / family. the second question is the meaning of the word avita : gildas could have meant " ancestors ", or intended it to mean more specifically " grandfather " – thus indicating ambrosius lived about a generation before the battle of badon. lack of information prevents sure answers to these questions. gildas ' s motives n. j. higham wrote a book on gildas and the literary tropes that he used. he has suggested that gildas may have had considerable motive for drawing attention to ambrosius. he was not attempting to write a historical biography of the man, according to higham, but setting him as an example to his contemporaries. it was essential to the philosophy of gildas that briton leaders who achieved victory over the barbarians were only able to do so because of divine aid. and only those who had superior christian virtues were deserving of this aid. ambrosius aurelianus was apparently known for at least one such victory over the barbarians. to fit him into his worldview, gildas was almost required to feature the former warrior as a man of exceptional virtues and obedience to god. he was made to fit gildas ' s version of a model leader. higham also suggests that the roman lineage of ambrosius was highlighted for a reason. gildas was apparently intentionally connecting him with the legitimate authority and military virtues of the romans. he was also contrasting him with the subsequent briton rulers whose reigns lacked in such legitimacy. identifying historical figures gildas is a primary source for the battle of badon, yet he never mentions the names of the combatants. therefore, we cannot know if ambrosius