as it is in london or los angeles ". an enhanced version of the book, launched in india in 2017, was widely praised for capturing the author ' s intent, by republishing the proposed preface of the first edition and the preface he wrote for the ukrainian edition. analysis animalism snowball, napoleon, and squealer adapt old major ' s ideas into " a complete system of thought ", which they formally name animalism, an allegoric reference to communism, not to be confused with the philosophy of animalism. soon after, napoleon and squealer partake in activities associated with the humans ( drinking alcohol, sleeping in beds, trading ), which were explicitly prohibited by the seven commandments. squealer is employed to alter the seven commandments to account for this humanisation, an allusion to the soviet government ' s revising of history to exercise control of the people ' s beliefs about themselves and their society. the original commandments are : whatever goes upon two legs is an enemy. whatever goes upon four legs, or has wings, is a friend. no animal shall wear clothes. no animal shall sleep in a bed. no animal shall drink alcohol. no animal shall kill any other animal. all animals are equal. these commandments are also distilled into the maxim " four legs good, two legs bad! " which is primarily used by the sheep on the farm, often to disrupt discussions and disagreements between animals on the nature of animalism. later, napoleon and his pigs secretly revise some commandments to clear themselves of accusations of law - breaking. the changed commandments are as follows, with the changes bolded : eventually, these are replaced with the maxims, " all animals are equal, but some animals are more equal than others ", and " four legs good, two legs better " as the pigs become more anthropomorphic. this is an ironic twist to the original purpose of the seven commandments, which was supposed to keep order within animal farm by uniting the animals together against the humans and preventing animals from following the humans ' evil habits. through the revision of the commandments, orwell demonstrates how simply political dogma can be turned into malleable propaganda. significance and allegory orwell biographer jeffrey meyers has written, " virtually every detail has political significance in this allegory ". orwell himself wrote in 1946, " of course i intended it primarily as a satire on the russian revolution... [ and ] that kind of