he will. " yet the will as thing in - itself is free, as it exists beyond the realm of representation and thus is not constrained by any of the forms of necessity that are part of the principle of sufficient reason. according to schopenhauer, salvation from our miserable existence can come through the will ' s being " tranquillized " by the metaphysical insight that reveals individuality to be merely an illusion. the saint or ' great soul ' intuitively " recognizes the whole, comprehends its essence, and finds that it is constantly passing away, caught up in vain strivings, inner conflict, and perpetual suffering ". the negation of the will, in other words, stems from the insight that the world in - itself ( free from the forms of space and time ) is one. ascetic practices, schopenhauer remarks, are used to aid the will ' s " self - abolition ", which brings about a blissful, redemptive " will - less " state of emptiness that is free from striving or suffering. art and aesthetics for schopenhauer, human " willing " — desiring, craving, etc. — is at the root of suffering. a temporary way to escape this pain is through aesthetic contemplation. here one moves away from ordinary cognizance of individual things to cognizance of eternal platonic ideas — in other words, cognizance that is free from the service of will. in aesthetic contemplation, one no longer perceives an object of perception as something from which one is separated ; rather " it is as if the object alone existed without anyone perceiving it, and one can thus no longer separate the perceiver from the perception, but the two have become one, the entirety of consciousness entirely filled and occupied by a single perceptual image ". subject and object are no longer distinguishable, and the idea comes to the fore. from this aesthetic immersion, one is no longer an individual who suffers as a result of servitude to one ' s individual will but, rather, becomes a " pure, will - less, painless, timeless, subject of cognition ". the pure, will - less subject of cognition is cognizant only of ideas, not individual things : this is a kind of cognition that is unconcerned with relations between objects according to the principle of sufficient reason ( time, space, cause and effect ) and instead involves complete absorption in the object. art