century ; and it was entrenched in several other european languages, such as french, german, and dutch. in 1828, an american lexicographer, noah webster, entered only the aluminum spelling in his american dictionary of the english language. in the 1830s, the spelling gained usage in the united states ; by the 1860s, it had become the more common spelling there outside science. in 1892, hall used the spelling in his advertising handbill for his new electrolytic method of producing the metal, despite his constant use of the spelling in all the patents he filed between 1886 and 1903 : it is unknown whether this spelling was introduced by mistake or intentionally ; but hall preferred aluminum since its introduction because it resembled platinum, the name of a prestigious metal. by 1890, both spellings had been common in the united states, the spelling being slightly more common ; by 1895, the situation had reversed ; by 1900, aluminum had become twice as common as aluminium ; in the next decade, the spelling dominated american usage. in 1925, the american chemical society adopted this spelling. the international union of pure and applied chemistry ( iupac ) adopted aluminium as the standard international name for the element in 1990. in 1993, they recognized aluminum as an acceptable variant ; the most recent 2005 edition of the iupac nomenclature of inorganic chemistry also acknowledges this spelling. iupac official publications use the spelling as primary, and they list both where it is appropriate. production and refinement the production of aluminium starts with the extraction of bauxite rock from the ground. the bauxite is processed and transformed using the bayer process into alumina, which is then processed using the hall – heroult process, resulting in the final aluminium metal. aluminium production is highly energy - consuming, and so the producers tend to locate smelters in places where electric power is both plentiful and inexpensive. production of one kilogram of aluminium requires 7 kilograms of oil energy equivalent, as compared to 1. 5 kilograms for steel and 2 kilograms for plastic. as of 2019, the world ' s largest smelters of aluminium are located in china, india, russia, canada, and the united arab emirates, while china is by far the top producer of aluminium with a world share of fifty - five percent. according to the international resource panel ' s metal stocks in society report, the global per capita stock of aluminium in use in society ( i. e. in cars, buildings, electronics, etc. ) is. much of this is in more - developed countries (