. 05 billion ( £665m ) in damages in an intellectual property lawsuit. samsung appealed the damages award, which was reduced by $ 450 million and further granted samsung ' s request for a new trial. on november 10, 2012, apple confirmed a global settlement that dismissed all existing lawsuits between apple and htc up to that date, in favor of a ten - year license agreement for current and future patents between the two companies. it is predicted that apple will make $ 280 million a year from this deal with htc. in may 2014, the company confirmed its intent to acquire dr. dre and jimmy iovine ' s audio company beats electronics — producer of the " beats by dr. dre " line of headphones and speaker products, and operator of the music streaming service beats music — for $ 3 billion, and to sell their products through apple ' s retail outlets and resellers. iovine believed that beats had always " belonged " with apple, as the company modeled itself after apple ' s " unmatched ability to marry culture and technology. " the acquisition was the largest purchase in apple ' s history. during a press event on september 9, 2014, apple introduced a smartwatch, the apple watch. initially, apple marketed the device as a fashion accessory and a complement to the iphone, that would allow people to look at their smartphones less. over time, the company has focused on developing health and fitness - oriented features on the watch, in an effort to compete with dedicated activity trackers. in january 2016, it was announced that one billion apple devices were in active use worldwide. on june 6, 2016, fortune released fortune 500, their list of companies ranked on revenue generation. in the trailing fiscal year ( 2015 ), apple appeared on the list as the top tech company. it ranked third, overall, with $ 233 billion in revenue. this represents a movement upward of two spots from the previous year ' s list. in june 2017, apple announced the homepod, its smart speaker aimed to compete against sonos, google home, and amazon echo. towards the end of the year, techcrunch reported that apple was acquiring shazam, a company that introduced its products at wwdc and specializing in music, tv, film and advertising recognition. the acquisition was confirmed a few days later, reportedly costing apple $ 400 million, with media reports noting that the purchase looked like a move to acquire data and tools bolstering the apple music streaming service. the purchase was approved by the european union in