a maximum fine of €250, 000 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years, or both. this is designed to replace affidavits and statutory declarations in situations where the electronic means of lodgement or filing of documents with the court provided for in section 20 is utilised. as of january 2022, it has yet to be adopted widely, and it is expected it will not be used for some time by lay litigants who will still lodge papers in person. united states in american jurisprudence, under the rules for hearsay, admission of an unsupported affidavit as evidence is unusual ( especially if the affiant is not available for cross - examination ) with regard to material facts which may be dispositive of the matter at bar. affidavits from persons who are dead or otherwise incapacitated, or who cannot be located or made to appear, may be accepted by the court, but usually only in the presence of corroborating evidence. an affidavit which reflected a better grasp of the facts close in time to the actual events may be used to refresh a witness ' s recollection. materials used to refresh recollection are admissible as evidence. if the affiant is a party in the case, the affiant ' s opponent may be successful in having the affidavit admitted as evidence, as statements by a party - opponent are admissible through an exception to the hearsay rule. affidavits are typically included in the response to interrogatories. requests for admissions under federal rule of civil procedure 36, however, are not required to be sworn. when a person signs an affidavit, that person is eligible to take the stand at a trial or evidentiary hearing. one party may wish to summon the affiant to verify the contents of the affidavit, while the other party may want to cross - examine the affiant about the affidavit. some types of motions will not be accepted by the court unless accompanied by an independent sworn statement or other evidence in support of the need for the motion. in such a case, a court will accept an affidavit from the filing attorney in support of the motion, as certain assumptions are made, to wit : the affidavit in place of sworn testimony promotes judicial economy. the lawyer is an officer of the court and knows that a false swearing by them, if found out, could be grounds for severe