educational system, and instruction is carried out in standard ( british ) english instead. a significant number of the words that are utilized in the antiguan dialect are derived from both the british and african languages. this is readily apparent in phrases such as " innit? " which literally translates to " isn ' t it? " many common island proverbs can be traced back to africa, such as the pidgin language. approximately 10, 000 people are able to speak in spanish. religion a majority ( 77 % ) of antiguans are christians, with the anglicans ( 17. 6 % ) being the largest single denomination. other christian denominations present are seventh - day adventist church ( 12. 4 % ), pentecostalism ( 12. 2 % ), moravian church ( 8. 3 % ), roman catholics ( 8. 2 % ), methodist church ( 5. 6 % ), wesleyan holiness church ( 4. 5 % ), church of god ( 4. 1 % ), baptists ( 3. 6 % ), mormonism ( < 1. 0 % ), as well as jehovah ' s witnesses. governance political system the politics of antigua and barbuda take place within a framework of a unitary, parliamentary, representative democratic monarchy, in which the head of state is the monarch who appoints the governor - general as vice - regal representative. charles iii is the present king of antigua and barbuda, having served in that position since the death of his mother, elizabeth ii. she had been the queen since the islands ' independence from the united kingdom in 1981. the king is currently represented by governor - general sir rodney williams. a council of ministers is appointed by the governor - general on the advice of the prime minister, currently gaston browne ( 2014 – ). the prime minister is the head of government. executive power is exercised by the government while legislative power is vested in both the government and the two chambers of parliament. the bicameral parliament consists of the senate ( 17 members appointed by members of the government and the opposition party, and approved by the governor - general ), and the house of representatives ( 17 members elected by first past the post ) to serve five - year terms. the current leader of his majesty ' s loyal opposition is jamale pringle. there has been recent development in the republicanism movement in antigua and barbuda, following barbados becoming a republic in 2021 and following the death of elizabeth ii in 2022, with an opinion poll showing majority support for the change.