the japanese feudal fairytale inuyasha, and the depiction of scandinavian goddesses who move to japan to maintain a computer called yggdrasil in ah! my goddess. genre crossing in anime is also prevalent, such as the blend of fantasy and comedy in dragon half, and the incorporation of slapstick humor in the crime anime film castle of cagliostro. other subgenres found in anime include magical girl, harem, sports, martial arts, literary adaptations, medievalism, and war. formats early anime works were made for theatrical viewing, and required played musical components before sound and vocal components were added to the production. in 1958, nippon television aired mogura no abanchuru ( " mole ' s adventure " ), both the first televised and first color anime to debut. it was not until the 1960s when the first televised series were broadcast and it has remained a popular medium since. works released in a direct - to - video format are called " original video animation " ( ova ) or " original animation video " ( oav ) ; and are typically not released theatrically or televised prior to home media release. the emergence of the internet has led some animators to distribute works online in a format called " original net animation " ( ona ). the home distribution of anime releases was popularized in the 1980s with the vhs and laserdisc formats. the vhs ntsc video format used in both japan and the united states is credited with aiding the rising popularity of anime in the 1990s. the laserdisc and vhs formats were transcended by the dvd format which offered the unique advantages ; including multiple subtitling and dubbing tracks on the same disc. the dvd format also has its drawbacks in its usage of region coding ; adopted by the industry to solve licensing, piracy and export problems and restricted region indicated on the dvd player. the video cd ( vcd ) format was popular in hong kong and taiwan, but became only a minor format in the united states that was closely associated with bootleg copies. a key characteristic of many anime television shows is serialization, where a continuous story arc stretches over multiple episodes or seasons. traditional american television had an episodic format, with each episode typically consisting of a self - contained story. in contrast, anime shows such as dragon ball z had a serialization format, where continuous story arcs stretch over multiple episodes or seasons, which distinguished them from traditional american television shows ; serialization has since also become a common characteristic of american streaming television shows during the " peak