out the contradicting amendments of it and adding an amendment to prohibit congress from passing laws that restrain freedom of trade. ben nealy is a railroad contractor whom dagny taggart hires to replace the track on the rio norte line with rearden metal. nealy is incompetent, but dagny can find no one better in all the country. nealy believes that anything can get done with enough muscle power. he sees no role for intelligence in human achievement. he relies on dagny and ellis wyatt to run things, and resents them for doing it, because it appears to him like they are just bossing people around. ted nielsen is the head of nielsen motors. he eventually goes on strike, along with most of the other industrialist " producer " types, by closing his motor factory. dagny later finds him when she visits galt ' s gulch for the first time. betty pope is a wealthy socialite who is having a meaningless sexual affair with james taggart. she is deliberately crude in a way that casts ridicule on her high social position. dr. potter holds some undefined position with the state science institute. he is sent to try to obtain the rights to rearden metal. dr. simon pritchett is the prestigious head of the department of philosophy at patrick henry university and is considered the leading philosopher of the age. he believes that man is nothing but a collection of chemicals, reason is a superstition, it is futile to seek meaning in life, and the duty of a philosopher is to show that nothing can be understood. rearden ' s mother, whose name is not mentioned, lives with rearden at his home in philadelphia. she is involved in charity work, and berates rearden whenever she can. she dotes on her weak son philip rearden. philip rearden is the younger brother of hank rearden. he lives in his brother ' s home in philadelphia and is completely dependent on him. he is resentful of his brother ' s charity. dwight sanders owns sanders aircraft, a producer of high - quality airplanes, and joins the strike. bertram scudder is an editorial writer for the magazine the future. he typically bashes business and businessmen, but he never says anything specific in his articles, relying on innuendo, sneers, and denunciation. he wrote a hatchet job on hank rearden called the octopus. he is also vocal in support of the equalization of opportunity bill. scudder claims that the most important thing in life