the catholic missionaries present in aruba who later settled in venezuela as well. after the boom of the oil industry and the tourist sector in the 20th century the architectural style of the island incorporated a more american and international influence. in addition, elements of the art deco style can still be seen in several buildings in san nicolas. therefore, it can be said that the island ' s architecture is a mixture of spanish, dutch, american and caribbean influences. infrastructure aruba ' s queen beatrix international airport is near oranjestad. aruba has four ports : barcadera, the main cargo port, paardenbaai, the cruise ship terminal in oranjestad / taratata, commandeurs baai ( commander ' s bay ) in savaneta, and sint nicolaas baai in san nicolaas. paardenbaai services all the cruise - ship lines such as royal caribbean, carnival, ncl, holland america, msc cruises, costa cruises, p & o cruises and disney. nearly one million tourists enter this port per year. aruba ports authority, owned and operated by the aruban government, runs these seaports. arubus is a government - owned bus company. its buses operate from 3 : 30 a. m. until 12 : 30 a. m., 365 days a year. private minibuses / people movers service zones such as the hotel area, san nicolaas, santa cruz and noord. a streetcar service runs on rails on the mainstreet of oranjestad. utilities water - en energiebedrijf aruba, n. v. ( w. e. b. ) produces potable water and power. average daily consumption in aruba is about 35600 m3 ( 46, 500 cu. yd. ) per day., and average power generation is 104 mw. besides production, web also takes care of the water distribution on the island. elektriciteits maatschappij aruba, n. v. ( n. v. elmar ) is the sole distributor of electricity on the island of aruba. n. v. elmar also offers its customers the opportunity to add solar panel or wind turbines. together with w. e. b. aruba n. v., both companies share the same parent holding which is utilities aruba n. v. waste management sewage plant : there are three around the island ; zeewijk, parkietenbos and bubali. the one