##adia, anglo - saxon england, medieval iceland, the american old west, gaelic ireland, and merchant law, admiralty law, and early common law. anarcho - capitalism is distinguished from minarchism, which advocates a night - watchman state limited to protecting individuals from aggression and enforcing private property. unlike most anarchists, anarcho - capitalists support private property and private institutions. classification anarcho - capitalism developed from radical american anti - state libertarianism and individualist anarchism. a strong current within anarchism does not consider anarcho - capitalism to be part of the anarchist movement because they argue that anarchism has historically been an anti - capitalist movement and for definitional reasons which see anarchism as incompatible with capitalist forms. according to several scholars, anarcho - capitalism lies outside the tradition of the vast majority of anarchist schools of thought and is more closely affiliated with capitalism, right - libertarianism and neoliberalism. social anarchists oppose and reject capitalism, and consider " anarcho - capitalism " to be a contradiction in terms, although some, including anarcho - capitalists and right - libertarians, consider anarcho - capitalism to be a form of anarchism. according to the encyclopædia britannica : anarcho - capitalism is occasionally seen as part of the new right. philosophy author j michael oliver says that during the 1960s, a philosophical movement arose in the united states that championed " reason, ethical egoism, and free - market capitalism ". according to oliver, anarcho - capitalism is a political theory which logically follows the philosophical conclusions of objectivism, a philosophical system developed by russian - american writer ayn rand, but oliver acknowledges that his advocacy of anarcho - capitalism is " quite at odds with rand ' s ardent defense of ' limited government. professor lisa duggan also says that rand ' s anti - statist, pro – " free market " stances went on to shape the politics of anarcho - capitalism. according to patrik schumacher, the political ideology and programme of anarcho - capitalism envisages the radicalization of the neoliberal " rollback of the state ", and calls for the extension of " entrepreneurial freedom " and " competitive market rationality " to the point where the scope for private enterprise is all - encompassing and " leaves no space for state action whatsoever ". on the state anarcho - capitalists oppose the state and seek to privatize any useful