new lotschberg base tunnel was opened, which circumvents the 100 years older lotschberg tunnel. with the opening of the gotthard base tunnel on june 1, 2016, it bypasses the gotthard tunnel built in the 19th century and realizes the first flat route through the alps. some high mountain villages are car - free either because of inaccessibility or by choice. wengen, and zermatt ( in switzerland ) are accessible only by cable car or cog - rail trains. avoriaz ( in france ), is car - free, with other alpine villages considering becoming car - free zones or limiting the number of cars for reasons of sustainability of the fragile alpine terrain. the lower regions and larger towns of the alps are well - served by motorways and main roads, but higher mountain passes and byroads, which are amongst the highest in europe, can be treacherous even in summer due to steep slopes. many passes are closed in winter. several airports around the alps ( and some within ), as well as long - distance rail links from all neighbouring countries, afford large numbers of travellers easy access. notes references works cited alpine convention. ( 2010 ). the alps : people and pressures in the mountains, the facts at a glance allaby, michael et al. the encyclopedia of earth. ( 2008 ). berkeley : university of california press. beattie, andrew. ( 2006 ). the alps : a cultural history. new york : oxford university press. benniston, martin, et al. ( 2011 ). " impact of climatic change on water and natural hazards in the alps ". environmental science and policy. volume 30. 1 – 9 cebon, peter, et al. ( 1998 ). views from the alps : regional perspectives on climate change. cambridge ma : mit press. chatre, baptiste, et al. ( 2010 ). the alps : people and pressures in the mountains, the facts at a glance. permanent secretariat of the alpine convention ( alpconv. org ). retrieved august 4, 2012. de graciansky, pierre - charles et al. ( 2011 ). the western alps, from rift to passive margin to orogenic belt. amsterdam : elsevier. feuer, a. b. ( 2006 ). packs on! : memoirs of the 10th mountain division in world war ii. mechanicsburg, pennsylvania : stackpole books. fleming, fergus. ( 2000 ). killing dragons : the conquest of the alps. new york : grove