, mounting public opinion against the assassins. mark antony was amassing political support, but octavian still had the opportunity to rival him as the leading member of the faction supporting caesar. antony had lost the support of many romans and supporters of caesar when he initially opposed the motion to elevate caesar to divine status. it is alleged that antony refused to hand over the money due octavian as caesar ' s adopted heir, possibly on grounds that it would take time to disentangle it from state funds. during the summer, octavian won the support of caesarian veterans and also made common cause with those senators – many of whom were themselves former caesarians – who perceived antony as a threat to the state. after an abortive attempt by the veterans to reconcile octavian and antony, antony ' s bellicose edicts against brutus and cassius alienated him from the moderate caesarians in the senate, who feared a renewed civil war. in september, marcus tullius cicero began to attack antony in a series of speeches portraying him as a threat to the republican order. first conflict with antony with opinion in rome turning against him and his year of consular power nearing its end, antony attempted to pass laws that would assign him the province of cisalpine gaul. octavian meanwhile built up a private army in italy by recruiting caesarian veterans, and on 28 november he won over two of antony ' s legions with the enticing offer of monetary gain. in the face of octavian ' s large and capable force, antony saw the danger of staying in rome and, to the relief of the senate, he left rome for cisalpine gaul, which was to be handed to him on 1 january. however, the province had earlier been assigned to decimus junius brutus albinus, one of caesar ' s assassins, who now refused to yield to antony. antony besieged him at mutina and rejected the resolutions passed by the senate to stop the fighting. the senate had no army to enforce their resolutions. this provided an opportunity for octavian, who already was known to have armed forces. cicero also defended octavian against antony ' s taunts about octavian ' s lack of noble lineage and aping of julius caesar ' s name, stating " we have no more brilliant example of traditional piety among our youth. " at the urging of cicero, the senate inducted octavian as senator on 1 january 43 bc, yet he also was given the power to vote alongside the former consuls. in addition, octavian was