( except for the forested areas on the southern periphery ), ankara can be considered a green city in terms of green areas per inhabitant, at per head. etymology the orthography of the name ankara has varied over the ages. it has been identified with the hittite cult center ankuwas, although this remains a matter of debate. in classical antiquity and during the medieval period, the city was known as ankyra (, " anchor " ) in greek and ancyra in latin ; the galatian celtic name was probably a similar variant. following its annexation by the seljuk turks in 1073, the city became known in many european languages as angora ; it was also known in ottoman turkish as enguru. the form " angora " is preserved in the names of breeds of many different kinds of animals, and in the names of several locations in the us ( see angora ). history the region ' s history can be traced back to the bronze age hattic civilization, which was succeeded in the 2nd millennium bc by the hittites, in the 10th century bc by the phrygians, and later by the lydians, persians, greeks, galatians, romans, byzantines, and turks ( the seljuk sultanate of rum, the ottoman empire and finally republican turkey ). ancient history the oldest settlements in and around the city center of ankara belonged to the hattic civilization which existed during the bronze age and was gradually absorbed c. 2000 – 1700 bc by the indo - european hittites. the city grew significantly in size and importance under the phrygians starting around 1000 bc, and experienced a large expansion following the mass migration from gordion, ( the capital of phrygia ), after an earthquake which severely damaged that city around that time. in phrygian tradition, king midas was venerated as the founder of ancyra, but pausanias mentions that the city was actually far older, which accords with present archeological knowledge. phrygian rule was succeeded first by lydian and later by persian rule, though the strongly phrygian character of the peasantry remained, as evidenced by the gravestones of the much later roman period. persian sovereignty lasted until the persians ' defeat at the hands of alexander the great who conquered the city in 333 bc. alexander came from gordion to ankara and stayed in the city for a short period. after his death at babylon in 323 bc and the subsequent division of his empire among