such, aluminium is the most electropositive metal in its group, and its hydroxide is in fact more basic than that of gallium. aluminium also bears minor similarities to the metalloid boron in the same group : alx3 compounds are valence isoelectronic to bx3 compounds ( they have the same valence electronic structure ), and both behave as lewis acids and readily form adducts. additionally, one of the main motifs of boron chemistry is regular icosahedral structures, and aluminium forms an important part of many icosahedral quasicrystal alloys, including the al – zn – mg class. aluminium has a high chemical affinity to oxygen, which renders it suitable for use as a reducing agent in the thermite reaction. a fine powder of aluminium metal reacts explosively on contact with liquid oxygen ; under normal conditions, however, aluminium forms a thin oxide layer ( ~ 5 nm at room temperature ) that protects the metal from further corrosion by oxygen, water, or dilute acid, a process termed passivation. because of its general resistance to corrosion, aluminium is one of the few metals that retains silvery reflectance in finely powdered form, making it an important component of silver - colored paints. aluminium is not attacked by oxidizing acids because of its passivation. this allows aluminium to be used to store reagents such as nitric acid, concentrated sulfuric acid, and some organic acids. in hot concentrated hydrochloric acid, aluminium reacts with water with evolution of hydrogen, and in aqueous sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide at room temperature to form aluminates — protective passivation under these conditions is negligible. aqua regia also dissolves aluminium. aluminium is corroded by dissolved chlorides, such as common sodium chloride, which is why household plumbing is never made from aluminium. the oxide layer on aluminium is also destroyed by contact with mercury due to amalgamation or with salts of some electropositive metals. as such, the strongest aluminium alloys are less corrosion - resistant due to galvanic reactions with alloyed copper, and aluminium ' s corrosion resistance is greatly reduced by aqueous salts, particularly in the presence of dissimilar metals. aluminium reacts with most nonmetals upon heating, forming compounds such as aluminium nitride ( aln ), aluminium sulfide ( al2s3 ), and the aluminium halides ( alx3 ). it also forms a wide range of intermetallic