effectively decided in the republican primary. however, since local governments in alabama are weaker than in other parts of the country, republicans have the upper hand in government. alabama ' s 67 county sheriffs are elected in partisan, at - large races, and republicans retain the vast majority of those posts. the current split is 18 democrats, and 49 republicans as of 2023. however, most of the democratic sheriffs preside over urban and more populated counties. the majority of republican sheriffs have been elected in the more rural counties with lower population. the state of alabama has and 11 african - american sheriffs. federal elections the state ' s two u. s. senators are katie britt and tommy tuberville, both of whom are republican. in the u. s. house of representatives, the state is represented by seven members, six of whom are republicans : ( jerry carl, mike rogers, robert aderholt, dale strong, barry moore, and gary palmer ) and one democrat : terri sewell, who represents the black belt as well as most of the predominantly black portions of birmingham, tuscaloosa and montgomery. education primary and secondary education public primary and secondary education in alabama is under the purview of the alabama state board of education as well as local oversight by 67 county school boards and 60 city boards of education. together, 1, 496 individual schools provide education for 744, 637 elementary and secondary students. public school funding is appropriated through the alabama legislature through the education trust fund. in fy 2006 – 2007, alabama appropriated $ 3, 775, 163, 578 for primary and secondary education. that represented an increase of $ 444, 736, 387 over the previous fiscal year. in 2007, more than 82 percent of schools made adequate yearly progress ( ayp ) toward student proficiency under the national no child left behind law, using measures determined by the state of alabama. while alabama ' s public education system has improved in recent decades, it lags behind in achievement compared to other states. according to u. s. census data ( 2000 ), alabama ' s high school graduation rate ( 75 % ) is the fourth lowest in the u. s. ( after kentucky, louisiana and mississippi ). the largest educational gains were among people with some college education but without degrees. according to national assessment of educational progress ( neap ), alabama ranks 39 in reading and 40 in math among fourth - grade students in the rankings from 2022. generally prohibited in the west at large,