ones as representatives of elemental forces, creating new fictional entities to flesh out this framework. such debates aside, derleth ' s founding of arkham house and his successful effort to rescue lovecraft from literary oblivion are widely acknowledged by practitioners in the horror field as seminal events in the field. for instance, ramsey campbell has acknowledged derleth ' s encouragement and guidance during the early part of his own writing career, and kirby mccauley has cited derleth and arkham house as an inspiration for his own anthology dark forces. arkham house and derleth published dark carnival, the first book by ray bradbury, as well. brian lumley cites the importance of derleth to his own lovecraftian work, and contends in a 2009 introduction to derleth ' s work that he was "... one of the first, finest, and most discerning editors and publishers of macabre fiction. " important as was derleth ' s work to rescue h. p. lovecraft from literary obscurity at the time of lovecraft ' s death, derleth also built a body of horror and spectral fiction of his own ; still frequently anthologized. the best of this work, recently reprinted in four volumes of short stories – most of which were originally published in weird tales, illustrates derleth ' s original abilities in the genre. while derleth considered his work in this genre less important than his most serious literary efforts, the compilers of these four anthologies, including ramsey campbell, note that the stories still resonate after more than 50 years. in 2009, the library of america selected derleth ' s story the panelled room for inclusion in its two - century retrospective of american fantastic tales. other works derleth also wrote many historical novels, as part of both the sac prairie saga and the wisconsin saga. he also wrote history ; arguably most notable among these was the wisconsin : river of a thousand isles, published in 1942. the work was one in a series entitled " the rivers of america ", conceived by writer constance lindsay skinner during the great depression as a series that would connect americans to their heritage through the history of the great rivers of the nation. skinner wanted the series to be written by artists, not academicians. derleth, while not a trained historian, was, according to former wisconsin state historian william f. thompson, "... a very competent regional historian who based his historical writing upon research in the primary documents and who regularly