##ον ), built by settlers from mytilene in the sixth century bc, close to the hero ' s presumed burial mound in the troad. later attestations point to an achilleion in messenia ( according to stephanus byzantinus ) and an achilleios ( αχιλλειος ) in laconia. nicolae densusianu recognized a connection to achilles in the names of aquileia and of the northern arm of the danube delta, called chilia ( presumably from an older achileii ), though his conclusion, that leuce had sovereign rights over the black sea, evokes modern rather than archaic sea - law. the kings of epirus claimed to be descended from achilles through his son, neoptolemus. alexander the great, son of the epirote princess olympias, could therefore also claim this descent, and in many ways strove to be like his great ancestor. he is said to have visited the tomb of achilles at achilleion while passing troy. in ad 216 the roman emperor caracalla, while on his way to war against parthia, emulated alexander by holding games around achilles ' tumulus. reception during antiquity in greek tragedy the greek tragedian aeschylus wrote a trilogy of plays about achilles, given the title achilleis by modern scholars. the tragedies relate the deeds of achilles during the trojan war, including his defeat of hector and eventual death when an arrow shot by paris and guided by apollo punctures his heel. extant fragments of the achilleis and other aeschylean fragments have been assembled to produce a workable modern play. the first part of the achilleis trilogy, the myrmidons, focused on the relationship between achilles and chorus, who represent the achaean army and try to convince achilles to give up his quarrel with agamemnon ; only a few lines survive today. in plato ' s symposium, phaedrus points out that aeschylus portrayed achilles as the lover and patroclus as the beloved ; phaedrus argues that this is incorrect because achilles, being the younger and more beautiful of the two, was the beloved, who loved his lover so much that he chose to die to avenge him. the tragedian sophocles also wrote the lovers of achilles, a play with achilles as the main character. only a few fragments survive. towards the end of the 5th century bc, a more