project and louisa burned many of her mother ' s papers. on january 19, 1879, alcott and franklin benjamin sanborn wrote a prospectus for a new school which they distributed to potentially interested people throughout the country. the result was the concord school of philosophy and literature, which held its first session in 1879 in alcott ' s study in the orchard house. in 1880 the school moved to the hillside chapel, a building next to the house, where he held conversations and, over the course of successive summers, as he entered his eighties, invited others to give lectures on themes in philosophy, religion and letters. the school, considered one of the first formal adult education centers in america, was also attended by foreign scholars. it continued for nine years. in april 1882, alcott ' s friend and benefactor ralph waldo emerson was sick and bedridden. after visiting him, alcott wrote, " concord will be shorn of its human splendor when he withdraws behind the cloud. " emerson died the next day. alcott himself moved out of concord for his final years, settling at 10 louisburg square in boston beginning in 1885. as he was bedridden at the end of his life, alcott ' s daughter louisa may came to visit him at louisburg on march 1, 1888. he said to her, " i am going up. come with me. " she responded, " i wish i could. " he died three days later on march 4 ; louisa may died only two days after her father. beliefs alcott was fundamentally and philosophically opposed to corporal punishment as a means of disciplining his students. instead, beginning at the temple school, he would appoint a daily student superintendent. when that student observed an infraction, he or she reported it to the rest of the class and, as a whole, they deliberated on punishment. at times, alcott offered his own hand for an offending student to strike, saying that any failing was the teacher ' s responsibility. the shame and guilt this method induced, he believed, was far superior to the fear instilled by corporal punishment ; when he used physical " correction " he required that the students be unanimously in support of its application, even including the student to be punished. the most detailed discussion of his theories on education is in an essay, " observations on the principles and methods of infant instruction ". alcott believed that early education must draw out " unpremeditated thoughts and feelings of the child " and emphasized that infancy should primarily