such as,,,,,, and. ) " many frequent abbreviations consisted of more than one letter : for example cos for consul and coss for its nominative etc. plural consules. abbreviations were frequently used in english from its earliest days. manuscripts of copies of the old english poem beowulf used many abbreviations, for example the tironian et ( ) or for and, and for since, so that " not much space is wasted ". the standardisation of english in the 15th through 17th centuries included a growth in the use of such abbreviations. at first, abbreviations were sometimes represented with various suspension signs, not only periods. for example, sequences like were replaced with, as in for master and for exacerbate. while this may seem trivial, it was symptomatic of an attempt by people manually reproducing academic texts to reduce the copy time. in the early modern english period, between the 15th and 17th centuries, the thorn was used for th, as in ( ' the ' ). in modern times, was often used ( in the form ) for promotional reasons, as in. during the growth of philological linguistic theory in academic britain, abbreviating became very fashionable. likewise, a century earlier in boston, a fad of abbreviation started that swept the united states, with the globally popular term ok generally credited as a remnant of its influence. over the years, however, the lack of convention in some style guides has made it difficult to determine which two - word abbreviations should be abbreviated with periods and which should not. this question is considered below. widespread use of electronic communication through mobile phones and the internet during the 1990s led to a marked rise in colloquial abbreviation. this was due largely to increasing popularity of textual communication services such as instant and text messaging. the original sms supported message lengths of 160 characters at most ( using the gsm 03. 38 character set ), for instance. this brevity gave rise to an informal abbreviation scheme sometimes called textese, with which 10 % or more of the words in a typical sms message are abbreviated. more recently twitter, a popular social networking service, began driving abbreviation use with 140 character message limits. in html, abbreviations can be annotated using < abbr title = " meaning of the abbreviation. " > abbreviation < / abbr > to reveal its meaning by hovering the cursor. style conventions in english in modern english, there are several conventions for abbreviations,