##er which means lake, as in aalsmeer, bijlmermeer, haarlemmermeer and watergraafsmeer. canals the amsterdam canal system is the result of conscious city planning. in the early 17th century, when immigration was at a peak, a comprehensive plan was developed that was based on four concentric half - circles of canals with their ends emerging at the ij bay. known as the grachtengordel, three of the canals were mostly for residential development : the herengracht ( where " heren " refers to heren regeerders van de stad amsterdam, ruling lords of amsterdam, whilst gracht means canal, so that the name can be roughly translated as " canal of the lords " ), keizersgracht ( emperor ' s canal ) and prinsengracht ( prince ' s canal ). the fourth and outermost canal is the singelgracht, which is often not mentioned on maps because it is a collective name for all canals in the outer ring. the singelgracht should not be confused with the oldest and innermost canal, the singel. the canals served for defense, water management and transport. the defenses took the form of a moat and earthen dikes, with gates at transit points, but otherwise no masonry superstructures. the original plans have been lost, so historians, such as ed taverne, need to speculate on the original intentions : it is thought that the considerations of the layout were purely practical and defensive rather than ornamental. construction started in 1613 and proceeded from west to east, across the breadth of the layout, like a gigantic windshield wiper as the historian geert mak calls it – and not from the centre outwards, as a popular myth has it. the canal construction in the southern sector was completed by 1656. subsequently, the construction of residential buildings proceeded slowly. the eastern part of the concentric canal plan, covering the area between the amstel river and the ij bay, has never been implemented. in the following centuries, the land was used for parks, senior citizens ' homes, theatres, other public facilities, and waterways without much planning. over the years, several canals have been filled in, becoming streets or squares, such as the nieuwezijds voorburgwal and the spui. expansion after the development of amsterdam ' s canals in the 17th century, the city did not grow beyond its borders for two centuries. during the 19th century, samuel sar