##hile. in radical - nucleophilic aromatic substitution, the active reagent is a radical. an example of electrophilic aromatic substitution is the nitration of salicylic acid : coupling reactions in coupling reactions a metal catalyzes a coupling between two formal radical fragments. common coupling reactions with arenes result in the formation of new carbon – carbon bonds e. g., alkylarenes, vinyl arenes, biraryls, new carbon – nitrogen bonds ( anilines ) or new carbon – oxygen bonds ( aryloxy compounds ). an example is a direct arylation of perfluorobenzenes hydrogenation hydrogenation of arenes create saturated rings. the compound 1 - naphthol is completely reduced to a mixture of decalin - ol isomers. the compound resorcinol, hydrogenated with raney nickel in presence of aqueous sodium hydroxide forms an enolate which is alkylated with methyl iodide to 2 - methyl - 1, 3 - cyclohexandione : cycloadditions cycloaddition reactions are not common. unusual thermal diels – alder reactivity of arenes can be found in the wagner - jauregg reaction. other photochemical cycloaddition reactions with alkenes occur through excimers. dearomatization in dearomatization reactions the aromaticity of the reactant is permanently lost. benzene and derivatives of benzene benzene derivatives have from one to six substituents attached to the central benzene core. examples of benzene compounds with just one substituent are phenol, which carries a hydroxyl group, and toluene with a methyl group. when there is more than one substituent present on the ring, their spatial relationship becomes important for which the arene substitution patterns ortho, meta, and para are devised. for example, three isomers exist for cresol because the methyl group and the hydroxyl group can be placed next to each other ( ortho ), one position removed from each other ( meta ), or two positions removed from each other ( para ). xylenol has two methyl groups in addition to the hydroxyl group, and, for this structure, 6 isomers exist. the arene ring has the ability to stabilize charges. this is seen in, for example, phenol ( c6h5 –