high on the cliff a temple was built, which became a worship site devoted to aphrodite, in her particular local presence as aphrodite amathusia along with a bearded male aphrodite called aphroditos. the excavators discovered the final stage of the temple of aphrodite, also known as aphrodisias, which dates approximately to the 1st century bc. according to the legend, it was where festive adonia took place, in which athletes competed in hunting wild boars during sport competitions ; they also competed in dancing and singing, all to the honour of adonis. the earliest remains hitherto found on the site are tombs of the early iron age period of graeco - phoenician influences ( 1000 - 600 bc ). amathus is identified with kartihadasti ( phoenician " new - town " ) in the cypriote tribute - list of esarhaddon of assyria ( 668 bc ). it certainly maintained strong phoenician sympathies, for it was its refusal to join the philhellene league of onesilos of salamis which provoked the revolt of cyprus from achaemenid persia in 500 - 494 bc, when amathus was besieged unsuccessfully and avenged itself by the capture and execution of onesilos. herodotus reports " because he had besieged them, the amathusians cut off onesilos ’ head and brought it to amathous, where they hung it above the gates. as it hung there empty, a swarm of bees entered it and filled it with honeycomb. when they sought advice about this event, an oracle told them to take the head down and bury it, and to make annual sacrifice to onesilos as a hero, saying that it would be better for them if they did this. the amathusians did as they were told and still perform these rites in my day. " ( histories 5. 114 ) amathus was a rich and densely populated kingdom with a flourishing agriculture ( grain and sheep ) and copper mines situated very close to the northeast kalavasos. hellenistic era about 385 - 380 bc, the philhellene evagoras of salamis was similarly opposed by amathus, allied with citium and soli ; and even after alexander the city resisted annexation, and was bound over to give hostages to seleucus. its political importance was now ended but its temple of adonis and aphrodite