##l river, the coastal plains of cukurova and the valley floors of the gediz river and the buyuk menderes river as well as some interior high plains in anatolia, mainly around lake tuz ( salt lake ) and the konya basin ( konya ovasi ). there are two mountain ranges in southern anatolia : the taurus and the zagros mountains. climate anatolia has a varied range of climates. the central plateau is characterized by a continental climate, with hot summers and cold snowy winters. the south and west coasts enjoy a typical mediterranean climate, with mild rainy winters, and warm dry summers. the black sea and marmara coasts have a temperate oceanic climate, with cool foggy summers and much rainfall throughout the year. ecoregions there is a diverse number of plant and animal communities. the mountains and coastal plain of northern anatolia experience a humid and mild climate. there are temperate broadleaf, mixed and coniferous forests. the central and eastern plateau, with its drier continental climate, has deciduous forests and forest steppes. western and southern anatolia, which have a mediterranean climate, contain mediterranean forests, woodlands, and scrub ecoregions. euxine - colchic deciduous forests : these temperate broadleaf and mixed forests extend across northern anatolia, lying between the mountains of northern anatolia and the black sea. they include the enclaves of temperate rainforest lying along the southeastern coast of the black sea in eastern turkey and georgia. northern anatolian conifer and deciduous forests : these forests occupy the mountains of northern anatolia, running east and west between the coastal euxine - colchic forests and the drier, continental climate forests of central and eastern anatolia. central anatolian deciduous forests : these forests of deciduous oaks and evergreen pines cover the plateau of central anatolia. central anatolian steppe : these dry grasslands cover the drier valleys and surround the saline lakes of central anatolia, and include halophytic ( salt tolerant ) plant communities. eastern anatolian deciduous forests : this ecoregion occupies the plateau of eastern anatolia. the drier and more continental climate is beneficial for steppe - forests dominated by deciduous oaks, with areas of shrubland, montane forest, and valley forest. anatolian conifer and deciduous mixed forests : these forests occupy the western, mediterranean - climate portion of the anatolian plateau. pine forests and mixed pine and oak woodlands and shrublands are predominant. aegean and western turkey sclerophyllous and mixed forests : these mediterranean - climate forests occupy the coastal lowlands and valleys of western anatolia bordering the aegean