door is a ' door to the afterlife '. according to the archaeologists, the door was reused in a structure in roman egypt. ancient greek and roman religions the greek god hades is known in greek mythology as the king of the underworld, a place where souls live after death. the greek god hermes, the messenger of the gods, would take the dead soul of a person to the underworld ( sometimes called hades or the house of hades ). hermes would leave the soul on the banks of the river styx, the river between life and death. charon, also known as the ferry - man, would take the soul across the river to hades, if the soul had gold : upon burial, the family of the dead soul would put coins under the deceased ' s tongue. once crossed, the soul would be judged by aeacus, rhadamanthus and king minos. the soul would be sent to elysium, tartarus, or asphodel fields. the elysian fields were for the ones that lived pure lives. it consisted of green fields, valleys and mountains, everyone there was peaceful and contented, and the sun always shone there. tartarus was for the people that blasphemed against the gods or were rebellious and consciously evil. in tartarus, the soul would be punished by being burned in lava or stretched on racks. the asphodel fields were for a varied selection of human souls including those whose sins equaled their goodness, those who were indecisive in their lives, and those who were not judged. some heroes of greek legend are allowed to visit the underworld. the romans had a similar belief system about the afterlife, with hades becoming known as pluto. in the ancient greek myth about the labours of heracles, the hero heracles had to travel to the underworld to capture cerberus, the three - headed guard dog, as one of his tasks. in dream of scipio, cicero describes what seems to be an out of body experience, of the soul traveling high above the earth, looking down at the small planet, from far away. in book vi of virgil ' s aeneid, the hero, aeneas, travels to the underworld to see his father. by the river styx, he sees the souls of those not given a proper burial, forced to wait by the river until someone buries them. while down there, along with the dead, he is shown the place where the wrongly convicted reside, the fields of sorrow where those