it contains original works by gaudi and several of his collaborators. it has been the gaudi house museum ( casa museu gaudi ) since 1963. in 1969, it was declared a historical artistic monument of national interest. municipal garden it has since been converted into a municipal garden. it can be reached by underground railway ( although the stations are at a distance from the park and at a much lower level below the hill ), by city buses, or by commercial tourist buses. since october 2013 there is an entrance fee to visit the monumental zone ( main entrance, terrace, viaducts, and the parts containing mosaics ), so the entrance to the park is no longer free. limited tickets are available that often sell out in advance. gaudi ' s house, " la torre rosa, " – containing furniture that he designed – can be only visited for another entrance fee. there is a reduced rate for those wishing to see both gaudi ' s house and the sagrada familia church. park guell is designed and composed to bring the peace and calm that one would expect from a park. the buildings flanking the entrance, though very original and remarkable with fantastically shaped roofs with unusual pinnacles, fit in well with the use of the park as pleasure gardens and seem relatively inconspicuous in the landscape when one considers the flamboyance of other buildings designed by gaudi. these two buildings make up the porter ' s lodge pavilion. one of these buildings contains a small room with a telephone booth. the other, while once being the porter ' s house, is now a permanent exhibition of the barcelona city history museum ( museu d ' historia de barcelona, or muhba ). muhba focused on the building itself, the park and the city. the focal point of the park is the main terrace, surrounded by a long bench in the form of a sea serpent. the curves of the serpent bench form a number of enclaves, creating a more social atmosphere. gaudi incorporated many motifs of catalan nationalism, and elements from religious mysticism and ancient poetry, into the park. much of the design of the benches was the work not of gaudi but of his often overlooked collaborator josep maria jujol. roadways around the park to service the intended houses were designed by gaudi as structures jutting out from the steep hillside or running on viaducts, with separate footpaths in arcades formed under these structures. this minimized the intrusion of the roads, and gaudi designed them using local