christie ' s mysteries and found her books still good to read nearly 100 years after her first novel was published. just one of the 25 authors held with wilson ' s views. book sales in her prime, christie was rarely out of the bestseller list. she was the first crime writer to have 100, 000 copies of 10 of her titles published by penguin on the same day in 1948., guinness world records listed christie as the best - selling fiction writer of all time., her novels had sold more than two billion copies in 44 languages. half the sales are of english - language editions, and half are translations. according to index translationum,, she was the most - translated individual author. christie is one of the most - borrowed authors in uk libraries. she is also the uk ' s best - selling spoken - book author. in 2002, 117, 696 christie audiobooks were sold, in comparison to 97, 755 for j. k. rowling, 78, 770 for roald dahl and 75, 841 for j. r. r. tolkien. in 2015, the christie estate claimed and then there were none was " the best - selling crime novel of all time ", with approximately 100 million sales, also making it one of the highest - selling books of all time. more than two million copies of her books were sold in english in 2020. legacy in 2016, the royal mail marked the centenary of christie ' s first detective story by issuing six first - class postage stamps of her works : the mysterious affair at styles, the murder of roger ackroyd, murder on the orient express, and then there were none, the body in the library, and a murder is announced. the guardian reported that, " each design incorporates microtext, uv ink and thermochromic ink. these concealed clues can be revealed using either a magnifying glass, uv light or body heat and provide pointers to the mysteries ' solutions. " her characters and her face appeared on the stamps of many countries like dominica and the somali republic. in 2020, christie was commemorated on a £2 coin by the royal mint for the first time to mark the centenary of her first novel, the mysterious affair at styles. in 2023 a life - size bronze statue of christie sitting on a park bench holding a book was unveiled in wallingford. adaptations christie ' s works have been adapted for cinema and television. the first was the 1928 british film the passing of mr. quin. poirot ' s first film appearance was