russia, the youngest player ever to participate and win a match. in 1996, she started playing under a new coach, ed nagel. her six - year association with nagel was successful. at 15, she made her grand slam debut, reaching the fourth round of the 1996 us open, losing to steffi graf, the eventual champion. after this tournament, kournikova ' s ranking jumped from no. 144 to debut in the top 100 at no. 69. kournikova was a member of the russian delegation to the 1996 olympic games in atlanta, georgia. in 1996, she was named wta newcomer of the year, and she was ranked no. 57 in the end of the season. kournikova entered the 1997 australian open as world no. 67, where she lost in the first round to world no. 12, amanda coetzer. at the italian open, kournikova lost to amanda coetzer in the second round. she reached the semi - finals in the doubles partnering with elena likhovtseva, before losing to the sixth seeds mary joe fernandez and patricia tarabini. at the french open, kournikova made it to the third round before losing to world no. 1, martina hingis. she also reached the third round in doubles with likhovtseva. at the wimbledon championships, kournikova became only the second woman in the open era to reach the semi - finals in her wimbledon debut, the first being chris evert in 1972. there she lost to eventual champion martina hingis. at the us open, she lost in the second round to the eleventh seed irina spirlea. partnering with likhovtseva, she reached the third round of the women ' s doubles event. kournikova played her last wta tour event of 1997 at porsche tennis grand prix in filderstadt, losing to amanda coetzer in the second round of singles, and in the first round of doubles to lindsay davenport and jana novotna partnering with likhovtseva. she broke into the top 50 on 19 may, and was ranked no. 32 in singles and no. 41 in doubles at the end of the season. 1998 – 2000 : success and stardom in 1998, kournikova broke into the wta ' s top 20 rankings for the first time, when she was ranked no. 16. at the australian open, kournikova lost in the third round to world no. 1 player, martina hingis. she also partnered with la