been used, including as the punchline for a joke in the movie lock, stock and two smoking barrels and in the british tv series peep show. typography audi sans ( based on univers extended ) was originally created in 1997 by ole schafer for metadesign. metadesign was later commissioned for a new corporate typeface called audi type, designed by paul van der laan and pieter van rosmalen of bold monday. the font began to appear in audi ' s 2009 products and marketing materials. sponsorships audi is a strong partner of different kinds of sports. in football, long partnerships exist between audi and domestic clubs including bayern munich, hamburger sv, 1. fc nurnberg, hertha bsc, and borussia monchengladbach and international clubs including chelsea, real madrid, fc barcelona, a. c. milan, afc ajax and perspolis. audi also sponsors winter sports : the audi fis alpine ski world cup is named after the company. additionally, audi supports the german ski association ( dsv ) as well as the alpine skiing national teams of switzerland, sweden, finland, france, liechtenstein, italy, austria and the u. s. for almost two decades, audi fosters golf sport : for example with the audi quattro cup and the hypovereinsbank ladies german open presented by audi. in sailing, audi is engaged in the medcup regatta and supports the team luna rossa during the louis vuitton pacific series and also is the primary sponsor of the melges 20 sailboat. further, audi sponsors the regional teams erc ingolstadt ( hockey ) and fc ingolstadt 04 ( soccer ). in 2009, the year of audi ' s 100th anniversary, the company organized the audi cup for the first time. audi also sponsor the new york yankees as well. in october 2010 they agreed to a three sponsorship year - deal with everton. audi also sponsors the england polo team and holds the audi polo awards. marvel cinematic universe since the start of the marvel cinematic universe, audi signed a deal to sponsor, promote and provide vehicles for several films. so far these have been, iron man, iron man 2, iron man 3, avengers : age of ultron, captain america : civil war, spider - man : homecoming, avengers : endgame and spider - man : far from home. the r8 supercar became the personal vehicle for tony stark ( played by robert downey jr. ) for six of these films. the e - tron vehicles