animal forms. traditional hinduism teaches that each life helps the soul ( jivas ) learn until the soul becomes purified to the point of enlightenment ( unity with the cosmos ). all major indian religions, namely buddhism, hinduism, jainism, and sikhism have their own interpretations of the idea of reincarnation. the human idea of reincarnation is found in many diverse ancient cultures, and a belief in rebirth / metempsychosis was held by historic greek figures, such as pythagoras and plato. it is also a common belief of various ancient and modern religions such as spiritism, theosophy, and eckankar. it is found as well in many tribal societies around the world, in places such as australia, east asia, siberia, and south america. although the majority of denominations within the abrahamic religions of judaism, christianity, and islam do not believe that individuals reincarnate, particular groups within these religions do refer to reincarnation ; these groups include the mainstream historical and contemporary followers of kabbalah, the cathars, alawites, the druze, and the rosicrucians. the historical relations between these sects and the beliefs about reincarnation that were characteristic of neoplatonism, orphism, hermeticism, manicheanism, and gnosticism of the roman era as well as the indian religions have been the subject of recent scholarly research. unity church and its founder charles fillmore teach reincarnation. rosicrucians speak of a life review period occurring immediately after death and before entering the afterlife ' s planes of existence ( before the silver cord is broken ), followed by a judgment, more akin to a final review or end report over one ' s life. heaven and hell heaven, the heavens, seven heavens, pure lands, tian, jannah, valhalla, or the summerland, is a common religious, cosmological, or transcendent place where beings such as gods, angels, jinn, saints, or venerated ancestors are said to originate, be enthroned, or live. according to the beliefs of some religions, heavenly beings can descend to earth or incarnate, and earthly beings can ascend to heaven in the afterlife, or in exceptional cases, enter heaven alive. heaven is often described as a " higher place ", the holiest place, a paradise, in contrast to hell or the underworld or the " low places ", and universally or conditionally