charter schools, and private schools all follow the program of studies and the curriculum approved by the provincial department of education ( alberta education ). homeschool tutors may choose to follow the program of studies or develop their own program of studies. public and separate schools, charter schools, and approved private schools all employ teachers who are certificated by alberta education, they administer provincial achievement tests and diploma examinations set by alberta education, and they may grant high school graduation certificates endorsed by alberta education. post - secondary several publicly funded post - secondary institutions are governed under the province ' s post - secondary learning act. this includes four comprehensive research universities that provides undergraduate and graduate degrees, athabasca university, the university of alberta, the university of calgary, and the university of lethbridge ; and three undergraduate universities that primarily provide bachelor ' s degrees, the alberta university of the arts, grant macewan university, and mount royal university. nine comprehensive community colleges offer primarily offer diploma and certificate programs, bow valley college, keyano college, lakeland college, lethbridge college, medicine hat college, norquest college, northern lakes college, olds college, and portage college. in addition, there are also four polytechnic institutes that provide specific career training and provides apprenticeships and diplomas, the northern alberta institute of technology, the southern alberta institute of technology, northwestern polytechnic, and red deer polytechnic. the banff centre for arts and creativity is a specialized arts and cultural institution that is also empowered to provide diploma programs under the post - secondary learning act. alberta is also home to five independent postsecondary institutions that provide diplomas / degrees for approved programming, ambrose university, burman university, concordia university of edmonton, the king ' s university, and st. mary ' s university. although the five institutions operate under their own legislation, they remain partly governed by the province ' s post - secondary learning act. in addition to these institutions, there are also 190 private career colleges in alberta. there was some controversy in 2005 over the rising cost of post - secondary education for students ( as opposed to taxpayers ). in 2005, premier ralph klein made a promise that he would freeze tuition and look into ways of reducing schooling costs. health care alberta provides a publicly funded, fully integrated health system, through alberta health services ( ahs ) — a quasi - independent agency that delivers health care on behalf of the government of alberta ' s ministry of health. the alberta government provides health services for all its residents as set out by the provisions of the canada health act of 1984