arago protested, declaring that he had made some of the same discoveries but had not had time to write them up. in fact the overlap between arago ' s work and biot ' s was minimal, arago ' s being only qualitative and wider in scope ( attempting to include polarization by reflection ). but the dispute triggered a notorious falling - out between the two men. later that year, biot tried to explain the observations as an oscillation of the alignment of the " affected " corpuscles at a frequency proportional to that of newton ' s " fits ", due to forces depending on the alignment. this theory became known as mobile polarization. to reconcile his results with a sinusoidal oscillation, biot had to suppose that the corpuscles emerged with one of two permitted orientations, namely the extremes of the oscillation, with probabilities depending on the phase of the oscillation. corpuscular optics was becoming expensive on assumptions. but in 1813, biot reported that the case of quartz was simpler : the observable phenomenon ( now called optical rotation or optical activity or sometimes rotary polarization ) was a gradual rotation of the polarization direction with distance, and could be explained by a corresponding rotation ( not oscillation ) of the corpuscles. early in 1814, reviewing biot ' s work on chromatic polarization, young noted that the periodicity of the color as a function of the plate thickness — including the factor by which the period exceeded that for a reflective thin plate, and even the effect of obliquity of the plate ( but not the role of polarization ) — could be explained by the wave theory in terms of the different propagation times of the ordinary and extraordinary waves through the plate. but young was then the only public defender of the wave theory. in summary, in the spring of 1814, as fresnel tried in vain to guess what polarization was, the corpuscularists thought that they knew, while the wave - theorists ( if we may use the plural ) literally had no idea. both theories claimed to explain rectilinear propagation, but the wave explanation was overwhelmingly regarded as unconvincing. the corpuscular theory could not rigorously link double refraction to surface forces ; the wave theory could not yet link it to polarization. the corpuscular theory was weak on thin plates and silent on gratings ; the wave theory was strong on both, but under - appreciated. concerning diffraction, the corpuscular theory did