and 642. 5 percent during the first four months of 1992, compared with the first four months of 1991. thus, there were two opposing dynamics : price increases in response to shortages and falling incomes due to the recession and unemployment. post - communist economic reforms armenia introduced elements of the free market and privatisation into their economic system in the late 1980s, when mikhail gorbachev began advocating economic reform. to supply the country ' s basic needs, the first decision was land reform and the privatization of land. this allowed for the emergence of small - parcel agriculture supplying markets and supporting self - sustenance during the period of shortages. cooperatives were set up in the service sector, particularly in restaurants, although substantial resistance came from the communist party of armenia ( cpa ) and other groups that had enjoyed privileged position in the old economy. in the late 1980s, much of armenia ' s economy already was opening either semi - officially or illegally, with widespread corruption and bribery. the so - called mafia, made up of interconnected groups of powerful officials and their relatives and friends, sabotaged the efforts of reformers to create a lawful market system. when the december 1988 earthquake brought millions of dollars of foreign aid to the devastated regions of armenia, much of the money went to corrupt and criminal elements. beginning in 1991, the democratically elected government pushed vigorously for privatisation and market relations, although its efforts were frustrated by the old ways of doing business in armenia, the azerbaijani blockade, and the costs of the first nagorno - karabakh war. in 1992, the law on the programme of privatisation and decentralisation of incompletely constructed facilities established a state privatisation committee, with members from all political parties. in middle 1993, the committee announced a two - year privatisation programme, whose first stage would be privatisation of 30 % of state enterprises, mostly services and light industries. the remaining 70 %, including many bankrupt, nonfunctional enterprises, were to be privatised in a later stage with a minimum of government restriction, to encourage private initiative. for all enterprises, the workers would receive 20 % of their firm ' s property free of charge ; 30 % would be distributed to all citizens by means of vouchers ; and the remaining 50 % was to be distributed by the government, with preference given to members of the labour organisations. a major problem of this system, however, was the lack of supporting legislation covering foreign investment protection, bankruptcy, monopoly policy, and consumer protection. in