and many humorous publications of the time. catholic symbols gaudi, a catholic and a devotee of the virgin mary, planned for the casa mila to be a spiritual symbol. overt religious elements include an excerpt from the rosary on the cornice and planned statues of mary, specifically our lady of the rosary, and two archangels, st. michael and st. gabriel. however, the casa mila was not built entirely to gaudi ' s specifications. the local government ordered the demolition of elements that exceeded the height standard for the city, and fined the milas for many infractions of building codes. after semana tragica, an outbreak of anticlericalism in the city, mila prudently decided to forgo the religious statues. gaudi contemplated abandoning the project but a priest persuaded him to continue. change of ownership in 1940, mila died. segimon sold the property in 1946 for 18 million pesetas to josep ballve i pellise, known for his department stores on, in partnership with the family of pio rubert laporta. the compania inmobiliaria provenza, sa ( cipsa ) was founded to administer the building. roser segimon continued to live on the main floor until her death in 1964. the new owners divided the first floor facing into five apartments instead of the original two. in 1953, they commissioned to convert 13 rubbish - filled attic laundry rooms to street - facing apartments, leaving a communal hallway on the side facing the courtyards. some of these two or three room apartments had a loft and were designed and furnished in a typical early 1950s style using brick, ceramic and wood. items of furniture, such as the, were reminiscent of eero saarinen ' s work. the insurance company northern took over the main floor in 1966. by then, casa mila had housed a bingo hall, an academy and the offices of cementos molins and inoxcrom among others. maintenance costs were high and the owners had allowed the building to become dilapidated, causing stones to loosen in 1971. josep anton comas made some emergency repairs, especially to the paintings in the courtyards, while respecting the original design. restoration gaudi ' s work was designated a historic and artistic monument on july 24, 1969. casa mila was in poor condition in the early 1980s. it had been painted a dreary brown and many of its interior color schemes had been abandoned or allowed to deteriorate, but it has