, passing over many of the highest and most well - known peaks in the alps. from the colle di cadibona to col de tende it runs westwards, before turning to the northwest and then, near the colle della maddalena, to the north. upon reaching the swiss border, the line of the main chain heads approximately east - northeast, a heading it follows until its end near vienna. the northeast end of the alpine arc, directly on the danube, which flows into the black sea, is the leopoldsberg near vienna. in contrast, the southeastern part of the alps ends on the adriatic sea in the area around trieste towards duino and barcola. passes the alps have been crossed for war and commerce, and by pilgrims, students and tourists. crossing routes by road, train, or foot are known as passes, and usually consist of depressions in the mountains in which a valley leads from the plains and hilly pre - mountainous zones. in the medieval period hospices were established by religious orders at the summits of many of the main passes. the most important passes are the col de l ' iseran ( the highest ), the col agnel, the brenner pass, the mont - cenis, the great st. bernard pass, the col de tende, the gotthard pass, the semmering pass, the simplon pass, and the stelvio pass. crossing the italian - austrian border, the brenner pass separates the otztal alps and zillertal alps and has been in use as a trading route since the 14th century. the lowest of the alpine passes at, the semmering crosses from lower austria to styria ; since the 12th century when a hospice was built there, it has seen continuous use. a railroad with a tunnel long was built along the route of the pass in the mid - 19th century. with a summit of, the great st bernard pass is one of the highest in the alps, crossing the italian - swiss border east of the pennine alps along the flanks of mont blanc. the pass was used by napoleon bonaparte to cross 40, 000 troops in 1800. the mont cenis pass has been a major commercial and military road between western europe and italy. the pass was crossed by many troops on their way to the italian peninsula. from constantine i, pepin the short and charlemagne to henry iv, napoleon and more recently the german gebirgsjagers during world war ii. now the pass has been supplanted by