. " derek j. penslar wrote, " political antisemitism identified the jews as responsible for all the anxiety - provoking social forces that characterized modernity. " according to viktor karady, political antisemitism became widespread after the legal emancipation of the jews and sought to reverse some of the consequences of that emancipation. conspiracy theories holocaust denial and jewish conspiracy theories are also considered forms of antisemitism. zoological conspiracy theories have been propagated by arab media and arabic language websites, alleging a " zionist plot " behind the use of animals to attack civilians or to conduct espionage. new antisemitism starting in the 1990s, some scholars have advanced the concept of new antisemitism, coming simultaneously from the left, the right, and radical islam, which tends to focus on opposition to the creation of a jewish homeland in the state of israel, and they argue that the language of anti - zionism and criticism of israel are used to attack jews more broadly. in this view, the proponents of the new concept believe that criticisms of israel and zionism are often disproportionate in degree and unique in kind, and they attribute this to antisemitism. jewish scholar gustavo perednik posited in 2004 that anti - zionism in itself represents a form of discrimination against jews, in that it singles out jewish national aspirations as an illegitimate and racist endeavor, and " proposes actions that would result in the death of millions of jews ". it is asserted that the new antisemitism deploys traditional antisemitic motifs, including older motifs such as the blood libel. critics of the concept view it as trivializing the meaning of antisemitism, and as exploiting antisemitism in order to silence debate and to deflect attention from legitimate criticism of the state of israel, and, by associating anti - zionism with antisemitism, misusing it to taint anyone opposed to israeli actions and policies. history many authors see the roots of modern antisemitism in both pagan antiquity and early christianity. jerome chanes identifies six stages in the historical development of antisemitism : pre - christian anti - judaism in ancient greece and rome which was primarily ethnic in nature christian antisemitism in antiquity and the middle ages which was religious in nature and has extended into modern times traditional muslim antisemitism which was — at least, in its classical form — nuanced in that jews were a protected class political, social and economic antisemitism