of thousands of jews in the eastern and southern areas he controlled ( today ' s ukraine ). the precise number of dead may never be known, but the decrease of the jewish population during that period is estimated at 100, 000 to 200, 000, which also includes emigration, deaths from diseases, and captivity in the ottoman empire, called jasyr. european immigrants to the united states brought antisemitism to the country as early as the 17th century. peter stuyvesant, the dutch governor of new amsterdam, implemented plans to prevent jews from settling in the city. during the colonial era, the american government limited the political and economic rights of jews. it was not until the american revolutionary war that jews gained legal rights, including the right to vote. however, even at their peak, the restrictions on jews in the united states were never as stringent as they had been in europe. in the zaydi imamate of yemen, jews were also singled out for discrimination in the 17th century, which culminated in the general expulsion of all jews from places in yemen to the arid coastal plain of tihamah and which became known as the mawza exile. enlightenment in 1744, archduchess of austria maria theresa ordered jews out of bohemia but soon reversed her position, on the condition that jews pay for their readmission every ten years. this extortion was known among the jews as malke - geld ( " queen ' s money " in yiddish ). in 1752, she introduced the law limiting each jewish family to one son. in 1782, joseph ii abolished most of these persecution practices in his toleranzpatent, on the condition that yiddish and hebrew were eliminated from public records and that judicial autonomy was annulled. moses mendelssohn wrote that " such a tolerance... is even more dangerous play in tolerance than open persecution. " voltaire according to arnold ages, voltaire ' s " lettres philosophiques, dictionnaire philosophique, and candide, to name but a few of his better known works, are saturated with comments on jews and judaism and the vast majority are negative ". paul h. meyer adds : " there is no question but that voltaire, particularly in his latter years, nursed a violent hatred of the jews and it is equally certain that his animosity... did have a considerable impact on public opinion in france. " thirty of the 118 articles in voltaire ' s dictionnaire philosophique concerned jews