the states in proportion to the real property values of each. powers and functions of the united states in congress assembled. grants to the united states in congress assembled the sole and exclusive right and power to determine peace and war ; to exchange ambassadors ; to enter into treaties and alliances, with some provisos ; to establish rules for deciding all cases of captures or prizes on land or water ; to grant letters of marque and reprisal ( documents authorizing privateers ) in times of peace ; to appoint courts for the trial of pirates and crimes committed on the high seas ; to establish courts for appeals in all cases of captures, but no member of congress may be appointed a judge ; to set weights and measures ( including coins ), and for congress to serve as a final court for disputes between states. the court will be composed of jointly appointed commissioners or congress shall appoint them. each commissioner is bound by oath to be impartial. the court ' s decision is final. congress shall regulate the post offices ; appoint officers in the military ; and regulate the armed forces. the united states in congress assembled may appoint a president who shall not serve longer than one year per three - year term of the congress. congress may request requisitions ( demands for payments or supplies ) from the states in proportion with their population, or take credit. congress may not declare war, enter into treaties and alliances, appropriate money, or appoint a commander in chief without nine states assenting. congress shall keep a journal of proceedings and adjourn for periods not to exceed six months. when congress is in recess, any of the powers of congress may be executed by " the committee of the states, or any nine of them ", except for those powers of congress which require nine states in congress to execute. if canada [ referring to the british province of quebec ] accedes to this confederation, it will be admitted. no other colony could be admitted without the consent of nine states. affirms that the confederation will honor all bills of credit incurred, monies borrowed, and debts contracted by congress before the existence of the articles. declares that the articles shall be perpetual, and may be altered only with the approval of congress and the ratification of all the state legislatures. congress under the articles army under the articles, congress had the authority to regulate and fund the continental army, but it lacked the power to compel the states to comply with requests for either troops or funding. this left the military vulnerable to inadequate funding, supplies, and even food. further, although the