the mouth. soreness, ulceration and redness may sometimes occur ( e. g., aphthous stomatitis or allergic contact stomatitis ) if the person is allergic or sensitive to mouthwash ingredients, such as preservatives, coloring, flavors and fragrances. such effects might be reduced or eliminated by diluting the mouthwash with water, using a different mouthwash ( e. g. saltwater ), or foregoing mouthwash entirely. prescription mouthwashes are used prior to and after oral surgery procedures, such as tooth extraction, or to treat the pain associated with mucositis caused by radiation therapy or chemotherapy. they are also prescribed for aphthous ulcers, other oral ulcers, and other mouth pain. " magic mouthwashes " are prescription mouthwashes compounded in a pharmacy from a list of ingredients specified by a doctor. despite a lack of evidence that prescription mouthwashes are more effective in decreasing the pain of oral lesions, many patients and prescribers continue to use them. there has been only one controlled study to evaluate the efficacy of magic mouthwash ; it shows no difference in efficacy between the most common magic - mouthwash formulation, on the one hand, and commercial mouthwashes ( such as chlorhexidine ) or a saline / baking soda solution, on the other. current guidelines suggest that saline solution is just as effective as magic mouthwash in pain relief and in shortening the healing time of oral mucositis from cancer therapies. history the first known references to mouth rinsing is in ayurveda for treatment of gingivitis. later, in the greek and roman periods, mouth rinsing following mechanical cleansing became common among the upper classes, and hippocrates recommended a mixture of salt, alum, and vinegar. the jewish talmud, dating back about 1, 800 years, suggests a cure for gum ailments containing " dough water " and olive oil. the ancient chinese had also gargled salt water, tea and wine as a form of mouthwash after meals, due to the antiseptic properties of those liquids. before europeans came to the americas, native north american and mesoamerican cultures used mouthwashes, often made from plants such as coptis trifolia. indeed, aztec dentistry was more advanced than european dentistry of the age. peoples of the americas used salt water mouthwashes for sore throats, and other mouthwashes for problems