narrow alleyways posthussmøgen and telefonsmøgen are remnants of toll stations from that time. the inner city has the oldest preserved buildings, especially the latin quarter, with houses dating back to the early 17th century in mejlgade and skolegade. medieval merchants ' mansions with courtyards can be seen in klostergade, studsgade and skolegade. by far, the largest part of the present - day city was built during and after the industrialization of the late 1800s, and the most represented architectural styles today are historicism and modernism, especially the subgenre of danish functionalism of which there are many fine examples. the building boom of the 2000s has imprinted itself on aarhus with a redeveloped harbourfront, many new neighbourhoods ( also in the inner city ), and a revitalized public space. it is also beginning to change the skyline with several dominating high - rises. developments in recent years, aarhus has experienced a large demand in housing and offices, spurring a construction boom in some parts of the city. the newly built city district of aarhus ø, formerly docklands, includes major housing developments, mostly consisting of privately owned apartments, designed by architects such as cebra, and jds architects. in the second quarter of 2012, the population of the area stood at only 5 ; however, that number had risen to 3, 940 by october 2019. the main public transportation service is bus line 23, as well as østbanetorvet train station. plans to service the area by the light rail line aarhus letbane have now been shelved. landmarks aarhus cathedral ( arhus domkirke ) in the centre of aarhus, is the longest and tallest church in denmark at and in length and height respectively. originally built as a romanesque basilica in the 13th century, it was rebuilt and enlarged as a gothic cathedral in the late 15th and early 16th centuries. even though the cathedral stood finished around 1300, it took more than a century to build ; the associated cathedral school of aarhus katedralskole was already founded in 1195 and ranks as the 44th oldest school in the world. another important and historic landmark in the inner city, is the church of our lady ( vor frue kirke ) also from the 13th century in romanesque and gothic style. it is smaller and less impressive, but it was the first cathedral of aarhus and founded on an even older church constructed in 1060 ; the oldest stone church in scandinavia. langelandsgade kaserne