upper austria, and the tyrol being very characteristic. speakers from those regions, even those speaking standard german, can usually be easily identified by their accent, even by an untrained listener. several of the dialects have been influenced by contact with non - germanic linguistic groups, such as the dialect of carinthia, where, in the past, many speakers were bilingual ( and, in the southeastern portions of the state, many still are even today ) with slovene, and the dialect of vienna, which has been influenced by immigration during the austro - hungarian period, particularly from what is today the czech republic. the german dialects of south tyrol have been influenced by local romance languages, particularly noticeable with the many loanwords from italian and ladin. the geographic borderlines between the different accents ( isoglosses ) coincide strongly with the borders of the states and also with the border with bavaria, with bavarians having a markedly different rhythm of speech in spite of the linguistic similarities. references notes citations works cited further reading ammon, ulrich : die deutsche sprache in deutschland, osterreich und der schweiz : das problem der nationalen varietaten. de gruyter, berlin / new york 1995. ammon, ulrich / hans bickel, jakob ebner u. a. : variantenworterbuch des deutschen. die standardsprache in osterreich, der schweiz und deutschland sowie in liechtenstein, luxemburg, ostbelgien und sudtirol. berlin / new york 2004,. dollinger, stefan : osterreichisches deutsch oder deutsch in osterreich? identitaten im 21. jahrhundert. new academic press, 2021. available online, 3rd ed. : https : / / www. nid - library. com / home / bookdetail / 512 grzega, joachim : „ deutschlandisch und osterreichisches deutsch : mehr unterschiede als nur in wortschatz und aussprache. “ in : joachim grzega : sprachwissenschaft ohne fachchinesisch. shaker, aachen 2001, s. 7 – 26.. grzega, joachim : " on the description of national varieties : examples from ( german and austrian ) german and ( english and american ) english ". in : linguistik online 7 ( 2000 ). grzega, joachim : " nonchal