in july 150 bc, in which demetrius was killed. by autumn, alexander ' s kingship was recognised throughout the seleucid realm. reign ( 150 – 147 bc ) alexander gained control of antioch at this time and his chancellor, ammonius, murdered all the courtiers of demetrius i, as well as his wife laodice and his eldest son antigonus. ptolemy vi philometor of egypt entered into an alliance with alexander, which was sealed by alexander ' s marriage to his daughter cleopatra thea. the wedding took place at ptolemais, with ptolemy vi and jonathan apphus in attendance. alexander took the opportunity to shower honours on jonathan, whom he treated as his main agent in judaea. the marriage was advertised by a special coinage issue, depicting the royal pair side by side - only the second depiction of a queen on seleucid coinage. she is shown with divine attributes ( a cornucopia and a calathus ) and is depicted in front of the king. some scholars have seen alexander as little more than a ptolemaic puppet, arguing that this coinage emphasises cleopatra ' s dominance over him and that the chancellor ammonius was a ptolemaic agent. other scholars argue that the alliance was advertised as an important one, but that the arguments for alexander ' s subservience have been overstated. collapse of the east meanwhile, the seleucid positions in the eastern upper satrapies, already weakened by the previous kings ' failure to contain the parthians and the greco - bactrians, suffered almost complete collapse. the parthians under mithridates i took advantage of the general instability to invade media. the region had been lost to seleucid control by the middle of 148 bc. at around the same time the local nobles in elymais and persis asserted their own ephemeral independence, only to be soon also subdued by the parthians. by 148 bc at the latest the parthians also secured their hold over hyrcania at the coast of the caspian sea. by 147 bc the parthians stood at the doorsteps of babylonia, one of the seleucid empire ' s hearthlands and location of one of its two capital cities, seleucia - on - tigris. alexander is not recorded to do anything of note to stem the steady erosion of seleucid power in the east. ancient historians hostile to him depict him as too distracted by a life of