refused a knightly crown, alexander mackenzie refused knighthood three times. unlike caesar, he owed his political overthrow to his incorruptible honesty and unswerving integrity. legacy in their 1999 study of the prime ministers of canada, which included the results of a survey of canadian historians, j. l. granatstein and norman hillmer found that mackenzie was in 11th place just after john sparrow david thompson. namesakes the following are named in honour of alexander mackenzie : the mackenzie mountain range in the yukon and northwest territories mount mackenzie, in the selkirk mountains of british columbia the mackenzie building, and the use of the mackenzie tartan by the bands at the royal military college of canada in kingston, ontario, " alexander mackenzie ", the royal military college of canada march for bagpipes, was composed in his honour by pipe major don m. carrigan, who was the college pipe major 1973 to 1985. mackenzie hall in windsor, ontario alexander mackenzie scholarships in economics and political science at mcgill university and the university of toronto alexander mackenzie park in sarnia, ontario alexander mackenzie high school in sarnia alexander mackenzie housing co - operative inc. in sarnia mackenzie avenue, ottawa, ontario mackenzie tower, west block, parliament hill, ottawa, ontario other honours a monument is dedicated to his tomb in lakeview cemetery, sarnia, ontario " honourable alexander mackenzie " ( 1964 ) by lawren harris, head of the department of fine arts, mount allison university, now hangs in the mackenzie building, royal military college of canada. the unveiling ceremony was performed by the right honourable louis st. laurent, a canadian former prime minister, and the gift was accepted by the commandant, air commodore l. j. birchall. the painting was commissioned in memory of no. 244, lieut. - col, f. b. wilson, o. b. e., her deceased husband, by mrs, f. w. dashwood. also taking part in the ceremony was the honourable paul hellyer, minister of national defence, president and chancellor of the college. in attendance was mrs. burton r. morgan of ottawa, great - granddaughter of alexander mackenzie. burgess tickets presented to alexander mackenzie in dundee, dunkeld, logierait, irvine, and perth scotland electoral record see also list of prime ministers of canada references citations works cited general sources alexander mackenzie fonds at library and archives canada further reading. external links photograph : alexander mackenzie, 1874 – mccord museum prime ministers of canada leaders of the liberal party of canada provincial secretaries of