efforts to protect the works of art created. the un, unesco and blue shield international try to ensure effective protection at the national level and to intervene directly in the event of armed conflicts or disasters. this can particularly affect museums, archives, art collections and excavation sites. this should also secure the economic basis of a country, especially because works of art are often of tourist importance. the founding president of blue shield international, karl von habsburg, explained an additional connection between the destruction of cultural property and the cause of flight during a mission in lebanon in april 2019 : " cultural goods are part of the identity of the people who live in a certain place. if you destroy their culture, you also destroy their identity. many people are uprooted, often no longer have any prospects and as a result flee from their homeland. " in order to preserve the diversity of cultural identity, unesco protects the living human treasure through the convention for the safeguarding of the intangible cultural heritage. see also applied arts art movement artist in residence artistic freedom cultural tourism craftivism formal analysis history of art list of artistic media list of art techniques mathematics and art street art ( or " independent public art " ) outline of the visual arts, a guide to the subject of art presented as a tree structured list of its subtopics. visual impairment in art notes works cited bibliography oscar wilde, intentions, 1891 katharine everett gilbert and helmut kuhn, a history of esthetics. edition 2, revised. indiana : indiana university press, 1953. stephen davies, definitions of art, 1991 nina felshin, ed. but is it art?, 1995 catherine de zegher ( ed. ). inside the visible. mit press, 1996 evelyn hatcher, ed. art as culture : an introduction to the anthropology of art, 1999 noel carroll, theories of art today, 2000 john whitehead. grasping for the wind, 2001 michael ann holly and keith moxey ( eds. ) art history aesthetics visual studies. new haven : yale university press, 2002. shiner, larry. the invention of art : a cultural history. chicago : university of chicago press, 2003. arthur danto, the abuse of beauty : aesthetics and the concept of art. 2003 dana arnold and margaret iversen, eds. art and thought. london : blackwell, 2003. jean robertson and craig mcdaniel, themes of contemporary art, visual art after 1980, 2005 further reading antony briant and griselda pollock, eds. digital and other virtualities : renegotiating the image.