ears of a donkey. contest with marsyas marsyas was a satyr who was punished by apollo for his hubris. he had found an aulos on the ground, tossed away after being invented by athena because it made her cheeks puffy. athena had also placed a curse upon the instrument, that whoever would pick it up would be severely punished. when marsyas played the flute, everyone became frenzied with joy. this led marsyas to think that he was better than apollo, and he challenged the god to a musical contest. the contest was judged by the muses, or the nymphs of nysa. athena was also present to witness the contest. marsyas taunted apollo for " wearing his hair long, for having a fair face and smooth body, for his skill in so many arts ". he also further said, the muses and athena sniggered at this comment. the contestants agreed to take turns displaying their skills and the rule was that the victor could " do whatever he wanted " to the loser. according to one account, after the first round, they both were deemed equal by the nysiads. but in the next round, apollo decided to play on his lyre and add his melodious voice to his performance. marsyas argued against this, saying that apollo would have an advantage and accused apollo of cheating. but apollo replied that since marsyas played the flute, which needed air blown from the throat, it was similar to singing, and that either they both should get an equal chance to combine their skills or none of them should use their mouths at all. the nymphs decided that apollo ' s argument was just. apollo then played his lyre and sang at the same time, mesmerising the audience. marsyas could not do this. apollo was declared the winner and, angered with marsyas ' haughtiness and his accusations, decided to flay the satyr. according to another account, marsyas played his flute out of tune at one point and accepted his defeat. out of shame, he assigned to himself the punishment of being skinned for a wine sack. another variation is that apollo played his instrument upside down. marsyas could not do this with his instrument. so the muses who were the judges declared apollo the winner. apollo hung marsyas from a tree to flay him. apollo flayed the limbs of marsyas alive in a cave near celaenae in phrygia for his hubris to challenge a god. he then gave the