century ce, cappadocian in the homonymous region, armenian in the east, and kartvelian languages in the northeast. anatolia is known as the birthplace of minted coinage ( as opposed to unminted coinage, which first appears in mesopotamia at a much earlier date ) as a medium of exchange, some time in the 7th century bce in lydia. the use of minted coins continued to flourish during the greek and roman eras. during the 6th century bce, all of anatolia was conquered by the persian achaemenid empire, the persians having usurped the medes as the dominant dynasty of persia. in 499 bce, the ionian city - states on the west coast of anatolia rebelled against persian rule. the ionian revolt, as it became known, though quelled, initiated the greco - persian wars, which ended in a greek victory in 449 bce, and the ionian cities regained their independence. by the peace of antalcidas ( 387 bce ), which ended the corinthian war, persia regained control over ionia. in 334 bce, the macedonian greek king alexander the great conquered the anatolian peninsula from the achaemenid persian empire. alexander ' s conquest opened up the interior of asia minor to greek settlement and influence. following the death of alexander the great and the subsequent breakup of the macedonian empire, anatolia was ruled by a series of hellenistic kingdoms, such as the attalids of pergamum and the seleucids, the latter controlling most of anatolia. a period of peaceful hellenization followed, such that the local anatolian languages had been supplanted by greek by the 1st century bce. in 133 bce the last attalid king bequeathed his kingdom to the roman republic ; western and central anatolia came under roman control, but hellenistic culture remained predominant. mithridates vi eupator, ruler of the kingdom of pontus in northern anatolia, waged war against the roman republic in the year 88 bce in order to halt the advance of roman hegemony in the aegean sea region. mithridates vi sought to dominate asia minor and the black sea region, waging several hard - fought but ultimately unsuccessful wars ( the mithridatic wars ) to break roman dominion over asia and the hellenic world. he has been called the greatest ruler of the kingdom of pontus. further annexations by rome, in particular of the kingdom of pontus by pompey, brought all of anatolia under roman control, except for the southeastern frontier