by armando quesado in memory of a group of divers who died here. many of the scuba - diving tours come to this area as well, where there are sunken ships, sea mountains, and cave rock formations. another popular activity is deep - sea fishing. the major attraction is sail fishing. fish caught here have weighed between 89 and 200 pounds. sailfish are so plentiful that boat captains have been known to bet with a potential customer that if he does not catch anything, the trip is free. in the old part of the city, there is a traditional main square called the zocalo, lined with shade trees, cafes and shops. at the north end of the square is nuestra senora de la soledad cathedral, with blue onion - shaped domes and byzantine towers. the building was originally constructed as a movie set, but was later adapted into a church. acapulco ' s most historic building is the fort of san diego, located east of the main square and originally built in 1616 to protect the city from pirate attacks. the fort was partially destroyed by the dutch in the mid - 17th century, rebuilt, then destroyed again in 1776 by an earthquake. it was rebuilt again by 1783 and this is the building that can be seen today, unchanged except for renovations done to it in 2000. parts of the moats remain as well as the five bulwarks and the battlements. today the fort serves as the museo historico de acapulco ( acapulco historical museum ), which shows the port ' s history from the pre - hispanic period until independence. there are temporary exhibits as well. for many years tourists could ride around the city in colorful horse - drawn carriages known as calandrias, but the practice ended in february 2020 due to concerns about mistreatment of the animals. the el rollo acapulco is a sea - life and aquatic park located on costera miguel aleman. it offers wave pools, water slides and water toboggans. there are also dolphin shows daily and a swim with dolphins program. the center mostly caters to children. another place that is popular with children is the parque papagayo : a large family park which has a life - sized replica of a spanish galleon, three artificial lakes, an aviary, a skating rink, rides, go - karts and more. the dolores olmedo house is located in the traditional downtown of acapulco and is noted for the murals by diego rivera that