the hind legs are much longer and stronger than the forelimbs. the feet have four or five digits and the toes are often webbed for swimming or have suction pads for climbing. frogs have large eyes and no tail. salamanders resemble lizards in appearance ; their short legs project sideways, the belly is close to or in contact with the ground and they have a long tail. caecilians superficially resemble earthworms and are limbless. they burrow by means of zones of muscle contractions which move along the body and they swim by undulating their body from side to side. reptile anatomy reptiles are a class of animals comprising turtles, tuataras, lizards, snakes and crocodiles. they are tetrapods, but the snakes and a few species of lizard either have no limbs or their limbs are much reduced in size. their bones are better ossified and their skeletons stronger than those of amphibians. the teeth are conical and mostly uniform in size. the surface cells of the epidermis are modified into horny scales which create a waterproof layer. reptiles are unable to use their skin for respiration as do amphibians and have a more efficient respiratory system drawing air into their lungs by expanding their chest walls. the heart resembles that of the amphibian but there is a septum which more completely separates the oxygenated and deoxygenated bloodstreams. the reproductive system has evolved for internal fertilization, with a copulatory organ present in most species. the eggs are surrounded by amniotic membranes which prevents them from drying out and are laid on land, or develop internally in some species. the bladder is small as nitrogenous waste is excreted as uric acid. turtles are notable for their protective shells. they have an inflexible trunk encased in a horny carapace above and a plastron below. these are formed from bony plates embedded in the dermis which are overlain by horny ones and are partially fused with the ribs and spine. the neck is long and flexible and the head and the legs can be drawn back inside the shell. turtles are vegetarians and the typical reptile teeth have been replaced by sharp, horny plates. in aquatic species, the front legs are modified into flippers. tuataras superficially resemble lizards but the lineages diverged in the triassic period. there is one living species, sphenodon punctatus. the skull has two openings ( fenestrae ) on either side