refers to any assembler input outside of a macro definition. a cross assembler ( see also cross compiler ) is an assembler that is run on a computer or operating system ( the host system ) of a different type from the system on which the resulting code is to run ( the target system ). cross - assembling facilitates the development of programs for systems that do not have the resources to support software development, such as an embedded system or a microcontroller. in such a case, the resulting object code must be transferred to the target system, via read - only memory ( rom, eprom, etc. ), a programmer ( when the read - only memory is integrated in the device, as in microcontrollers ), or a data link using either an exact bit - by - bit copy of the object code or a text - based representation of that code ( such as intel hex or motorola s - record ). a high - level assembler is a program that provides language abstractions more often associated with high - level languages, such as advanced control structures ( if / then / else, do case, etc. ) and high - level abstract data types, including structures / records, unions, classes, and sets. a microassembler is a program that helps prepare a microprogram, called firmware, to control the low level operation of a computer. a meta - assembler is " a program that accepts the syntactic and semantic description of an assembly language, and generates an assembler for that language ", or that accepts an assembler source file along with such a description and assembles the source file in accordance with that description. " meta - symbol " assemblers for the sds 9 series and sds sigma series of computers are meta - assemblers. sperry univac also provided a meta - assembler for the univac 1100 / 2200 series. inline assembler ( or embedded assembler ) is assembler code contained within a high - level language program. this is most often used in systems programs which need direct access to the hardware. key concepts assembler an assembler program creates object code by translating combinations of mnemonics and syntax for operations and addressing modes into their numerical equivalents. this representation typically includes an operation code ( " opcode " ) as well as other control bits and data. the assembler also calculates constant expressions and resolves symbolic names for memory locations and other entities. the use of symbolic references is a key feature of assemble