will have to pick an orientation of the plane ( or surface ) to decide the sign of the exterior angle measure. in euclidean geometry, the sum of the exterior angles of a simple convex polygon, if only one of the two exterior angles is assumed at each vertex, will be one full turn ( 360° ). the exterior angle here could be called a supplementary exterior angle. exterior angles are commonly used in logo turtle programs when drawing regular polygons. in a triangle, the bisectors of two exterior angles and the bisector of the other interior angle are concurrent ( meet at a single point ). in a triangle, three intersection points, each of an external angle bisector with the opposite extended side, are collinear. in a triangle, three intersection points, two between an interior angle bisector and the opposite side, and the third between the other exterior angle bisector and the opposite side extended are collinear. some authors use the name exterior angle of a simple polygon to mean the explement exterior angle ( not supplement! ) of the interior angle. this conflicts with the above usage. plane - related angles the angle between two planes ( such as two adjacent faces of a polyhedron ) is called a dihedral angle. it may be defined as the acute angle between two lines normal to the planes. the angle between a plane and an intersecting straight line is equal to ninety degrees minus the angle between the intersecting line and the line that goes through the point of intersection and is normal to the plane. measuring angles the size of a geometric angle is usually characterized by the magnitude of the smallest rotation that maps one of the rays into the other. angles of the same size are said to be equal congruent or equal in measure. in some contexts, such as identifying a point on a circle or describing the orientation of an object in two dimensions relative to a reference orientation, angles that differ by an exact multiple of a full turn are effectively equivalent. in other contexts, such as identifying a point on a spiral curve or describing an object ' s cumulative rotation in two dimensions relative to a reference orientation, angles that differ by a non - zero multiple of a full turn are not equivalent. to measure an angle θ, a circular arc centered at the vertex of the angle is drawn, e. g., with a pair of compasses. the ratio of the length s of the arc by the radius r of the circle is the number of radians in the angle : conventionally, in mathematics and the si