- communal group of persons — juridical entities under church law ). they receive the vows of the nuns of the abbey ; they may admit candidates to their order ' s novitiate ; they may send them to study ; and they may send them to do pastoral or missionary, or to work or assist — to the extent allowed by canon and civil law — in the administration and ministry of a parish or diocese ( these activities could be inside or outside the community ' s territory ). they have full authority in its administration. however, there are significant limitations. they may not administer the sacraments, whose celebration is reserved to bishops, priests, deacons ( clerics ), namely, those in holy orders. they may make provision for an ordained cleric to help train and to admit some of their members, if needed, as altar servers, extraordinary ministers of holy communion, or lectors — all ministries which are now open to the unordained. they may not serve as a witness to a marriage except by special rescript. they may not administer penance ( reconciliation ), anointing of the sick ( extreme unction ), or function as an ordained celebrant or concelebrant of the mass ( by virtue of their office and their training and institution, they may act, if the need arises, as altar servers, lectors, ushers, porters, or extraordinary ministers of holy communion, and if need be, the host ). they may preside over the liturgy of the hours which they are obliged to say with their community, speak on scripture to their community, and give certain types of blessings not reserved to the clergy. on the other hand, they may not ordinarily preach a sermon or homily, nor read the gospel during mass. as they do not receive episcopal ordination in the catholic, orthodox and oriental churches, they do not possess the ability to ordain others, nor do they exercise the authority they do possess under canon law over any territories outside of their monastery and its territory ( though non - cloistered, non - contemplative female religious members who are based in a convent or monastery but who participate in external affairs may assist as needed by the diocesan bishop and local secular clergy and laity, in certain pastoral ministries and administrative and non - administrative functions not requiring ordained ministry or status as a male cleric in those churches or programs ). there are exigent circumstances, where due to apostolical privilege, certain abbesses have been granted rights and responsibilities above the