mississippi, which he reached by a circuitous route. johnston kept the u. s. forces, now under the overall command of maj. gen. henry halleck, confused and hesitant to move, allowing johnston to reach his objective undetected. he scraped together reinforcements from louisiana, as well as part of polk ' s force at island no. 10, and 10, 000 additional troops under braxton bragg brought up from mobile. bragg at least calmed the nerves of beauregard and polk, who had become agitated by their apparent dire situation in the face of numerically superior forces, before johnston ' s arrival on march 24, 1862. johnston ' s army of 17, 000 men gave the confederates a combined force of about 40, 000 to 44, 669 men at corinth. on march 29, 1862, johnston officially took command of this combined force, which continued to use the army of the mississippi name under which beauregard had organized it on march 5. johnston ' s only hope was to crush grant before buell and others could reinforce him. he started his army in motion on april 3, intent on surprising grant ' s force as soon as the next day. it was not an easy undertaking ; his army had been hastily thrown together, two - thirds of the soldiers had never fired a shot in battle, and drill, discipline, and staff work were so poor that the different divisions kept stumbling into each other on the march. beauregard felt that this offensive was a mistake and could not possibly succeed, but johnson replied " i would fight them if they were a million " as he drove his army on to pittsburg landing. his army was finally in position within a mile or two of grant ' s force, undetected, by the evening of april 5, 1862. battle of shiloh and death johnston launched a massive surprise attack with his concentrated forces against grant at the battle of shiloh on april 6, 1862. as the confederate forces overran the u. s. camps, johnston personally rallied troops up and down the line on his horse. one of his famous moments in the battle occurred when he witnessed some of his soldiers breaking from the ranks to pillage and loot the u. s. camps and was outraged to see a young lieutenant among them. " none of that, sir ", johnston roared at the officer, " we are not here for plunder. " then, realizing he had embarrassed the man, he picked up a tin cup from a table and announced, " let this be my