practicing aikido ( ) is similar to the training uniform ( ) used in most other modern martial arts ; simple trousers and a wraparound jacket, usually white. both thick ( " judo - style " ), and thin ( " karate - style " ) cotton tops are used. aikido - specific tops are available with shorter sleeves which reach to just below the elbow. most aikido systems add a pair of wide pleated black or indigo trousers known as ( used also in naginatajutsu, kendo, and iaido ). in many schools, the wearing of is reserved for practitioners with ranks or for instructors, while others allow all practitioners to wear a regardless of rank. aikido styles aikido styles vary in their intention as due to its holistic nature. the most common differences noted in aikido, when observed externally, relate to the intensity and realism of training. stanley pranin has observed that some criticism may stem from weak attacks from, allowing for a conditioned response from, resulting in underdevelopment of the skills needed for the safe and effective practice of both partners. to counteract this, some styles allow students to become less compliant over time, but, in keeping with the core philosophies, this is after having demonstrated proficiency in being able to protect themselves and their training partners. shodokan aikido addresses the issue by practicing in a competitive format. such adaptations are debated between styles, with some maintaining that there is no need to adjust their methods because either the criticisms are unjustified, or that they are not training for self - defense or combat effectiveness, but spiritual, fitness or other reasons. reasons for the difference and diversity of teachings, intention, and forms of aikido can be traced to the shift in training focus after the end of ueshiba ' s seclusion in iwama from 1942 to the mid - 1950s, as he increasingly emphasized the spiritual and philosophical aspects of aikido. as a result, strikes to vital points by, entering ( ) and initiation of techniques by, the distinction between ( front side ) and ( back side ) techniques, and the use of weapons, were all de - emphasized or eliminated from practice. conversely, some styles of aikido place less importance on the spiritual practices emphasized by ueshiba. according to minoru shibata of aikido journal : o - sensei ' s aikido was not a continuation and extension of the old and has a distinct discontinuity with past