traditions of " going souling " and the baking of special types of bread or cakes ( cf. pao - por - deus ). europe all souls ' day is celebrated in many european countries with vigils, candles, the decoration of graves, and special prayers as well as many regional customs. examples of regional customs include leaving cakes for departed loved ones on the table and keeping the room warm for their comfort in tirol and the custom in brittany, where people flock to the cemeteries at nightfall to kneel, bareheaded, at the graves of their loved ones and anoint the hollow of the tombstone with holy water or to pour libations of milk on it. at bedtime, supper is left on the table for the souls. all souls ' day is known in maltese as jum il - mejtin, and is accompanied a traditional supper including roasted pig, based on a custom of letting a pig loose on the streets with a bell around its neck, to be fed by the entire neighborhood and cooked on that day to feed the poor. in linz, funereal musical pieces known as aequales were played from tower tops on all souls ' day and the evening before. in the czech republic and slovakia all souls ' day is called dusicky, or " little souls ". traditionally, candles are left on graves on dusicky. in sicily and other regions of southern italy, all souls ' day is celebrated as the festa dei morti or u juornu rii morti, the " commemoration of the dead " or the " day of the dead ", which according to joshua nicolosi of the sicilian post could be seen " halfway between christian and pagan traditions ". families visit and clean grave sites, home altars are decorated with family photos and votive candles, and children are gifted a special basket or cannistru of chocolates, pomegranate, and other gifts from their ancestors. because of the gifting of sugary sweets and the emphasis on sugar puppet decorations, the commemoration day has spurred local sicilian events such as the notte di zucchero ( " night of sugar " ) in which communities celebrate the dead. philippines in the philippines, hallow mas is variously called " undas ", " todos los santos " ( spanish, " all saints " ), and sometimes " araw ng mga patay / yumao " ( tagalog, " day of the dead / those who have passed away " ), which incorporates