way of all flesh. he had to return to europe before the ceremony, so the academy agreed to give him the prize earlier ; this made him the first academy award winner in history. at that time, winners were recognized for the entirety of their work done in a certain category during the qualifying period ; for example, jannings received the award for two movies in which he starred during that period, and janet gaynor later won a single oscar for performances in three films. with the fourth ceremony, however, the system changed, and professionals were honored for a specific performance in a single film. for the first six ceremonies, the eligibility period spanned two calendar years. at the 29th ceremony, held in 1957, the best foreign language film category, now known as best international feature film, was introduced. until then, foreign - language films had been honored with the special achievement award. perhaps the most widely seen streaker in history was 34 - year - old robert opel, who streaked across the stage of the dorothy chandler pavilion in los angeles flashing a peace sign on national us television at the 46th academy awards in 1974. bemused host david niven quipped, " isn ' t it fascinating to think that probably the only laugh that man will ever get in his life is by stripping off and showing his shortcomings? " later, evidence arose suggesting that opel ' s appearance was facilitated as a publicity stunt by the show ' s producer jack haley jr. robert metzler, the show ' s business manager, believed that the incident had been planned in some way ; during the dress rehearsal niven had asked metzler ' s wife to borrow a pen so he could write down the famous line, which was thus not the ad - lib it appeared to be. the 74th academy awards, held in 2002, presented the first academy award for best animated feature. from 1973 to 2020 and since 2022, all academy awards ceremonies have ended with the academy award for best picture. for 2021, this tradition was broken as the ceremony ended with the academy award for best actor. traditionally, the previous year ' s winner for best actor and best supporting actor present the awards for best actress and best supporting actress, while the previous year ' s winner for best actress and best supporting actress presents the awards for best actor and best supporting actor. on february 9, 2020, parasite became the first foreign - language film to win best picture at the award ceremony of 92nd academy awards. tom hanks announced, at the 2020 oscar ceremony, the opening of the