alcott and russell were initially concerned that the area would not be conducive to their progressive approach to education and considered establishing the school in nearby philadelphia instead. unsuccessful, they went back to germantown, though the rent - free home was no longer available and the alcotts instead had to rent rooms in a boarding - house. it was there that their first child, a daughter they named anna bronson alcott, was born on march 16, 1831, after 36 hours of labor. by the fall of that year, their benefactor haines died suddenly and the alcotts again suffered financial difficulty. " we hardly earn the bread ", wrote abby may to her brother, " [ and ] the butter we have to think about. " the couple ' s only son was born on april 6, 1839, but lived only a few minutes. the mother recorded : " gave birth to a fine boy full grown perfectly formed but not living ". it was in germantown that the couple ' s second daughter was born. louisa may alcott was born on her father ' s birthday, november 29, 1832, at a half - hour past midnight. bronson described her as " a very fine healthful child, much more so than anna was at birth ". the germantown school, however, was faltering ; soon only eight pupils remained. their benefactor haines died before louisa ' s birth. he had helped recruit students and even paid tuition for some of them. as abby wrote, his death " has prostrated all our hopes here ". on april 10, 1833, the family moved to philadelphia, where alcott ran a day school. as usual, alcott ' s methods were controversial ; a former student later referred to him as " the most eccentric man who ever took on himself to train and form the youthful mind ". alcott began to believe boston was the best place for his ideas to flourish. he contacted theologian william ellery channing for support. channing approved of alcott ' s methods and promised to help find students to enroll, including his daughter mary. channing also secured aid from justice lemuel shaw and boston mayor josiah quincy jr. experimental educator on september 22, 1834, alcott opened a school of about 30 students, mostly from wealthy families. it was named the temple school because classes were held at the masonic temple on tremont street in boston. his assistant was elizabeth palmer peabody, later replaced by margaret fuller. mary peabody mann served as a french instructor for a time. the