inspected concentration camps and described his comments as an " outright farce ". martin kitchen described speer ' s often repeated line that he knew nothing of the " dreadful things " as hollow — because not only was he fully aware of the fate of the jews he was actively participating in their persecution. as germany started world war ii in europe, speer instituted quick - reaction squads to construct roads or clear away debris ; before long, these units would be used to clear bomb sites. speer used forced jewish labor on these projects, in addition to regular german workers. construction stopped on the berlin and nuremberg plans at the outbreak of war. though stockpiling of materials and other work continued, this slowed to a halt as more resources were needed for the armament industry. speer ' s offices undertook building work for each branch of the military, and for the ss, using slave labor. speer ' s building work made him among the wealthiest of the nazi elite. minister of armaments appointment and increasing power as one of the younger and more ambitious men in hitler ' s inner circle, speer was approaching the height of his power. in 1938, prussian minister president hermann goring had appointed him to the prussian state council. in 1941, he was elected to the reichstag from electoral constituency 2 ( berlin – west ). on 8 february 1942, reich minister of armaments and munitions fritz todt died in a plane crash shortly after taking off from hitler ' s eastern headquarters at rastenburg. speer arrived there the previous evening and accepted todt ' s offer to fly with him to berlin. speer cancelled some hours before take - off because the previous night he had been up late in a meeting with hitler. hitler appointed speer in todt ' s place. martin kitchen, a british historian, says that the choice was not surprising. speer was loyal to hitler, and his experience building prisoner of war camps and other structures for the military qualified him for the job. speer succeeded todt not only as reich minister but in all his other powerful positions, including inspector general of german roadways, inspector general for water and energy and head of the nazi party ' s office of technology. at the same time, hitler also appointed speer as head of the organisation todt, a massive, government - controlled construction company. characteristically hitler did not give speer any clear remit ; he was left to fight his contemporaries in the regime for power and control. as an example, he wanted to be given power over all armaments