' s feature children of men, an adaptation of the p. d. james novel starring clive owen, julianne moore, and michael caine, received wide critical acclaim including three academy award nominations. cuaron himself received two nominations for his work on the film, in best film editing ( with alex rodriguez ) and best adapted screenplay ( with several collaborators ). he created the production and distribution company esperanto filmoj ( " esperanto films ", named because of his support for the international language esperanto ), which has credits in the films duck season, pan ' s labyrinth, and gravity. cuaron also directed the controversial public service announcement i am autism for autism speaks that was criticized by disability rights groups for its negative portrayal of autism. 2010s : awards success in 2010, cuaron began to develop the film gravity, a drama set in space. he was joined by producer david heyman, with whom cuaron worked on harry potter and the prisoner of azkaban. starring sandra bullock and george clooney, the film opened the 70th venice international film festival in august. the film was then released in america in october 2013. the film became a financial success, earning 723. 2 million at the box office against a budget of 130 million. the film also received many awards nominations. for the film, he received the golden globe award in the category of best director. the film received ten academy award nominations, including best picture and best director. cuaron won for best directing, becoming the first latin american to win the award, while he and mark sanger received the award for best film editing. in 2013, cuaron created believe, a science fiction / fantasy / adventure series that was broadcast as part of the 2013 – 14 united states network television schedule on nbc as a mid - season entry. the series was created by cuaron for bad robot productions and warner bros. television. in 2014, time placed him in its list of " 100 most influential people in the world " – pioneers. in may 2015, cuaron was announced as the president of the jury for the 72nd venice international film festival. production began in fall 2016 for cuaron ' s eighth film, roma, a tale of a housekeeper for a middle class mexican family in 1970s mexico city, based on the life of his family ' s longtime maid, liboria rodriguez. the project was produced by cuaron, gabriela rodriguez and nicolas celis and starred yalitza aparicio and marina de tavi