regardless of style or origin. english - language dictionaries typically define anime ( ) as " a style of japanese animation " or as " a style of animation originating in japan ". other definitions are based on origin, making production in japan a requisite for a work to be considered " anime ". the etymology of the term anime is disputed. the english word " animation " is written in japanese katakana as ( ) and as (, ) in its shortened form. some sources claim that the term is derived from the french term for animation ( " cartoon ", literally ' animated drawing ' ), but others believe this to be a myth derived from the popularity of anime in france in the late 1970s and 1980s. in english, anime — when used as a common noun — normally functions as a mass noun. ( for example : " do you watch anime? " or " how much anime have you collected? " ) as with a few other japanese words, such as sake and pokemon, english texts sometimes spell anime as anime ( as in french ), with an acute accent over the final e, to cue the reader to pronounce the letter, not to leave it silent as english orthography may suggest. prior to the widespread use of anime, the term japanimation, a portmanteau of japan and animation, was prevalent throughout the 1970s and 1980s. in the mid - 1980s, the term anime began to supplant japanimation ; in general, the latter term now only appears in period works where it is used to distinguish and identify japanese animation. history precursors and kagee are considered precursors of japanese animation. was common in the eleventh century. traveling storytellers narrated legends and anecdotes while the was unrolled from the right to left in chronological order, as a moving panorama. kagee was popular during the edo period and originated from the shadows play of china. magic lanterns from the netherlands were also popular in the eighteenth century. the paper play called kamishibai surged in the twelfth century and remained popular in the street theater until the 1930s. puppets of the bunraku theater and ukiyo - e prints are considered ancestors of characters of most japanese animations. finally, mangas were a heavy inspiration for anime. cartoonists kitzawa rakuten and okamoto ippei used film elements in their strips. pioneers animation in japan began in the early 20th century, when filmmakers started to experiment with techniques pioneered in france, germany, the united states, and