corvey ( c. 975 ), there also existed a ceremony praying for the dead on 1 october in saxony. but it was the day after all saints ' day that saint odilo of cluny chose when in the 11th century he instituted for all the monasteries dependent on the abbey of cluny an annual commemoration of all the faithful departed, to be observed with alms, prayers, and sacrifices for the relief of the suffering souls in purgatory. odilo decreed that those requesting a mass be offered for the departed should make an offering for the poor, thus linking almsgiving with fasting and prayer for the dead. the 2 november date and customs spread from the cluniac monasteries to other benedictine monasteries and thence to the western church in general. the diocese of liege was the first diocese to adopt the practice under bishop notger ( d. 1008 ). 2 november was adopted in italy and rome in the thirteenth century. in the 15th century the dominicans instituted a custom of each priest offering three masses on the feast of all souls. during world war i, given the great number of war dead and the many destroyed churches where mass could no longer be said, pope benedict xv, granted all priests the privilege of offering three masses on all souls day. liturgical practice if 2 november falls on a sunday, all souls ' day is observed on that day. in the liturgy of the hours of all souls ' day the sequence dies irae can be used ad libitum. every priest is allowed to celebrate three holy masses on all souls ' day. in divine worship : the missal the minor propers ( introit, gradual, tract, sequence, offertory, and communion ) are those used for renaissance and classical musical requiem settings, including the dies irae. this permits the performance of traditional requiem settings in the context of the divine worship form of the roman rite on all souls day as well as at funerals, votive celebrations of all faithful departed, and anniversaries of deaths. in the ordinary form of the roman rite, as well as in the personal ordinariates established by benedict xvi for former anglicans, it remains on 2 november if this date falls on a sunday ; in the 1962 – 1969 form of the roman rite, use of which is still authorized, it is transferred to monday, 3 november. all souls ' indulgence according to the enchiridion of indulgences, an indulgence applicable only to the souls in purgatory ( commonly called the