##men had no answer to the pace of frank tyson and statham. after winning the first test by an innings after being controversially sent in by hutton, australia lost its way and england took a hat - trick of victories to win the series 3 – 1. a dramatic series in 1956 saw a record that will probably never be beaten : off - spinner jim laker ' s monumental effort at old trafford when he bowled 68 of 191 overs to take 19 out of 20 possible australian wickets in the fourth test. it was australia ' s second consecutive innings defeat in a wet summer, and the hosts were in strong positions in the two drawn tests, in which half the playing time was washed out. bradman rated the team that won the series 2 – 1 as england ' s best ever. england ' s dominance was not to last. australia won 4 – 0 in 1958 – 59, having found a high - quality spinner of their own in new skipper richie benaud, who took 31 wickets in the five - test series, and paceman alan davidson, who took 24 wickets at 19. 00. the series was overshadowed by the furore over various australian bowlers, most notably ian meckiff, whom the english management and media accused of illegally throwing australia to victory. in 1961, australia won a hard - fought series 2 – 1, their first ashes series win in england for 13 years. after narrowly winning the second test at lord ' s, dubbed " the battle of the ridge " because of a protrusion on the pitch that caused erratic bounce, australia mounted a comeback on the final day of the fourth test at old trafford and sealed the series with richie benaud taking 6 - 70 during the english runchase. the tempo of the play changed over the next four series in the 1960s, held in 1962 – 63, 1964, 1965 – 66 and 1968. the powerful array of bowlers that both countries boasted in the preceding decade moved into retirement, and their replacements were of lesser quality, making it more difficult to force a result. england failed to win any series during the 1960s, a period dominated by draws as teams found it more prudent to save face than risk losing. of the 20 tests played during the four series, australia won four and england three. as they held the ashes, australia ' s captains bob simpson and bill lawry were happy to adopt safety - first tactics and their strategy of sedate batting saw many draws. during this period, spectator attendances dropped and media condemnation increased, but simpson and lawry flatly