##d, he read schopenhauer ' s essays and marked them heavily. scholar brian yothers notes that melville " marked numerous misanthropic and even suicidal remarks, suggesting an attraction to the most extreme sorts of solitude, but he also made note of schopenhauer ' s reflection on the moral ambiguities of genius. " schopenhauer ' s attraction to and discussions of both eastern and western religions in conjunction with each other made an impression on melville in his final years. sergei prokofiev, although initially reluctant to engage with works noted for their pessimism, became fascinated with schopenhauer after reading aphorisms on the wisdom of life in parerga and paralipomena. " with his truths schopenhauer gave me a spiritual world and an awareness of happiness. " friedrich nietzsche owed the awakening of his philosophical interest to reading the world as will and representation and admitted that he was one of the few philosophers that he respected, dedicating to him his essay " schopenhauer als erzieher ", one of his untimely meditations. early in his career, ludwig wittgenstein adopted schopenhauer ' s epistemological idealism, and some traits of schopenhauer ' s influence ( particularly schopenhauerian transcendentalism ) can be observed in the tractatus logico - philosophicus. later on, wittgenstein rejected epistemological transcendental idealism for gottlob frege ' s conceptual realism. in later years, wittgenstein became highly dismissive of schopenhauer, describing him as an ultimately shallow thinker. his friend bertrand russell had a low opinion on the philosopher, and even came to attack him in his history of western philosophy for hypocritically praising asceticism yet not acting upon it. opposite to russell on the foundations of mathematics, the dutch mathematician l. e. j. brouwer incorporated kant ' s and schopenhauer ' s ideas in the philosophical school of intuitionism, where mathematics is considered as a purely mental activity instead of an analytic activity wherein objective properties of reality are revealed. brouwer was also influenced by schopenhauer ' s metaphysics, and wrote an essay on mysticism. schopenhauer ' s philosophy has made its way into a novel, the schopenhauer cure, by american existential psychiatrist and emeritus professor of psychiatry irvin yalom. schope