akin to a regent. in 385 ( or 386 ) the emperor valentinian ii and his mother justina, along with a considerable number of clergy, the laity, and the military, professed arianism. conflict between ambrose and justina soon followed. the arians demanded that valentinian allocate to them two churches in milan : one in the city ( the basilica of the apostles ), the other in the suburbs ( st victor ' s ). ambrose refused to surrender the churches. he answered by saying that " what belongs to god, is outside the emperor ' s power. " in this, ambrose called on an ancient roman principle : a temple set apart to a god became the property of that god. ambrose now applied this ancient legal principle to the christian churches, seeing the bishop, as a divine representative, as guardian of his god ' s property. subsequently, while ambrose was performing the liturgy of the hours in the basilica, the prefect of the city came to persuade him to give it up to the arians. ambrose again refused. certain deans ( officers of the court ) were sent to take possession of the basilica by hanging upon it imperial escutcheons. instead, soldiers from the ranks the emperor had placed around the basilica began pouring into the church, assuring ambrose of their fidelity. the escutcheons outside the church were removed, and legend says the children tore them to shreds. ambrose refused to surrender the basilica, and sent sharp answers back to his emperor : " if you demand my person, i am ready to submit : carry me to prison or to death, i will not resist ; but i will never betray the church of christ. i will not call upon the people to succour me ; i will die at the foot of the altar rather than desert it. the tumult of the people i will not encourage : but god alone can appease it. " by thursday, the emperor gave in, bitterly responding : " soon, if ambrose gives the orders, you will be sending me to him in chains. " in 386, justina and valentinian ii received the arian bishop auxentius the younger, and ambrose was again ordered to hand over a church in milan for arian usage. ambrose and his congregation barricaded themselves inside the church, and again the imperial order was rescinded. there was an attempted kidnapping, and another attempt to arrest him and to force him to leave the city. several accusations were made, but unlike in the case of