and archers on the wings, so that his line matched the length of the persian cavalry line, about. by contrast, the persian infantry was stationed behind its cavalry. this ensured that alexander would not be outflanked, while his phalanx, armed with long pikes, had a considerable advantage over the persians ' scimitars and javelins. macedonian losses were negligible compared to those of the persians. at issus in 333 bc, his first confrontation with darius, he used the same deployment, and again the central phalanx pushed through. alexander personally led the charge in the center, routing the opposing army. at the decisive encounter with darius at gaugamela, darius equipped his chariots with scythes on the wheels to break up the phalanx and equipped his cavalry with pikes. alexander arranged a double phalanx, with the center advancing at an angle, parting when the chariots bore down and then reforming. the advance was successful and broke darius ' s center, causing the latter to flee once again. when faced with opponents who used unfamiliar fighting techniques, such as in central asia and india, alexander adapted his forces to his opponents ' style. thus, in bactria and sogdiana, alexander successfully used his javelin throwers and archers to prevent outflanking movements, while massing his cavalry at the center. in india, confronted by porus ' s elephant corps, the macedonians opened their ranks to envelop the elephants and used their sarissas to strike upwards and dislodge the elephants ' handlers. physical appearance historical sources frequently give conflicting accounts of alexander ' s appearance, and the earliest sources are the most scant in their detail. during his lifetime, alexander carefully curated his image by commissioning works from famous and great artists of the time. this included commissioning sculptures by lysippos, paintings by apelles and gem engravings by pyrgoteles. ancient authors recorded that alexander was so pleased with portraits of himself created by lysippos that he forbade other sculptors from crafting his image ; scholars today, however, find the claim dubious. nevertheless, andrew stewart highlights the fact that artistic portraits, not least because of who they are commissioned by, are always partisan, and that artistic portrayals of alexander " seek to legitimize him ( or, by extension, his successors ), to interpret him to their audiences, to answer their critiques, and to persuade them of his greatness ", and thus should