by the nsa is not deemed secure by the us government and cannot be used to protect government data. fips 140 - 2 validation is challenging to achieve both technically and fiscally. there is a standardized battery of tests as well as an element of source code review that must be passed over a period of a few weeks. the cost to perform these tests through an approved laboratory can be significant ( e. g., well over $ 30, 000 us ) and does not include the time it takes to write, test, document and prepare a module for validation. after validation, modules must be re - submitted and re - evaluated if they are changed in any way. this can vary from simple paperwork updates if the security functionality did not change to a more substantial set of re - testing if the security functionality was impacted by the change. test vectors test vectors are a set of known ciphers for a given input and key. nist distributes the reference of aes test vectors as aes known answer test ( kat ) vectors. performance high speed and low ram requirements were some of the criteria of the aes selection process. as the chosen algorithm, aes performed well on a wide variety of hardware, from 8 - bit smart cards to high - performance computers. on a pentium pro, aes encryption requires 18 clock cycles per byte, equivalent to a throughput of about 11 mib / s for a 200 mhz processor. on intel core and amd ryzen cpus supporting aes - ni instruction set extensions, throughput can be multiple gib / s ( even over 15 gib / s on an i7 - 12700k ). implementations see also aes modes of operation disk encryption encryption whirlpool – hash function created by vincent rijmen and paulo s. l. m. barreto list of free and open - source software packages notes references alternate link ( companion web site contains online lectures on aes ) external links aes algorithm archive information – ( old, unmaintained ) animation of rijndael – aes deeply explained and animated using flash ( by enrique zabala / university ort / montevideo / uruguay ). this animation ( in english, spanish, and german ) is also part of cryptool 1 ( menu indiv. procedures → visualization of algorithms → aes ). html5 animation of rijndael – same animation as above made in html5. advanced encryption standard cryptography