and oil, dominating alaska ' s economy. u. s. armed forces bases and tourism also contribute to the economy ; more than half the state is federally - owned land containing national forests, national parks, and wildlife refuges. it is among the most irreligious states, one of the first to legalize recreational marijuana, and is known for its libertarian - leaning political culture, generally supporting the republican party in national elections. the indigenous population of alaska is proportionally the highest of any u. s. state, at over 15 percent. various indigenous languages are spoken, and alaskan natives are influential in local and state politics. etymology the name " alaska " ( ) was introduced in the russian colonial period when it was used to refer to the alaska peninsula. it was derived from an aleut - language idiom,, meaning " the mainland " or, more literally, " the object towards which the action of the sea is directed ". history pre - colonization numerous indigenous peoples occupied alaska for thousands of years before the arrival of european peoples to the area. linguistic and dna studies done here have provided evidence for the settlement of north america by way of the bering land bridge. at the upward sun river site in the tanana valley in alaska, remains of a six - week - old infant were found. the baby ' s dna showed that she belonged to a population that was genetically separate from other native groups present elsewhere in the new world at the end of the pleistocene. ben potter, the university of alaska fairbanks archaeologist who unearthed the remains at the upward sun river site in 2013, named this new group ancient beringians. the tlingit people developed a society with a matrilineal kinship system of property inheritance and descent in what is today southeast alaska, along with parts of british columbia and the yukon. also in southeast were the haida, now well known for their unique arts. the tsimshian people came to alaska from british columbia in 1887, when president grover cleveland, and later the u. s. congress, granted them permission to settle on annette island and found the town of metlakatla. all three of these peoples, as well as other indigenous peoples of the pacific northwest coast, experienced smallpox outbreaks from the late 18th through the mid - 19th century, with the most devastating epidemics occurring in the 1830s and 1860s, resulting in high fatalities and social disruption. the aleutian islands are still home to the aleut people ' s seafaring society, although they were the first native alaskans to