dependent choice, which do not imply the law of the excluded middle in constructive set theory. although the axiom of countable choice in particular is commonly used in constructive mathematics, its use has also been questioned. independence in 1938, kurt godel showed that the negation of the axiom of choice is not a theorem of zf by constructing an inner model ( the constructible universe ) which satisfies zfc and thus showing that zfc is consistent if zf itself is consistent. in 1963, paul cohen employed the technique of forcing, developed for this purpose, to show that, assuming zf is consistent, the axiom of choice itself is not a theorem of zf. he did this by constructing a much more complex model which satisfies zf¬c ( zf with the negation of ac added as axiom ) and thus showing that zf¬c is consistent. together these results establish that the axiom of choice is logically independent of zf. the assumption that zf is consistent is harmless because adding another axiom to an already inconsistent system cannot make the situation worse. because of independence, the decision whether to use the axiom of choice ( or its negation ) in a proof cannot be made by appeal to other axioms of set theory. the decision must be made on other grounds. one argument given in favor of using the axiom of choice is that it is convenient to use it because it allows one to prove some simplifying propositions that otherwise could not be proved. many theorems which are provable using choice are of an elegant general character : the cardinalities of any two sets are comparable, every nontrivial ring with unity has a maximal ideal, every vector space has a basis, every connected graph has a spanning tree, and every product of compact spaces is compact, among many others. without the axiom of choice, these theorems may not hold for mathematical objects of large cardinality. the proof of the independence result also shows that a wide class of mathematical statements, including all statements that can be phrased in the language of peano arithmetic, are provable in zf if and only if they are provable in zfc. statements in this class include the statement that p = np, the riemann hypothesis, and many other unsolved mathematical problems. when one attempts to solve problems in this class, it makes no difference whether zf or zfc is employed if the only question is the existence of a proof. it is possible, however, that