" rule ". malus, encouraged by pierre - simon laplace, then sought to explain this law in corpuscular terms : from the known relation between the incident and refracted ray directions, malus derived the corpuscular velocity ( as a function of direction ) that would satisfy maupertuis ' s " least action " principle. but, as young pointed out, the existence of such a velocity law was guaranteed by huygens ' s spheroid, because huygens ' s construction leads to fermat ' s principle, which becomes maupertuis ' s principle if the ray speed is replaced by the reciprocal of the particle speed! the corpuscularists had not found a force law that would yield the alleged velocity law, except by a circular argument in which a force acting at the surface of the crystal inexplicably depended on the direction of the ( possibly subsequent ) velocity within the crystal. worse, it was doubtful that any such force would satisfy the conditions of maupertuis ' s principle. in contrast, young proceeded to show that " a medium more easily compressible in one direction than in any direction perpendicular to it, as if it consisted of an infinite number of parallel plates connected by a substance somewhat less elastic " admits spheroidal longitudinal wavefronts, as huygens supposed. but malus, in the midst of his experiments on double refraction, noticed something else : when a ray of light is reflected off a non - metallic surface at the appropriate angle, it behaves like one of the two rays emerging from a calcite crystal. it was malus who coined the term polarization to describe this behavior, although the polarizing angle became known as brewster ' s angle after its dependence on the refractive index was determined experimentally by david brewster in 1815. malus also introduced the term plane of polarization. in the case of polarization by reflection, his " plane of polarization " was the plane of the incident and reflected rays ; in modern terms, this is the plane normal to the electric vibration. in 1809, malus further discovered that the intensity of light passing through two polarizers is proportional to the squared cosine of the angle between their planes of polarization ( malus ' s law ), whether the polarizers work by reflection or double refraction, and that all birefringent crystals produce both extraordinary refraction and polarization. as the corpuscularists started trying to explain these things in terms of polar " molecules