, and collected more than 8, 100 relics and 42 holy skeletons which needed to be stored. from 1529, he had two parish churches standing next to each other demolished and only their four towers from with pointed helmets stood. between these towers he had a large new nave built, which was named market church of our lady since she received a marian patronage. however, these precious treasures, known as hallesches heilthum ( the halle sanctuary ), indirectly related to the sale of indulgences which had triggered the reformation a few years before because it should attract pilgrims willing to pay. then, the cardinal and the catholic members of the town council wanted to repress the growing influence of the reformation by holding far grander masses and services in a new church dedicated solely to the blessed virgin mary, whose excessive worship luther disliked. albert ' s hostility towards the reformers, however, was not so extreme as that of his brother joachim i ; and he appears to have exerted himself towards peace, although he was a member of the league of nuremberg, formed in 1538 as a counterpoise to the league of schmalkalden. new doctrines nevertheless made considerable progress in his dominions, and he was compelled to grant religious liberty to the inhabitants of magdeburg in return for 500, 000 florins. in his later years, he showed more intolerance towards the protestants, and favoured the teaching of the jesuits in his dominions. the market church of our lady in halle, which had been built to defend against the spread of reformation sympathies, was the spot where justus jonas officially introduced the reformation into halle with his good friday sermon in 1541. the service must have been at least partly conducted in the open air, because at that time construction had only been finished at the eastern end of the nave. jonas began a successful preaching crusade and attracted so many people that the church overflowed. albert left the town permanently after the estates in the city had announced that they would take over his enormous debt at the bank of jakob fugger. halle became protestant and in 1542 jonas was appointed as priest to st. mary ' s and, in 1544, bishop over the city. patron of the arts he became a friend of science and a patron of the arts. as a patron of learning, he counted erasmus among his friends. however, albert ' s ideas about founding a catholic university in halle were not implemented. nonetheless he adorned halle cathedral and mainz cathedral in sumptuous fashion, and took as