choice, after the bible. although rand ' s influence has been greatest in the united states, there has been international interest in her work. rand ' s contemporary admirers included fellow novelists, like ira levin, kay nolte smith and l. neil smith ; she has influenced later writers like erika holzer, terry goodkind, and comic book artist steve ditko. rand provided a positive view of business and subsequently many business executives and entrepreneurs have admired and promoted her work. businessmen such as john allison of bb & t and ed snider of comcast spectacor have funded the promotion of rand ' s ideas. television shows, movies, songs, and video games have referred to rand and her works. throughout her life she was the subject of many articles in popular magazines, as well as book - length critiques by authors such as the psychologist albert ellis and trinity foundation president john w. robbins. rand or characters based on her figure prominently in novels by american authors, including kay nolte smith, mary gaitskill, matt ruff, and tobias wolff. nick gillespie, former editor - in - chief of reason, remarked : " rand ' s is a tortured immortality, one in which she ' s as likely to be a punch line as a protagonist. jibes at rand as cold and inhuman run through the popular culture. " two movies have been made about rand ' s life. a 1997 documentary film, ayn rand : a sense of life, was nominated for the academy award for best documentary feature. the passion of ayn rand, a 1999 television adaptation of the book of the same name, won several awards. rand ' s image also appears on a 1999 u. s. postage stamp illustrated by artist nick gaetano. rand ' s works, most commonly anthem or the fountainhead, are sometimes assigned as secondary school reading. since 2002, the ayn rand institute has provided free copies of rand ' s novels to teachers who promise to include the books in their curriculum. the institute had distributed 4. 5 million copies in the u. s. and canada by the end of 2020. in 2017, rand was added to the required reading list for the a level politics exam in the united kingdom. political influence although she rejected the labels " conservative " and " libertarian ", rand has had a continuing influence on right - wing politics and libertarianism. rand is often considered one of the three most important women ( along with rose wilder lane and isabel paterson ) in the early development of modern american libertarianism.