. amino acids are sometimes added to food by manufacturers to alleviate symptoms of mineral deficiencies, such as anemia, by improving mineral absorption and reducing negative side effects from inorganic mineral supplementation. chemical building blocks amino acids are low - cost feedstocks used in chiral pool synthesis as enantiomerically pure building blocks. amino acids are used in the synthesis of some cosmetics. aspirational uses fertilizer the chelating ability of amino acids is sometimes used in fertilizers to facilitate the delivery of minerals to plants in order to correct mineral deficiencies, such as iron chlorosis. these fertilizers are also used to prevent deficiencies from occurring and to improve the overall health of the plants. biodegradable plastics amino acids have been considered as components of biodegradable polymers, which have applications as environmentally friendly packaging and in medicine in drug delivery and the construction of prosthetic implants. an interesting example of such materials is polyaspartate, a water - soluble biodegradable polymer that may have applications in disposable diapers and agriculture. due to its solubility and ability to chelate metal ions, polyaspartate is also being used as a biodegradable antiscaling agent and a corrosion inhibitor. synthesis chemical synthesis the commercial production of amino acids usually relies on mutant bacteria that overproduce individual amino acids using glucose as a carbon source. some amino acids are produced by enzymatic conversions of synthetic intermediates. 2 - aminothiazoline - 4 - carboxylic acid is an intermediate in one industrial synthesis of l - cysteine for example. aspartic acid is produced by the addition of ammonia to fumarate using a lyase. biosynthesis in plants, nitrogen is first assimilated into organic compounds in the form of glutamate, formed from alpha - ketoglutarate and ammonia in the mitochondrion. for other amino acids, plants use transaminases to move the amino group from glutamate to another alpha - keto acid. for example, aspartate aminotransferase converts glutamate and oxaloacetate to alpha - ketoglutarate and aspartate. other organisms use transaminases for amino acid synthesis, too. nonstandard amino acids are usually formed through modifications to standard amino acids. for example, homocysteine is formed through the transsulfuration pathway or by the demethylation