in a mid - nineteenth century clinic for the poor, in which kurosawa ' s humanist themes receive perhaps their fullest statement. a conceited and materialistic, foreign - trained young doctor, yasumoto, is forced to become an intern at the clinic under the stern tutelage of doctor niide, known as " akahige " ( " red beard " ), played by mifune. although he resists red beard initially, yasumoto comes to admire his wisdom and courage and to perceive the patients at the clinic, whom he at first despised, as worthy of compassion and dignity. yuzo kayama, who plays yasumoto, was an extremely popular film and music star at the time, particularly for his " young guy " ( wakadaisho ) series of musical comedies, so signing him to appear in the film virtually guaranteed kurosawa strong box - office. the shoot, the filmmaker ' s longest ever, lasted well over a year ( after five months of pre - production ), and wrapped in spring 1965, leaving the director, his crew and his actors exhausted. red beard premiered in april 1965, becoming the year ' s highest - grossing japanese production and the third ( and last ) kurosawa film to top the prestigious kinema jumpo yearly critics poll. it remains one of kurosawa ' s best - known and most - loved works in his native country. outside japan, critics have been much more divided. most commentators concede its technical merits and some praise it as among kurosawa ' s best, while others insist that it lacks complexity and genuine narrative power, with still others claiming that it represents a retreat from the artist ' s previous commitment to social and political change. the film marked something of an end of an era for its creator. the director himself recognized this at the time of its release, telling critic donald richie that a cycle of some kind had just come to an end and that his future films and production methods would be different. his prediction proved quite accurate. beginning in the late 1950s, television began increasingly to dominate the leisure time of the formerly large and loyal japanese cinema audience. and as film company revenues dropped, so did their appetite for risk — particularly the risk represented by kurosawa ' s costly production methods. red beard also marked the midway point, chronologically, in the artist ' s career. during his previous twenty - nine years in the film industry ( which includes his five years as assistant director ), he had directed twenty - three films,