was unharmed, because his would - be assassin, george atzerodt, lost his nerve, so johnson was immediately sworn in as president. meanwhile, confederate forces across the south surrendered as news of lee ' s surrender reached them. on april 26, 1865, the same day sergeant boston corbett killed booth at a tobacco barn, general joseph e. johnston surrendered nearly 90, 000 troops of the army of tennessee to major general william tecumseh sherman at bennett place near present - day durham, north carolina. it proved to be the largest surrender of confederate forces. on may 4, all remaining confederate forces in alabama, louisiana east of the mississippi river, and mississippi under lieutenant general richard taylor surrendered. the confederate president, jefferson davis, was captured at irwinville, georgia on may 10, 1865. on may 13, 1865, the last land battle of the war was fought at the battle of palmito ranch in texas. on may 26, 1865, confederate lt. gen. simon b. buckner, acting for general edmund kirby smith, signed a military convention surrendering the confederate trans - mississippi department forces. this date is often cited by contemporaries and historians as the end date of the american civil war. on june 2, 1865, with most of his troops having already gone home, technically deserted, a reluctant kirby smith had little choice but to sign the official surrender document. on june 23, 1865, cherokee leader and confederate brig. gen. stand watie became the last confederate general to surrender his forces. on june 19, 1865, union maj. gen. gordon granger announced general order no. 3, bringing the emancipation proclamation into effect in texas and freeing the last slaves of the confederacy. the anniversary of this date is now celebrated as juneteenth. the naval portion of the war ended more slowly. it had begun on april 11, 1865, two days after lee ' s surrender, when president lincoln proclaimed that foreign nations had no further " claim or pretense " to deny equality of maritime rights and hospitalities to u. s. warships and, in effect, that rights extended to confederate ships to use neutral ports as safe havens from u. s. warships should end. having no response to lincoln ' s proclamation, president andrew johnson issued a similar proclamation dated may 10, 1865, more directly stating the premise that the war was almost at an end ( " armed resistance... may be regarded as virtually at an end " ) and that insurgent cruisers still at sea and prepared to attack u. s. ships