or opcode plus zero or more operands. most instructions refer to a single value or a pair of values. operands can be immediate ( value coded in the instruction itself ), registers specified in the instruction or implied, or the addresses of data located elsewhere in storage. this is determined by the underlying processor architecture : the assembler merely reflects how this architecture works. extended mnemonics are often used to specify a combination of an opcode with a specific operand, e. g., the system / 360 assemblers use as an extended mnemonic for with a mask of 15 and ( " no operation " – do nothing for one step ) for with a mask of 0. extended mnemonics are often used to support specialized uses of instructions, often for purposes not obvious from the instruction name. for example, many cpu ' s do not have an explicit nop instruction, but do have instructions that can be used for the purpose. in 8086 cpus the instruction is used for, with being a pseudo - opcode to encode the instruction. some disassemblers recognize this and will decode the instruction as. similarly, ibm assemblers for system / 360 and system / 370 use the extended mnemonics and for and with zero masks. for the sparc architecture, these are known as synthetic instructions. some assemblers also support simple built - in macro - instructions that generate two or more machine instructions. for instance, with some z80 assemblers the instruction is recognized to generate followed by. these are sometimes known as pseudo - opcodes. mnemonics are arbitrary symbols ; in 1985 the ieee published standard 694 for a uniform set of mnemonics to be used by all assemblers. the standard has since been withdrawn. data directives there are instructions used to define data elements to hold data and variables. they define the type of data, the length and the alignment of data. these instructions can also define whether the data is available to outside programs ( programs assembled separately ) or only to the program in which the data section is defined. some assemblers classify these as pseudo - ops. assembly directives assembly directives, also called pseudo - opcodes, pseudo - operations or pseudo - ops, are commands given to an assembler " directing it to perform operations other than assembling instructions ". directives affect how the assembler operates and " may affect the object code, the symbol table, the listing file, and the values of internal assembler parameters ". sometimes the term pseudo - op