and matriarchs were either real individuals or believable composites of people who lived in the " patriarchal age ", the 2nd millennium bce. but, in the 1970s, new arguments concerning israel ' s past and the biblical texts challenged these views ; these arguments can be found in thomas l. thompson ' s the historicity of the patriarchal narratives ( 1974 ), and john van seters ' abraham in history and tradition ( 1975 ). thompson, a literary scholar, based his argument on archaeology and ancient texts. his thesis centered on the lack of compelling evidence that the patriarchs lived in the 2nd millennium bce, and noted how certain biblical texts reflected first millennium conditions and concerns. van seters examined the patriarchal stories and argued that their names, social milieu, and messages strongly suggested that they were iron age creations. van seter and thompson ' s works were a paradigm shift in biblical scholarship and archaeology, which gradually led scholars to no longer consider the patriarchal narratives as historical. some conservative scholars attempted to defend the patriarchal narratives in the following years, but this has not found acceptance among scholars. by the beginning of the 21st century, archaeologists had given up hope of recovering any context that would make abraham, isaac or jacob credible historical figures. origins of the narrative abraham ' s story, like those of the other patriarchs, most likely had a substantial oral prehistory ( he is mentioned in the book of ezekiel and the book of isaiah ). as with moses, abraham ' s name is apparently very ancient, as the tradition found in the book of genesis no longer understands its original meaning ( probably " father is exalted " – the meaning offered in genesis 17 : 5, " father of a multitude ", is a false etymology ). at some stage the oral traditions became part of the written tradition of the pentateuch ; a majority of scholars believe this stage belongs to the persian period, roughly 520 – 320 bce. the mechanisms by which this came about remain unknown, but there are currently at least two hypotheses. the first, called persian imperial authorisation, is that the post - exilic community devised the torah as a legal basis on which to function within the persian imperial system ; the second is that the pentateuch was written to provide the criteria for determining who would belong to the post - exilic jewish community and to establish the power structures and relative positions of its various groups, notably the priesthood and the lay " elders ". the completion of the torah and its elevation to