/ o facilities, there is no portable hello world program in algol. the next three examples are in burroughs extended algol. the first two direct output at the interactive terminal they are run on. the first uses a character array, similar to c. the language allows the array identifier to be used as a pointer to the array, and hence in a replace statement. a simpler program using an inline format : an even simpler program using the display statement. note that its output would end up at the system console ( ' spo ' ) : an alternative example, using elliott algol i / o is as follows. elliott algol used different characters for " open - string - quote " and " close - string - quote ", represented here by and. below is a version from elliott 803 algol ( a104 ). the standard elliott 803 used five - hole paper tape and thus only had upper case. the code lacked any quote characters so £ ( uk pound sign ) was used for open quote and? ( question mark ) for close quote. special sequences were placed in double quotes ( e. g. ££l?? produced a new line on the teleprinter ). hifolks ' begin print £hello world£l?? ' end ' the ict 1900 series algol i / o version allowed input from paper tape or punched card. paper tape ' full ' mode allowed lower case. output was to a line printer. the open and close quote characters were represented using ' ( ' and ' ) ' and spaces by %. ' begin ' write text ( ' ( ' hello % world ' ) ' ) ; ' end ' algol 68 algol 68 code was published with reserved words typically in lowercase, but bolded or underlined. begin printf ( ( $ gl $, " hello, world! " ) ) end in the language of the " algol 68 report " the input / output facilities were collectively called the " transput ". timeline of algol special characters the algols were conceived at a time when character sets were diverse and evolving rapidly ; also, the algols were defined so that only uppercase letters were required. 1960 : ifip – the algol 60 language and report included several mathematical symbols which are available on modern computers and operating systems, but, unfortunately, were unsupported on most computing systems at the time. for instance : ×, ÷, ≤, ≥, =, ¬, ∨, ∧, ⊂,