##s, where the former is concerned with imposing intellectual order and the latter with chaotic creativity. friedrich nietzsche argued that a fusion of the two was most desirable. psychologist carl jung ' s apollo archetype represents what he saw as the disposition in people to over - intellectualise and maintain emotional distance. spaceflight in spaceflight, the 1960s and 1970s nasa program for orbiting and landing astronauts on the moon was named after apollo, by nasa manager abe silverstein : genealogy see also darrhon dryad epirus family tree of the greek gods phoebus ( disambiguation ) sibylline oracles tegyra temple of apollo ( disambiguation ) notes references sources primary sources aelian, on animals, volume ii : books 6 – 11. translated by a. f. scholfield. loeb classical library 447. cambridge, ma : harvard university press, 1958. aeschylus, the eumenides in aeschylus, with an english translation by herbert weir smyth, ph. d. in two volumes, vol 2, cambridge, massachusetts, harvard university press, 1926, online version at the perseus digital library. antoninus liberalis, the metamorphoses of antoninus liberalis translated by francis celoria ( routledge 1992 ). online version at the topos text project. apollodorus, apollodorus, the library, with an english translation by sir james george frazer, f. b. a., f. r. s. in 2 volumes. cambridge, ma, harvard university press ; london, william heinemann ltd. 1921. online version at the perseus digital library. apollonius of rhodes, apollonius rhodius : the argonautica, translated by robert cooper seaton, w. heinemann, 1912. internet archive. callimachus, callimachus and lycophron with an english translation by a. w. mair ; aratus, with an english translation by g. r. mair, london : w. heinemann, new york : g. p. putnam 1921. online version at harvard university press. internet archive. cicero, marcus tullius, de natura deorum in cicero in twenty - eight volumes, xix de natura deorum ; academica, with an english translation by h. rackham, cambridge, massachusetts : harvard university press ; london : william heinemann, ltd, 1967. internet archive. diodorus siculus, library