identification of qλdans with apollo. the greeks gave to him the name agyieus as the protector god of public places and houses who wards off evil and his symbol was a tapered stone or column. however, while usually greek festivals were celebrated at the full moon, all the feasts of apollo were celebrated on the seventh day of the month, and the emphasis given to that day ( sibutu ) indicates a babylonian origin. the late bronze age ( from 1700 to 1200 bce ) hittite and hurrian aplu was a god of plague, invoked during plague years. here we have an apotropaic situation, where a god originally bringing the plague was invoked to end it. aplu, meaning the son of, was a title given to the god nergal, who was linked to the babylonian god of the sun shamash. homer interprets apollo as a terrible god ( ) who brings death and disease with his arrows, but who can also heal, possessing a magic art that separates him from the other greek gods. in iliad, his priest prays to apollo smintheus, the mouse god who retains an older agricultural function as the protector from field rats. all these functions, including the function of the healer - god paean, who seems to have mycenean origin, are fused in the cult of apollo. proto - indo - european the vedic rudra has some similar functions to apollo. the terrible god is called " the archer " and the bow is also an attribute of shiva. rudra could bring diseases with his arrows, but he was able to free people of them and his alternative shiva is a healer physician god. however the indo - european component of apollo does not explain his strong relation with omens, exorcisms, and with the oracular cult. oracular cult unusually among the olympic deities, apollo had two cult sites that had widespread influence : delos and delphi. in cult practice, delian apollo and pythian apollo ( the apollo of delphi ) were so distinct that they might both have shrines in the same locality. lycia was sacred to the god, for this apollo was also called lycian. apollo ' s cult was already fully established when written sources commenced, about 650 bce. apollo became extremely important to the greek world as an oracular deity in the archaic period, and the frequency of theophoric names such as apollodorus or apollonios and cities named apollonia testify to his popularity. or