of angular momentum, quantized in units ħ. this constraint automatically allowed only certain electron energies. the bohr model of the atom fixed the problem of energy loss from radiation from a ground state ( by declaring that there was no state below this ), and more importantly explained the origin of spectral lines. after bohr ' s use of einstein ' s explanation of the photoelectric effect to relate energy levels in atoms with the wavelength of emitted light, the connection between the structure of electrons in atoms and the emission and absorption spectra of atoms became an increasingly useful tool in the understanding of electrons in atoms. the most prominent feature of emission and absorption spectra ( known experimentally since the middle of the 19th century ), was that these atomic spectra contained discrete lines. the significance of the bohr model was that it related the lines in emission and absorption spectra to the energy differences between the orbits that electrons could take around an atom. this was, however, not achieved by bohr through giving the electrons some kind of wave - like properties, since the idea that electrons could behave as matter waves was not suggested until eleven years later. still, the bohr model ' s use of quantized angular momenta and therefore quantized energy levels was a significant step toward the understanding of electrons in atoms, and also a significant step towards the development of quantum mechanics in suggesting that quantized restraints must account for all discontinuous energy levels and spectra in atoms. with de broglie ' s suggestion of the existence of electron matter waves in 1924, and for a short time before the full 1926 schrodinger equation treatment of hydrogen - like atoms, a bohr electron " wavelength " could be seen to be a function of its momentum ; so a bohr orbiting electron was seen to orbit in a circle at a multiple of its half - wavelength. the bohr model for a short time could be seen as a classical model with an additional constraint provided by the ' wavelength ' argument. however, this period was immediately superseded by the full three - dimensional wave mechanics of 1926. in our current understanding of physics, the bohr model is called a semi - classical model because of its quantization of angular momentum, not primarily because of its relationship with electron wavelength, which appeared in hindsight a dozen years after the bohr model was proposed. the bohr model was able to explain the emission and absorption spectra of hydrogen. the energies of electrons in the n = 1, 2, 3, etc. states in the bohr model match those of current physics. however