august 13, the three astronauts rode in ticker - tape parades in their honor in new york and chicago, with an estimated six million attendees. on the same evening in los angeles there was an official state dinner to celebrate the flight, attended by members of congress, 44 governors, chief justice of the united states warren e. burger and his predecessor, earl warren, and ambassadors from 83 nations at the century plaza hotel. nixon and agnew honored each astronaut with a presentation of the presidential medal of freedom. the three astronauts spoke before a joint session of congress on september 16, 1969. they presented two us flags, one to the house of representatives and the other to the senate, that they had carried with them to the surface of the moon. the flag of american samoa on apollo 11 is on display at the jean p. haydon museum in pago pago, the capital of american samoa. this celebration began a 38 - day world tour that brought the astronauts to 22 foreign countries and included visits with the leaders of many countries. the crew toured from september 29 to november 5. many nations honored the first human moon landing with special features in magazines or by issuing apollo 11 commemorative postage stamps or coins. legacy cultural significance humans walking on the moon and returning safely to earth accomplished kennedy ' s goal set eight years earlier. in mission control during the apollo 11 landing, kennedy ' s speech flashed on the screen, followed by the words " task accomplished, july 1969 ". the success of apollo 11 demonstrated the united states ' technological superiority ; and with the success of apollo 11, america had won the space race. new phrases permeated into the english language. " if they can send a man to the moon, why can ' t they...? " became a common saying following apollo 11. armstrong ' s words on the lunar surface also spun off various parodies. while most people celebrated the accomplishment, disenfranchised americans saw it as a symbol of the divide in america, evidenced by protesters led by ralph abernathy outside of kennedy space center the day before apollo 11 launched. nasa administrator thomas paine met with abernathy at the occasion, both hoping that the space program can spur progress also in other regards, such as poverty in the us. paine was then asked, and agreed, to host protesters as spectators at the launch, and abernathy, awestruck by the spectacle, prayed for the astronauts. racial and financial inequalities frustrated citizens who wondered why money spent on the apollo program was not