epic aeneid ( around 20 bc ). the biographer suetonius had julius caesar remark in his de vita caesarum that the amazons once ruled a large part of asia. appian provides a vivid description of themiscyra and its fortifications in his account of lucius licinius lucullus ' siege of themiscyra in 71 bc during the third mithridatic war. an amazon myth has been partly preserved in two badly fragmented versions around historical people in 7th century bc egypt. the egyptian prince petechonsis and allied assyrian troops undertook a joint campaign into the land of women, to the middle east at the border to india. petechonsis initially fought the amazons, but soon fell in love with their queen sarpot and eventually allied with her against an invading indian army. this story is said to have originated in egypt independently of greek influences. amazon queens sources provide names of individual amazons, that are referred to as queens of their people, even as the head of a dynasty. without a male companion, they are portrayed in command of their female warriors. among the most prominent amazon queens were : otrera, daughter of the nymph harmonia and god of war, ares. she is the mother of hippolyta, antiope, melanippe, and penthesilea and the mythical founder of the temple of artemis in ephesus. hippolyte, daughter of otrera and ares. she is part of the theseus and heracles myths, in which antiope is her sister. alcippe, the only amazon known to have sworn a chastity oath, belongs to her entourage. penthesilea, who kills her sister hippolyte in a hunting accident, comes to the aid of the hard - pressed trojans with her warriors, is defeated by achilles, who mourns her. myrina, who leads a military expedition in libya, defeats the atlanteans, forms an alliance with the ruler of egypt, and conquers numerous cities and islands. thalestris, the last known amazon queen. according to legend, she meets the greek conqueror alexander the great in 330 bc. her home is the thermodon region, or, variably, the gates of alexander, south of the caspian sea. lampedo and marpesia, queens of the amazons mentioned by justin various authors and chroniclers quintus smyrnaeus quintus smyrnaeus, author of the posthomerica lists the attendant warriors