##i does not define any mechanism for describing the structure or appearance of text within a document. other schemes, such as markup languages, address page and document layout and formatting. the original ascii standard used only short descriptive phrases for each control character. the ambiguity this caused was sometimes intentional, for example where a character would be used slightly differently on a terminal link than on a data stream, and sometimes accidental, for example with the meaning of " delete ". probably the most influential single device affecting the interpretation of these characters was the teletype model 33 asr, which was a printing terminal with an available paper tape reader / punch option. paper tape was a very popular medium for long - term program storage until the 1980s, less costly and in some ways less fragile than magnetic tape. in particular, the teletype model 33 machine assignments for codes 17 ( control - q, dc1, also known as xon ), 19 ( control - s, dc3, also known as xoff ), and 127 ( delete ) became de facto standards. the model 33 was also notable for taking the description of control - g ( code 7, bel, meaning audibly alert the operator ) literally, as the unit contained an actual bell which it rang when it received a bel character. because the keytop for the o key also showed a left - arrow symbol ( from ascii - 1963, which had this character instead of underscore ), a noncompliant use of code 15 ( control - o, shift in ) interpreted as " delete previous character " was also adopted by many early timesharing systems but eventually became neglected. when a teletype 33 asr equipped with the automatic paper tape reader received a control - s ( xoff, an abbreviation for transmit off ), it caused the tape reader to stop ; receiving control - q ( xon, transmit on ) caused the tape reader to resume. this so - called flow control technique became adopted by several early computer operating systems as a " handshaking " signal warning a sender to stop transmission because of impending buffer overflow ; it persists to this day in many systems as a manual output control technique. on some systems, control - s retains its meaning, but control - q is replaced by a second control - s to resume output. the 33 asr also could be configured to employ control - r ( dc2 ) and control - t ( dc4 ) to start and stop the tape punch ; on some units equipped