17th centuries. he was taught by theodore beza, calvin ' s hand - picked successor, but after examination of the scriptures, he rejected his teacher ' s theology that it is god who unconditionally elects some for salvation. instead arminius proposed that the election of god was of believers, thereby making it conditional on faith. arminius ' s views were challenged by the dutch calvinists, especially franciscus gomarus, but arminius died before a national synod could occur. arminius died before he could satisfy holland ' s state general ' s request for a 14 - page paper outlining his views. arminius ' s followers replied in his stead crafting the five articles of remonstrance ( 1610 ), in which they express their points of divergence with the stricter calvinism of the belgic confession. this is how arminius ' s followers were called remonstrants, and following a counter remonstrance in 1611, gomarus ' followers were called counter - remonstrants. after some political maneuvering, the dutch calvinists were able to convince prince maurice of nassau to deal with the situation. maurice systematically removed arminian magistrates from office and called a national synod at dordrecht. this synod of dort was open primarily to dutch calvinists ( 102 people ), while the arminians were excluded ( 13 people banned from voting ), with calvinist representatives from other countries ( 28 people ), and in 1618 published a condemnation of arminius and his followers as heretics. part of this publication was the famous five points of calvinism in response to the five articles of remonstrance. arminians across holland were removed from office, imprisoned, banished, and sworn to silence. twelve years later holland officially granted arminianism protection as a religion, although animosity between arminians and calvinists continued. most of the early remonstrants followed a classical version of arminianism. however, some of them such as philipp van limborch, moved in the direction of semi - pelagianism and rationalism. arminianism in the church of england in england, the so - labelled arminian doctrines were held, in substance, before and in parallel of arminius. the thirty - nine articles of religion ( finalised in 1571 ), were sufficiently ambiguous that they were compatible with either arminian or calvinistic interpretations. arminianism in the church of england was fundamentally an expression of negation