##rs to discharge impurities. children are raised almost naked until about the ages of four to five. even when they wear clothes, they do not wear belts and leave the front of their clothes open. subsequently, they wear bark clothes without patterns, such as attush, until coming of age. ainu babies traditionally are not given permanent names when they are born. rather, they are called by various temporary names until the age of two or three. newborn babies are named ayay ( " a baby ' s crying " ), shipo, poyshi ( " small excrement " ), and shion ( " old excrement " ). their tentative names have a portion meaning " excrement " or " old things " to ward off the demon of ill - health. some children are named based on their behaviour or habits ; others are named after notable events or after parents ' wishes for their future. when children are named, they are never given the same names as others. men traditionally wear loincloths and have their hair dressed properly for the first time at age 15 – 16. women are also considered adults at the age of 15 – 16. they traditionally wear underclothes called mour and have their hair dressed properly, with wound waistcloths called raunkut and ponkut around their bodies. when women reached age 12 – 13, the lips, hands, and arms were traditionally tattooed. when they reached age 15 – 16, their tattoos would be completed, indicating their qualification for marriage. religion the ainu are traditionally animists, believing that everything in nature has a ( spirit or god ) on the inside. the most important include, goddess of the hearth ;, god of bears and mountains ; and, god of the sea, fishing, and marine animals. is regarded as the creator of the world in the ainu religion. ainu craftsmen, and the ainu as a whole, traditionally believed that " anything made with deep sincerity was imbued with spirit and also became a [ kamuy ] " they also held the belief that ancestors and the power of the family could be invoked through certain patterns in art to protect them from malignant influences. the ainu religion has no priests by profession. instead, the village chief performs whatever religious ceremonies are necessary. ceremonies are confined to making libations of, saying prayers, and offering willow sticks with wooden shavings attached to them. these sticks are called ( singular ) and ( plural ). they are placed on an altar