, but he realized that it would cause confusion with the modern religion of spiritualism, which was then prevalent across western nations. he adopted the term animism from the writings of german scientist georg ernst stahl, who had developed the term in 1708 as a biological theory that souls formed the vital principle, and that the normal phenomena of life and the abnormal phenomena of disease could be traced to spiritual causes. the origin of the word comes from the latin word anima, which means life or soul. the first known usage in english appeared in 1819. " old animism " definitions earlier anthropological perspectives, which have since been termed the old animism, were concerned with knowledge on what is alive and what factors make something alive. the old animism assumed that animists were individuals who were unable to understand the difference between persons and things. critics of the old animism have accused it of preserving " colonialist and dualistic worldviews and rhetoric. " edward tylor ' s definition the idea of animism was developed by anthropologist sir edward tylor through his 1871 book primitive culture, in which he defined it as " the general doctrine of souls and other spiritual beings in general. " according to tylor, animism often includes " an idea of pervading life and will in nature ; " a belief that natural objects other than humans have souls. this formulation was little different from that proposed by auguste comte as " fetishism ", but the terms now have distinct meanings. for tylor, animism represented the earliest form of religion, being situated within an evolutionary framework of religion that has developed in stages and which will ultimately lead to humanity rejecting religion altogether in favor of scientific rationality. thus, for tylor, animism was fundamentally seen as a mistake, a basic error from which all religions grew. he did not believe that animism was inherently illogical, but he suggested that it arose from early humans ' dreams and visions and thus was a rational system. however, it was based on erroneous, unscientific observations about the nature of reality. stringer notes that his reading of primitive culture led him to believe that tylor was far more sympathetic in regard to " primitive " populations than many of his contemporaries and that tylor expressed no belief that there was any difference between the intellectual capabilities of " savage " people and westerners. the idea that there had once been " one universal form of primitive religion " ( whether labelled animism, totemism, or shaman