in new york city. her funeral included a floral arrangement in the shape of a dollar sign. in her will, rand named peikoff as her heir. literary approach, influences and reception rand described her approach to literature as " romantic realism ". she wanted her fiction to present the world " as it could be and should be ", rather than as it was. this approach led her to create highly stylized situations and characters. her fiction typically has protagonists who are heroic individualists, depicted as fit and attractive. her villains support duty and collectivist moral ideals. rand often describes them as unattractive, and some have names that suggest negative traits, such as wesley mouch in atlas shrugged. rand considered plot a critical element of literature, and her stories typically have what biographer anne heller described as " tight, elaborate, fast - paced plotting ". romantic triangles are a common plot element in rand ' s fiction ; in most of her novels and plays, the main female character is romantically involved with at least two men. influences in school rand read works by fyodor dostoevsky, victor hugo, edmond rostand, and friedrich schiller, who became her favorites. she considered them to be among the " top rank " of romantic writers because of their focus on moral themes and their skill at constructing plots. hugo was an important influence on her writing, especially her approach to plotting. in the introduction she wrote for an english - language edition of his novel ninety - three, rand called him " the greatest novelist in world literature ". although rand disliked most russian literature, her depictions of her heroes show the influence of the russian symbolists and other nineteenth - century russian writing, most notably the 1863 novel what is to be done? by nikolay chernyshevsky. scholars of russian literature see in chernyshevsky ' s character rakhmetov, an " ascetic revolutionist ", the template for rand ' s literary heroes and heroines. rand ' s experience of the russian revolution and early communist russia influenced the portrayal of her villains. beyond we the living, which is set in russia, this influence can be seen in the ideas and rhetoric of ellsworth toohey in the fountainhead, and in the destruction of the economy in atlas shrugged. rand ' s descriptive style echoes her early career writing scenarios and scripts for movies ; her novels have many narrative descriptions that resemble early hollywood movie scenarios. they often follow common film editing conventions, such as having a broad establishing shot description of a scene followed by close - up details,