uniformly primitive composition of carbonaceous chondrite, but it may actually be a differentiated asteroid that was globally disrupted by an impact and then reassembled. other asteroids appear to be the remnant cores or mantles of proto - planets, high in rock and metal. most small asteroids are believed to be piles of rubble held together loosely by gravity, although the largest are probably solid. some asteroids have moons or are co - orbiting binaries : rubble piles, moons, binaries, and scattered asteroid families are thought to be the results of collisions that disrupted a parent asteroid, or possibly a planet. in the main asteroid belt, there appear to be two primary populations of asteroid : a dark, volatile - rich population, consisting of the c - type and p - type asteroids, with albedos less than 0. 10 and densities under, and a dense, volatile - poor population, consisting of the s - type and m - type asteroids, with albedos over 0. 15 and densities greater than 2. 7. within these populations, larger asteroids are denser, presumably due to compression. there appears to be minimal macro - porosity ( interstitial vacuum ) in the score of asteroids with masses greater than. composition is calculated from three primary sources : albedo, surface spectrum, and density. the last can only be determined accurately by observing the orbits of moons the asteroid might have. so far, every asteroid with moons has turned out to be a rubble pile, a loose conglomeration of rock and metal that may be half empty space by volume. the investigated asteroids are as large as 280 km in diameter, and include 121 hermione ( 268×186×183 km ), and 87 sylvia ( 384×262×232 km ). few asteroids are larger than 87 sylvia, none of them have moons. the fact that such large asteroids as sylvia may be rubble piles, presumably due to disruptive impacts, has important consequences for the formation of the solar system : computer simulations of collisions involving solid bodies show them destroying each other as often as merging, but colliding rubble piles are more likely to merge. this means that the cores of the planets could have formed relatively quickly. water scientists hypothesize that some of the first water brought to earth was delivered by asteroid impacts after the collision that produced the moon. in 2009, the presence of water ice was confirmed on the surface of 24 themis using nasa ' s infrared telescope facility. the surface of the asteroid appears completely covered in ice