cone, reflected the light to the horizon, giving a fainter steady light between the flashes. the official test, conducted on the unfinished arc de triomphe on 20 august 1822, was witnessed by the commission — and by louis and his entourage — from 32km away. the apparatus was stored at bordeaux for the winter, and then reassembled at cordouan lighthouse under fresnel ' s supervision. on 25 july 1823, the world ' s first lighthouse fresnel lens was lit. soon afterwards, fresnel started coughing up blood. in may 1824, fresnel was promoted to secretary of the commission des phares, becoming the first member of that body to draw a salary, albeit in the concurrent role of engineer - in - chief. he was also an examiner ( not a teacher ) at the ecole polytechnique since 1821 ; but poor health, long hours during the examination season, and anxiety about judging others induced him to resign that post in late 1824, to save his energy for his lighthouse work. in the same year he designed the first fixed lens — for spreading light evenly around the horizon while minimizing waste above or below. ideally the curved refracting surfaces would be segments of toroids about a common vertical axis, so that the dioptric panel would look like a cylindrical drum. if this was supplemented by reflecting ( catoptric ) rings above and below the refracting ( dioptric ) parts, the entire apparatus would look like a beehive. the second fresnel lens to enter service was indeed a fixed lens, of third order, installed at dunkirk by 1 february 1825. however, due to the difficulty of fabricating large toroidal prisms, this apparatus had a 16 - sided polygonal plan. in 1825, fresnel extended his fixed - lens design by adding a rotating array outside the fixed array. each panel of the rotating array was to refract part of the fixed light from a horizontal fan into a narrow beam. also in 1825, fresnel unveiled the carte des phares ( lighthouse map ), calling for a system of 51 lighthouses plus smaller harbor lights, in a hierarchy of lens sizes ( called orders, the first order being the largest ), with different characteristics to facilitate recognition : a constant light ( from a fixed lens ), one flash per minute ( from a rotating lens with eight panels ), and two per minute ( sixteen panels ). in late 1825, to reduce the loss of light in the reflecting elements, fr