in the parashot : lech - lecha ( לך - לך ), vayeira ( וירא ), chayei sarah ( חיי שרה ), and toledot ( תולדת ). hanan bar rava taught in abba arikha ' s name that abraham ' s mother was named ʾamatlaʾy bat karnebo. hiyya bar abba taught that abraham worked in terah ' s idol shop in his youth. in legends of the jews, god created heaven and earth for the sake of the merits of abraham. after the biblical flood, abraham was the only one among the pious who solemnly swore never to forsake god, studied in the house of noah and shem to learn about the " ways of god, " continued the line of high priest from noah and shem, and assigning the office to levi and his seed forever. before leaving his father ' s land, abraham was miraculously saved from the fiery furnace of nimrod following his brave action of breaking the idols of the chaldeans into pieces. during his sojourning in canaan, abraham was accustomed to extend hospitality to travelers and strangers and taught how to praise god also knowledge of god to those who had received his kindness. along with isaac and jacob, he is the one whose name would appear united with god, as god in judaism was called elohei abraham, elohei yitzchaq ve elohei ya ' aqob ( " god of abraham, god of isaac, and god of jacob " ) and never the god of anyone else. he was also mentioned as the father of thirty nations. abraham is generally credited as the author of the sefer yetzirah, one of the earliest extant books on jewish mysticism. according to pirkei avot, abraham underwent ten tests at god ' s command. the binding of isaac is specified in the bible as a test ; the other nine are not specified, but later rabbinical sources give various enumerations. christianity in christianity, abraham is revered as the prophet to whom god chose to reveal himself and with whom god initiated a covenant ( cf. covenant theology ). paul the apostle declared that all who believe in jesus ( christians ) are " included in the seed of abraham and are inheritors of the promise made to abraham. " in romans 4, abraham is praised for his " unwavering faith " in god, which is tied into the concept of partakers