siedler were co - authors of speer ' s memoirs and co - creators of his myths. in return they were paid handsomely in royalties and other financial inducements. speer, siedler and fest had constructed a masterpiece ; the image of the " good nazi " remained in place for decades, despite historical evidence indicating that it was false. speer had carefully constructed an image of himself as an apolitical technocrat who deeply regretted having failed to discover the monstrous crimes of the third reich. this construction was accepted almost at face value by historian hugh trevor - roper when investigating the death of adolf hitler for british intelligence and in writing the last days of hitler. trevor - roper frequently refers to speer as " a technocrat [ who ] nourished a technocrat ' s philosophy ", one who cared only for his building projects or his ministerial duties, and who thought that politics was irrelevant, at least until hitler ' s nero decree which speer, according to his own telling, worked assiduously to counter. trevor - roper – who calls speer an administrative genius whose basic instincts were peaceful and constructive – does take speer to task, however, for his failure to recognize the immorality of hitler and nazism, calling him " the real criminal of nazi germany " : for ten years he sat at the very centre of political power ; his keen intelligence diagnosed the nature and observed the mutations of nazi government and policy ; he saw and despised the personalities around him ; he heard their outrageous orders and understood their fantastic ambitions ; but he did nothing. supposing politics to be irrelevant, he turned aside and built roads and bridges and factories, while the logical consequences of government by madmen emerged. ultimately, when their emergence involved the ruin of all his work, speer accepted the consequences and acted. then it was too late ; germany had been destroyed. after speer ' s death, matthias schmidt published a book that demonstrated that speer had ordered the eviction of jews from their berlin homes. by 1999, historians had amply demonstrated that speer had lied extensively. even so, public perceptions of speer did not change substantially until heinrich breloer aired a biographical film on tv in 2004. the film began a process of demystification and critical reappraisal. adam tooze in his book the wages of destruction said speer had manoeuvred himself through the ranks of the regime skillfully and ruthlessly and that the idea he was a technocrat blindly carrying out orders