almonds, which is nearly pure benzaldehyde, the chemical causing the bitter flavor. bitter almonds may yield 4 – 9 milligrams of hydrogen cyanide per almond and contain 42 times higher amounts of cyanide than the trace levels found in sweet almonds. the origin of cyanide content in bitter almonds is via the enzymatic hydrolysis of amygdalin. p450 monooxygenases are involved in the amygdalin biosynthetic pathway. a point mutation in a bhlh transcription factor prevents transcription of the two cytochrome p450 genes, resulting in the sweet kernel trait. etymology the word almond comes from old french or, late latin,, derived from from the ancient greek ( ) ( cf. amygdala, an almond - shaped portion of the brain ). late old english had amygdales, " almonds ". the adjective amygdaloid ( literally ' like an almond ' ) is used to describe objects which are roughly almond - shaped, particularly a shape which is part way between a triangle and an ellipse. for example, the amygdala of the brain uses a direct borrowing of the greek term. distribution and habitat almond is native to iran and its surrounding regions, including the levant area. it was spread by humans in ancient times along the shores of the mediterranean into northern africa and southern europe, and more recently transported to other parts of the world, notably california, united states. the wild form of domesticated almond grows in parts of the levant. selection of the sweet type from the many bitter types in the wild marked the beginning of almond domestication. it is unclear as to which wild ancestor of the almond created the domesticated species. the species prunus fenzliana may be the most likely wild ancestor of the almond, in part because it is native to armenia and western azerbaijan, where it was apparently domesticated. wild almond species were grown by early farmers, " at first unintentionally in the garbage heaps, and later intentionally in their orchards ". cultivation almonds were one of the earliest domesticated fruit trees, due to " the ability of the grower to raise attractive almonds from seed. thus, in spite of the fact that this plant does not lend itself to propagation from suckers or from cuttings, it could have been domesticated even before the introduction of grafting ". domesticated almonds appear in the early bronze age ( 3000 – 2000