, and frequently the perpetrator as well. it was most evident in the public and private actions of the powerful and rich. violations of the law against hubris included, what would today be termed, assault and battery ; sexual crimes ranging from forcible rape of women or children to consensual but improper activities ; or the theft of public or sacred property. two well - known cases are found in the speeches of demosthenes, a prominent statesman and orator in ancient greece. these two examples occurred when first, in addition to other acts of violence, meidias allegedly punched demosthenes in the face in the theater ( against meidias ), and second ( against konon ), when the defendant allegedly severely beat him. hubris, though not specifically defined, was a legal term and was considered a crime in classical athens. it was also considered the greatest sin of the ancient greek world. that was so because it not only was proof of excessive pride, but also resulted in violent acts by or to those involved. the category of acts constituting hubris for the ancient greeks apparently broadened from the original specific reference to mutilation of a corpse, or a humiliation of a defeated foe, or irreverent, " outrageous treatment ", in general. the meaning was eventually further generalized in its modern english usage to apply to any outrageous act or exhibition of pride or disregard for basic moral laws. such an act may be referred to as an " act of hubris ", or the person committing the act may be said to be hubristic. ate, greek for ' ruin, folly, delusion ', is the action performed by the hero, usually because of their hubris, or great pride, that leads to their death or downfall. crucial to this definition are the ancient greek concepts of honor ( time ) and shame. the concept of time included not only the exaltation of the one receiving honor, but also the shaming of the one overcome by the act of hubris. this concept of honor is akin to a zero - sum game. rush rehm simplifies this definition to the contemporary concept of " insolence, contempt, and excessive violence ". india the indian penal code covers the punishments and types of assault in chapter 16, sections 351 through 358. the code further explains that " mere words do not amount to an assault. but the words which a person uses may give to their gestures or preparation such a meaning as may make those gestures or preparations amount to an