states. apple has gradually expanded its efforts in getting its products into the indian market. in july 2012, during a conference call with investors, ceo tim cook said that he " [ loves ] india ", but that apple saw larger opportunities outside the region. india ' s requirement that 30 % of products sold be manufactured in the country was described as " really adds cost to getting product to market ". in may 2016, apple opened an ios app development center in bangalore and a maps development office for 4, 000 staff in hyderabad. in march, the wall street journal reported that apple would begin manufacturing iphone models in india " over the next two months ", and in may, the journal wrote that an apple manufacturer had begun production of iphone se in the country, while apple told cnbc that the manufacturing was for a " small number " of units. in april 2019, apple initiated manufacturing of iphone 7 at its bengaluru facility, keeping in mind demand from local customers even as they seek more incentives from the government of india. at the beginning of 2020, tim cook announced that apple schedules the opening of its first physical outlet in india for 2021, while an online store is to be launched by the end of the year. during the 2022 covid - 19 protests in china, chinese state - owned company wingtech was reported by the wall street journal to gain an additional foothold in apple ' s supply chain following protests at a foxconn factory in the zhengzhou airport economy zone. worker organizations in 2006, one complex of factories in shenzhen, china that assembled the ipod and other items had over 200, 000 workers living and working within it. employees regularly worked more than 60 hours per week and made around $ 100 per month. a little over half of the workers ' earnings was required to pay for rent and food from the company. apple immediately launched an investigation after the 2006 media report, and worked with their manufacturers to ensure acceptable working conditions. in 2007, apple started yearly audits of all its suppliers regarding worker ' s rights, slowly raising standards and pruning suppliers that did not comply. yearly progress reports have been published. in 2011, apple admitted that its suppliers ' child labor practices in china had worsened. the foxconn suicides occurred between january and november 2010, when 18 foxconn ( ) employees attempted suicide, resulting in 14 deaths — the company was the world ' s largest contract electronics manufacturer, for clients including apple, at the time. the suicides drew media attention, and employment practices at foxconn were investigated by