in thermodynamics, an adiabatic process ( greek : adiabatos, " impassable " ) is a type of thermodynamic process that occurs without transferring heat or mass between the thermodynamic system and its environment. unlike an isothermal process, an adiabatic process transfers energy to the surroundings only as work. as a key concept in thermodynamics, the adiabatic process supports the theory that explains the first law of thermodynamics. some chemical and physical processes occur too rapidly for energy to enter or leave the system as heat, allowing a convenient " adiabatic approximation ". for example, the adiabatic flame temperature uses this approximation to calculate the upper limit of flame temperature by assuming combustion loses no heat to its surroundings. in meteorology and oceanography, adiabatic expanding produces condensation of moisture or salinity, oversaturating the parcel. therefore, the excess must be removed. there, the process becomes a pseudo - adiabatic process whereby the liquid water or salt that condenses is assumed to be removed upon formation by idealized instantaneous precipitation. the pseudoadiabatic process is only defined for expansion because a compressed parcel becomes warmer and remains undersaturated. description a process without transfer of heat to or from a system, so that, is called adiabatic, and such a system is said to be adiabatically isolated. the simplifying assumption frequently made is that a process is adiabatic. for example, the compression of a gas within a cylinder of an engine is assumed to occur so rapidly that on the time scale of the compression process, little of the system ' s energy can be transferred out as heat to the surroundings. even though the cylinders are not insulated and are quite conductive, that process is idealized to be adiabatic. the same can be said to be true for the expansion process of such a system. the assumption of adiabatic isolation is useful and often combined with other such idealizations to calculate a good first approximation of a system ' s behaviour. for example, according to laplace, when sound travels in a gas, there is no time for heat conduction in the medium, and so the propagation of sound is adiabatic. for such an adiabatic process, the modulus of elasticity ( young ' s modulus ) can be expressed as, where is the ratio of specific heats at constant pressure and at constant volume ( ) and