##mborychos " gravedigger ", all of which indicate her darker, more violent nature. she had the epithet automata because, according to servius, she was the source of spontaneous love. a male version of aphrodite known as aphroditus was worshipped in the city of amathus on cyprus. aphroditus was depicted with the figure and dress of a woman, but had a beard, and was shown lifting his dress to reveal an erect phallus. this gesture was believed to be an apotropaic symbol, and was thought to convey good fortune upon the viewer. eventually, the popularity of aphroditus waned as the mainstream, fully feminine version of aphrodite became more popular, but traces of his cult are preserved in the later legends of hermaphroditus. worship classical period aphrodite ' s main festival, the aphrodisia, was celebrated across greece, but particularly in athens and corinth. in athens, the aphrodisia was celebrated on the fourth day of the month of hekatombaion in honor of aphrodite ' s role in the unification of attica. during this festival, the priests of aphrodite would purify the temple of aphrodite pandemos on the southwestern slope of the acropolis with the blood of a sacrificed dove. next, the altars would be anointed and the cult statues of aphrodite pandemos and peitho would be escorted in a majestic procession to a place where they would be ritually bathed. aphrodite was also honored in athens as part of the arrhephoria festival. the fourth day of every month was sacred to aphrodite. pausanias records that, in sparta, aphrodite was worshipped as aphrodite areia, which means " warlike ". this epithet stresses aphrodite ' s connections to ares, with whom she had extramarital relations. pausanias also records that, in sparta and on cythera, a number of extremely ancient cult statues of aphrodite portrayed her bearing arms. other cult statues showed her bound in chains. aphrodite was the patron goddess of prostitutes of all varieties, ranging from pornai ( cheap street prostitutes typically owned as slaves by wealthy pimps ) to hetairai ( expensive, well - educated hired companions, who were usually self - employed and sometimes