ingolstadt head office site. in 1958, in response to pressure from friedrich flick, then the company ' s largest single shareholder, daimler - benz took an 87 % holding in the auto union company, and this was increased to a 100 % holding in 1959. however, small two - stroke cars were not the focus of daimler - benz ' s interests, and while the early 1960s saw major investment in new mercedes models and in a state of the art factory for auto union ' s, the company ' s aging model range at this time did not benefit from the economic boom of the early 1960s to the same extent as competitor manufacturers such as volkswagen and opel. the decision to dispose of the auto union business was based on its lack of profitability. ironically, by the time they sold the business, it also included a large new factory and near production - ready modern four - stroke engine, which would enable the auto union business, under a new owner, to embark on a period of profitable growth, now producing not auto unions or dkws, but using the " audi " name, resurrected in 1965 after a 25 - year gap. in 1964, volkswagen acquired a 50 % holding in the business, which included the new factory in ingolstadt, the dkw and audi brands along with the rights to the new engine design which had been funded by daimler - benz, who in return retained the dormant horch trademark and the dusseldorf factory which became a mercedes - benz van assembly plant. eighteen months later, volkswagen bought complete control of ingolstadt, and by 1966 were using the spare capacity of the ingolstadt plant to assemble an additional 60, 000 volkswagen beetles per year. two - stroke engines became less popular during the 1960s as customers were more attracted to the smoother four - stroke engines. in september 1965, the dkw f102 was fitted with a four - stroke engine and a facelift for the car ' s front and rear. volkswagen dumped the dkw brand because of its associations with two - stroke technology, and having classified the model internally as the f103, sold it simply as the " audi ". later developments of the model were named after their horsepower ratings and sold as the audi 60, 75, 80, and super 90, selling until 1972. initially, volkswagen was hostile to the idea of auto union as a standalone entity producing its own models having acquired the company merely to boost its own production capacity through the ingolstadt assembly plant – to the point where volkswagen executives ordered that