to a major labor shortage on u. s. farms. around the world, women make up a large share of the population employed in agriculture. this share is growing in all developing regions except east and southeast asia where women already make up about 50 percent of the agricultural workforce. women make up 47 percent of the agricultural workforce in sub - saharan africa, a rate that has not changed significantly in the past few decades. however, the food and agriculture organization of the united nations ( fao ) posits that the roles and responsibilities of women in agriculture may be changing – for example, from subsistence farming to wage employment, and from contributing household members to primary producers in the context of male - out - migration. safety agriculture, specifically farming, remains a hazardous industry, and farmers worldwide remain at high risk of work - related injuries, lung disease, noise - induced hearing loss, skin diseases, as well as certain cancers related to chemical use and prolonged sun exposure. on industrialized farms, injuries frequently involve the use of agricultural machinery, and a common cause of fatal agricultural injuries in developed countries is tractor rollovers. pesticides and other chemicals used in farming can be hazardous to worker health, and workers exposed to pesticides may experience illness or have children with birth defects. as an industry in which families commonly share in work and live on the farm itself, entire families can be at risk for injuries, illness, and death. ages 0 – 6 may be an especially vulnerable population in agriculture ; common causes of fatal injuries among young farm workers include drowning, machinery and motor accidents, including with all - terrain vehicles. the international labour organization considers agriculture " one of the most hazardous of all economic sectors ". it estimates that the annual work - related death toll among agricultural employees is at least 170, 000, twice the average rate of other jobs. in addition, incidences of death, injury and illness related to agricultural activities often go unreported. the organization has developed the safety and health in agriculture convention, 2001, which covers the range of risks in the agriculture occupation, the prevention of these risks and the role that individuals and organizations engaged in agriculture should play. in the united states, agriculture has been identified by the national institute for occupational safety and health as a priority industry sector in the national occupational research agenda to identify and provide intervention strategies for occupational health and safety issues. in the european union, the european agency for safety and health at work has issued guidelines on implementing health and safety directives in agriculture, livestock farming, horticulture, and forestry. the