the threat posed by the tribes under radagaisus, when the latter split his forces into three separate groups. stilicho cornered radagaisus near florence and starved the invaders into submission. meanwhile, alaric — bestowed with codicils of magister militum by stilicho and now supplied by the west — awaited for one side or the other to incite him to action as stilicho faced further difficulties from more barbarians. second invasion of italy, agreement with western roman regime sometime in 406 and into 407, more large groups of barbarians, consisting primarily of vandals, sueves and alans, crossed the rhine into gaul while about the same time a rebellion occurred in britain. under a common soldier named constantine it spread to gaul. burdened by so many enemies, stilicho ' s position was strained. during this crisis in 407, alaric again marched on italy, taking a position in noricum ( modern austria ), where he demanded a sum of 4, 000 pounds of gold to buy off another full - scale invasion. the roman senate loathed the idea of supporting alaric ; zosimus observed that one senator famously declaimed non est ista pax, sed pactio servitutis ( " this is not peace, but a pact of servitude " ). stilicho paid alaric the 4, 000 pounds of gold nevertheless. this agreement, sensible in view of the military situation, fatally weakened stilicho ' s standing at honorius ' s court. twice stilicho had allowed alaric to escape his grasp, and radagaisus had advanced all the way to the outskirts of florence. renewed hostilities after western roman coup in the east, arcadius died on 1 may 408 and was replaced by his son theodosius ii ; stilicho seems to have planned to march to constantinople, and to install there a regime loyal to himself. he may also have intended to give alaric a senior official position and send him against the rebels in gaul. before stilicho could do so, while he was away at ticinum at the head of a small detachment, a bloody coup against his supporters took place at honorius ' s court. it was led by honorius ' s minister, olympius. stilicho ' s small escort of goths and huns was commanded by a goth, sarus, whose gothic troops massacred the hun contingent in their sleep, and then withdrew towards the cities in