the amazon basin in 1850 was perhaps 300, 000, of whom about 175, 000 were europeans and 25, 000 were slaves. the brazilian amazon ' s principal commercial city, para ( now belem ), had from 10, 000 to 12, 000 inhabitants, including slaves. the town of manaos, now manaus, at the mouth of the rio negro, had a population between 1, 000 and 1, 500. all the remaining villages, as far up as tabatinga, on the brazilian frontier of peru, were relatively small. on 6 september 1850, emperor pedro ii of brazil sanctioned a law authorizing steam navigation on the amazon and gave the viscount of maua ( irineu evangelista de sousa ) the task of putting it into effect. he organised the " companhia de navegacao e comercio do amazonas " in rio de janeiro in 1852 ; in the following year it commenced operations with four small steamers, the monarca ( ' monarch ' ), the cameta, the marajo and the rio negro. at first, navigation was principally confined to the main river ; and even in 1857 a modification of the government contract only obliged the company to a monthly service between para and manaus, with steamers of 200 tons cargo capacity, a second line to make six round voyages a year between manaus and tabatinga, and a third, two trips a month between para and cameta. this was the first step in opening up the vast interior. the success of the venture called attention to the opportunities for economic exploitation of the amazon, and a second company soon opened commerce on the madeira, purus, and negro ; a third established a line between para and manaus, and a fourth found it profitable to navigate some of the smaller streams. in that same period, the amazonas company was increasing its fleet. meanwhile, private individuals were building and running small steam craft of their own on the main river as well as on many of its tributaries. on 31 july 1867, the government of brazil, constantly pressed by the maritime powers and by the countries encircling the upper amazon basin, especially peru, decreed the opening of the amazon to all countries, but they limited this to certain defined points : tabatinga – on the amazon ; cameta – on the tocantins ; santarem – on the tapajos ; borba – on the madeira, and manaus – on the rio negro. the brazilian decree took effect on 7 september 1867. thanks in part to the