states. the world ' s largest deposit of natural bitumen, known as the athabasca oil sands, is located in the mcmurray formation of northern alberta. this formation is from the early cretaceous, and is composed of numerous lenses of oil - bearing sand with up to 20 % oil. isotopic studies show the oil deposits to be about 110 million years old. two smaller but still very large formations occur in the peace river oil sands and the cold lake oil sands, to the west and southeast of the athabasca oil sands, respectively. of the alberta deposits, only parts of the athabasca oil sands are shallow enough to be suitable for surface mining. the other 80 % has to be produced by oil wells using enhanced oil recovery techniques like steam - assisted gravity drainage. much smaller heavy oil or bitumen deposits also occur in the uinta basin in utah, us. the tar sand triangle deposit, for example, is roughly 6 % bitumen. bitumen may occur in hydrothermal veins. an example of this is within the uinta basin of utah, in the us, where there is a swarm of laterally and vertically extensive veins composed of a solid hydrocarbon termed gilsonite. these veins formed by the polymerization and solidification of hydrocarbons that were mobilized from the deeper oil shales of the green river formation during burial and diagenesis. bitumen is similar to the organic matter in carbonaceous meteorites. however, detailed studies have shown these materials to be distinct. the vast alberta bitumen resources are considered to have started out as living material from marine plants and animals, mainly algae, that died millions of years ago when an ancient ocean covered alberta. they were covered by mud, buried deeply over time, and gently cooked into oil by geothermal heat at a temperature of. due to pressure from the rising of the rocky mountains in southwestern alberta, 80 to 55 million years ago, the oil was driven northeast hundreds of kilometres and trapped into underground sand deposits left behind by ancient river beds and ocean beaches, thus forming the oil sands. history ancient times the use of natural bitumen for waterproofing, and as an adhesive dates at least to the fifth millennium bc, with a crop storage basket discovered in mehrgarh, of the indus valley civilization, lined with it. by the 3rd millennium bc refined rock asphalt was in use in the region, and was used to waterproof the great bath in mohenjo - daro. in the ancient near east, the sumerians used