in the first impeachment inquiry against johnson with reporting back to the full house whether there were grounds for johnson to be impeached. this committee duly met, examined the president ' s bank accounts, and summoned members of the cabinet to testify. when a federal court released former confederate president davis on bail on may 13 ( he had been captured shortly after the war ), the committee investigated whether the president had impeded the prosecution. it learned that johnson was eager to have davis tried. a bipartisan majority of the committee voted down impeachment charges ; the committee adjourned on june 3. later in june, johnson and stanton battled over the question of whether the military officers placed in command of the south could override the civil authorities. the president had attorney general henry stanbery issue an opinion backing his position that they could not. johnson sought to pin down stanton either as for, and thus endorsing johnson ' s position, or against, showing himself to be opposed to his president and the rest of the cabinet. stanton evaded the point in meetings and written communications. when congress reconvened in july, it passed a reconstruction act against johnson ' s position, waited for his veto, overrode it, and went home. in addition to clarifying the powers of the generals, the legislation also deprived the president of control over the army in the south. with congress in recess until november, johnson decided to fire stanton and relieve one of the military commanders, general philip sheridan, who had dismissed the governor of texas and installed a replacement with little popular support. johnson was initially deterred by a strong objection from grant, but on august 5, the president demanded stanton ' s resignation ; the secretary refused to quit with congress out of session. johnson then suspended him pending the next meeting of congress as permitted under the tenure of office act ; grant agreed to serve as temporary replacement while continuing to lead the army. grant, under protest, followed johnson ' s order transferring sheridan and another of the district commanders, daniel sickles, who had angered johnson by firmly following congress ' s plan. the president also issued a proclamation pardoning most confederates, exempting those who held office under the confederacy, or who had served in federal office before the war but had breached their oaths. although republicans expressed anger with his actions, the 1867 elections generally went democratic. no seats in congress were directly elected in the polling, but the democrats took control of the ohio general assembly, allowing them to defeat for reelection one of johnson ' s strongest opponents, senator