his identity as a jotunn. thor then kills the builder with mjollnir, before any harm to the gods is done. the chapter does not explicitly name asgard as the fortress but they are commonly identified by scholars. in gylfaginning, the central cosmic tree yggdrasil is described as having three roots that hold it up ; one of these goes to the æsir, which has been interpreted as meaning asgard. in grimnismal, this root instead reaches over the realm of men. the bridge bifrost is told to span from the heavens to the earth and over it the æsir cross each day to hold council beneath yggdrasil at the urðarbrunnr. based on this, bifrost is commonly interpreted as the bridge to asgard. skaldskaparmal asgard is mentioned briefly throughout skaldskaparmal as the name for the home of the æsir, as in gylfaginning. in this section, a number of locations are described as lying within asgard including valhalla, and in front of its doors, the golden grove glasir. it also records a name for thor as ' defender of asgard ' ( ). ynglinga saga in the ynglinga saga, found in heimskringla, snorri describes asgard as a city in asia, based on a perceived, but erroneous, connection between the words for asia and æsir. odin then leaves to settle in the northern part of the world and leaves his brothers vili and ve to rule over the city. when the euhemerised odin dies, the account states that the swedes believed he had returned to asgard and would live there forever. interpretation and discussion cosmology in old nordic religion is presented in a vague and often contradictory manner when viewed from a naturalistic standpoint. snorri places asgard in the centre of the world, surrounded by midgard and then the lands inhabited by, all of which are finally encircled by the sea. he also locates the homes of the gods in the heavens. this had led to the proposition of a system of concentric circles, centred on asgard or yggdrasil, and sometimes with a vertical axis, leading upwards towards the heavens. there is debate between scholars over whether the gods were conceived of as living in the heavens, with some aligning their views with snorri, and others proposing that he at times presents the system in a christian