over a california bookstore. in 2018, miss marple was portrayed by yunjin kim in the south korean television series ms. ma, nemesis. anime from 2004 to 2005, japanese tv network nhk produced a 39 episode anime series titled agatha christie ' s great detectives poirot and marple, which features both miss marple and hercule poirot. miss marple ' s voice is provided by kaoru yachigusa. episodes adapted both short stories and novels. the anime series dramatised the following miss marple stories : strange jest ( ep 3 ) the case of the perfect maid ( ep 4 ) the tape - measure murder ( ep 13 ) ingots of gold ( ep 14 ) the blue geranium ( ep 15 ) 4. 50 from paddington ( ep 21 – 24 ) motive versus opportunity ( ep 27 ) sleeping murder ( ep 30 – 33 ) radio june whitfield starred as miss marple in michael bakewell ' s adaptations of all twelve novels, broadcast on bbc radio 4 between 1993 and 2001. three short stories with whitfield ( " tape - measure murder ", " the case of the perfect maid " and " sanctuary " ) were later broadcast under the collective title miss marple ' s final cases weekly 16 – 30 september 2015. other appearances marple was highlighted in volume 20 of the case closed manga ' s edition of " gosho aoyama ' s mystery library ", a section of the graphic novels ( usually the last page ) where the author introduces a different detective ( or occasionally, a villain ) from mystery literature, television, or other media. in the 1976 neil simon spoof murder by death, miss marple is parodied as " miss marbles " by elsa lanchester. see also list of female detective characters references external links miss marple at the official agatha christie website miss marple on imdb book series introduced in 1930 british novels adapted into films british novels adapted into plays characters in british novels of the 20th century detective television series agatha christie characters female characters in literature fictional amateur detectives literary characters introduced in 1927 fictional english people novel series novels adapted into radio programs british novels adapted into television shows