new york. other self - published books by warhol include : a gold book wild raspberries holy cats warhol ' s book a la recherche du shoe perdu ( 1955 ) marked his " transition from commercial to gallery artist ". ( the title is a play on words by warhol on the title of french author marcel proust ' s a la recherche du temps perdu. ) after gaining fame, warhol " wrote " several books that were commercially published : a, a novel ( 1968, ) is a literal transcription — containing spelling errors and phonetically written background noise and mumbling — of audio recordings of ondine and several of andy warhol ' s friends hanging out at the factory, talking, going out. the philosophy of andy warhol ( from a to b & back again ) ( 1975, ) — according to pat hackett ' s introduction to the andy warhol diaries, pat hackett did the transcriptions and text for the book based on daily phone conversations, sometimes ( when warhol was traveling ) using audio cassettes that andy warhol gave her. said cassettes contained conversations with brigid berlin ( also known as brigid polk ) and former interview magazine editor bob colacello. popism : the warhol sixties ( 1980, ), authored by warhol and pat hackett, is a retrospective view of the 1960s and the role of pop art. the andy warhol diaries ( 1989, ), edited by pat hackett, is a diary dictated by warhol to hackett in daily phone conversations. warhol started the diary to keep track of his expenses after being audited, although it soon evolved to include his personal and cultural observations. warhol created the fashion magazine interview that is still published. the loopy title script on the cover is thought to be either his own handwriting or that of his mother, julia warhola, who would often do text work for his early commercial pieces. other media although andy warhol is most known for his paintings and films, he authored works in many different media. drawing : warhol started his career as a commercial illustrator, producing drawings in " blotted - ink " style for advertisements and magazine articles. best known of these early works are his drawings of shoes. some of his personal drawings were self - published in small booklets, such as yum, yum, yum ( about food ), ho, ho, ho ( about christmas ) and shoes, shoes, shoes. his most artistically acclaimed book of drawings is probably a gold book