the issues of the admiralty pattern anchor. northill anchor originally designed as a lightweight anchor for seaplanes, this design consists of two plough - like blades mounted to a shank, with a folding stock crossing through the crown of the anchor. cqr plough anchor many manufacturers produce a plough - type anchor, so - named after its resemblance to an agricultural plough. all such anchors are copied from the original cqr ( coastal quick release, or clyde quick release, later rebranded as ' secure ' by lewmar ), a 1933 design patented in the uk by mathematician geoffrey ingram taylor. plough anchors stow conveniently in a roller at the bow, and have been popular with cruising sailors and private boaters. ploughs can be moderately good in all types of seafloor, though not exceptional in any. contrary to popular belief, the cqr ' s hinged shank is not to allow the anchor to turn with direction changes rather than breaking out, but actually to prevent the shank ' s weight from disrupting the fluke ' s orientation while setting. the hinge can wear out and may trap a sailor ' s fingers. some later plough anchors have a rigid shank, such as the lewmar ' s " delta ". a plough anchor has a fundamental flaw : like its namesake, the agricultural plough, it digs in but then tends to break out back to the surface. plough anchors sometimes have difficulty setting at all, and instead skip across the seafloor. by contrast, modern efficient anchors tend to be " scoop " types that dig ever deeper. delta anchor the delta anchor was derived from the cqr. it was patented by philip mccarron, james stewart, and gordon lyall of british marine manufacturer simpson - lawrence ltd in 1992. it was designed as an advance over the anchors used for floating systems such as oil rigs. it retains the weighted tip of the cqr but has a much higher fluke area to weight ratio than its predecessor. the designers also eliminated the sometimes troublesome hinge. it is a plough anchor with a rigid, arched shank. it is described as self - launching because it can be dropped from a bow roller simply by paying out the rode, without manual assistance. this is an oft copied design with the european brake and australian sarca excel being two of the more notable ones. although it is a plough type anchor, it sets and holds reasonably well in hard bottoms. danforth anchor