early days. its backers and others predicted that it might become a dominant language for general purpose programming and not only defense - related work. ichbiah publicly stated that within ten years, only two programming languages would remain : ada and lisp. early ada compilers struggled to implement the large, complex language, and both compile - time and run - time performance tended to be slow and tools primitive. compiler vendors expended most of their efforts in passing the massive, language - conformance - testing, government - required ada compiler validation capability ( acvc ) validation suite that was required in another novel feature of the ada language effort. the jargon file, a dictionary of computer hacker slang originating in 1975 – 1983, notes in an entry on ada that " it is precisely what one might expect given that kind of endorsement by fiat ; designed by committee... difficult to use, and overall a disastrous, multi - billion - dollar boondoggle... ada lovelace... would almost certainly blanch at the use her name has been latterly put to ; the kindest thing that has been said about it is that there is probably a good small language screaming to get out from inside its vast, elephantine bulk. " the first validated ada implementation was the nyu ada / ed translator, certified on april 11, 1983. nyu ada / ed is implemented in the high - level set language setl. several commercial companies began offering ada compilers and associated development tools, including alsys, telesoft, ddc - i, advanced computer techniques, tartan laboratories, irvine compiler, tld systems, and verdix. computer manufacturers who had a significant business in the defense, aerospace, or related industries, also offered ada compilers and tools on their platforms ; these included concurrent computer corporation, cray research, inc., digital equipment corporation, harris computer systems, and siemens nixdorf informationssysteme ag. in 1991, the us department of defense began to require the use of ada ( the ada mandate ) for all software, though exceptions to this rule were often granted. the department of defense ada mandate was effectively removed in 1997, as the dod began to embrace commercial off - the - shelf ( cots ) technology. similar requirements existed in other nato countries : ada was required for nato systems involving command and control and other functions, and ada was the mandated or preferred language for defense - related applications in countries such as sweden, germany, and canada. by the late 1980s and early 1990s, ada compilers