sustainability. every apple tablet, notebook, desktop computer, and display that epeat ranks achieves a gold rating, the highest possible. although apple ' s data centers recycle water 35 times, the increased activity in retail, corporate and data centers also increase the amount of water use to in 2015. during an event on march 21, 2016, apple provided a status update on its environmental initiative to be 100 % renewable in all of its worldwide operations. lisa p. jackson, apple ' s vice president of environment, policy and social initiatives who reports directly to ceo, tim cook, announced that, 93 % of apple ' s worldwide operations are powered with renewable energy. also featured was the company ' s efforts to use sustainable paper in their product packaging ; 99 % of all paper used by apple in the product packaging comes from post - consumer recycled paper or sustainably managed forests, as the company continues its move to all paper packaging for all of its products. apple working in partnership with conservation fund, have preserved 36, 000 acres of working forests in maine and north carolina. another partnership announced is with the world wildlife fund to preserve up to of forests in china. featured was the company ' s installation of a 40 mw solar power plant in the sichuan province of china that was tailor - made to coexist with the indigenous yaks that eat hay produced on the land, by raising the panels to be several feet off of the ground so the yaks and their feed would be unharmed grazing beneath the array. this installation alone compensates for more than all of the energy used in apple ' s stores and offices in the whole of china, negating the company ' s energy carbon footprint in the country. in singapore, apple has worked with the singaporean government to cover the rooftops of 800 buildings in the city - state with solar panels allowing apple ' s singapore operations to be run on 100 % renewable energy. liam was introduced to the world, an advanced robotic disassembler and sorter designed by apple engineers in california specifically for recycling outdated or broken iphones. reuses and recycles parts from traded in products. apple announced on august 16, 2016, that lens technology, one of its major suppliers in china, has committed to power all its glass production for apple with 100 percent renewable energy by 2018. the commitment is a large step in apple ' s efforts to help manufacturers lower their carbon footprint in china. apple also announced that all 14 of its final assembly sites in china are now compliant with ul ' s zero waste to landfill