association. " on the subject of alchemy and chemistry, many treatises relating to alchemy have been attributed to him, though in his authentic writings he had little to say on the subject, and then mostly through commentary on aristotle. for example, in his commentary, de mineralibus, he refers to the power of stones, but does not elaborate on what these powers might be. a wide range of pseudo - albertine works dealing with alchemy exist, though, showing the belief developed in the generations following albert ' s death that he had mastered alchemy, one of the fundamental sciences of the middle ages. these include metals and materials ; the secrets of chemistry ; the origin of metals ; the origins of compounds, and a concordance which is a collection of observations on the philosopher ' s stone ; and other alchemy - chemistry topics, collected under the name of theatrum chemicum. he is credited with the discovery of the element arsenic and experimented with photosensitive chemicals, including silver nitrate. he did believe that stones had occult properties, as he related in his work de mineralibus. however, there is scant evidence that he personally performed alchemical experiments. according to legend, albert is said to have discovered the philosopher ' s stone and passed it on to his pupil thomas aquinas, shortly before his death. albert does not confirm he discovered the stone in his writings, but he did record that he witnessed the creation of gold by " transmutation. " given that thomas aquinas died six years before albert ' s death, this legend as stated is unlikely. astronomy albert was deeply interested in astronomy, as has been articulated by scholars such as paola zambelli and scott hendrix. throughout the middle ages – and well into the early modern period – astrology was widely accepted by scientists and intellectuals who held the view that life on earth is effectively a microcosm within the macrocosm ( the latter being the cosmos itself ). it was believed that correspondence therefore exists between the two and thus the celestial bodies follow patterns and cycles analogous to those on earth. with this worldview, it seemed reasonable to assert that astrology could be used to predict the probable future of a human being. albert argued that an understanding of the celestial influences affecting us could help us to live our lives more in accord with christian precepts. the most comprehensive statement of his astrological beliefs is to be found in two separates works that he authored around 1260, known as the speculum astrono