other nsaids, such as ibuprofen and naproxen, may reduce the antiplatelet effect of aspirin. although limited evidence suggests this may not result in a reduced cardioprotective effect of aspirin. analgesic doses of aspirin decrease sodium loss induced by spironolactone in the urine, however this does not reduce the antihypertensive effects of spironolactone. furthermore, antiplatelet doses of aspirin are deemed too small to produce an interaction with spironolactone. aspirin is known to compete with penicillin g for renal tubular secretion. aspirin may also inhibit the absorption of vitamin c. research the isis - 2 trial demonstrated that aspirin at doses of 160mg daily for one month, decreased the mortality by 21 % of participants with a suspected myocardial infarction in the first five weeks. a single daily dose of 324mg of aspirin for 12 weeks has a highly protective effect against acute myocardial infarction and death in men with unstable angina. bipolar disorder aspirin has been repurposed as an add - on treatment for depressive episodes in subjects with bipolar disorder. however, meta - analytic evidence is based on very few studies and does not suggest any efficacy of aspirin in the treatment of bipolar depression. thus, notwithstanding the biological rationale, the clinical perspectives of aspirin and anti - inflammatory agents in the treatment of bipolar depression remain uncertain. infectious diseases several studies investigated the anti - infective properties of aspirin for bacterial, viral and parasitic infections. aspirin was demonstrated to limit platelet activation induced by staphylococcus aureus and enterococcus faecalis and to reduce streptococcal adhesion to heart valves. in patients with tuberculous meningitis, the addition of aspirin reduced the risk of new cerebral infarction [ rr = 0. 52 ( 0. 29 - 0. 92 ) ]. a role of aspirin on bacterial and fungal biofilm is also being supported by growing evidence. cancer prevention evidence from observational studies were conflicting on the effect of aspirin in breast cancer prevention, a randomized controlled trial showed that aspirin had no significant effect in reducing breast cancer thus further studies are needed to clarify aspirin effect in cancer prevention. in gardening there are a many anecdotal reportings that aspirin can improve