. however, in 1955 this ritual was outlawed as animal cruelty. in 2007, it became exempt due to its cultural significance to the ainu people. the ritual has since been modified ; it is now an annual festival. the festival begins at sundown with a torch parade. a play is then performed, and this is followed by music and dancing. other rituals were performed for things such as food and illness. the ainu had a ritual to welcome the salmon, praying for a big catch, and another to thank the salmon at the end of the season. there was also a ritual for warding off kamuy that would bring epidemics, using strong - smelling herbs placed in doorways, windows, and gardens in order to turn away epidemic kamuy. similarly to many religions, the ainu also gave prayers and offerings to their ancestors in the spirit world or afterlife. they would also pray to the fire kamuy to deliver their offerings of broken snacks and fruit as well as tobacco ( ainu, everyculture ). dancing in rituals traditional dances are performed at ceremonies and banquets. dancing is a part of the newly organized cultural festivals, and it is even done privately in daily life. ainu traditional dances often involve large circles of dancers, and sometimes there are onlookers that sing without musical instruments. in rituals these dances are intimate ; they involve the calls and movements of animals and / or insects. some, like the sword and bow dances, are rituals that were used to worship and give thanks for nature. this was to thank deities that they believed were in their surroundings. there was also a dance in iomante that mimicked the movements of a living bear. however, some dances are improvised and meant just for entertainment. overall ainu traditional dancing reinforced their connection to nature, the religious world, and provided a link to other arctic cultures. funerals funerals included prayers & offerings to the fire kamuy, as well as verse laments expressing wishes for a smooth journey to the next world. the items that were to be buried with the dead were first broken or cracked to allow spirits to be released and travel to the afterlife together. sometimes a burial would be followed by burning the residence of the dead. in the event of an unnatural death, there would be a speech raging against the gods. in the afterlife, recognized ancestral spirits moved through and influenced the world, though neglected spirits would return to the living world and cause misfortune. prosperity of family in the afterlife would depend on prayers and offerings left by living descendants ; this