. so much had he become the rage that every rich woman who had mislaid a bracelet or lost a pet kitten rushed to secure the services of the great hercule poirot. during world war i, poirot left belgium for england as a refugee, although he returned a few times. on 16 july 1916 he again met his lifelong friend, captain arthur hastings, and solved the first of his cases to be published, the mysterious affair at styles. it is clear that hastings and poirot are already friends when they meet in chapter 2 of the novel, as hastings tells cynthia that he has not seen him for " some years " ( agatha christie ' s poirot has hastings reveal that they met on a shooting case where hastings was a suspect ). particulars such as the date of 1916 for the case and that hastings had met poirot in belgium, are given in curtain : poirot ' s last case, chapter 1. after that case, poirot apparently came to the attention of the british secret service and undertook cases for the british government, including foiling the attempted abduction of the prime minister. readers were told that the british authorities had learned of poirot ' s keen investigative ability from certain members of belgium ' s royal family. after the war, poirot became a private detective and began undertaking civilian cases. he moved into what became both his home and work address, flat 203 at 56b whitehaven mansions. hastings first visits the flat when he returns to england in june 1935 from argentina in the a. b. c. murders, chapter 1. the tv programmes place this in florin court, charterhouse square, in the wrong part of london. according to hastings, it was chosen by poirot " entirely on account of its strict geometrical appearance and proportion " and described as the " newest type of service flat ". ( the florin court building was actually built in 1936, decades after poirot fictionally moved in. ) his first case in this period was " the affair at the victory ball ", which allowed poirot to enter high society and begin his career as a private detective. between the world wars, poirot travelled all over europe and the middle east investigating crimes and solving murders. most of his cases occurred during this time and he was at the height of his powers at this point in his life. in the murder on the links, the belgian pits his grey cells against a french murderer. in the middle east, he solved the cases death on the