##quet by nehir and oil pipes by eupec pipe coating azerbaijan ). a new program which is prepared by the european union is aimed to support the economic diversification of azerbaijan. program is considered for southern region lankaran which has the lowest economic indicator and the lowest income per capita, as well as, the lowest level of investment, but at the same time, high potential for the production of garden products in high quality. the program will be focused on the development of the region at the local and international levels. azerbaijan produced in 2018 : 2. 0 million tons of wheat ; 916 thousand tons of barley ; 898 thousand tons of potato ; 609 thousand tons of tomato ; 307 thousand tons of watermelon ; 277 thousand tons of sugar beet ; 277 thousand tons of apple ; 247 thousand tons of maize ; 235 thousand tons of onion ; 233 thousand tons of cotton ; 223 thousand tons of cucumber ; 167 thousand tons of grape ; 160 thousand tons of persimmon ( 5th largest world producer ) ; 108 thousand tons of cabbage ; in addition to smaller productions of other agricultural products, like melon ( 94 thousand tons ), pear ( 52 thousand tons ) and apricot ( 28 thousand tons ). manufacturing in 2007, mining and hydrocarbon industries accounted for well over 95 percent of the azerbaijani economy. diversification of the economy into manufacturing industries remains a long - term issue. as of late 2000s, the defense industry of azerbaijan has emerged as an autonomous entity with a growing defense production capability. the ministry is cooperating with the defense sectors of ukraine, belarus and pakistan. along with other contracts, azerbaijani defence industries and turkish companies, azerbaijan will produce 40 mm revolver grenade launchers, 107 mm and 122 mm mlrs systems, cobra 4×4 vehicles and joint modernization of btr vehicles in baku. services in 2023, there were 1, 708 registered companies in the services sector. financial and business services the gdp growth rates observed in azerbaijan during the last years made the country one of the fastest growing economies in the world. but the banking sector of azerbaijan has yet to tap the vast growth potential that should be achievable due to the continuation of the high economic growth. for this reason the banking sector remains small in relation to the size of the azerbaijani economy. since 2002, important stages of restructuring of the banking system have started to be carried out. taking into consideration the entry of big oil revenues in the country, as a logical result of successful oil strategy, and in this base, as the banks were ready