center for the research and pedagogy of deafness. in partnership with gardiner greene hubbard, bell helped establish the publication science during the early 1880s. in 1898, bell was elected as the second president of the national geographic society, serving until 1903, and was primarily responsible for the extensive use of illustrations, including photography, in the magazine. he also served for many years as a regent of the smithsonian institution ( 1898 – 1922 ). the french government conferred on him the decoration of the legion d ' honneur ( legion of honor ) ; the royal society of arts in london awarded him the albert medal in 1902 ; the university of wurzburg, bavaria, granted him a phd, and he was awarded the franklin institute ' s elliott cresson medal in 1912. he was one of the founders of the american institute of electrical engineers in 1884 and served as its president from 1891 to 1892. bell was later awarded the aiee ' s edison medal in 1914 " for meritorious achievement in the invention of the telephone ". the bel ( b ) and the smaller decibel ( db ) are units of measurement of sound pressure level ( spl ) invented by bell labs and named after him. since 1976, the ieee ' s alexander graham bell medal has been awarded to honor outstanding contributions in the field of telecommunications. in 1936, the us patent office declared bell first on its list of the country ' s greatest inventors, leading to the us post office issuing a commemorative stamp honoring bell in 1940 as part of its ' famous americans series '. the first day of issue ceremony was held on october 28 in boston, massachusetts, the city where bell spent considerable time on research and working with the deaf. the bell stamp became very popular and sold out in little time. the stamp became, and remains to this day, the most valuable one of the series. the 150th anniversary of bell ' s birth in 1997 was marked by a special issue of commemorative £1 banknotes from the royal bank of scotland. the illustrations on the reverse of the note include bell ' s face in profile, his signature, and objects from bell ' s life and career : users of the telephone over the ages ; an audio wave signal ; a diagram of a telephone receiver ; geometric shapes from engineering structures ; representations of sign language and the phonetic alphabet ; the geese which helped him to understand flight ; and the sheep which he studied to understand genetics. additionally, the government of canada honored bell in 1997 with a c $ 100 gold coin, in tribute also to the 150th anniversary of his birth,