). modern reception institutions in a variety of counties have been named after avicenna in honour of his scientific accomplishments, including the avicenna mausoleum and museum, bu - ali sina university, avicenna research institute and ibn sina academy of medieval medicine and sciences. there is also a crater on the moon named avicenna. the avicenna prize, established in 2003, is awarded every two years by unesco and rewards individuals and groups for their achievements in the field of ethics in science. the avicenna directories ( 2008 – 15 ; now the world directory of medical schools ) list universities and schools where doctors, public health practitioners, pharmacists and others, are educated. the original project team stated : in june 2009, iran donated a " persian scholars pavilion " to the united nations office in vienna. it now sits in the vienna international center. in popular culture the 1982 soviet film youth of genius ( ) by recounts avicenna ' s younger years. the film is set in bukhara at the turn of the millennium. in louis l ' amour ' s 1985 historical novel the walking drum, kerbouchard studies and discusses avicenna ' s the canon of medicine. in his book the physician ( 1988 ) noah gordon tells the story of a young english medical apprentice who disguises himself as a jew to travel from england to persia and learn from avicenna, the great master of his time. the novel was adapted into a feature film, the physician, in 2013. avicenna was played by ben kingsley. list of works the treatises of avicenna influenced later muslim thinkers in many areas including theology, philology, mathematics, astronomy, physics and music. his works numbered almost 450 volumes on a wide range of subjects, of which around 240 have survived. in particular, 150 volumes of his surviving works concentrate on philosophy and 40 of them concentrate on medicine. his most famous works are the book of healing, and the canon of medicine. avicenna wrote at least one treatise on alchemy, but several others have been falsely attributed to him. his logic, metaphysics, physics, and de caelo, are treatises giving a synoptic view of aristotelian doctrine, though metaphysics demonstrates a significant departure from the brand of neoplatonism known as aristotelianism in avicenna ' s world ; arabic philosophers have hinted at the idea that avicenna was attempting to " re - aristotelianise " muslim philosophy in its entirety