amur natives such as the udeghes, ulchis, and nanais. these groups also adopted material goods and practices such as agriculture, husbandry, heating, iron cooking pots, silk, and cotton. during the edo period ( 1601 – 1868 ), the ainu, who controlled northern hokkaido, became increasingly involved in trade with the japanese, who controlled the southern portion of the island. the tokugawa bakufu ( feudal government ) granted the matsumae clan exclusive rights to trade with the ainu in the northern part of the island. later, the matsumae began to lease out trading rights to japanese merchants, and contact between japanese and ainu became more extensive. throughout this period, ainu groups competed with each other to import goods from the japanese, and epidemic diseases such as smallpox reduced the population. although the increased contact created by the trade between the japanese and the ainu contributed to greater mutual understanding, it also sometimes led to conflict, which occasionally intensified into violent ainu revolts. the most important ainu rebellion against japanese authority was shakushain ' s revolt from 1669 – 1672. another large - scale revolt by ainu against japanese rule was the menashi - kunashir battle in 1789. however, throughout this period and thereafter, the ainu - japanese relationship continued to be marked more by trade and commercial interactions than by conflicts. from 1799 to 1806, the tokugawa shogunate took direct control of southern hokkaido. during this period, ainu women were separated from their husbands and either subjected to rape or forcibly married to japanese men. meanwhile, ainu men were deported to merchant subcontractors for five - and ten - year terms of service. policies of family separation and assimilation, combined with the impact of smallpox, caused the ainu population to drop significantly in the early 19th century. in the 18th century, there were 80, 000 ainu, but by 1868, there were only about 15, 000 ainu in hokkaido, 2, 000 in sakhalin, and around 100 in the kuril islands. despite their growing influence in the area in the early 19th century as a result of these policies, the tokugawa shogunate was unable to gain a monopoly on ainu trade with those on the asian mainland, even by the year 1853. santan traders, a group comprised mostly of the ulchi, nanai, and oroch peoples of the amur river, commonly interacted with the ainu people independent of the japanese government, especially in the north part of hokkaido