from monastiraki westwards to egaleo connected some of the main night life hubs of the city, namely those of gazi ( kerameikos station ) with psirri ( monastiraki station ) and the city centre ( syntagma station ). the new stations maniatika, piraeus and dimotiko theatro, were completed in october 10, 2022, connecting the biggest port of greece, the port of piraeus, with athens international airport, the biggest airport of greece. the athens tram is operated by stasy s. a. ( statheres sygkoinonies s. a. ), a subsidiary company of transport for athens ( oasa ). it has a fleet of 35 sirio type vehicles and 25 alstom citadis type vehicles which serve 48 stations, employ 345 people with an average daily occupancy of 65, 000 passengers. the tram network spans a total length of and covers ten athenian suburbs. the network runs from syntagma square to the southwestern suburb of palaio faliro, where the line splits in two branches ; the first runs along the athens coastline toward the southern suburb of voula, while the other heads toward neo faliro. the network covers the majority of the athens coastline. further extension is under construction towards the major commercial port of piraeus. the expansion to piraeus will include 12 new stations, increase the overall length of tram route by, and increase the overall transportation network. athens international airport athens is served by the athens international airport ( ath ), located near the town of spata, in the eastern messoghia plain, some east of center of athens. the airport, awarded the " european airport of the year 2004 " award, is intended as an expandable hub for air travel in southeastern europe and was constructed in 51 months, costing 2. 2 billion euros. it employs a staff of 14, 000. ferry the port of piraeus is the largest port in greece and one of the largest in europe. rafina and lavrio act as alternative ports of athens, connects the city with numerous greek islands of the aegean sea, evia and cesme in turkey, while also serving the cruise ships that arrive. motorways two main motorways of greece begin in athens, namely the a1 / e75, heading north towards greece ' s second largest city, thessaloniki ; and the border crossing of evzones and the a8 / e94 heading