jayne county as " vulva " and cherry vanilla as " amanda pork ". in 1974, andy warhol also produced the stage musical man on the moon, which was written by john phillips of the mamas and the papas. photography : to produce his silkscreens, warhol made photographs or had them made by his friends and assistants. these pictures were mostly taken with a specific model of polaroid camera, the big shot, that polaroid kept in production especially for warhol. this photographic approach to painting and his snapshot method of taking pictures has had a great effect on artistic photography. warhol was an accomplished photographer, and took an enormous number of photographs of factory visitors, friends, acquired by stanford university. music : in 1963, warhol founded the druds, a short - lived avant - garde noise music band that featured prominent members of the new york proto - conceptual art and minimal art community. computer : warhol used amiga computers to generate digital art, including you are the one, which he helped design and build with amiga, inc. he also displayed the difference between slow fill and fast fill on live tv with debbie harry as a model. personal life sexuality warhol was homosexual. in 1980, he told an interviewer that he was still a virgin. biographer bob colacello, who was present at the interview, felt it was probably true and that what little sex he had was probably " a mixture of voyeurism and masturbation — to use [ andy ' s ] word abstract ". warhol ' s assertion of virginity would seem to be contradicted by his hospital treatment in 1960 for condylomata, a sexually transmitted disease. it has also been contradicted by his lovers, including warhol muse billyboy, who has said they had sex to orgasm : " when he wasn ' t being andy warhol and when you were just alone with him he was an incredibly generous and very kind person. what seduced me was the andy warhol who i saw alone. in fact when i was with him in public he kind of got on my nerves.... i ' d say : ' you ' re just obnoxious, i can ' t bear you. ' " billy name also denied that warhol was only a voyeur, saying : " he was the essence of sexuality. it permeated everything. andy exuded it, along with his great artistic creativity.... it brought a joy to the whole art world in new york. "