april 1933 by british liberal politician william beveridge to help academics escape nazi persecution, einstein was able to leave germany. he rented a house in de haan, belgium, where he lived for a few months. in late july 1933, he visited england for about six weeks at the invitation of the british member of parliament commander oliver locker - lampson, who had become friends with him in the preceding years. locker - lampson invited him to stay near his home in a secluded wooden cabin on roughton heath in the parish of. to protect einstein, locker - lampson had two bodyguards watch over him ; a photo of them carrying shotguns and guarding einstein was published in the daily herald on 24 july 1933. locker - lampson took einstein to meet winston churchill at his home, and later, austen chamberlain and former prime minister lloyd george. einstein asked them to help bring jewish scientists out of germany. british historian martin gilbert notes that churchill responded immediately, and sent his friend, physicist frederick lindemann, to germany to seek out jewish scientists and place them in british universities. churchill later observed that as a result of germany having driven the jews out, they had lowered their " technical standards " and put the allies ' technology ahead of theirs. einstein later contacted leaders of other nations, including turkey ' s prime minister, ismet inonu, to whom he wrote in september 1933 requesting placement of unemployed german - jewish scientists. as a result of einstein ' s letter, jewish invitees to turkey eventually totaled over " 1, 000 saved individuals ". locker - lampson also submitted a bill to parliament to extend british citizenship to einstein, during which period einstein made a number of public appearances describing the crisis brewing in europe. in one of his speeches he denounced germany ' s treatment of jews, while at the same time he introduced a bill promoting jewish citizenship in palestine, as they were being denied citizenship elsewhere. in his speech he described einstein as a " citizen of the world " who should be offered a temporary shelter in the uk. both bills failed, however, and einstein then accepted an earlier offer from the institute for advanced study, in princeton, new jersey, us, to become a resident scholar. resident scholar at the institute for advanced study on 3 october 1933, einstein delivered a speech on the importance of academic freedom before a packed audience at the royal albert hall in london, with the times reporting he was wildly cheered throughout. four days later he returned to the us and took up a position at the institute for advanced study, noted for having become a refuge