, and their ticket took the state by 25, 000 votes. congress refused to count tennessee ' s electoral votes, but lincoln and johnson did not need them, having won in most states that had voted, and easily secured the election. now vice president - elect, johnson was eager to complete the work of reestablishing civilian government in tennessee, although the timetable for the election of a new governor did not allow it to take place until after inauguration day, march 4. he hoped to remain in nashville to complete his task, but was told by lincoln ' s advisers that he could not stay, but would be sworn in with lincoln. in these months, union troops finished the retaking of eastern tennessee, including greeneville. just before his departure, the voters of tennessee ratified a new constitution, which abolished slavery, on february 22, 1865. one of johnson ' s final acts as military governor was to certify the results. johnson traveled to washington to be sworn into office, although according to gordon - reed, " in light of what happened on march 4, 1865, it might have been better if johnson had stayed in nashville. " johnson may have been ill ; castel cited typhoid fever, though gordon - reed notes that there is no independent evidence for that diagnosis. on the evening of march 3, johnson attended a party in his honor at which he drank heavily. hung over the following morning at the capitol, he asked vice president hamlin for some whiskey. hamlin produced a bottle, and johnson took two stiff drinks, stating " i need all the strength for the occasion i can have. " in the senate chamber, johnson delivered a rambling address as lincoln, the congress, and dignitaries looked on. almost incoherent at times, he finally meandered to a halt, whereupon hamlin hastily swore him in as vice president. lincoln, who had watched sadly during the debacle, then went to his own swearing - in outside the capitol, and delivered his acclaimed second inaugural address. in the weeks after the inauguration, johnson only presided over the senate briefly, and hid from public ridicule at the maryland home of a friend, francis preston blair. when he did return to washington, it was with the intent of leaving for tennessee to reestablish his family in greeneville. instead, he remained after word came that general ulysses s. grant had captured the confederate capital of richmond, virginia, presaging the end of the war. lincoln stated, in response to criticism of johnson ' s