the brand of neoplatonism known as aristotelianism in avicenna ' s world ; arabic philosophers have hinted at the idea that avicenna was attempting to " re - aristotelianise " muslim philosophy in its entirety, unlike his predecessors, who accepted the conflation of platonic, aristotelian, neo - and middle - platonic works transmitted into the muslim world. the logic and metaphysics have been extensively reprinted, the latter, e. g., at venice in 1493, 1495 and 1546. some of his shorter essays on medicine, logic, etc., take a poetical form ( the poem on logic was published by schmoelders in 1836 ). two encyclopedic treatises, dealing with philosophy, are often mentioned. the larger, al - shifa ' ( sanatio ), exists nearly complete in manuscript in the bodleian library and elsewhere ; part of it on the de anima appeared at pavia ( 1490 ) as the liber sextus naturalium, and the long account of avicenna ' s philosophy given by muhammad al - shahrastani seems to be mainly an analysis, and in many places a reproduction, of the al - shifa '. a shorter form of the work is known as the an - najat ( liberatio ). the latin editions of part of these works have been modified by the corrections which the monastic editors confess that they applied. there is also a ( hikmat - al - mashriqqiyya, in latin philosophia orientalis ), mentioned by roger bacon, the majority of which is lost in antiquity, which according to averroes was pantheistic in tone. avicenna ' s works further include : sirat al - shaykh al - ra ' is ( the life of avicenna ), ed. and trans. we. gohlman, albany, ny : state university of new york press, 1974. ( the only critical edition of avicenna ' s autobiography, supplemented with material from a biography by his student abu ' ubayd al - juzjani. a more recent translation of the autobiography appears in d. gutas, avicenna and the aristotelian tradition : introduction to reading avicenna ' s philosophical works, leiden : brill, 1988 ; second edition 2014. ) al - isharat wa al - tanbihat ( remarks and admonitions )