whatever religious ceremonies are necessary. ceremonies are confined to making libations of, saying prayers, and offering willow sticks with wooden shavings attached to them. these sticks are called ( singular ) and ( plural ). they are placed on an altar used to " send back " the spirits of killed animals. ainu ceremonies for sending back bears are called. the ainu people give thanks to the gods before eating and pray to the deity of fire in time of sickness. traditional ainu belief holds that their spirits are immortal, and that their spirits will be rewarded hereafter by ascending to ( land of the gods ). the ainu are part of a larger collective of indigenous people who practice " arctolatry " or bear worship. the ainu believe that the bear holds particular importance as ' s chosen method of delivering the gift of the bear ' s hide and meat to humans. john batchelor reported that the ainu view the world as being a spherical ocean on which float many islands, a view based on the fact that the sun rises in the east and sets in the west. he wrote that they believe the world rests on the back of a large fish, which when it moves causes earthquakes. ainu assimilated into mainstream japanese society have adopted buddhism and shinto ; some northern ainu were converted as members of the russian orthodox church. regarding ainu communities in ( ) and other areas that fall within the russian sphere of cultural influence, there have been a few churches constructed, and some ainu are reported to have accepted the christian faith. there have also been reports that the russian orthodox church has performed some missionary projects in the sakhalin ainu community. however, there are only reports of a few conversions to christianity. converts have been scorned as ( russian ainu ) by other members of the ainu community. reports indicate that many ainu have kept their faith in their traditional deities. according to a 2012 survey conducted by hokkaido university, a high percentage of ainu are members of their household family religion, which is buddhism ( especially buddhism ). however, it is noted that similar to the japanese religious consciousness, there is not a strong feeling of identification with a particular religion, with buddhist and traditional beliefs both being part of their daily life culture. rituals ainu religion consists of a pantheistic animist structure, in which the world is founded on interactions between humans and kamuy. within all living beings, natural forces, and objects there is a ramat ( sacred life force ) that is