c – h bond and 1. 54 × 10−10 m for a c – c bond. the spatial arrangement of the bonds is similar to that of the four sp3 orbitals — they are tetrahedrally arranged, with an angle of 109. 47° between them. structural formulae that represent the bonds as being at right angles to one another, while both common and useful, do not accurately depict the geometry. conformation the structural formula and the bond angles are not usually sufficient to completely describe the geometry of a molecule. there is a further degree of freedom for each carbon – carbon bond : the torsion angle between the atoms or groups bound to the atoms at each end of the bond. the spatial arrangement described by the torsion angles of the molecule is known as its conformation. ethane forms the simplest case for studying the conformation of alkanes, as there is only one c – c bond. if one looks down the axis of the c – c bond, one will see the so - called newman projection. the hydrogen atoms on both the front and rear carbon atoms have an angle of 120° between them, resulting from the projection of the base of the tetrahedron onto a flat plane. however, the torsion angle between a given hydrogen atom attached to the front carbon and a given hydrogen atom attached to the rear carbon can vary freely between 0° and 360°. this is a consequence of the free rotation about a carbon – carbon single bond. despite this apparent freedom, only two limiting conformations are important : eclipsed conformation and staggered conformation. the two conformations differ in energy : the staggered conformation is 12. 6 kj / mol ( 3. 0 kcal / mol ) lower in energy ( more stable ) than the eclipsed conformation ( the least stable ). this difference in energy between the two conformations, known as the torsion energy, is low compared to the thermal energy of an ethane molecule at ambient temperature. there is constant rotation about the c – c bond. the time taken for an ethane molecule to pass from one staggered conformation to the next, equivalent to the rotation of one ch3 group by 120° relative to the other, is of the order of 10−11 seconds. the case of higher alkanes is more complex but based on similar principles, with the antiperiplanar conformation always being the most favored around each carbon – carbon bond. for this reason, alkanes are usually shown in a zig