communes ( townships ). the provinces are : exclave of cabinda with an area of approximately, the northern angolan province of cabinda is unusual in being separated from the rest of the country by a strip, some wide, of the democratic republic of congo along the lower congo river. cabinda borders the congo republic to the north and north - northeast and the drc to the east and south. the town of cabinda is the chief population centre. according to a 1995 census, cabinda had an estimated population of 600, 000, approximately 400, 000 of whom are citizens of neighboring countries. population estimates are, however, highly unreliable. consisting largely of tropical forest, cabinda produces hardwoods, coffee, cocoa, crude rubber and palm oil. the product for which it is best known, however, is its oil, which has given it the nickname, " the kuwait of africa ". cabinda ' s petroleum production from its considerable offshore reserves now accounts for more than half of angola ' s output. most of the oil along its coast was discovered under portuguese rule by the cabinda gulf oil company ( cabgoc ) from 1968 onwards. ever since portugal handed over sovereignty of its former overseas province of angola to the local independence groups ( mpla, unita and fnla ), the territory of cabinda has been a focus of separatist guerrilla actions opposing the government of angola ( which has employed its armed forces, the faa — forcas armadas angolanas ) and cabindan separatists. wildlife government and politics the angolan government is composed of three branches of government : executive, legislative and judicial. the executive branch of the government is composed of the president, the vice - presidents and the council of ministers. the legislative branch comprises a 220 - seat unicameral legislature, the national assembly of angola, elected from multi - member province - wide and nationwide constituencies using party - list proportional representation. for decades, political power has been concentrated in the presidency. after 38 years of rule, in 2017 president dos santos stepped down from mpla leadership. the leader of the winning party at the parliamentary elections in august 2017 would become the next president of angola. the mpla selected the former defense minister joao lourenco as santos ' chosen successor. in what has been described as a political purge to cement his power and reduce the influence of the dos santos family, lourenco subsequently sacked the chief of the national police, ambrosio de lemos, and the head of the intelligence service, apolinario jose pereira