work resumed at garden park in 1883, m. p. felch found an almost complete allosaurus and several partial skeletons. in addition, one of cope ' s collectors, h. f. hubbell, found a specimen in the como bluff area of wyoming in 1879, but apparently did not mention its completeness and cope never unpacked it. upon unpacking it in 1903 ( several years after cope had died ), it was found to be one of the most complete theropod specimens then known and the skeleton, now cataloged as amnh 5753, was put on public view in 1908. this is the well - known mount poised over a partial apatosaurus skeleton as if scavenging it, illustrated as such in a painting by charles r. knight. although notable as the first free - standing mount of a theropod dinosaur and often illustrated and photographed, it has never been scientifically described. the multiplicity of early names complicated later research, with the situation compounded by the terse descriptions provided by marsh and cope. even at the time, authors such as samuel wendell williston suggested that too many names had been coined. for example, williston pointed out in 1901 that marsh had never been able to adequately distinguish allosaurus from creosaurus. the most influential early attempt to sort out the convoluted situation was produced by charles w. gilmore in 1920. he came to the conclusion that the tail vertebra named antrodemus by leidy was indistinguishable from those of allosaurus and that antrodemus should be the preferred name because, as the older name, it had priority. antrodemus became the accepted name for this familiar genus for over 50 years, until james henry madsen published on the cleveland - lloyd specimens and concluded that allosaurus should be used because antrodemus was based on material with poor, if any, diagnostic features and locality information. for example, the geological formation that the single bone of antrodemus came from is unknown. " antrodemus " has been used informally for convenience when distinguishing between the skull gilmore restored and the composite skull restored by madsen. cleveland - lloyd discoveries although sporadic work at what became known as the cleveland - lloyd dinosaur quarry in emery county, utah, had taken place as early as 1927 and the fossil site itself described by william l. stokes in 1945, major operations did not begin there until 1960. under a cooperative effort involving nearly 40 institutions, thousands of bones were recovered between 1960