invited speer to lunch, to the architect ' s great excitement. speer quickly became part of hitler ' s inner circle ; he was expected to call on him in the morning for a walk or chat, to provide consultation on architectural matters, and to discuss hitler ' s ideas. most days he was invited to dinner. in the english version of his memoirs, speer says that his political commitment merely consisted of paying his " monthly dues ". he assumed his german readers would not be so gullible and told them the nazi party offered a " new mission ". he was more forthright in an interview with william hamsher in which he said he joined the party in order to save " germany from communism ". after the war, he claimed to have had little interest in politics at all and had joined almost by chance. like many of those in power in the third reich, he was not an ideologue, " nor was he anything more than an instinctive anti - semite. " the historian magnus brechtken, discussing speer, said he did not give anti - jewish public speeches and that his anti - semitism can best be understood through his actions — which were anti - semitic. brechtken added that, throughout speer ' s life, his central motives were to gain power, rule, and acquire wealth. nazi architect ( 1934 – 1937 ) when troost died on 21 january 1934, speer effectively replaced him as the party ' s chief architect. hitler appointed speer as head of the chief office for construction, which placed him nominally on hess ' s staff. one of speer ' s first commissions after troost ' s death was the zeppelinfeld stadium in nuremberg. it was used for nazi propaganda rallies and can be seen in leni riefenstahl ' s propaganda film triumph of the will. the building was able to hold 340, 000 people. speer insisted that as many events as possible be held at night, both to give greater prominence to his lighting effects and to hide the overweight nazis. nuremberg was the site of many official nazi buildings. many more buildings were planned. if built, the german stadium in nuremberg would have accommodated 400, 000 spectators. speer modified werner march ' s design for the olympic stadium being built for the 1936 summer olympics. he added a stone exterior that pleased hitler. speer designed the german pavilion for the 1937 international exposition in paris. berlin ' s general building inspector ( 1937 – 1942 ) on 30 january 1937, hitler appointed