sir sultan mahomed shah, aga khan iii ( 2 november 187711 july 1957 ) was the 48th imam of the nizari ismaili sect of islam. he was one of the founders and the first permanent president of the all - india muslim league ( aiml ). his goal was the advancement of muslim agendas and the protection of muslim rights in british india. the league, until the late 1930s, was not a large organisation but represented landed and commercial muslim interests as well as advocating for british education during the british raj. there were similarities in aga khan ' s views on education with those of other muslim social reformers, but the scholar shenila khoja - moolji argues that he also expressed a distinct interest in advancing women ' s education for women themselves. aga khan called on the british raj to consider muslims to be a separate nation within india, the famous ' two nation theory '. even after he resigned as president of the aiml in 1912, he still exerted a major influence on its policies and agendas. he was nominated to represent india at the league of nations in 1932 and served as president of the league of nations from 1937 to 1938. early life he was born in karachi, sindh during the british raj in 1877 ( now pakistan ), to aga khan ii and his third wife, nawab a ' lia shamsul - muluk, who was a granddaughter of fath ali shah of persia. after eton college, he went on to study at the university of cambridge. career in 1885, at the age of seven, he succeeded his father as imam of the shi ' a isma ' ili muslims. the aga khan travelled to distant parts of the world to receive the homage of his followers, with the objective either of settling differences or of advancing their welfare through financial help and personal advice and guidance. the distinction of knight commander of the indian empire ( kcie ) was conferred upon him by queen victoria in 1897, and he was promoted to knight grand commander ( gcie ) in the 1902 coronation honours list and invested as such by king edward vii at buckingham palace on october 24, 1902. he was made a knight grand commander of the order of the star of india ( gcsi ) by george v ( 1912 ) and appointed a gcmg in 1923. he received recognition for his public services from the german emperor, the sultan of turkey, the shah of persia, and other potentates. in 1906, aga khan was a founding member and first president of the all