signs of a skin abscess are redness, heat, swelling, pain, and loss of function. there may also be high temperature ( fever ) and chills. if superficial, abscesses may be fluctuant when palpated ; this wave - like motion is caused by movement of the pus inside the abscess. an internal abscess is more difficult to identify, but signs include pain in the affected area, a high temperature, and generally feeling unwell. internal abscesses rarely heal themselves, so prompt medical attention is indicated if such an abscess is suspected. an abscess can potentially be fatal depending on where it is located. causes risk factors for abscess formation include intravenous drug use. another possible risk factor is a prior history of disc herniation or other spinal abnormality, though this has not been proven. abscesses are caused by bacterial infection, parasites, or foreign substances. bacterial infection is the most common cause, particularly staphylococcus aureus. the more invasive methicillin - resistant staphylococcus aureus ( mrsa ) may also be a source of infection, though is much rarer. among spinal subdural abscesses, methicillin - sensitive staphylococcus aureus is the most common organism involved. rarely parasites can cause abscesses and this is more common in the developing world. specific parasites known to do this include dracunculiasis and myiasis. perianal abscess surgery of the anal fistula to drain an abscess treats the fistula and reduces likelihood of its recurrence and the need for repeated surgery. there is no evidence that fecal incontinence is a consequence of this surgery for abscess drainage. perianal abscesses can be seen in people with, for example, inflammatory bowel disease ( such as crohn ' s disease ) or diabetes. often the abscess will start as an internal wound caused by ulceration, hard stool, or penetrative objects with insufficient lubrication. this wound typically becomes infected as a result of the normal presence of feces in the rectal area, and then develops into an abscess. this often presents itself as a lump of tissue near the anus which grows larger and more painful with time. like other abscesses, perianal abscesses may require prompt medical treatment, such as an incision and debri