. adding a dash of modern sound, emmerson also brought in english dance mixers for an electronic beat. " people thought i was mad when i touted the idea, " emmerson told jim carroll of the irish times. " at the time, i was out of favour with the london club scene. i was broke and on income support but the success was extraordinary ". career jamming in the studios at real world, musician peter gabriel ' s recording facilities in wiltshire, england, the group of musicians recorded the basis of their first album in one week. this album, volume 1 : sound magic, was released by real world records in 1996, and marked the debut of the afro celt sound system. " prior to that first album being made, none of us knew if it would work, " musician james mcnally told larry katz of the boston herald. " we were strangers who didn ' t even speak the same language. but we were bowled over by this communication that took place beyond language. " mcnally, who grew up second - generation irish in london, played whistles, keyboards, piano, bodhran, and bamboo flute. sound magic has now sold over 300, 000 copies. the band performed at festivals, raves, and dance clubs and regularly included two african musicians, moussa sissokho on talking drum and djembe and n ' faly kouyate on vocals, kora and balafon. just as the second album was getting off the ground, one of the group ' s core musicians, 27 - year - old keyboardist jo bruce, ( son of cream bass player jack bruce ), died suddenly of an asthma attack. the band was devastated, and the album was put on hold. sinead o ' connor then collaborated with the band and helped them cope with their loss. " [ o ' connor ] blew into the studio on a windy november night and blew away again leaving us something incredibly emotional and powerful, " mcnally told katz. " we had this track we didn ' t know what to do with. sinead scribbled a few lyrics and bang! she left us completely choked up. " the band used the name of o ' connor ' s song, " release ", for the title of their album. volume 2 : release was released in 1999, and by the spring of 2000 it had sold more than half a million copies worldwide. release is also used as one of the gcse music set works in the uk that students are required to