and unambiguously represent the phonemes of arabic, generally making the phonetics more explicit than the original word in the arabic script. these systems are heavily reliant on diacritical marks such as " s " for the sound equivalently written sh in english. other systems ( e. g. the baha ' i orthography ) are intended to help readers who are neither arabic speakers nor linguists with intuitive pronunciation of arabic names and phrases. these less " scientific " systems tend to avoid diacritics and use digraphs ( like sh and kh ). these are usually simpler to read, but sacrifice the definiteness of the scientific systems, and may lead to ambiguities, e. g. whether to interpret sh as a single sound, as in gash, or a combination of two sounds, as in gashouse. the ala - lc romanization solves this problem by separating the two sounds with a prime symbol ( ′ ) ; e. g., as ′ hal ' easier '. during the last few decades and especially since the 1990s, western - invented text communication technologies have become prevalent in the arab world, such as personal computers, the world wide web, email, bulletin board systems, irc, instant messaging and mobile phone text messaging. most of these technologies originally had the ability to communicate using the latin script only, and some of them still do not have the arabic script as an optional feature. as a result, arabic speaking users communicated in these technologies by transliterating the arabic text using the latin script, sometimes known as im arabic. to handle those arabic letters that cannot be accurately represented using the latin script, numerals and other characters were appropriated. for example, the numeral " 3 " may be used to represent the arabic letter. there is no universal name for this type of transliteration, but some have named it arabic chat alphabet. other systems of transliteration exist, such as using dots or capitalization to represent the " emphatic " counterparts of certain consonants. for instance, using capitalization, the letter, may be represented by d. its emphatic counterpart,, may be written as d. numerals in most of present - day north africa, the western arabic numerals ( 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 ) are used. however, in egypt and arabic - speaking countries to the east of it, the eastern arabic numerals ( – – – – – – –