even with the losses, aol was among the internet giants that continued to outperform brick and mortar companies. in 2004, along with the launch of aol 9. 0 optimized, aol also made available the option of personalized greetings which would enable the user to hear his or her name while accessing basic functions and mail alerts, or while logging in or out. in 2005, aol broadcast the live 8 concert live over the internet, and thousands of users downloaded clips of the concert over the following months. in late 2005, aol released aol safety & security center, a bundle of mcafee antivirus, ca anti - spyware, and proprietary firewall and phishing protection software. news reports in late 2005 identified companies such as yahoo!, microsoft, and google as candidates for turning aol into a joint venture. those plans were abandoned when it was revealed on december 20, 2005, that google would purchase a 5 % share of aol for $ 1 billion. 2006 – 2009 : rebranding and decline on april 3, 2006, aol announced that it would retire the full name america online. the official name of the service became aol, and the full name of the time warner subdivision became aol llc. on june 8, 2006, aol offered a new program called aol active security monitor, a diagnostic tool to monitor and rate pc security status, and recommended additional security software from aol or download. com. two months later, aol released aol active virus shield, a free product developed by kaspersky lab, that did not require an aol account, only an internet email address. the isp side of aol uk was bought by carphone warehouse in october 2006 to take advantage of its 100, 000 llu customers, making carphone warehouse the largest llu provider in the uk. in august 2006, aol announced that it would offer email accounts and software previously available only to its paying customers, provided that users accessed aol or aol. com through an access method not owned by aol ( otherwise known as " third party transit ", " bring your own access " or " byoa " ). the move was designed to reduce costs associated with the " walled garden " business model by reducing usage of aol - owned access points and shifting members with high - speed internet access from client - based usage to the more lucrative advertising provider aol. com. the change from paid to free access was also designed to slow the rate at