conservatory in los angeles, where he played some of beethoven and mozart ' s works with members of the zoellner quartet. near the end of his life, when the young juilliard quartet visited him in princeton, he played his violin with them, and the quartet was " impressed by einstein ' s level of coordination and intonation ". death on 17 april 1955, einstein experienced internal bleeding caused by the rupture of an abdominal aortic aneurysm, which had previously been reinforced surgically by rudolph nissen in 1948. he took the draft of a speech he was preparing for a television appearance commemorating the state of israel ' s seventh anniversary with him to the hospital, but he did not live to complete it. einstein refused surgery, saying, " i want to go when i want. it is tasteless to prolong life artificially. i have done my share ; it is time to go. i will do it elegantly. " he died in the university medical center of princeton at plainsboro early the next morning at the age of 76, having continued to work until near the end. during the autopsy, the pathologist thomas stoltz harvey removed einstein ' s brain for preservation without the permission of his family, in the hope that the neuroscience of the future would be able to discover what made einstein so intelligent. einstein ' s remains were cremated in trenton, new jersey, and his ashes were scattered at an undisclosed location. in a memorial lecture delivered on 13 december 1965 at unesco headquarters, nuclear physicist j. robert oppenheimer summarized his impression of einstein as a person : " he was almost wholly without sophistication and wholly without worldliness... there was always with him a wonderful purity at once childlike and profoundly stubborn. " einstein bequeathed his personal archives, library, and intellectual assets to the hebrew university of jerusalem in israel. scientific career throughout his life, einstein published hundreds of books and articles. he published more than 300 scientific papers and 150 non - scientific ones. on 5 december 2014, universities and archives announced the release of einstein ' s papers, comprising more than 30, 000 unique documents. einstein ' s intellectual achievements and originality have made the word " einstein " synonymous with " genius ". in addition to the work he did by himself he also collaborated with other scientists on additional projects including the bose – einstein statistics, the einstein refrigerator and others. there is some evidence from einstein ' s writings that he collaborated with his first wife, mileva maric. in 13 december 1900, a