was discovered in 1800 by the brazilian chemist jose bonifacio de andrada in a mine on the island of uto, sweden. however, it was not until 1817 that johan august arfwedson, then working in the laboratory of the chemist jons jacob berzelius, detected the presence of a new element while analysing petalite ore. this new element was noted by him to form compounds similar to those of sodium and potassium, though its carbonate and hydroxide were less soluble in water and more alkaline than the other alkali metals. berzelius gave the unknown material the name " lithion / lithina ", from the greek word λιθoς ( transliterated as lithos, meaning " stone " ), to reflect its discovery in a solid mineral, as opposed to potassium, which had been discovered in plant ashes, and sodium, which was known partly for its high abundance in animal blood. he named the metal inside the material " lithium ". lithium, sodium, and potassium were part of the discovery of periodicity, as they are among a series of triads of elements in the same group that were noted by johann wolfgang dobereiner in 1850 as having similar properties. rubidium and caesium were the first elements to be discovered using the spectroscope, invented in 1859 by robert bunsen and gustav kirchhoff. the next year, they discovered caesium in the mineral water from bad durkheim, germany. their discovery of rubidium came the following year in heidelberg, germany, finding it in the mineral lepidolite. the names of rubidium and caesium come from the most prominent lines in their emission spectra : a bright red line for rubidium ( from the latin word rubidus, meaning dark red or bright red ), and a sky - blue line for caesium ( derived from the latin word caesius, meaning sky - blue ). around 1865 john newlands produced a series of papers where he listed the elements in order of increasing atomic weight and similar physical and chemical properties that recurred at intervals of eight ; he likened such periodicity to the octaves of music, where notes an octave apart have similar musical functions. his version put all the alkali metals then known ( lithium to caesium ), as well as copper, silver, and thallium ( which show the + 1 oxidation state characteristic of the alkali metals ), together into a group. his table placed hydrogen with