that progress in poverty reduction is the slowest, the poor live under the worst conditions, and the most affected persons are children age 12 and under. international initiatives millennium summit and millennium development goals in september 2000, world leaders gathered at the millennium summit held in new york, launching the united nations millennium project suggested by then un secretary - general kofi annan. prior to the launch of the conference, the office of secretary - general annan released a report entitled " we the peoples : the role of the united nations in the 21st century ". in this document, now widely known as the millennium report, kofi annan called on the international community to reduce the proportion of people in extreme poverty by half by 2015, a target that would affect over 1 billion people. citing the close correlation between economic growth and the reduction of poverty in poor countries, annan urged international leaders to indiscriminately target the problem of extreme poverty across every region. in charge of managing the project was jeffrey sachs, a noted development economist, who in 2005 released a plan for action called " investing in development : a practical plan to achieve the millennium development goals ". thomas pogge criticized the 2000 millennium declaration for being less ambitious than a previous declaration from the world food summit due to using 1990 as the benchmark rather than 1996. overall, there has been significant progress towards reducing extreme poverty, with the mdg1 target of reducing extreme poverty rates by half being met five years early, representing 700 million people being lifted out of extreme poverty from 1990 to 2010, with 1. 2 billion people still remaining under those conditions. the notable exception to this trend was in sub - saharan africa, the only region where the number of people living in extreme poverty rose from 290 million in 1990 to 414 million in 2010, comprising more than a third of those living in extreme poverty worldwide. 2005 world summit the 2005 world summit, held in september which was organized to measure international progress towards fulfilling the millennium development goals ( mdgs ). notably, the conference brought together more than 170 heads of state. while world leaders at the summit were encouraged by the reduction of poverty in some nations, they were concerned by the uneven decline of poverty within and among different regions of the globe. however, at the end of the summit, the conference attendees reaffirmed the un ' s commitment to achieve the mdgs by 2015 and urged all supranational, national and non - governmental organizations to follow suit. sustainable development goals as the expiration of the millennium development goals approached in