victory over musaylimah in the battle of yamama in 632, umar saw that some five hundred of the muslims who had memorised the quran had been killed. fearing that it may become lost or corrupted, umar requested that abu bakr authorise the compilation and preservation of the scriptures in written format. the caliph was initially hesitant, being quoted as saying, " how can we do that which the messenger of allah, may allah bless and keep him, did not himself do? " he eventually relented, however, and appointed zayd ibn thabit, who had previously served as one of the scribes of muhammad, for the task of gathering the scattered verses. the fragments were recovered from every quarter, including from the ribs of palm branches, scraps of leather, stone tablets and " from the hearts of men ". the collected work was transcribed onto sheets and verified through comparison with quran memorisers. the finished codex, termed the mus ' haf, was presented to abu bakr, who prior to his death, bequeathed it to his successor umar. upon umar ' s own death, the mus ' haf was left to his daughter hafsa, who had been one of the wives of muhammad. it was this volume, borrowed from hafsa, which formed the basis of uthman ' s legendary prototype, which became the definitive text of the quran. all later editions are derived from this original. death on 23 august 634, abu bakr fell sick and did not recover. he developed a high fever and was confined to bed. his illness was prolonged, and when his condition worsened, he felt that his end was near. realising this, he sent for ali and requested him to perform his ghusl since ali had also done it for muhammad. abu bakr felt that he should nominate his successor so that the issue should not be a cause of dissension among the muslims after his death, though there was already controversy over ali not having been appointed. he appointed umar for this role after discussing the matter with some companions. some of them favoured the nomination and others disliked it, due to the tough nature of umar. abu bakr thus dictated his last testament to uthman ibn affan as follows : umar led the funeral prayer for him and he was buried beside the grave of muhammad. appearance the historian al - tabari, in regards to abu bakr ' s appearance, records the following interaction between aisha and her paternal nephew, abd allah ibn abd al - rahman ibn