the audience on his arrival. during the days following, he was given the keys to the city by mayor jimmy walker and met the president of columbia university, who described einstein as " the ruling monarch of the mind ". harry emerson fosdick, pastor at new york ' s riverside church, gave einstein a tour of the church and showed him a full - size statue that the church made of einstein, standing at the entrance. also during his stay in new york, he joined a crowd of 15, 000 people at madison square garden during a hanukkah celebration. einstein next traveled to california, where he met caltech president and nobel laureate robert a. millikan. his friendship with millikan was " awkward ", as millikan " had a penchant for patriotic militarism ", where einstein was a pronounced pacifist. during an address to caltech ' s students, einstein noted that science was often inclined to do more harm than good. this aversion to war also led einstein to befriend author upton sinclair and film star charlie chaplin, both noted for their pacifism. carl laemmle, head of universal studios, gave einstein a tour of his studio and introduced him to chaplin. they had an instant rapport, with chaplin inviting einstein and his wife, elsa, to his home for dinner. chaplin said einstein ' s outward persona, calm and gentle, seemed to conceal a " highly emotional temperament ", from which came his " extraordinary intellectual energy ". chaplin ' s film, city lights, was to premiere a few days later in hollywood, and chaplin invited einstein and elsa to join him as his special guests. walter isaacson, einstein ' s biographer, described this as " one of the most memorable scenes in the new era of celebrity ". chaplin visited einstein at his home on a later trip to berlin and recalled his " modest little flat " and the piano at which he had begun writing his theory. chaplin speculated that it was " possibly used as kindling wood by the nazis ". 1933 : emigration to the us in february 1933, while on a visit to the united states, einstein knew he could not return to germany with the rise to power of the nazis under germany ' s new chancellor, adolf hitler. while at american universities in early 1933, he undertook his third two - month visiting professorship at the california institute of technology in pasadena. in february and march 1933, the gestapo repeatedly raided his family ' s apartment in berlin. he and his wife elsa returned