defeated agassi in both the round - robin and the final. they played a quarterfinal match at the 2004 us open that spanned over two windy days, with federer eventually prevailing in five sets. at the 2005 dubai championships, federer and agassi attracted worldwide headlines with a publicity stunt that saw the two tennis legends play on a helipad almost 220 meters above sea level at the hotel burj al - arab. their final duel took place in the final of the 2005 us open. federer was victorious in four sets in front of a pro - agassi crowd. the match was the last appearance by agassi in any tournament final. agassi vs. lendl agassi and ivan lendl played eight times, and lendl led their head - to - head series 6 – 2. agassi vs. edberg agassi and stefan edberg played nine times, and agassi led their head - to - head series 6 – 3. earnings agassi earned more than $ 30 million in prize - money during his career, sixth only to djokovic, federer, nadal, sampras and murray to date ( may 2018 ). he also earned more than $ 25 million a year through endorsements during his career, which was ranked fourth in all sports at the time. post - retirement since retiring after the 2006 us open, agassi has participated in a series of charity tournaments and continues his work with his own charity. on september 5, 2007, he was a surprise guest commentator for the andy roddick / roger federer us open quarterfinal. he played an exhibition match at wimbledon, teaming with his wife, steffi graf, to play with tim henman and kim clijsters. he played world team tennis for the philadelphia freedoms in the summer of 2009. at the 2009 french open, agassi was on hand to present roger federer, who completed his career grand slam by winning the tournament and joined agassi as one of six men to complete the career grand slam, with the trophy. also in 2009, agassi played at the outback champions series event for the first time. he played the cancer treatment centers of america tennis championships at surprise, arizona, where he reached the final before bowing to eventual champion todd martin. agassi returned to the tour renamed for the powershares series in 2011 and participated in a total of seven events while winning two. agassi beat courier in the final of the staples champions cup in boston and later defeated sampras