- zahid. some time later, avicenna ' s father invited the physician and philosopher abu abdallah al - natili to their house to educate avicenna. together, they studied the isagoge of porphyry ( died 305 ) and possibly the categories of aristotle ( died 322 bc ) as well. after avicenna had read the almagest of ptolemy ( died 170 ) and euclid ' s elements, natili told him to continue his research independently. by the time avicenna was eighteen, he was well - educated in greek sciences. although avicenna only mentions natili as his teacher in his autobiography, he most likely had other teachers as well, such as the physicians abu mansur qumri and abu sahl al - masihi. career in bukhara and gurganj at the age of seventeen, avicenna was made a physician of nuh ii. by the time avicenna was at least 21 years old, his father died. he was subsequently given an administrative post, possibly succeeding his father as the governor of harmaytan. avicenna later moved to gurganj, the capital of khwarazm, which he reports that he did due to " necessity ". the date he went to the place is uncertain, as he reports that he served the khwarazmshah ( ruler ) of the region, the ma ' munid abu al - hasan ali. the latter ruled from 997 to 1009, which indicates that avicenna moved sometime during that period. he may have moved in 999, the year which the samanid state fell after the turkic qarakhanids captured bukhara and imprisoned the samanid ruler abd al - malik ii. due to his high position and strong connection with the samanids, avicenna may have found himself in an unfavorable position after the fall of his suzerain. it was through the minister of gurganj, abu ' l - husayn as - sahi, a patron of greek sciences, that avicenna entered into the service of abu al - hasan ali. under the ma ' munids, gurganj became a centre of learning, attracting many prominent figures, such as avicenna and his former teacher abu sahl al - masihi, the mathematician abu nasr mansur, the physician ibn al - khammar, and the philologist al - tha ' alibi. in gurgan av