- 5, and beryllium - 8 ) are very short, unlike the half - lives for all other such nuclides with a ≤ 209, which are very long. ( such nuclides with a ≤ 209 are primordial nuclides except 146sm. ) working out the details of the theory leads to an equation relating the half - life of a radioisotope to the decay energy of its alpha particles, a theoretical derivation of the empirical geiger – nuttall law. uses americium - 241, an alpha emitter, is used in smoke detectors. the alpha particles ionize air in an open ion chamber and a small current flows through the ionized air. smoke particles from the fire that enter the chamber reduce the current, triggering the smoke detector ' s alarm. radium - 223 is also an alpha emitter. it is used in the treatment of skeletal metastases ( cancers in the bones ). alpha decay can provide a safe power source for radioisotope thermoelectric generators used for space probes and were used for artificial heart pacemakers. alpha decay is much more easily shielded against than other forms of radioactive decay. static eliminators typically use polonium - 210, an alpha emitter, to ionize the air, allowing the ' static cling ' to dissipate more rapidly. toxicity highly charged and heavy, alpha particles lose their several mev of energy within a small volume of material, along with a very short mean free path. this increases the chance of double - strand breaks to the dna in cases of internal contamination, when ingested, inhaled, injected or introduced through the skin. otherwise, touching an alpha source is typically not harmful, as alpha particles are effectively shielded by a few centimeters of air, a piece of paper, or the thin layer of dead skin cells that make up the epidermis ; however, many alpha sources are also accompanied by beta - emitting radio daughters, and both are often accompanied by gamma photon emission. relative biological effectiveness ( rbe ) quantifies the ability of radiation to cause certain biological effects, notably either cancer or cell - death, for equivalent radiation exposure. alpha radiation has a high linear energy transfer ( let ) coefficient, which is about one ionization of a molecule / atom for every angstrom of travel by the alpha particle. the rbe has been set at the value of 20 for alpha radiation by various government regulations. the rbe is set at 10 for neutron irradiation, and at 1