long chain of wagons, kinked, tangled, and hard to move, uncoiled and went forward smoothly. " johnston worked tirelessly over the next few months to maintain the effectiveness of his army in the harsh winter environment at fort bridger, wyoming. major porter wrote to an associate : “ col. johnston has done everything to add to the efficiency of the command – and put it in a condition to sustain the dignity and honor of the country – more he cannot do … don ’ t let any one come here over col. johnston – it would be much against the wishes and hopes of everyone here – who would gladly see him a brigadier general. " even the mormons commended johnston ’ s actions, with the salt lake city deseret news reporting that “ it takes a cool brain and good judgment to maintain a contented army and healthy camp through a stormy winter in the wasatch mountains. " johnston and his troops hoped for war. they had learned of the mountain meadows massacre and wanted revenge against the mormons. however, a peaceful resolution was reached after the army had endured the harsh winter at fort bridger. in late june 1858, johnston led the army through salt lake city without incident to establish camp floyd some 50 miles distant. in a report to the war department, johnston reported that “ horrible crimes … have been perpetrated in this territory, crimes of a magnitude and of an apparently studied refinement in atrocity, hardly to be conceived of, and which have gone unwhipped of justice. " nevertheless, johnston ' s army peacefully occupied the utah territory. u. s. army commander - in - chief, major general winfield scott, was delighted with johnston ’ s performance during the campaign and recommended his promotion to brevet brigadier general : “ colonel johns [ t ] on is more than a good officer – he is a god send to the country thro ’ the army. " the senate confirmed johnston ' s promotion on the 24th of march 1858. with regard to the relations established by johnston with the native american tribes of the area, major porter reported that " colonel johnston took every occasion to bring the indians within knowledge and influence of the army, and induced numerous chiefs to come to his camp... colonel johnston was ever kind, but firm, and dignified to them... the utes, pi - utes, bannocks, and other tribes, visited colonel johnston, and all went away expressing themselves pleased, assuring him that so long as he remained they would prove his friends