any other mammal. its keen sense of smell is not just from the quantity of bulbs in the nose but also in the development of the brain, as its olfactory lobe is very developed. the snout resembles an elongated pig snout. the mouth is small and tubular, typical of species that feed on ants and termites. the aardvark has a long, thin, snakelike, protruding tongue ( as much as long ) and elaborate structures supporting a keen sense of smell. the ears, which are very effective, are disproportionately long, about long. the eyes are small for its head, and consist only of rods. digestive system the aardvark ' s stomach has a muscular pyloric area that acts as a gizzard to grind swallowed food up, thereby rendering chewing unnecessary. its cecum is large. both sexes emit a strong smelling secretion from an anal gland. its salivary glands are highly developed and almost completely ring the neck ; their output is what causes the tongue to maintain its tackiness. the female has two pairs of teats in the inguinal region. genetically speaking, the aardvark is a living fossil, as its chromosomes are highly conserved, reflecting much of the early eutherian arrangement before the divergence of the major modern taxa. habitat and range aardvarks are found in sub - saharan africa, where suitable habitat ( savannas, grasslands, woodlands and bushland ) and food ( i. e., ants and termites ) is available. they spend the daylight hours in dark burrows to avoid the heat of the day. the only major habitat that they are not present in is swamp forest, as the high water table precludes digging to a sufficient depth. they also avoid terrain rocky enough to cause problems with digging. they have been documented as high as in ethiopia. they are present throughout sub - saharan africa all the way to south africa with few exceptions including the coastal areas of namibia, ivory coast, and ghana. they are not found in madagascar. ecology and behaviour aardvarks live for up to 23 years in captivity. its keen hearing warns it of predators : lions, leopards, cheetahs, african wild dogs, hyenas, and pythons. some humans also hunt aardvarks for meat. aardvarks can dig fast or run in zigzag fashion to elude enemies, but if all else fails, they will strike with their claws, tail and shoulders, sometimes flipping onto their