british royal family. bennachie burn o ' vat cairness house cairngorms national park corgarff castle crathes castle causey mounth, an ancient road drum castle dunnottar castle fetteresso castle fowlsheugh nature reserve haddo house herscha hill huntly castle kildrummy castle loch of strathbeg lochnagar monboddo house muchalls castle pitfour estate portlethen moss raedykes roman camp river dee river don sands of forvie nature reserve slains castles, old and new stonehaven tolbooth ythan estuary nature reserve hydrology and climate there are numerous rivers and burns in aberdeenshire, including cowie water, carron water, burn of muchalls, river dee, river don, river ury, river ythan, water of feugh, burn of myrehouse, laeca burn and luther water. numerous bays and estuaries are found along the seacoast of aberdeenshire, including banff bay, ythan estuary, stonehaven bay and thornyhive bay. aberdeenshire has a marine west coast climate on the koppen climate classification. aberdeenshire is in the rain shadow of the grampians, therefore it has a generally dry climate for a maritime region, with portions of the coast receiving of moisture annually. summers are mild, and winters are typically cold in aberdeenshire ; coastal temperatures are moderated by the north sea such that coastal areas are typically cooler in the summer and warmer in winter than inland locations. coastal areas are also subject to haar, or coastal fog. notable residents john skinner, ( 1721 – 1807 ) author, poet and ecclesiastic. penned the famous verse, " tullochgorum ". hugh mercer, ( 1726 – 1777 ), born in the manse of pitsligo kirk, near rosehearty, brigadier general of the continental army during the american revolution. alexander garden, ( 1730 – 1791 ), born in birse, was a noted naturalist and physician. he moved to north america in 1754 and discovered two species of lizards. he was a loyalist during the american revolutionary war, which led to the confiscation of his property and his banishment in 1782. the gardenia flower is named in his honour. john kemp, ( 1763 – 1812 ), born in auchlossan, was a noted educator at columbia university who is said to have influenced dewitt clinton ' s opinions and policies. george macdonald ( 1824 –