carbonic acid can lose one proton to form bicarbonate anion and lose a second to form carbonate anion ( co ). both ka values are small, but ka1 > ka2. a triprotic acid ( h3a ) can undergo one, two, or three dissociations and has three dissociation constants, where ka1 > ka2 > ka3. ka1 ka2 ka3 an inorganic example of a triprotic acid is orthophosphoric acid ( h3po4 ), usually just called phosphoric acid. all three protons can be successively lost to yield h2po, then hpo, and finally po, the orthophosphate ion, usually just called phosphate. even though the positions of the three protons on the original phosphoric acid molecule are equivalent, the successive ka values differ since it is energetically less favorable to lose a proton if the conjugate base is more negatively charged. an organic example of a triprotic acid is citric acid, which can successively lose three protons to finally form the citrate ion. although the subsequent loss of each hydrogen ion is less favorable, all of the conjugate bases are present in solution. the fractional concentration, α ( alpha ), for each species can be calculated. for example, a generic diprotic acid will generate 3 species in solution : h2a, ha−, and a2−. the fractional concentrations can be calculated as below when given either the ph ( which can be converted to the [ h + ] ) or the concentrations of the acid with all its conjugate bases : a plot of these fractional concentrations against ph, for given k1 and k2, is known as a bjerrum plot. a pattern is observed in the above equations and can be expanded to the general n - protic acid that has been deprotonated i - times : where k0 = 1 and the other k - terms are the dissociation constants for the acid. neutralization neutralization is the reaction between an acid and a base, producing a salt and neutralized base ; for example, hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide form sodium chloride and water : hcl ( aq ) + naoh ( aq ) → h2o ( l ) + nacl ( aq ) neutralization is the basis of titration, where a ph indicator shows equivalence point when the equivalent number of moles