armies were among the first in the world. in the first recorded battle, the battle of the ten kings, a hindu aryan king named sudas defeated an alliance of ten kings and their supportive chieftains. during the iron age, the maurya and nanda empires had the largest armies in the world, the peak being approximately over 600, 000 infantry, 30, 000 cavalry, 8, 000 war - chariots and 9, 000 war elephants not including tributary state allies. in the gupta age, large armies of longbowmen were recruited to fight off invading horse archer armies. elephants, pikemen and cavalry were other featured troops. china the states of china raised armies for at least 1000 years before the spring and autumn annals. by the warring states period, the crossbow had been perfected enough to become a military secret, with bronze bolts that could pierce any armor. thus any political power of a state rested on the armies and their organization. china underwent political consolidation of the states of han ( ), wei ( ), chu ( ), yan ( ), zhao ( ) and qi ( ), until by 221 bce, qin shi huang ( 皇 帝 ), the first emperor of the qin dynasty, attained absolute power. this first emperor of china could command the creation of a terracotta army to guard his tomb in the city of xi ' an ( 西 安 ), as well as a realignment of the great wall of china to strengthen his empire against insurrection, invasion and incursion. sun tzu ' s the art of war remains one of china ' s seven military classics, even though it is two thousand years old. since no political figure could exist without an army, measures were taken to ensure only the most capable leaders could control the armies. civil bureaucracies ( 士 大 夫 ) arose to control the productive power of the states, and their military power. sparta the spartan army was one of the earliest known professional armies. boys were sent to a barracks at the age of seven or eight to train for becoming a soldier. at the age of thirty, they were released from the barracks and allowed to marry and have a family. after that, men devoted their lives to war until their retirement at the age of 60. the spartan army was largely composed of hoplites, equipped with arms and armor nearly identical to each other. each hoplite bore the spartan emblem and a scarlet uniform. the main pieces of this armor were a round shield, a spear and a helmet. ancient