to study the possible gravitational effects between matter and antimatter, and between antimatter and antimatter. however, research is difficult considering when the two meet they annihilate, along with the current difficulties of capturing and containing antimatter. there are compelling theoretical reasons to believe that, aside from the fact that antiparticles have different signs on all charges ( such as electric and baryon charges ), matter and antimatter have exactly the same properties. this means a particle and its corresponding antiparticle must have identical masses and decay lifetimes ( if unstable ). it also implies that, for example, a star made up of antimatter ( an " antistar " ) will shine just like an ordinary star. this idea was tested experimentally in 2016 by the alpha experiment, which measured the transition between the two lowest energy states of antihydrogen. the results, which are identical to that of hydrogen, confirmed the validity of quantum mechanics for antimatter. on 27 september 2023, physicists reported studies which support the notion that antimatter particles behave in a similar way as normal matter in a gravitational field. origin and asymmetry most matter observable from the earth seems to be made of matter rather than antimatter. if antimatter - dominated regions of space existed, the gamma rays produced in annihilation reactions along the boundary between matter and antimatter regions would be detectable. antiparticles are created everywhere in the universe where high - energy particle collisions take place. high - energy cosmic rays striking earth ' s atmosphere ( or any other matter in the solar system ) produce minute quantities of antiparticles in the resulting particle jets, which are immediately annihilated by contact with nearby matter. they may similarly be produced in regions like the center of the milky way and other galaxies, where very energetic celestial events occur ( principally the interaction of relativistic jets with the interstellar medium ). the presence of the resulting antimatter is detectable by the two gamma rays produced every time positrons annihilate with nearby matter. the frequency and wavelength of the gamma rays indicate that each carries 511 kev of energy ( that is, the rest mass of an electron multiplied by c2 ). observations by the european space agency ' s integral satellite may explain the origin of a giant antimatter cloud surrounding the galactic center. the observations show that the cloud is asymmetrical and matches the pattern of x - ray binaries