politicians passed laws to segregate and disenfranchise african american residents, a process completed in provisions of the 1901 constitution. provisions which disenfranchised blacks resulted in excluding many poor whites. by 1941 more whites than blacks had been disenfranchised : 600, 000 to 520, 000. the total effects were greater on the black community, as almost all its citizens were disfranchised and relegated to separate and unequal treatment under the law. from 1901 through the 1960s, the state did not redraw election districts as population grew and shifted within the state during urbanization and industrialization of certain areas. as counties were the basis of election districts, the result was a rural minority that dominated state politics through nearly three - quarters of the century, until a series of federal court cases required redistricting in 1972 to meet equal representation. alabama state politics gained nationwide and international attention in the 1950s and 1960s during the civil rights movement, when whites bureaucratically, and at times violently, resisted protests for electoral and social reform. governor george wallace, the state ' s only four - term governor, was a controversial figure who vowed to maintain segregation. only after passage of the federal civil rights act of 1964 and voting rights act of 1965 did african americans regain the ability to exercise suffrage, among other civil rights. in many jurisdictions, they continued to be excluded from representation by at - large electoral systems, which allowed the majority of the population to dominate elections. some changes at the county level have occurred following court challenges to establish single - member districts that enable a more diverse representation among county boards. in 2007, the alabama legislature passed, and republican governor bob riley signed a resolution expressing " profound regret " over slavery and its lingering impact. in a symbolic ceremony, the bill was signed in the alabama state capitol, which housed congress of the confederate states of america. in 2010, republicans won control of both houses of the legislature for the first time in 136 years., there are a total of 3, 707, 233 registered voters, with 3, 318, 679 active, and the others inactive in the state. the 2023 american values atlas by public religion research institute found that a majority of alabama residents support same - sex marriage. elections state elections with the disfranchisement of blacks in 1901, the state became part of the " solid south ", a system in which the democratic party operated as effectively the only viable political party in every southern state. for nearly a hundred years local and state elections in