, a driver for eutrophication in freshwater systems, were measured in the hypolimnion of the lake. annual phosphorus inputs from aquaculture waste exceeded that of natural inputs from atmospheric deposition and inflows, and phytoplankton biomass has had a fourfold annual increase following the initiation of the experimental farm. genetic modification a type of salmon called the aquadvantage salmon has been genetically modified for faster growth, although it has not been approved for commercial use, due to controversy. the altered salmon incorporates a growth hormone from a chinook salmon that allows it to reach full size in 16 – 28 months, instead of the normal 36 months for atlantic salmon, and while consuming 25 percent less feed. the u. s. food and drug administration reviewed the aquadvantage salmon in a draft environmental assessment and determined that it " would not have a significant impact ( fonsi ) on the u. s. environment. " fish diseases, parasites and vaccines a major difficulty for aquaculture is the tendency towards monoculture and the associated risk of widespread disease. aquaculture is also associated with environmental risks ; for instance, shrimp farming has caused the destruction of important mangrove forests throughout southeast asia. in the 1990s, disease wiped out china ' s farmed farrer ' s scallop and white shrimp and required their replacement by other species. needs of the aquaculture sector in vaccines aquaculture has an average annual growth rate of 9. 2 %, however, the success and continued expansion of the fish farming sector is highly dependent on the control of fish pathogens including a wide range of viruses, bacteria, fungi, and parasites. in 2014, it was estimated that these parasites cost the global salmon farming industry up to 400 million euros. this represents 6 – 10 % of the production value of the affected countries, but it can go up to 20 % ( fisheries and oceans canada, 2014 ). since pathogens quickly spread within a population of cultured fish, their control is vital for the sector. historically, the use of antibiotics was against bacterial epizootics but the production of animal proteins has to be sustainable, which means that preventive measures that are acceptable from a biological and environmental point of view should be used to keep disease problems in aquaculture at an acceptable level. so, this added to the efficiency of vaccines resulted in an immediate and permanent reduction in the use of antibiotics in the 90s. in the beginning, there were fish immersion vaccines efficient against the vibriosis but proved ineffective against the furunculos