the zulu nation. the rivalry between advanced chemistry and die fantastischen vier has served to highlight a dichotomy in the routes that hip hop has taken in becoming a part of the german soundscape. while die fantastischen vier may be said to view hip hop primarily as an aesthetic art form, advanced chemistry understand hip hop as being inextricably linked to the social and political circumstances under which it is created. for advanced chemistry, hip hop is a “ vehicle of general human emancipation, ”. in their undertaking of social and political issues, the band introduced the term " afro - german " into the context of german hip hop, and the theme of race is highlighted in much of their music. with the release of the single “ fremd im eigenen land ”, advanced chemistry separated itself from the rest of the rap being produced in germany. this single was the first of its kind to go beyond simply imitating us rap and addressed the current issues of the time. fremd im eigenen land which translates to “ foreign in my own country ” dealt with the widespread racism that non - white german citizens faced. this change from simple imitation to political commentary was the start of german identification with rap. the sound of “ fremd im eigenen land ” was influenced by the ' wall of noise ' created by public enemy ' s producers, the bomb squad. after the reunification of germany, an abundance of anti - immigrant sentiment emerged, as well as attacks on the homes of refugees in the early 1990s. advanced chemistry came to prominence in the wake of these actions because of their pro - multicultural society stance in their music. advanced chemistry ' s attitudes revolve around their attempts to create a distinct " germanness " in hip hop, as opposed to imitating american hip hop as other groups had done. torch has said, " what the americans do is exotic for us because we don ' t live like they do. what they do seems to be more interesting and newer. but not for me. for me it ' s more exciting to experience my fellow germans in new contexts... for me, it ' s interesting to see what the kids try to do that ' s different from what i know. " advanced chemistry were the first to use the term " afro - german " in a hip hop context. this was part of the pro - immigrant political message they sent via their music. while advanced chemistry ' s use of the german language in their rap allows them to make claims to