remainder of the sahara. algeria had a 2018 forest landscape integrity index mean score of 5. 22 / 10, ranking it 106th globally out of 172 countries. camels are used extensively ; the desert also abounds with venomous and nonvenomous snakes, scorpions, and numerous insects. government and politics elected politicians have relatively little sway over algeria. instead, a group of unelected civilian and military " decideurs " ( " deciders " ), known as " le pouvoir " ( " the power " ), actually rule the country, even deciding who should be president. the most powerful man might have been mohamed mediene, the head of military intelligence, before he was brought down during the 2019 protests. in recent years, many of these generals have died, retired, or been imprisoned. after the death of general larbi belkheir, previous president bouteflika put loyalists in key posts, notably at sonatrach, and secured constitutional amendments that made him re - electable indefinitely, until he was brought down in 2019 during protests. the head of state is the president of algeria, who is elected for a five - year term. the president is limited to two five - year terms. the most recent presidential election was planned to be in april 2019, but widespread protests erupted on 22 february against the president ' s decision to participate in the election, which resulted in president bouteflika announcing his resignation on 3 april. abdelmadjid tebboune, an independent candidate, was elected as president after the election eventually took place on 12 december 2019. protestors refused to recognise tebboune as president, citing demands for comprehensive reform of the political system. algeria has universal suffrage at 18 years of age. the president is the head of the army, the council of ministers and the high security council. he appoints the prime minister who is also the head of government. the algerian parliament is bicameral ; the lower house, the people ' s national assembly, has 462 members who are directly elected for five - year terms, while the upper house, the council of the nation, has 144 members serving six - year terms, of which 96 members are chosen by local assemblies and 48 are appointed by the president. according to the constitution, no political association may be formed if it is " based on differences in religion, language, race, gender, profession, or region ". in addition, political campaigns must be exempt from the aforementioned subjects. parliamentary elections were