to have a density of 8. 91 – 8. 95 g / cm3. evidence for ( or against ) the existence of diatomic astatine ( at2 ) is sparse and inconclusive. some sources state that it does not exist, or at least has never been observed, while other sources assert or imply its existence. despite this controversy, many properties of diatomic astatine have been predicted ; for example, its bond length would be, dissociation energy, and heat of vaporization ( ∆hvap ) 54. 39 kj / mol. many values have been predicted for the melting and boiling points of astatine, but only for at2. chemical the chemistry of astatine is " clouded by the extremely low concentrations at which astatine experiments have been conducted, and the possibility of reactions with impurities, walls and filters, or radioactivity by - products, and other unwanted nano - scale interactions ". many of its apparent chemical properties have been observed using tracer studies on extremely dilute astatine solutions, typically less than 10−10 mol · l−1. some properties, such as anion formation, align with other halogens. astatine has some metallic characteristics as well, such as plating onto a cathode, and coprecipitating with metal sulfides in hydrochloric acid. it forms complexes with edta, a metal chelating agent, and is capable of acting as a metal in antibody radiolabeling ; in some respects, astatine in the + 1 state is akin to silver in the same state. most of the organic chemistry of astatine is, however, analogous to that of iodine. it has been suggested that astatine can form a stable monatomic cation in aqueous solution. astatine has an electronegativity of 2. 2 on the revised pauling scale – lower than that of iodine ( 2. 66 ) and the same as hydrogen. in hydrogen astatide ( hat ), the negative charge is predicted to be on the hydrogen atom, implying that this compound could be referred to as astatine hydride according to certain nomenclatures. that would be consistent with the electronegativity of astatine on the allred – rochow scale ( 1. 9 ) being less than that of hydrogen ( 2. 2 ). however, official iupac stoichiometric nomenclature is based on an idealized convention