" crowned " the shrine of charlemagne, which was placed underneath in 1215. charles iv donated a pair of reliquaries. louis xi gave, in 1475, the crown of margaret of york, and, in 1481, another arm reliquary of charlemagne. maximilian i and charles v both gave numerous works of art by hans von reutlingen. continuing the tradition, objects continued to be donated until the present, each indicative of the period of its gifting, with the last documented gift being a chalice from 1960 made by ewald matare. rathaus the aachen rathaus, ( english : aachen city hall or aachen town hall ) dated from 1330, lies between two central squares, the markt ( marketplace ) and the katschhof ( between city hall and cathedral ). the coronation hall is on the first floor of the building. inside one can find five frescoes by the aachen artist alfred rethel which show legendary scenes from the life of charlemagne, as well as charlemagne ' s signature. also, precious replicas of the imperial regalia are kept here. since 2009, the city hall has been a station on the route charlemagne, a tour programme by which historical sights of aachen are presented to visitors. at the city hall, a museum exhibition explains the history and art of the building and gives a sense of the historical coronation banquets that took place there. a portrait of napoleon from 1807 by louis - andre - gabriel bouchet and one of his wife josephine from 1805 by robert lefevre are viewable as part of the tour. as before, the city hall is the seat of the mayor of aachen and of the city council, and annually the charlemagne prize is awarded there. other sights the grashaus, a late medieval house at the fischmarkt, is one of the oldest non - religious buildings in central aachen. it hosted the city archive, and before that, the grashaus was the city hall until the present building took over this function. the elisenbrunnen is one of the most famous sights of aachen. it is a neo - classical hall covering one of the city ' s famous fountains. it is just a minute away from the cathedral. just a few steps in a south - easterly direction lies the 19th - century theatre. also of note are two remaining city gates, the ponttor ( pont gate ), northwest of the cathedral, and the marschiertor ( marching gate ), close to the central railway station. there are also a few