alfonso cuaron orozco (, ; born 28 november 1961 ) is a mexican filmmaker. he is known for directing films in a variety of genres, including the family drama a little princess ( 1995 ), the romantic drama great expectations ( 1998 ), the coming of age road film y tu mama tambien ( 2001 ), the fantasy film harry potter and the prisoner of azkaban ( 2004 ), science fiction films such as children of men ( 2006 ) and gravity ( 2013 ) and the semi - autobiographical drama roma ( 2018 ). cuaron has received 11 academy award nominations, winning four : best director for gravity and roma, best film editing for gravity, and best cinematography for roma. he is the first mexican filmmaker to win the best director award, and the second person to have been nominated for an academy award in seven different categories after kenneth branagh. early life cuaron was born in mexico city, the son of alfredo cuaron, a doctor specializing in nuclear medicine, and cristina orozco, a pharmaceutical biochemist. he has a sister christina, and two brothers ; carlos, also a filmmaker, and alfredo, a conservation biologist. cuaron studied philosophy at the national autonomous university of mexico and filmmaking at the centro universitario de estudios cinematograficos, a school within the same university. there he met the director carlos marcovich and cinematographer emmanuel lubezki, and they made what would be his first short film, vengeance is mine. career 1990s : early career cuaron began working on television in mexico, first as a technician and then as a director. his television work led to assignments as an assistant director for several film productions including la gran fiesta, gaby : a true story and romero, and in 1991 he landed his first big - screen directorial assignment. in 1991, cuaron directed solo con tu pareja, a sex comedy about a womanizing businessman ( played by daniel gimenez cacho ) who, after having sex with an attractive nurse, is fooled into believing he ' s contracted aids. in addition to writing, producing and directing, cuaron co - edited the film with luis patlan. the film, which also starred cabaret singer astrid hadad and model / actress claudia ramirez ( with whom cuaron was linked between 1989 and 1993 ) was a big hit in mexico. after this success, director sydney pollack hired cuaron to direct an episode of fallen angels, a series of neo - noir stories produced for