his life. according to damascius, during the persecution of the pagans at alexandria in the late 480s, ammonius made concessions to the christian authorities so that he could continue his lectures. damascius, who scolds ammonius for the agreement that he made, does not say what the concessions were, but it may have involved limitations on the doctrines he could teach or promote. he was still teaching in 515 ; olympiodorus heard him lecture on plato ' s gorgias in that year. he was also an accomplished astronomer ; he lectured on ptolemy and is known to have written a treatise on the astrolabe. writings of his reputedly numerous writings, only his commentary on aristotle ' s de interpretatione survives intact. a commentary on porphyry ' s isagoge may also be his, but it is somewhat corrupt and contains later interpolations. in de interpretatione, ammonius contends that divine foreknowledge makes void the contingent. like boethius in his second commentary and in the consolation of philosophy, this argument maintains the effectiveness of prayer. ammonius cites iamblichus, who said " knowledge is intermediate between the knower and the known, since it is the activity of the knower concerning the known. " in addition, there are some notes of ammonius ' lectures written by various students which also survive : on aristotle ' s categories ( anonymous writer ) on aristotle ' s prior analytics i ( anonymous writer ) on aristotle ' s metaphysics 1 – 7 ( written by asclepius ) on nicomachus ' introduction to arithmetic ( written by asclepius ) on aristotle ' s prior analytics ( written by john philoponus ) on aristotle ' s posterior analytics ( written by john philoponus ) on aristotle ' s on generation and corruption ( written by john philoponus ) on aristotle ' s on the soul ( written by john philoponus ) there is greek - language work called life of aristotle, which is usually ascribed to ammonius, but " is more probable that it is the work of joannes philoponus, the pupil of ammonius, to whom it is ascribed in some mss. " english translations ammonius : on aristotle categories, translated by s. m. cohen and g. b. matthews. london and ithaca 1992. ammonius : on aristotle ' s on interpretation 1 – 8, translated by d. blank. london and ithaca 1996. ammonius : on