##ing authority does not entail the disappearance of its advantages by acknowledging authority such as doctors or lawyers as reliable, nor does it involve a complete surrender of independent judgment. anarchist perception of human nature, rejection of the state, and commitment to social revolution has been criticised by academics as naive, overly simplistic, and unrealistic, respectively. classical anarchism has been criticised for relying too heavily on the belief that the abolition of the state will lead to human cooperation prospering. friedrich engels, considered to be one of the principal founders of marxism, criticised anarchism ' s anti - authoritarianism as inherently counter - revolutionary because in his view a revolution is by itself authoritarian. academic john molyneux writes in his book anarchism : a marxist criticism that " anarchism cannot win ", believing that it lacks the ability to properly implement its ideas. the marxist criticism of anarchism is that it has a utopian character because all individuals should have anarchist views and values. according to the marxist view, that a social idea would follow directly from this human ideal and out of the free will of every individual formed its essence. marxists state that this contradiction was responsible for their inability to act. in the anarchist vision, the conflict between liberty and equality was resolved through coexistence and intertwining. see also anarchism by country governance without government list of anarchist political ideologies list of books about anarchism references explanatory notes citations general and cited sources primary sources secondary sources tertiary sources further reading criticism of philosophical anarchism. a defence of philosophical anarchism, stating that " both kinds of ' anarchism ' [ i. e. philosophical and political anarchism ] are philosophical and political claims. " ( p. 137 ) anarchistic popular fiction novel. an argument for philosophical anarchism. external links anarchy archives – an online research center on the history and theory of anarchism. anti - capitalism anti - fascism economic ideologies far - left politics left - wing politics libertarian socialism libertarianism political culture political ideologies political movements social theories socialism