- brown varnish. tarisio featured in. the crocfisso, the medecia ca 1594 antonio & girolamo amati, ca 1594 commissioned for the medici family, known as the ' viola medicea ' or the ' viola del crocifisso ' after the crucifix decoration on its back. the strad the stauffer ca 1615 antonio & girolamo amati ca 1615 one - piece back of medium curl sloping from left to right. top of distinct grain, broadening slightly towards the flanks. scroll of wood similar to back. ribs of wood similar to back. golden - brown varnish. labeled " antonius & hieronymus fr. amati cremonen. andreæ fil. f 1615. " tarisio the zukerman, the kashkashian ca 1617 antonio & girolamo amati ca 1617 two - piece back. dendrochronology report by peter ratcliff dates the youngest ring of bass and treble sides as 1613. tarisio held by the cincinnati art museum ca 1619 antonio & girolamo amati ca 1619 cincinnati art museum the medici, the hamma ca 1619 antonio & girolamo amati ca 1619 two - piece back. tarizio held by the royal academy of music london ca 1620 antonio & girolamo amati ca 1620 one of the few surviving tenors which has not been reduced in size for modern playing. the head is particularly beautiful and well proportioned. the cheeks are flat, in the style of a cello head, although not so wide as to obstruct the player ' s left hand. the long and elegant pegbox tapers to a wide throat beneath the perfectly carved scroll. the volutes are hollowed and gather depth from the second through to the narrow final turn. the figured quarter - sawn maple used for the back and sides of the instrument is of a type commonly used by the amatis. the continuous slope of the flame across the centre joint ( achieved by reversing one half of the back before jointing ), rather than the mirror - image pattern most commonly seen, is also a feature of their work. the front is of straight and even close - grained spruce. royal academy of music london tarisio the ex wittgenstein ca 1620 antonio & girolamo amati ca 1620 two - piece back ; the wax seal below the button depicts a woman ' s