to protect fields. pest birds were shot down or scared away from landing until they dropped from exhaustion. this campaign resulted in an ecological disaster that saw an explosion of the vermin population, especially crop - eating insects, which was consequently not in danger of being killed by predators. none of these new systems were working, but local leaders did not dare to state this, instead, they falsified reports so as not to be punished for failing to meet the quotas. in many cases they stated that they were greatly exceeding their quotas, and in turn, the chinese state developed a completely false sense of success with regard to the commune system. all of this culminated in the great chinese famine, which began in 1959, lasted 3 years, and saw an estimated 15 to 30 million chinese people die. a combination of bad weather and the new, failed farming techniques that were introduced by the state led to massive shortages of food. by 1962, the great leap forward was declared to be at an end. in the late 1960s and early 1970s, mao once again radically altered life in rural china with the launching of the down to the countryside movement. as a response to the great chinese famine, the chinese president liu shaoqi began " sending down " urban youths to rural china in order to recover its population losses and alleviate overcrowding in the cities. however, mao turned the practice into a political crusade, declaring that the sending down would strip the youth of any bourgeois tendencies by forcing them to learn from the unprivileged rural peasants. in reality, it was the communist party ' s attempt to reign in the red guards, who had become uncontrollable during the course of the cultural revolution. 10 % of the 1970 urban population of china was sent out to remote rural villages, often in inner mongolia. the villages, which were still poorly recovering from the effects of the great chinese famine, did not have the excess resources that were needed to support the newcomers. furthermore, the so - called " sent - down youth " had no agricultural experience and as a result, they were unaccustomed to the harsh lifestyle that existed in the countryside, and their unskilled labor in the villages provided little benefit to the agricultural sector. as a result, many of the sent - down youth died in the countryside. the relocation of the youths was originally intended to be permanent, but by the end of the cultural revolution, the communist party relented and some of those who had the capacity to return to the cities were allowed to do so.