abnormal electron density affects the applied magnetic field and causes the observed chemical shift to change. real - world imagery images of a gravity - bound or man - made environment are particularly anisotropic in the orientation domain, with more image structure located at orientations parallel with or orthogonal to the direction of gravity ( vertical and horizontal ). physics physicists from university of california, berkeley reported about their detection of the cosmic anisotropy in cosmic microwave background radiation in 1977. their experiment demonstrated the doppler shift caused by the movement of the earth with respect to the early universe matter, the source of the radiation. cosmic anisotropy has also been seen in the alignment of galaxies ' rotation axes and polarization angles of quasars. physicists use the term anisotropy to describe direction - dependent properties of materials. magnetic anisotropy, for example, may occur in a plasma, so that its magnetic field is oriented in a preferred direction. plasmas may also show " filamentation " ( such as that seen in lightning or a plasma globe ) that is directional. an anisotropic liquid has the fluidity of a normal liquid, but has an average structural order relative to each other along the molecular axis, unlike water or chloroform, which contain no structural ordering of the molecules. liquid crystals are examples of anisotropic liquids. some materials conduct heat in a way that is isotropic, that is independent of spatial orientation around the heat source. heat conduction is more commonly anisotropic, which implies that detailed geometric modeling of typically diverse materials being thermally managed is required. the materials used to transfer and reject heat from the heat source in electronics are often anisotropic. many crystals are anisotropic to light ( " optical anisotropy " ), and exhibit properties such as birefringence. crystal optics describes light propagation in these media. an " axis of anisotropy " is defined as the axis along which isotropy is broken ( or an axis of symmetry, such as normal to crystalline layers ). some materials can have multiple such optical axes. geophysics and geology seismic anisotropy is the variation of seismic wavespeed with direction. seismic anisotropy is an indicator of long range order in a material, where features smaller than the seismic wavelength ( e. g., crystals, cracks, pores, layers, or inclusions ) have a dominant alignment. this alignment leads to a directional variation of elasticity