state in july 1993. in addition to the branches of services listed above, armenia established its own internal troops from the former soviet interior troops after the dissolution of the soviet union. up until december 2002, armenia maintained a ministry of internal affairs, but along with the ministry of national security, it was reorganized as a non - ministerial institution. the two organizations became the police of armenia and the national security service. organization and service branches the armenian armed forces are headquartered in yerevan, where most of the general staff is based. the general staff is responsible for operational command of the armenian military and its two major branches. the armed forces also has the following personnel branches : department of military preparedness department of military apparatus department of aviation department of missile troops department of air defence department of rear services department of signal troops department of the engineer troops department of armaments department of the rnbc defence troops medical department personnel department intelligence department strategic planning department mobilization department operative department department of military service security department of military commissars financial department human resources department ground forces according to iiss 2010, armenia has 20 t - 80 tanks, 137 t - 72 tanks, 8 t - 54 / 55 tanks and 80 bmp - 1 ' s, 7 bmp - 1k, 55 bmp - 2 and 12 brm - 1k. wheeled apcs reported included 11 btr - 60s, 21 btr - 70s, 4 btr - 80s, 145 mt - lbs, 5 bmd - 1s, and 120 brdm - 2 scout vehicles. although the russians have supplied newer equipment to armenia over the years, the numbers have never been sufficient to upgrade all ground force formations and many of the lower readiness units still have older, soviet - legacy systems that have not been upgraded or in many cases effectively maintained. these older systems are placing great demands on the logistics system for service, maintenance, replacement parts and necessary upgrades, costing the army both financially and in overall readiness. the ground force is engaged in an effort of reassessment, reorganisation and restructuring, as the future of armenia ' s defence needs a revised force structure and unit mix. the army sees the need to maintain much of its traditional mechanised formations, but is looking to lighten and make more mobile and self - sustainable a small number of other formations. it must develop these newer formations to support its international requirements and effectively operate in mountainous and other rugged terrain, but it must do this without affecting the mechanised capability that is needed to confront azerbaijan ' s conventional forces. since the fall of the