to a belgian case of his in which " a wealthy soap manufacturer... poisoned his wife in order to be free to marry his secretary ". as poirot was often misleading about his past to gain information, the truthfulness of that statement is unknown ; it does, however, scare off a would - be wife - killer. in the short story " the chocolate box " ( 1923 ), poirot reveals to captain arthur hastings an account of what he considers to be his only failure. poirot admits that he has failed to solve a crime " innumerable " times : i have been called in too late. very often another, working towards the same goal, has arrived there first. twice i have been struck down with illness just as i was on the point of success. nevertheless, he regards the 1893 case in " the chocolate box ", as his only failure through his fault only. again, poirot is not reliable as a narrator of his personal history and there is no evidence that christie sketched it out in any depth. during his police career, poirot shot a man who was firing from a roof into the public below. in lord edgware dies, poirot reveals that he learned to read writing upside down during his police career. around that time he met xavier bouc, director of the compagnie internationale des wagons - lits. inspector japp offers some insight into poirot ' s career with the belgian police when introducing him to a colleague : you ' ve heard me speak of mr poirot? it was in 1904 he and i worked together – the abercrombie forgery case – you remember he was run down in brussels. ah, those were the days moosier. then, do you remember " baron " altara? there was a pretty rogue for you! he eluded the clutches of half the police in europe. but we nailed him in antwerp – thanks to mr. poirot here. in the double clue, poirot mentions that he was chief of police of brussels, until " the great war " ( world war i ) forced him to leave for england. private detective i had called in at my friend poirot ' s rooms to find him sadly overworked. so much had he become the rage that every rich woman who had mislaid a bracelet or lost a pet kitten rushed to secure the services of the great hercule poirot. during world war i, poirot left belgium for england as