activate. in practice, the input " neurons " are a list of numbers, the " weights " are a matrix, the next layer is the dot product ( i. e., several weighted sums ) scaled by an increasing function, such as the logistic function. " the resemblance to real neural cells and structures is superficial ", according to russell and norvig. learning algorithms for neural networks use local search to choose the weights that will get the right output for each input during training. the most common training technique is the backpropagation algorithm. neural networks learn to model complex relationships between inputs and outputs and find patterns in data. in theory, a neural network can learn any function. in feedforward neural networks the signal passes in only one direction. recurrent neural networks feed the output signal back into the input, which allows short - term memories of previous input events. long short term memory is the most successful network architecture for recurrent networks. perceptrons use only a single layer of neurons, deep learning uses multiple layers. convolutional neural networks strengthen the connection between neurons that are " close " to each other – this is especially important in image processing, where a local set of neurons must identify an " edge " before the network can identify an object. deep learning deep learning uses several layers of neurons between the network ' s inputs and outputs. the multiple layers can progressively extract higher - level features from the raw input. for example, in image processing, lower layers may identify edges, while higher layers may identify the concepts relevant to a human such as digits or letters or faces. deep learning has drastically improved the performance of programs in many important subfields of artificial intelligence, including computer vision, speech recognition, image classification and others. the reason that deep learning performs so well in so many applications is not known as of 2023. the sudden success of deep learning in 2012 – 2015 did not occur because of some new discovery or theoretical breakthrough ( deep neural networks and backpropagation had been described by many people, as far back as the 1950s ) but because of two factors : the incredible increase in computer power ( including the hundred - fold increase in speed by switching to gpus ) and the availability of vast amounts of training data, especially the giant curated datasets used for benchmark testing, such as imagenet. specialized hardware and software in the late 2010s, graphics processing units ( gpus ) that were increasingly designed with ai - specific enhancements and used with specialized tensorflow software, had replaced previously used