1933. the synagogue was destroyed during kristallnacht in 1938. in 1939, after emigration and arrests, 782 jews remained in the city. after world war ii, only 62 jews lived there. in 2003, 1, 434 jews were living in aachen. in jewish texts, the city of aachen was called aish or ash ( אש ). 21st century the city of aachen has developed into a technology hub as a by - product of hosting one of the leading universities of technology in germany with the rwth aachen ( rheinisch - westfalische technische hochschule ), known especially for mechanical engineering, automotive and manufacturing technology as well as for its research and academic hospital klinikum aachen, one of the largest medical facilities in europe. geography aachen is located in the middle of the meuse – rhine euroregion, close to the border tripoint of germany, the netherlands, and belgium. the town of vaals in the netherlands lies nearby at about from aachen ' s city centre, while the dutch city of heerlen and eupen, the capital of the german - speaking community of belgium, are both located about from aachen city centre. aachen lies near the head of the open valley of the wurm ( which today flows through the city in canalised form ), part of the larger basin of the meuse, and about north of the high fens, which form the northern edge of the eifel uplands of the rhenish massif. the maximum dimensions of the city ' s territory are from north to south, and from east to west. the city limits are long, of which border belgium and the netherlands. the highest point in aachen, located in the far southeast of the city, lies at an elevation of above sea level. the lowest point, in the north, and on the border with the netherlands, is at. climate as the westernmost city in germany ( and close to the low countries ), aachen and the surrounding area belongs to a temperate climate zone ( cfb ), with humid weather, mild winters, and warm summers. because of its location north of the eifel and the high fens and its subsequent prevailing westerly weather patterns, rainfall in aachen ( on average 805 mm / year ) is comparatively higher than, for example, in bonn ( with 669 mm / year ). another factor in the local weather forces of aachen is the occurrence of foehn winds on the southerly air currents, which results from the city ' s