spartan who had lost his citizen status, presumably because he could not afford the price of the collective mess — one of the main reasons for the dwindling number of spartan citizens in the classical era, called oliganthropia. it is probable that the vast influx of wealth coming to the city after its victory against athens in 404 triggered inflation in sparta, which impoverished many citizens with a fixed income, like cinadon, and caused their downgrade. therefore, the purpose of the plot was likely to restore the status of these disfranchised citizens. however, the plot was uncovered and cinadon and its leaders executed — probably with the active participation of agesilaus, but no further action was taken to solve the social crisis at the origin of the conspiracy. the failure of agesilaus to acknowledge the critical problem suffered by sparta at the time has been criticised by modern historians. invasion of asia minor ( 396 – 394 bc ) according to the treaties signed in 412 and 411 between sparta and the persian empire, the latter became the overlord of the greek city - states of asia minor. in 401, these cities and sparta supported the bid of cyrus the younger ( the persian emperor ' s younger son and a good friend of lysander ) against his elder brother, the new emperor artaxerxes ii, who nevertheless defeated cyrus at cunaxa. as a result, sparta remained at war with artaxerxes, and supported the greek cities of asia, which fought against tissaphernes, the satrap of lydia and caria. in 397 lysander engineered a large expedition in asia headed by agesilaus, likely to recover the influence he had over the asian cities at the end of the peloponnesian war. in order to win the approval of the spartan assembly, lysander built an army with only 30 spartan citizens, so the risk would be limited ; the bulk of the army consisted of 2, 000 neodamodes ( freed helots ) and 6, 000 greek allies. in addition, agesilaus obtained the support of the oracles of zeus at olympia and apollo at delphi. the sacrifice at aulis ( 396 bc ) lysander and agesilaus had intended the expedition to be a panhellenic enterprise, but athens, corinth, and especially thebes, refused to participate. in spring 396, agesilaus came to aulis ( in boeotian territory ) to sacrifice on the place where agamem