anguilla ( ) is a british overseas territory in the caribbean. it is one of the most northerly of the leeward islands in the lesser antilles, lying east of puerto rico and the virgin islands and directly north of saint martin. the territory consists of the main island of anguilla, approximately long by wide at its widest point, together with a number of much smaller islands and cays with no permanent population. the territory ' s capital is the valley. the total land area of the territory is, with a population of approximately ( ). etymology the native arawak name for the island was malliouhana. in reference to the island ' s shape, the italian, meaning " eel " ( in turn, from the latin diminutive of anguis, " snake " ) was used as its name. christopher columbus is held in anguillan tradition to have named the island. history anguilla was first settled by indigenous amerindian peoples who migrated from south america. the earliest native american artefacts found on anguilla have been dated to around 1300 bc ; remains of settlements date from ad 600. there are two known petroglyph sites in anguilla : big spring and fountain cavern. the rock ledges of big spring contain over 100 petroglyphs ( dating back to ad 600 – 1200 ), the majority consisting of three indentations that form faces. precisely when anguilla was first seen by europeans is uncertain : some sources claim that columbus sighted the island during his second voyage in 1493, while others state that the first european explorer was the french huguenot nobleman and merchant rene goulaine de laudonniere in 1564. the dutch west india company established a fort on the island in 1631. however, the company later withdrew after its fort was destroyed by the spanish in 1633. traditional accounts state that anguilla was first colonised by english settlers from saint kitts beginning in 1650. the settlers focused on planting tobacco, and to a lesser extent cotton. the french temporarily took over the island in 1666 but returned it to english control under the terms of the treaty of breda the next year. major john scott who visited in september 1667, wrote of leaving the island " in good condition " and noted that in july 1668, " 200 or 300 people fled thither in time of war ". the french attacked again in 1688, 1745 and 1798, causing much destruction but failing to capture the island. the indigenous amerindian population was almost entirely