necessitates, imparts, gives, or adds existence to an essence. to do so, the cause must be an existing thing and coexist with its effect. avicenna ' s consideration of the essence - attributes question may be elucidated in terms of his ontological analysis of the modalities of being ; namely impossibility, contingency and necessity. avicenna argued that the impossible being is that which cannot exist, while the contingent in itself ( mumkin bi - dhatihi ) has the potentiality to be or not to be without entailing a contradiction. when actualized, the contingent becomes a ' necessary existent due to what is other than itself ' ( wajib al - wujud bi - ghayrihi ). thus, contingency - in - itself is potential beingness that could eventually be actualized by an external cause other than itself. the metaphysical structures of necessity and contingency are different. necessary being due to itself ( wajib al - wujud bi - dhatihi ) is true in itself, while the contingent being is ' false in itself ' and ' true due to something else other than itself '. the necessary is the source of its own being without borrowed existence. it is what always exists. the necessary exists ' due - to - its - self ', and has no quiddity / essence ( mahiyya ) other than existence ( wujud ). furthermore, it is ' one ' ( wahid ahad ) since there cannot be more than one ' necessary - existent - due - to - itself ' without differentia ( fasl ) to distinguish them from each other. yet, to require differentia entails that they exist ' due - to - themselves ' as well as ' due to what is other than themselves ' ; and this is contradictory. however, if no differentia distinguishes them from each other, then there is no sense in which these ' existents ' are not one and the same. avicenna adds that the ' necessary - existent - due - to - itself ' has no genus ( jins ), nor a definition ( hadd ), nor a counterpart ( nadd ), nor an opposite ( did ), and is detached ( bari ) from matter ( madda ), quality ( kayf ), quantity ( kam ), place ( ayn ), situation ( wad ) and time ( waqt ). avicenna ' s theology on metaphysical