, including those under floyd and pillow, a curious decision given his thought that the u. s. gunboats alone could take the fort. he ordered the fort commanders to evacuate the troops if the fort could not be held. the senior generals sent to the fort to command the enlarged garrison, gideon j. pillow and john b. floyd, squandered their chance to avoid having to surrender most of the garrison and on february 16, 1862, brig. gen. simon buckner, having been abandoned by floyd and pillow, surrendered fort donelson. colonel nathan bedford forrest escaped with his cavalry force of about 700 men before the surrender. the confederates suffered about 1, 500 casualties, with an estimated 12, 000 to 14, 000 taken prisoner. u. s. casualties were 500 killed, 2, 108 wounded, and 224 missing. johnston, who had little choice in allowing floyd and pillow to take charge at fort donelson based on seniority after he ordered them to add their forces to the garrison, took the blame and suffered calls for his removal because a full explanation to the press and public would have exposed the weakness of the confederate position. his passive defensive performance while positioning himself in a forward position at bowling green, spreading his forces too thinly, not concentrating his forces in the face of u. s. advances, and appointing or relying upon inadequate or incompetent subordinates subjected him to criticism at the time and by later historians. the fall of the forts exposed nashville to an imminent attack, and it fell without resistance to u. s. forces under brig. gen. buell on february 25, 1862, two days after johnston had to pull his forces out to avoid having them captured as well. concentration at corinth johnston was in a perilous situation after the fall of ft. donelson and henry ; with barely 17, 000 men to face an overwhelming concentration of union force, he hastily fled south into mississippi by way of nashville and then into northern alabama. johnston himself retreated with the force under his personal command, the army of central kentucky, from the vicinity of nashville. with beauregard ' s help, johnston decided to concentrate forces with those formerly under polk and now already under beauregard ' s command at the strategically located railroad crossroads of corinth, mississippi, which he reached by a circuitous route. johnston kept the u. s. forces, now under the overall command of maj. gen. henry halleck, confused and hesitant to move, allowing johnston to reach his objective undetected.