##arable. with heigo ' s guidance, akira devoured not only films but also theater and circus performances, while exhibiting his paintings and working for the left - wing proletarian artists ' league. however, he was never able to make a living with his art, and, as he began to perceive most of the proletarian movement as " putting unfulfilled political ideals directly onto the canvas ", he lost his enthusiasm for painting. with the increasing production of talking pictures in the early 1930s, film narrators like heigo began to lose work, and akira moved back in with his parents. in july 1933, heigo died by suicide. kurosawa has commented on the lasting sense of loss he felt at his brother ' s death and the chapter of his autobiography ( something like an autobiography ) that describes it — written nearly half a century after the event — is titled, " a story i don ' t want to tell ". only four months later, kurosawa ' s eldest brother also died, leaving akira, at age 23, the only one of the kurosawa brothers still living, together with his three surviving sisters. director in training ( 1935 – 1941 ) in 1935, the new film studio photo chemical laboratories, known as p. c. l. ( which later became the major studio toho ), advertised for assistant directors. although he had demonstrated no previous interest in film as a profession, kurosawa submitted the required essay, which asked applicants to discuss the fundamental deficiencies of japanese films and find ways to overcome them. his half - mocking view was that if the deficiencies were fundamental, there was no way to correct them. kurosawa ' s essay earned him a call to take the follow - up exams, and director kajiro yamamoto, who was among the examiners, took a liking to kurosawa and insisted that the studio hire him. the 25 - year - old kurosawa joined p. c. l. in february 1936. during his five years as an assistant director, kurosawa worked under numerous directors, but by far the most important figure in his development was yamamoto. of his 24 films as a. d., he worked on 17 under yamamoto, many of them comedies featuring the popular actor ken ' ichi enomoto, known as " enoken ". yamamoto nurtured kurosawa ' s talent, promoting him directly from third assistant director to chief assistant director after a year. kurosawa ' s responsibilities increased, and he worked