on 28 june, care was taken to leave the door open and unguarded. alboin ' s sword was also removed, leaving him defenceless when peredeo entered his room and killed him. alboin ' s remains were allegedly buried beneath the palace steps. peredeo ' s figure and role is mostly introduced by paul ; the origo had for the first time mentioned his name as " peritheus ", but there his role had been different, as he was not the assassin, but the instigator of the assassination. in the vein of his reading of the skull cup, goffart sees peredeo not as a historical figure but as an allegorical character : he notes a similarity between peredeo ' s name and the latin word perditus, meaning " lost ", a representation of those lombards who entered into the service of the empire. alboin ' s death had a lasting impact, as it deprived the lombards of the only leader they had that could have kept together the newborn germanic entity. his end also represents the death of the last of the line of hero - kings that had led the lombards through their migrations from the elbe to italy. his fame survived him for many centuries in epic poetry, with saxons and bavarians celebrating his prowess in battle, his heroism, and the magical properties of his weapons. aftermath to complete the coup d ' etat and legitimize his claim to the throne, helmichis married the queen, whose high standing arose not only from being the king ' s widow but also from being the most prominent member of the remaining gepid nation, and as such her support was a guarantee of the gepids ' loyalty to helmichis. the latter could also count on the support of the lombard garrison of verona, where many may have opposed alboin ' s aggressive policy and could have cultivated the hope of reaching an entente with the empire. the byzantines were almost certainly deeply involved in the plot. it was in their interest to stem the lombard tide by bringing a pro - byzantine regime into power in verona, and possibly in the long run break the unity of the lombards ' kingdom, winning over the dukes with honors and emoluments. the coup ultimately failed, as it met with the resistance of most of the warriors, who were opposed to the king ' s assassination. as a result, the lombard garrison in ticinum proclaimed duke cleph the new king, and helmichis,