, astronaut, died on sts - 107 charles w. " chuck " durham, civil engineer, philanthropist, civic leader, former ceo and chairman emeritus of hdr, inc. ; raised in ames lyle goodhue, scientist, lived and studied here 1925 – 1934 frank spedding, chemist, creator of the ames process during the manhattan project dan shechtman, awarded 2011 nobel prize in chemistry for " the discovery of quasicrystals " ; professor of materials science at iowa state university ( 2004 – present ) and associate at the department of energy ' s ames laboratory george w. snedecor, statistician, founder of first academic department of statistics in the united states at iowa state university writers and poets ann cotten, poet, born in ames, grew up in vienna brian evenson, author jane espenson, writer and producer for television, including buffy the vampire slayer and star trek : the next generation, grew up in ames michelle hoover, author, born in ames meg johnson, poet and dancer fern kupfer, author joseph geha, author ted kooser, u. s. poet laureate ; raised in ames and isu graduate john madson, freelance naturalist of tallgrass prairie ecosystems sara paretsky, author of the v. i. warshawski mysteries ; born in ames in 1947 jane smiley, pulitzer prize - winning novelist ; former instructor at isu ( 1981 – 1996 ) ; used isu as the basis for her novel moo neal stephenson, author, grew up in ames hugh young, coauthor of university physics textbook lincoln peirce, cartoonist / writer of the big nate comics and books other neva morris, at her death ( 2010 ) second - oldest person in the world and oldest american aged 114 years ; lived in ames her entire life nate staniforth, magician todd snyder ( fashion designer ) politics from 1979 through 2011, ames was the location of the ames straw poll, which was held every august prior to a presidential election year in which the republican presidential nomination was undecided ( meaning there was no republican president running for re - election — as in 2011, 2007, 1999, 1995, 1987, and 1979 ). the poll would gauge support for the various republican candidates amongst attendees of a fundraising dinner benefiting the iowa republican party. the straw poll was frequently seen by national media and party insiders as a first test of organizational strength in iowa. in 2015, the straw poll was to be moved to nearby boone before the iowa republican party eventually decided to cancel it altogether. see