both axiomatic and universal. in general, the non - aggression axiom is described by rothbard as a prohibition against the initiation of force, or the threat of force, against persons ( in which he includes direct violence, assault and murder ) or property ( in which he includes fraud, burglary, theft and taxation ). the initiation of force is usually referred to as aggression or coercion. the difference between anarcho - capitalists and other libertarians is largely one of the degree to which they take this axiom. minarchist libertarians such as libertarian political parties would retain the state in some smaller and less invasive form, retaining at the very least public police, courts, and military. however, others might give further allowance for other government programs. in contrast, rothbard rejects any level of " state intervention ", defining the state as a coercive monopoly and as the only entity in human society, excluding acknowledged criminals, that derives its income entirely from coercion, in the form of taxation, which rothbard describes as " compulsory seizure of the property of the state ' s inhabitants, or subjects. " some anarcho - capitalists such as rothbard accept the non - aggression axiom on an intrinsic moral or natural law basis. it is in terms of the non - aggression principle that rothbard defined his interpretation of anarchism, " a system which provides no legal sanction for such aggression [ ' against person and property ' ] " ; and wrote that " what anarchism proposes to do, then, is to abolish the state, i. e. to abolish the regularized institution of aggressive coercion ". in an interview published in the american libertarian journal the new banner, rothbard stated that " capitalism is the fullest expression of anarchism, and anarchism is the fullest expression of capitalism ". property private property anarcho - capitalists postulate the privatization of everything, including cities with all their infrastructures, public spaces, streets and urban management systems. central to rothbardian anarcho - capitalism are the concepts of self - ownership and original appropriation that combines personal and private property. hans - hermann hoppe wrote : rothbard however rejected the lockean proviso, and followed the rule of " first come, first served ", without any consideration of how much resources are left for other individuals. anarcho - capitalists advocate private ownership of the means of production and the allocation of the product of labor created