to which all the dead go, both the righteous and the unrighteous, regardless of the moral choices made in life, ( gen. xxxvii. 36 ; ezek. xxxii. ; isa. xiv. ; job xxx. 23 ), a place of stillness, ( ps. lxxxviii. 13, xciv. 17 ; eccl. ix. 10 ), at the longest possible distance from heaven ( job xi. 8 ; amos ix. 2 ; ps. cxxxix. 8 ). the inhabitants of sheol were the " shades " ( rephaim ), entities without personality or strength. under some circumstances they were thought to be able to be contacted by the living, as the witch of endor contacts the shade of samuel for saul, but such practices were forbidden ( deuteronomy 18 : 10 ). while the hebrew bible appears to describe sheol as the permanent place of the dead, in the second temple period ( roughly 500 bc – 70 ad ) a more diverse set of ideas developed. in some texts, sheol is considered to be the home of both the righteous and the wicked, separated into respective compartments ; in others, it was considered a place of punishment, meant for the wicked dead alone. when the hebrew scriptures were translated into greek in ancient alexandria around 200 bc, the word " hades " ( the greek underworld ) was substituted for sheol. this is reflected in the new testament where hades is both the underworld of the dead and the personification of the evil it represents. world to come the talmud offers a number of thoughts relating to the afterlife. after death, the soul is brought for judgment. those who have led pristine lives enter immediately into the olam haba or world to come. most do not enter the world to come immediately, but experience a period of reflection of their earthly actions and are made aware of what they have done wrong. some view this period as being a " re - schooling ", with the soul gaining wisdom as one ' s errors are reviewed. others view this period to include spiritual discomfort for past wrongs. at the end of this period, not longer than one year, the soul then takes its place in the world to come. although discomforts are made part of certain jewish conceptions of the afterlife, the concept of eternal damnation is not a tenet of the jewish afterlife. according to the talmud, extinction of the soul is reserved for a far smaller group of malicious and evil leaders, either whose