##2, antoine de ville climbed mont aiguille, without reaching the summit, an experience he described as " horrifying and terrifying. " leonardo da vinci was fascinated by variations of light in the higher altitudes, and climbed a mountain — scholars are uncertain which one ; some believe it may have been monte rosa. from his description of a " blue like that of a gentian " sky it is thought that he reached a significantly high altitude. in the 18th century four chamonix men almost made the summit of mont blanc but were overcome by altitude sickness and snowblindness. conrad gessner was the first naturalist to ascend the mountains in the 16th century, to study them, writing that in the mountains he found the " theatre of the lord ". by the 19th century more naturalists began to arrive to explore, study and conquer the high peaks. two men who first explored the regions of ice and snow were horace - benedict de saussure ( 1740 – 1799 ) in the pennine alps, and the benedictine monk of disentis placidus a spescha ( 1752 – 1833 ). born in geneva, saussure was enamoured with the mountains from an early age ; he left a law career to become a naturalist and spent many years trekking through the bernese oberland, the savoy, the piedmont and valais, studying the glaciers and geology, as he became an early proponent of the theory of rock upheaval. saussure, in 1787, was a member of the third ascent of mont blanc — today the summits of all the peaks have been climbed. the romantics and alpinists albrecht von haller ' s poem die alpen, published in 1732 described the mountains as an area of mythical purity. jean - jacques rousseau presented the alps as a place of allure and beauty, in his novel julie, or the new heloise, published in 1761. later the first wave of romanticism such as johann wolfgang von goethe, and j. m. w. turner came to admire the alpine scenery ; wordsworth visited the area in 1790, writing of his experiences in the prelude ( 1799 ). schiller later wrote the play william tell ( 1804 ), which tells the story of the legendary swiss marksman william tell as part of the greater swiss struggle for independence from the habsburg empire in the early 14th century. at the end of the napoleonic wars, the alpine countries began to see an influx of poets, artists, and musicians, as visitors came to experience the