kundi, still allow girl ' s schools from grade 6 and up. health according to the human development index, afghanistan is the 15th least developed country in the world. the average life expectancy is estimated to be around 60 years. the country ' s maternal mortality rate is 396 deaths / 100, 000 live births and its infant mortality rate is 66 to 112. 8 deaths in every 1, 000 live births. the ministry of public health plans to cut the infant mortality rate to 400 for every 100, 000 live births before 2020. the country has more than 3, 000 midwives, with an additional 300 to 400 being trained each year. there are over 100 hospitals in afghanistan, with the most advanced treatments being available in kabul. the french medical institute for children and indira gandhi children ' s hospital in kabul are the leading children ' s hospitals in the country. some of the other leading hospitals in kabul include the jamhuriat hospital and jinnah hospital. in spite of all this, many afghans travel to pakistan and india for advanced treatment. it was reported in 2006 that nearly 60 % of the afghan population lives within a two - hour walk of the nearest health facility. the disability rate is also high in afghanistan due to the decades of war. it was reported recently that about 80, 000 people are missing limbs. non - governmental charities such as save the children and mahboba ' s promise assist orphans in association with governmental structures. governance following the effective collapse of the islamic republic of afghanistan during the 2021 taliban offensive, the taliban declared the country an islamic emirate. a new caretaker government was announced on 7 september., no other country had formally recognized the islamic emirate of afghanistan as the de jure government of afghanistan. a traditional instrument of governance in afghanistan is the loya jirga ( grand assembly ), a pashtun consultative meeting that was mainly organized for choosing a new head of state, adopting a new constitution, or to settle national or regional issue such as war. loya jirgas have been held since at least 1747, with the most recent one occurring in august 2020. development of taliban government on 17 august 2021, the leader of the taliban - affiliated hezb - e - islami gulbuddin party, gulbuddin hekmatyar, met with both hamid karzai, the former president of afghanistan, and abdullah abdullah, the former chairman of the high council for national reconciliation and former chief executive, in doha, qatar, with the aim of forming a national unity government. president