a few percent. here a, b and c are lattice constants, no is space group number and z is the number of formula units per unit cell. density was not measured directly but calculated from the lattice parameters. oxides actinium oxide ( ac2o3 ) can be obtained by heating the hydroxide at 500 °c or the oxalate at 1100 °c, in vacuum. its crystal lattice is isotypic with the oxides of most trivalent rare - earth metals. halides actinium trifluoride can be produced either in solution or in solid reaction. the former reaction is carried out at room temperature, by adding hydrofluoric acid to a solution containing actinium ions. in the latter method, actinium metal is treated with hydrogen fluoride vapors at 700 °c in an all - platinum setup. treating actinium trifluoride with ammonium hydroxide at 900 – 1000 °c yields oxyfluoride acof. whereas lanthanum oxyfluoride can be easily obtained by burning lanthanum trifluoride in air at 800 °c for an hour, similar treatment of actinium trifluoride yields no acof and only results in melting of the initial product. acf3 + 2 nh3 + h2o → acof + 2 nh4f actinium trichloride is obtained by reacting actinium hydroxide or oxalate with carbon tetrachloride vapors at temperatures above 960 °c. similar to oxyfluoride, actinium oxychloride can be prepared by hydrolyzing actinium trichloride with ammonium hydroxide at 1000 °c. however, in contrast to the oxyfluoride, the oxychloride could well be synthesized by igniting a solution of actinium trichloride in hydrochloric acid with ammonia. reaction of aluminium bromide and actinium oxide yields actinium tribromide : ac2o3 + 2 albr3 → 2 acbr3 + al2o3 and treating it with ammonium hydroxide at 500 °c results in the oxybromide acobr. other compounds actinium hydride was obtained by reduction of actinium trichloride with potassium at 300 °c, and its structure was deduced by analogy with the corresponding lah2 hydride. the source of hydrogen in the reaction was uncertain. mixing monosodium phosphate ( nah2po4 ) with a solution of actinium in hydrochloric acid yields white