##ct simocatta sentimentalises the reasons behind the conflict, claiming it originated with alboin ' s vain courting and subsequent kidnapping of cunimund ' s daughter rosamund, that alboin proceeded then to marry. the tale is treated with scepticism by walter goffart, who observes that it conflicts with the origo gentis langobardorum, where she was captured only after the death of her father. the gepids obtained the support of the emperor in exchange for a promise to cede him the region of sirmium, the seat of the gepid kings. thus in 565 or 566 justinian ' s successor justin ii sent his son - in - law baduarius as magister militum ( field commander ) to lead a byzantine army against alboin in support of cunimund, ending in the lombards ' complete defeat. faced with the possibility of annihilation, alboin made an alliance in 566 with the avars under bayan i, at the expense of some tough conditions : the avars demanded a tenth of the lombards ' cattle, half of the war booty, and on the war ' s conclusion all of the lands held by the gepids. the lombards played on the pre - existing hostility between the avars and the byzantines, claiming that the latter were allied with the gepids. cunimund, on the other hand, encountered hostility when he once again asked the emperor for military assistance, as the byzantines had been angered by the gepids ' failure to cede sirmium to them, as had been agreed. moreover, justin ii was moving away from the foreign policy of justinian, and believed in dealing more strictly with bordering states and peoples. attempts to mollify justin ii with tributes failed, and as a result the byzantines kept themselves neutral if not outright supportive of the avars. in 567 the allies made their final move against cunimund, with alboin invading the gepids ' lands from the northwest while bayan attacked from the northeast. cunimund attempted to prevent the two armies joining up by moving against the lombards and clashing with alboin somewhere between the tibiscus and danube rivers. the gepids were defeated in the ensuing battle, their king slain by alboin, and cunimund ' s daughter rosamund taken captive, according to references in the origo. the full destruction of the gepid kingdom was completed by