water issues land transformation, the use of land to yield goods and services, is the most substantial way humans alter the earth ' s ecosystems, and is the driving force causing biodiversity loss. estimates of the amount of land transformed by humans vary from 39 to 50 %. land degradation, the long - term decline in ecosystem function and productivity, is estimated to be occurring on 24 % of land worldwide, with cropland overrepresented. land management is the driving factor behind degradation ; 1. 5 billion people rely upon the degrading land. degradation can be through deforestation, desertification, soil erosion, mineral depletion, acidification, or salinization. eutrophication, excessive nutrient enrichment in aquatic ecosystems resulting in algal blooms and anoxia, leads to fish kills, loss of biodiversity, and renders water unfit for drinking and other industrial uses. excessive fertilization and manure application to cropland, as well as high livestock stocking densities cause nutrient ( mainly nitrogen and phosphorus ) runoff and leaching from agricultural land. these nutrients are major nonpoint pollutants contributing to eutrophication of aquatic ecosystems and pollution of groundwater, with harmful effects on human populations. fertilisers also reduce terrestrial biodiversity by increasing competition for light, favouring those species that are able to benefit from the added nutrients. agriculture simultaneously is facing growing freshwater demand and precipitation anomalies ( droughts, floods, and extreme rainfall and weather events ) on rainfed areasfields and grazing lands. agriculture accounts for 70 percent of withdrawals of freshwater resources, and an estimated 41 percent of current global irrigation water use occurs at the expense of environmental flow requirements. it is long known that aquifers in areas as diverse as northern china, the upper ganges and the western us are being depleted, and new research extends these problems to aquifers in iran, mexico and saudi arabia. increasing pressure is being placed on water resources by industry and urban areas, meaning that water scarcity is increasing and agriculture is facing the challenge of producing more food for the world ' s growing population with reduced water resources. while industrial withdrawals have declined in the past few decades and municipal withdrawals have increased only marginally since 2010, agricultural withdrawals have continued to grow at an ever faster pace. agricultural water usage can also cause major environmental problems, including the destruction of natural wetlands, the spread of water - borne diseases, and land degradation through salinization and waterlogging, when irrigation is performed incorrectly. pesticides pesticide use has