), marcus and lucius nominated their father for deification. in contrast to their behaviour during antoninus ' campaign to deify hadrian, the senate did not oppose the emperors ' wishes. a flamen, or cultic priest, was appointed to minister the cult of the deified antoninus, now divus antoninus. a column was dedicated to antoninus on the campus martius, and the temple he had built in the forum in 141 to his deified wife faustina was rededicated to the deified faustina and the deified antoninus. it survives as the church of san lorenzo in miranda. historiography the only intact account of his life handed down to us is that of the augustan history, an unreliable and mostly fabricated work. nevertheless, it still contains information that is considered reasonably sound ; for instance, it is the only source that mentions the erection of the antonine wall in britain. antoninus is unique among roman emperors in that he has no other biographies. antoninus in many ways was the ideal of the landed gentleman praised not only by ancient romans, but also by later scholars of classical history, such as edward gibbon or the author of the article on antoninus pius in the encyclopædia britannica eleventh edition. some historians have a less positive view of his reign. according to the historian j. b. bury, german historian ernst kornemann has had it in his romische geschichte [ 2 vols., ed. by h. bengtson, stuttgart 1954 ] that the reign of antoninus comprised " a succession of grossly wasted opportunities ", given the upheavals that were to come. there is more to this argument, given that the parthians in the east were themselves soon to make no small amount of mischief after antoninus ' death. kornemann ' s brief is that antoninus might have waged preventive wars to head off these outsiders. michael grant agrees that it is possible that had antoninus acted decisively sooner ( it appears that, on his death bed, he was preparing a large - scale action against the parthians ), the parthians might have been unable to choose their own time, but current evidence is not conclusive. grant opines that antoninus and his officers did act in a resolute manner dealing with frontier disturbances of his time, although conditions for long - lasting peace were not created. on the whole, according to grant, marcus aurelius ' eulogistic picture of antoninus seems