. apollo helped the greek hero diomedes, to escape from a great tempest during his journey homeward. as a token of gratitude, diomedes built a temple in honor of apollo under the epithet epibaterius ( " the embarker " ). during the trojan war, odysseus came to the trojan camp to return chriseis, the daughter of apollo ' s priest chryses, and brought many offerings to apollo. pleased with this, apollo sent gentle breezes that helped odysseus return safely to the greek camp. arion was a poet who was kidnapped by some sailors for the rich prizes he possessed. arion requested them to let him sing for the last time, to which the sailors consented. arion began singing a song in praise of apollo, seeking the god ' s help. consequently, numerous dolphins surrounded the ship and when arion jumped into the water, the dolphins carried him away safely. wars trojan war apollo played a pivotal role in the entire trojan war. he sided with the trojans, and sent a terrible plague to the greek camp, which indirectly led to the conflict between achilles and agamemnon. he killed the greek heroes patroclus, achilles, and numerous greek soldiers. he also helped many trojan heroes, the most important one being hector. after the end of the war, apollo and poseidon together cleaned the remains of the city and the camps. telegony war a war broke out between the brygoi and the thesprotians, who had the support of odysseus. the gods athena and ares came to the battlefield and took sides. athena helped the hero odysseus while ares fought alongside of the brygoi. when odysseus lost, athena and ares came into a direct duel. to stop the battling gods and the terror created by their battle, apollo intervened and stopped the duel between them. indian war when zeus suggested that dionysus defeat the indians in order to earn a place among the gods, dionysus declared war against the indians and travelled to india along with his army of bacchantes and satyrs. among the warriors was aristaeus, apollo ' s son. apollo armed his son with his own hands and gave him a bow and arrows and fitted a strong shield to his arm. after zeus urged apollo to join the war, he went to the battlefield. seeing several of his nymphs and aristaeus drowning in a river, he took them to safety and