by robert s. mulliken in 1932 as short for one - electron orbital wave function. niels bohr explained around 1913 that electrons might revolve around a compact nucleus with definite angular momentum. bohr ' s model was an improvement on the 1911 explanations of ernest rutherford, that of the electron moving around a nucleus. japanese physicist hantaro nagaoka published an orbit - based hypothesis for electron behavior as early as 1904. these theories were each built upon new observations starting with simple understanding and becoming more correct and complex. explaining the behavior of these electron " orbits " was one of the driving forces behind the development of quantum mechanics. early models with j. j. thomson ' s discovery of the electron in 1897, it became clear that atoms were not the smallest building blocks of nature, but were rather composite particles. the newly discovered structure within atoms tempted many to imagine how the atom ' s constituent parts might interact with each other. thomson theorized that multiple electrons revolve in orbit - like rings within a positively charged jelly - like substance, and between the electron ' s discovery and 1909, this " plum pudding model " was the most widely accepted explanation of atomic structure. shortly after thomson ' s discovery, hantaro nagaoka predicted a different model for electronic structure. unlike the plum pudding model, the positive charge in nagaoka ' s " saturnian model " was concentrated into a central core, pulling the electrons into circular orbits reminiscent of saturn ' s rings. few people took notice of nagaoka ' s work at the time, and nagaoka himself recognized a fundamental defect in the theory even at its conception, namely that a classical charged object cannot sustain orbital motion because it is accelerating and therefore loses energy due to electromagnetic radiation. nevertheless, the saturnian model turned out to have more in common with modern theory than any of its contemporaries. bohr atom in 1909, ernest rutherford discovered that the bulk of the atomic mass was tightly condensed into a nucleus, which was also found to be positively charged. it became clear from his analysis in 1911 that the plum pudding model could not explain atomic structure. in 1913, rutherford ' s post - doctoral student, niels bohr, proposed a new model of the atom, wherein electrons orbited the nucleus with classical periods, but were permitted to have only discrete values of angular momentum, quantized in units ħ. this constraint automatically allowed only certain electron energies. the bohr model of the atom fixed the problem of energy loss from radiation from a ground state ( by declaring that there was no state below this ),