the carbon benefits of afforestation ( or offset the negative climate impacts of deforestation ). in other words : the climate change mitigation effect of carbon sequestration by forests is partially counterbalanced in that reforestation can decrease the reflection of sunlight ( albedo ). in the case of evergreen forests with seasonal snow cover albedo reduction may be great enough for deforestation to cause a net cooling effect. trees also impact climate in extremely complicated ways through evapotranspiration. the water vapor causes cooling on the land surface, causes heating where it condenses, acts a strong greenhouse gas, and can increase albedo when it condenses into clouds. scientists generally treat evapotranspiration as a net cooling impact, and the net climate impact of albedo and evapotranspiration changes from deforestation depends greatly on local climate. mid - to - high - latitude forests have a much lower albedo during snow seasons than flat ground, thus contributing to warming. modeling that compares the effects of albedo differences between forests and grasslands suggests that expanding the land area of forests in temperate zones offers only a temporary mitigation benefit. in seasonally snow - covered zones, winter albedos of treeless areas are 10 % to 50 % higher than nearby forested areas because snow does not cover the trees as readily. deciduous trees have an albedo value of about 0. 15 to 0. 18 whereas coniferous trees have a value of about 0. 09 to 0. 15. variation in summer albedo across both forest types is associated with maximum rates of photosynthesis because plants with high growth capacity display a greater fraction of their foliage for direct interception of incoming radiation in the upper canopy. the result is that wavelengths of light not used in photosynthesis are more likely to be reflected back to space rather than being absorbed by other surfaces lower in the canopy. studies by the hadley centre have investigated the relative ( generally warming ) effect of albedo change and ( cooling ) effect of carbon sequestration on planting forests. they found that new forests in tropical and midlatitude areas tended to cool ; new forests in high latitudes ( e. g., siberia ) were neutral or perhaps warming. water water reflects light very differently from typical terrestrial materials. the reflectivity of a water surface is calculated using the fresnel equations. at the scale of the wavelength of light even wavy water is always smooth so the light is reflected in a locally specular manner ( not diffusely ). the glint of