to grow grain, potatoes, sugar beets, cotton and tobacco. livestock, dairy products, and wine and spirits are also important farm products. the caspian fishing industry concentrates on the dwindling stocks of sturgeon and beluga. in 2002 the azerbaijani merchant marine had 54 ships. some products previously imported from abroad have begun to be produced locally. among them are coca - cola by coca - cola bottlers ltd., beer by baki - kastel, parquet by nehir and oil pipes by eupec pipe coating azerbaijan. tourism tourism is an important part of the economy of azerbaijan. the country was a well - known tourist spot in the 1980s. the fall of the soviet union, and the first nagorno - karabakh war during the 1990s, damaged the tourist industry and the image of azerbaijan as a tourist destination. it was not until the 2000s that the tourism industry began to recover, and the country has since experienced a high rate of growth in the number of tourist visits and overnight stays. in recent years, azerbaijan has also become a popular destination for religious, spa, and health care tourism. during winter, the shahdag mountain resort offers skiing with state of the art facilities. the government of azerbaijan has set the development of azerbaijan as an elite tourist destination as a top priority. it is a national strategy to make tourism a major, if not the single largest, contributor to the azerbaijani economy. these activities are regulated by the ministry of culture and tourism of azerbaijan. there are 63 countries which have a visa - free score. e - visa – for a visit of foreigners of visa - required countries to the republic of azerbaijan. according to the travel and tourism competitiveness report 2015 of the world economic forum, azerbaijan holds 84th place. according to a report by the world travel and tourism council, azerbaijan was among the top ten countries showing the strongest growth in visitor exports between 2010 and 2016, in addition, azerbaijan placed first ( 46. 1 % ) among countries with the fastest - developing travel and tourism economies, with strong indicators for inbound international visitor spending last year. transportation the convenient location of azerbaijan on the crossroad of major international traffic arteries, such as the silk road and the south – north corridor, highlights the strategic importance of the transportation sector for the country ' s economy. the transport sector in the country includes roads, railways, aviation, and maritime transport. azerbaijan is also an important economic hub in the transportation of raw materials. the baku – tbilisi – ceyhan pipeline ( btc )