formally described and named " semitic " by august ludwig von schlozer in 1781. in 1844, theodor benfey first described the relationship between semitic and the egyptian language and connected both to the berber and the cushitic languages ( which he called " ethiopic " ). in the same year t. n. newman suggested a relationship between semitic and the hausa language, an idea that was taken up by early scholars of afroasiatic. in 1855, ernst renan named these languages, related to semitic but not semitic, " hamitic, " in 1860 carl lottner proposed that they belonged to a single language family, and in 1876 friedrich muller first described them as a " hamito - semitic " language family. muller assumed that there existed a distinct " hamitic " branch of the family that consisted of egyptian, berber, and cushitic. he did not include the chadic languages, though contemporary egyptologist karl richard lepsius argued for the relation of hausa to the berber languages. some scholars would continue to regard hausa as related to the other afroasiatic languages, but the idea was controversial : many scholars refused to admit that the largely unwritten, " negroid " chadic languages were in the same family as the " caucasian " ancient civilizations of the egyptians and semites. an important development in the history of afroasiatic scholarship – and the history of african linguistics – was the creation of the " hamitic theory " or " hamitic hypothesis " by lepsius, fellow egyptologist christian bunsen, and linguist christian bleek. this theory connected the " hamites ", the originators of hamitic languages, with ( supposedly culturally superior ) " caucasians ", who were assumed to have migrated into africa and intermixed with indigenous " negroid " africans in ancient times. the " hamitic theory " would serve as the basis for carl meinhof ' s highly influential classification of african languages in his 1912 book. on one hand, the " hamitic " classification was justified partially based on linguistic features : for example, meinhof split the presently - understood chadic family into " hamito - chadic ", and an unrelated non - hamitic " chadic " based on which languages possessed grammatical gender. on the other hand, the classification also relied on non - linguistic anthropological and culturally contingent features, such as skin color, hair type, and lifestyle. ultimately, meinhof ' s classification of hamitic proved to include languages from every presently - recognized language family within africa