regulars were not in the area. washington designed the overall military strategy of the revolutionary war in cooperation with congress, established the principle of civilian supremacy in military affairs, personally recruited his senior officer corps, and kept the states focused on a common goal. for the first three years until after fall of philadelphia and the six - month encampment at valley forge, the continental army was largely supplemented by local state militias. washington initially employed the inexperienced officers and untrained troops in fabian strategies rather than risk frontal assaults against britain ' s professional soldiers and officers. over the course of the entire war, washington lost more battles than he won, but he never surrendered his troops and maintained a fighting force in the face of british field armies and never gave up fighting for the american cause. by prevailing european standards, the armies in america were relatively small, limited by lack of supplies and logistics. the british were constrained by the logistical difficulty of transporting troops across the atlantic and their dependence on local supplies. throughout the war, washington never directly commanded more than 17, 000 men, and the combined franco - american army in the decisive american victory at yorktown was only about 19, 000. at the beginning of 1776, patriot forces consisted of 20, 000 men with two - thirds of them in the continental army and the other third in the various state militias. about 250, 000 american men served as regulars or as militia for the revolutionary cause over eight years during wartime, but there were never more than 90, 000 men under arms at any time. on the whole, american officers never equaled their british opponents in tactics and maneuvers, and they lost most of the pitched battles. the great successes at boston ( 1776 ), saratoga ( 1777 ), and yorktown ( 1781 ) were won by trapping the british far from base with a greater number of troops. after 1778, however, washington ' s army was transformed into a more disciplined and effective force, mostly as a product of baron von steuben ' s military training. immediately after the continental army emerged from valley forge in june 1778, it proved its ability to match the military capabilities of the british at the battle of monmouth, including a black rhode island regiment fending off a british bayonet attack and then counter charging the british for the first time as part of washington ' s army. after the battle of monmouth, washington came to realize that saving entire towns was not necessary, but preserving his army and keeping the revolutionary spirit alive was more important. washington informed henry laurens, then president of the second continental congress, "