guidelines for human subject research and us federal law, and are often cited as examples of clinical trials that included only men, but from which people drew general conclusions that did not hold true for women. aspirin sales revived considerably in the last decades of the 20th century, and remain strong in the 21st century with widespread use as a preventive treatment for heart attacks and strokes. trademark bayer lost its trademark for aspirin in the united states and some other countries in actions taken between 1918 and 1921 because it had failed to use the name for its own product correctly and had for years allowed the use of " aspirin " by other manufacturers without defending the intellectual property rights. today, aspirin is a generic trademark in many countries. aspirin, with a capital " a ", remains a registered trademark of bayer in germany, canada, mexico, and in over 80 other countries, for acetylsalicylic acid in all markets, but using different packaging and physical aspects for each. compendial status united states pharmacopeia british pharmacopoeia medical use aspirin is used in the treatment of a number of conditions, including fever, pain, rheumatic fever, and inflammatory conditions, such as rheumatoid arthritis, pericarditis, and kawasaki disease. lower doses of aspirin have also been shown to reduce the risk of death from a heart attack, or the risk of stroke in people who are at high risk or who have cardiovascular disease, but not in elderly people who are otherwise healthy. there is evidence that aspirin is effective at preventing colorectal cancer, though the mechanisms of this effect are unclear. in the united states, the selective initiation of low - dose aspirin, based on an individualised assessment, has been deemed reasonable for the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease in people aged between 40 and 59 who have a 10 % or greater risk of developing cardiovascular disease over the next 10 years and are not at an increased risk of bleeding. pain aspirin is an effective analgesic for acute pain, although it is generally considered inferior to ibuprofen because aspirin is more likely to cause gastrointestinal bleeding. aspirin is generally ineffective for those pains caused by muscle cramps, bloating, gastric distension, or acute skin irritation. as with other nsaids, combinations of aspirin and caffeine provide slightly greater pain relief than aspirin alone. effervescent formulations of as