advances were in heating and distillation processes. the laboratory water - bath, known eponymously ( especially in france ) as the bain - marie, is said to have been invented or at least improved by her. essentially a double - boiler, it was ( and is ) used in chemistry for processes that required gentle heating. the tribikos ( a modified distillation apparatus ) and the kerotakis ( a more intricate apparatus used especially for sublimations ) are two other advancements in the process of distillation that are credited to her. although we have no writing from mary herself, she is known from the early - fourth - century writings of zosimos of panopolis. after the greco - roman period, women ' s names appear less frequently in alchemical literature. towards the end of the middle ages and beginning of the renaissance, due to the emergence of print, women were able to access the alchemical knowledge from texts of the preceding centuries. caterina sforza, the countess of forli and lady of imola, is one of the few confirmed female alchemists after mary the jewess. as she owned an apothecary, she would practice science and conduct experiments in her botanic gardens and laboratories. being knowledgeable in alchemy and pharmacology, she recorded all of her alchemical ventures in a manuscript named ( ' experiments ' ). the manuscript contained more than four hundred recipes covering alchemy as well as cosmetics and medicine. one of these recipes was for the water of talc. talc, which makes up talcum powder, is a mineral which, when combined with water and distilled, was said to produce a solution which yielded many benefits. these supposed benefits included turning silver to gold and rejuvenation. when combined with white wine, its powder form could be ingested to counteract poison. furthermore, if that powder was mixed and drunk with white wine, it was said to be a source of protection from any poison, sickness, or plague. other recipes were for making hair dyes, lotions, lip colors. there was also information on how to treat a variety of ailments from fevers and coughs to epilepsy and cancer. in addition, there were instructions on producing the quintessence ( or aether ), an elixir which was believed to be able to heal all sicknesses, defend against diseases, and perpetuate youthfulness. she also wrote about creating the illustrious philosophers ' stone.