treaty era. in terms of criminal law, the laws that apply to the jervis bay territory ( which follows the laws of the australian capital territory ) apply to the australian antarctic territory. key australian legislation applying antarctic treaty system decisions include the antarctic treaty act 1960, the antarctic treaty ( environment protection ) act 1980 and the antarctic marine living resources conservation act 1981. united states the law of the united states, including certain criminal offences by or against u. s. nationals, such as murder, may apply to areas not under jurisdiction of other countries. to this end, the united states now stations special deputy u. s. marshals in antarctica to provide a law enforcement presence. some u. s. laws directly apply to antarctica. for example, the antarctic conservation act, public law 95 - 541, et seq., provides civil and criminal penalties for the following activities, unless authorized by regulation or statute : the taking of native antarctic mammals or birds the introduction into antarctica of non - indigenous plants and animals entry into specially protected or scientific areas the discharge or disposal of pollutants into antarctica or antarctic waters the importation into the u. s. of certain items from antarctica violation of the antarctic conservation act carries penalties of up to us $ 10, 000 in fines and one year in prison. the departments of the treasury, commerce, transportation, and the interior share enforcement responsibilities. the act requires expeditions from the u. s. to antarctica to notify, in advance, the office of oceans and polar affairs of the state department, which reports such plans to other nations as required by the antarctic treaty. further information is provided by the office of polar programs of the national science foundation. new zealand in 2006, the new zealand police reported that jurisdictional issues prevented them issuing warrants for potential american witnesses who were reluctant to testify during the christchurch coroner ' s investigation into the death by poisoning of australian astrophysicist rodney marks at the south pole base in may 2000. dr. marks died while wintering over at the united states ' amundsen – scott south pole station located at the geographic south pole. prior to autopsy, the death was attributed to natural causes by the national science foundation and the contractor administering the base. however, an autopsy in new zealand revealed that dr. marks died from methanol poisoning. the new zealand police launched an investigation. in 2006, frustrated by lack of progress, the christchurch coroner said that it was unlikely that dr. marks ingested the methanol knowingly, although there is no certainty that he died as the