##uretics, and kidney disease, but is eliminated by the urate lowering drug allopurinol. daily low dose aspirin does not appear to worsen kidney function. aspirin may reduce cardiovascular risk in those without established cardiovascular disease in people with moderate ckd, without significantly increasing the risk of bleeding. aspirin should not be given to children or adolescents under the age of 16 to control cold or influenza symptoms, as this has been linked with reye ' s syndrome. gastrointestinal aspirin use has been shown to increase the risk of gastrointestinal bleeding. although some enteric - coated formulations of aspirin are advertised as being " gentle to the stomach ", in one study, enteric coating did not seem to reduce this risk ; the mayo clinic agree with this, and report that coated aspirin may also not be as effective at reducing blood clot risk. although enteric coated aspirin is said to be not as effective as plain aspirin in reducing blood clot risk, however, with the current available results from clinical studies, there is still insufficient data to support this statement. larger studies are required to provide more accurate results and conclusions. combining aspirin with other nsaids has been shown to further increase the risk of gastrointestinal bleeding. using aspirin in combination with clopidogrel or warfarin also increases the risk of upper gastrointestinal bleeding. blockade of cox - 1 by aspirin apparently results in the upregulation of cox - 2 as part of a gastric defense. several trials suggest that the simultaneous use of a cox - 2 inhibitor with aspirin may increase the risk of gastrointestinal injury. however, currently available evidence has been unable to prove that this effect is consistently repeatable in everyday clinical practice. more dedicated research is required to provide greater clarity on the subject. therefore, caution should be exercised if combining aspirin with any " natural " supplements with cox - 2 - inhibiting properties, such as garlic extracts, curcumin, bilberry, pine bark, ginkgo, fish oil, resveratrol, genistein, quercetin, resorcinol, and others. " buffering " is an additional method that is used with the intention of mitigating gastrointestinal bleeding. buffering agents are intended to work by preventing the aspirin from concentrating in the walls of the stomach, although the benefits of buffered