of the s - 300 ' s. russian specialist started to train armenian teams on sophisticated missiles and defensive systems. the s - 300 was paraded for the first time in the 2011 parade and the only s - 300 missile system ( sa10 grumble ) which likes mobility. the s - 300 is the main air defensive system that protects armenia ' s air security. in the 2016 armenian parade celebrating the armenian independence buk - m2 air defense systems were shown. these systems were not part of the 200 million dollar contract agreement between yerevan and moscow but an agreement between csto partners. other devices such as stem of electronic warfare ( ew ) " infauna " and p - 325u consist in the armenian armed forces. military of artsakh in addition to forces mentioned above, there are around 20, 000 active soldiers defending nagorno - karabakh, a disputed territory which seceded from azerbaijan in 1991 and is now a de facto independent state. they are well trained and well equipped with the latest in military software and hardware. the karabakh army ' s heavy military hardware includes : 316 tanks, 324 armored vehicles, 322 artillery pieces of calibers over 122 mm, 44 multiple rocket launchers, and a new anti - aircraft defense system. in addition, the nkr defence army maintains a small air - force of 2 su - 25s, 5 mi - 24s and 5 other helicopters. personnel the armed forces of armenia is constitutionally a conscript force, but there is also a growing number of professional officers. there were roughly 19, 000 conscripts and 23, 000 professionals serving in 2017. enlistment, which is performed twice a year, is handled by military commissariats. male draftees between the ages of 18 and 27 are obliged to present themselves in the commissariats for registration. people who have changed their citizenship or have dual citizenship are also subject to conscription, unless they have already served in the armed forces of another country. since 2003, conscientious objectors can apply for alternative service. draft evaders can not be appointed to public service positions. citizens who have completed military service are registered in the reserve and are divided into rank and file, non - commissioned and commissioned staff of the reserve. reservists can be called up to training musters and exercises in peacetime. reserve obligation lasts up to the age of 50. educational institutions national defense research university vazgen sargsyan military university monte melkonian military academy armenak khanperyants military aviation university