. an enumerative bibliography of south asian language dictionaries. peiros, ilia. 1998. comparative linguistics in southeast asia. pacific linguistics series c, no. 142. canberra : australian national university. shorto, harry l. edited by sidwell, paul, cooper, doug and bauer, christian ( 2006 ). a mon – khmer comparative dictionary. canberra : australian national university. pacific linguistics. shorto, h. l. bibliographies of mon – khmer and tai linguistics. london oriental bibliographies, v. 2. london : oxford university press, 1963. van driem, george. ( 2007 ). austroasiatic phylogeny and the austroasiatic homeland in light of recent population genetic studies. mon - khmer studies, 37, 1 – 14. zide, norman h., and milton e. barker. ( 1966 ) studies in comparative austroasiatic linguistics, the hague : mouton ( indo - iranian monographs, v. 5. ). further reading mann, noel, wendy smith and eva ujlakyova. 2009. linguistic clusters of mainland southeast asia : an overview of the language families. chiang mai : payap university. sidwell, paul. 2016. bibliography of austroasiatic linguistics and related resources. e. k. brown ( ed. ) encyclopedia of languages and linguistics. oxford : elsevier press. gregory d. s. anderson and norman h. zide. 2002. issues in proto - munda and proto - austroasiatic nominal derivation : the bimoraic constraint. in marlys a. macken ( ed. ) papers from the 10th annual meeting of the southeast asian linguistics society. tempe, az : arizona state university, south east asian studies program, monograph series press. pp. 55 – 74. external links swadesh lists for austro - asiatic languages ( from wiktionary ' s swadesh - list appendix ) austro - asiatic at the linguist list multitree project ( not functional as of 2014 ) : genealogical trees attributed to sebeok 1942, pinnow 1959, diffloth 2005, and matisoff 2006 mon – khmer. com lectures by paul sidwell mon – khmer languages project at sealang munda languages project at sealang rwaai ( repository and workspace for austroasiatic intangible heritage ) rwaai digital archive michel ferlus ' s recordings of mon - khmer ( austroasiatic ) languages ( cnrs ) language families