##eld. this made the water flow of the amstel more active, so excess water could be drained better. with drier banks, the downstream amstel mouth became attractive for permanent habitation. moreover, the river had grown from an insignificant peat stream into a junction of international waterways. a settlement was built here immediately after the landscape change of 1170. right from the start of its foundation it focused on traffic, production and trade ; not on farming, as opposed to how communities had lived further upstream for the past 200 years and northward for thousands of years. the construction of a dam at the mouth of the amstel, eponymously named dam, is historically estimated to have occurred between 1264 and 1275. the settlement first appeared in a document from 1275, concerning a road toll granted by the count of holland floris v to the residents apud amestelledamme ' at the dam in the amstel ' or ' at the dam of amstelland '. this allowed the inhabitants of the village to travel freely through the county of holland, paying no tolls at bridges, locks and dams. this was a move in a years - long struggle for power in the area between the count of holland and the amstel family who governed the area on behalf of the bishop of utrecht. by 1327, the name had developed into aemsterdam. middle ages the bishop of utrecht granted amsterdam zone rights in either 1300 or 1306. het mirakel van amsterdam in 1345, rendered the city an important place of pilgrimage. during the heydays of the stille omgang, which became the expression of the pilgrimage after the protestant reformation, up to 90, 000 pilgrims came to amsterdam. from the 14th century on, amsterdam flourished, largely from trade with the hanseatic league. from the 15th century on the city established an independent trade route with the baltic sea in grain and timber, cutting out the hanseatic league as middlemen. the city became the staple market of europe for bulk cargo. this was made possible due to innovations in the herring fishery, from which amsterdam reaped great wealth. herring had demand in markets all around europe. inventions of on - board gibbing and the haringbuis in 1415, made longer voyages feasible, and hence enabled dutch fishermen to follow the herring shoals far from the coasts, giving them a monopoly in the industry. the herring industry relied on international trade cooperation and large initial investments in ships, which needed many highly skilled and unskilled workers