article vi that it contains all things necessary to salvation in an explicit sense. worship in churches influenced by these principles tends to be significantly less elaborate, with greater emphasis on the liturgy of the word ( the reading of the scriptures, the sermon, and the intercessory prayers ). the order for holy communion may be celebrated bi - weekly or monthly ( in preference to the daily offices ), by priests attired in choir habit, or more regular clothes, rather than eucharistic vestments. ceremony may be in keeping with their view of the provisions of the 17th - century puritans – being a reformed interpretation of the ornaments rubric – no candles, no incense, no bells, and a minimum of manual actions by the presiding celebrant ( such as touching the elements at the words of institution ). in recent decades, there has been a growth of charismatic worship among anglicans. both anglo - catholics and evangelicals have been affected by this movement such that it is not uncommon to find typically charismatic postures, music, and other themes evident during the services of otherwise anglo - catholic or evangelical parishes. the spectrum of anglican beliefs and practice is too large to be fit into these labels. many anglicans locate themselves somewhere in the spectrum of the broad - church tradition and consider themselves an amalgam of evangelical and catholic. such anglicans stress that anglicanism is the via media ( middle way ) between the two major strains of western christianity and that anglicanism is like a " bridge " between the two strains. sacramental doctrine and practice in accord with its prevailing self - identity as a via media or " middle path " of western christianity, anglican sacramental theology expresses elements in keeping with its status as being both a church in the catholic tradition as well as a reformed church. with respect to sacramental theology, the catholic heritage is perhaps most strongly asserted in the importance anglicanism places on the sacraments as a means of grace, sanctification, and salvation, as expressed in the church ' s liturgy and doctrine. of the seven sacraments, all anglicans recognise baptism and the eucharist as being directly instituted by christ. the other five – confession / absolution, matrimony, confirmation, holy orders ( also called ordination ), and anointing of the sick ( also called unction ) – are regarded variously as full sacraments by anglo - catholics and many high church and some broad - church anglicans, but merely as " sacramental rites " by other broad - church and low - church anglican