is run! if you explicitly set argc to 1 so that there are no arguments, awk will simply quit because it feels there are no more input files. therefore, you need to explicitly say to read from standard input with the special filename -. self - contained awk scripts on unix - like operating systems self - contained awk scripts can be constructed using the shebang syntax. for example, a script that prints the content of a given file may be built by creating a file named print. awk with the following content : #! / usr / bin / awk - f { print $ 0 } it can be invoked with :. / print. awk < filename > the - f tells awk that the argument that follows is the file to read the awk program from, which is the same flag that is used in sed. since they are often used for one - liners, both these programs default to executing a program given as a command - line argument, rather than a separate file. versions and implementations awk was originally written in 1977 and distributed with version 7 unix. in 1985 its authors started expanding the language, most significantly by adding user - defined functions. the language is described in the book the awk programming language, published 1988, and its implementation was made available in releases of unix system v. to avoid confusion with the incompatible older version, this version was sometimes called " new awk " or nawk. this implementation was released under a free software license in 1996 and is still maintained by brian kernighan ( see external links below ). old versions of unix, such as unix / 32v, included awkcc, which converted awk to c. kernighan wrote a program to turn awk into c + + ; its state is not known. bwk awk, also known as nawk, refers to the version by brian kernighan. it has been dubbed the " one true awk " because of the use of the term in association with the book that originally described the language and the fact that kernighan was one of the original authors of awk. freebsd refers to this version as one - true - awk. this version also has features not in the book, such as tolower and environ that are explained above ; see the fixes file in the source archive for details. this version is used by, for example, android, freebsd, netbsd, openbsd, macos, and