from gelling agents in food, to medical dressings. alginic acid also has been used in the field of biotechnology as a biocompatible medium for cell encapsulation and cell immobilization. molecular cuisine is also a user of the substance for its gelling properties, by which it becomes a delivery vehicle for flavours. between 100, 000 and 170, 000 wet tons of macrocystis are harvested annually in new mexico for alginate extraction and abalone feed. energy source to be competitive and independent from fluctuating support from ( local ) policy on the long run, biofuels should equal or beat the cost level of fossil fuels. here, algae - based fuels hold great promise, directly related to the potential to produce more biomass per unit area in a year than any other form of biomass. the break - even point for algae - based biofuels is estimated to occur by 2025. fertilizer for centuries, seaweed has been used as a fertilizer ; george owen of henllys writing in the 16th century referring to drift weed in south wales : today, algae are used by humans in many ways ; for example, as fertilizers, soil conditioners, and livestock feed. aquatic and microscopic species are cultured in clear tanks or ponds and are either harvested or used to treat effluents pumped through the ponds. algaculture on a large scale is an important type of aquaculture in some places. maerl is commonly used as a soil conditioner. nutrition naturally growing seaweeds are an important source of food, especially in asia, leading some to label them as superfoods. they provide many vitamins including : a, b1, b2, b6, niacin, and c, and are rich in iodine, potassium, iron, magnesium, and calcium. in addition, commercially cultivated microalgae, including both algae and cyanobacteria, are marketed as nutritional supplements, such as spirulina, chlorella and the vitamin - c supplement from dunaliella, high in beta - carotene. algae are national foods of many nations : china consumes more than 70 species, including fat choy, a cyanobacterium considered a vegetable ; japan, over 20 species such as nori and aonori ; ireland, dulse ; chile, cochayuyo. laver is used to make laverbread in wales, where it is known as. in korea,