county, utah, had taken place as early as 1927 and the fossil site itself described by william l. stokes in 1945, major operations did not begin there until 1960. under a cooperative effort involving nearly 40 institutions, thousands of bones were recovered between 1960 and 1965, led by james henry madsen. the quarry is notable for the predominance of allosaurus remains, the condition of the specimens, and the lack of scientific resolution on how it came to be. the majority of bones belong to the large theropod allosaurus fragilis ( it is estimated that the remains of at least 46 a. fragilis have been found there, out of at a minimum 73 dinosaurs ) and the fossils found there are disarticulated and well - mixed. nearly a dozen scientific papers have been written on the taphonomy of the site, suggesting numerous mutually exclusive explanations for how it may have formed. suggestions have ranged from animals getting stuck in a bog, becoming trapped in deep mud, falling victim to drought - induced mortality around a waterhole, and getting trapped in a spring - fed pond or seep. regardless of the actual cause, the great quantity of well - preserved allosaurus remains has allowed this genus to be known in great detail, making it among the best - known of all theropods. skeletal remains from the quarry pertain to individuals of almost all ages and sizes, from less than to long, and the disarticulation is an advantage for describing bones usually found fused. due to being one of utah ' s two fossil quarries where numerous allosaurus specimens have been discovered, allosaurus was designated as the state fossil of utah in 1988. recent work : 1980s – present the period since madsen ' s monograph has been marked by a great expansion in studies dealing with topics concerning allosaurus in life ( paleobiological and paleoecological topics ). such studies have covered topics including skeletal variation, growth, skull construction, hunting methods, the brain, and the possibility of gregarious living and parental care. reanalysis of old material ( particularly of large ' allosaur ' specimens ), new discoveries in portugal, and several very complete new specimens have also contributed to the growing knowledge base. " big al " and " big al ii " in 1991, " big al " ( mor 693 ), a 95 % complete, partially articulated specimen of allosaurus was discovered, measuring about 8 meters ( about 26 ft ) long. mor 693 was excavated near shell, wyoming, by a joint museum of