short english words or abbreviations of longer english words, e. g. o - n from english ' on ', and a - p - t from english ' apartment '. fingerspelling may also be used to emphasize a word that would normally be signed otherwise. syntax asl is a subject – verb – object ( svo ) language, but various phenomena affect that basic word order. basic svo sentences are signed without any pauses : however, other word orders may also occur since asl allows the topic of a sentence to be moved to sentence - initial position, a phenomenon known as topicalization. in object – subject – verb ( osv ) sentences, the object is topicalized, marked by a forward head - tilt and a pause : besides, word orders can be obtained through the phenomenon of subject copy in which the subject is repeated at the end of the sentence, accompanied by head nodding for clarification or emphasis : asl also allows null subject sentences whose subject is implied, rather than stated explicitly. subjects can be copied even in a null subject sentence, and the subject is then omitted from its original position, yielding a verb – object – subject ( vos ) construction : topicalization, accompanied with a null subject and a subject copy, can produce yet another word order, object – verb – subject ( ovs ). those properties of asl allow it a variety of word orders, leading many to question which is the true, underlying, " basic " order. there are several other proposals that attempt to account for the flexibility of word order in asl. one proposal is that languages like asl are best described with a topic – comment structure whose words are ordered by their importance in the sentence, rather than by their syntactic properties. another hypothesis is that asl exhibits free word order, in which syntax is not encoded in word order but can be encoded by other means such as head nods, eyebrow movement, and body position. iconicity common misconceptions are that signs are iconically self - explanatory, that they are a transparent imitation of what they mean, or even that they are pantomime. in fact, many signs bear no resemblance to their referent because they were originally arbitrary symbols, or their iconicity has been obscured over time. even so, in asl iconicity plays a significant role ; a high percentage of signs resemble their referents in some way. that may be because the medium of sign, three - dimensional space, naturally allows more iconicity than oral language.