the alkali metals form diatomic molecules ( such as dilithium, li2 ) only at high temperatures, when they are in the gaseous state. hydrogen, like the alkali metals, has one valence electron and reacts easily with the halogens, but the similarities mostly end there because of the small size of a bare proton h + compared to the alkali metal cations. its placement above lithium is primarily due to its electron configuration. it is sometimes placed above fluorine due to their similar chemical properties, though the resemblance is likewise not absolute. the first ionisation energy of hydrogen ( 1312. 0 kj / mol ) is much higher than that of the alkali metals. as only one additional electron is required to fill in the outermost shell of the hydrogen atom, hydrogen often behaves like a halogen, forming the negative hydride ion, and is very occasionally considered to be a halogen on that basis. ( the alkali metals can also form negative ions, known as alkalides, but these are little more than laboratory curiosities, being unstable. ) an argument against this placement is that formation of hydride from hydrogen is endothermic, unlike the exothermic formation of halides from halogens. the radius of the h− anion also does not fit the trend of increasing size going down the halogens : indeed, h− is very diffuse because its single proton cannot easily control both electrons. it was expected for some time that liquid hydrogen would show metallic properties ; while this has been shown to not be the case, under extremely high pressures, such as those found at the cores of jupiter and saturn, hydrogen does become metallic and behaves like an alkali metal ; in this phase, it is known as metallic hydrogen. the electrical resistivity of liquid metallic hydrogen at 3000 k is approximately equal to that of liquid rubidium and caesium at 2000 k at the respective pressures when they undergo a nonmetal - to - metal transition. the 1s1 electron configuration of hydrogen, while analogous to that of the alkali metals ( ns1 ), is unique because there is no 1p subshell. hence it can lose an electron to form the hydron h +, or gain one to form the hydride ion h−. in the former case it resembles superficially the alkali metals ; in the latter case, the halogens, but the differences due to the lack of a 1p subshell are important enough that