thus, a person who used the service for 12 minutes and 46 seconds would be charged for 14 minutes ). aol claimed this was to account for sign on / sign off time, but because this practice was not made known to its customers, the plaintiffs won ( some also pointed out that signing on and off did not always take 15 seconds, especially when connecting via another isp ). aol disclosed its connection - time calculation methods to all of its customers and credited them with extra free hours. in addition, the aol software would notify the user of exactly how long they were connected and how many minutes they were being charged. aol was sued by the ohio attorney general in october 2003 for improper billing practices. the case was settled on june 8, 2005. aol agreed to resolve any consumer complaints filed with the ohio ag ' s office. in december 2006, aol agreed to provide restitution to florida consumers to settle the case filed against them by the florida attorney general. account cancellation many customers complained that aol personnel ignored their demands to cancel service and stop billing. in response to approximately 300 consumer complaints, the new york attorney general ' s office began an inquiry of aol ' s customer service policies. the investigation revealed that the company had an elaborate scheme for rewarding employees who purported to retain or " save " subscribers who had called to cancel their internet service. in many instances, such retention was done against subscribers ' wishes, or without their consent. under the scheme, customer service personnel received bonuses worth tens of thousands of dollars if they could successfully dissuade or " save " half of the people who called to cancel service. for several years, aol had instituted minimum retention or " save " percentages, which consumer representatives were expected to meet. these bonuses, and the minimum " save " rates accompanying them, had the effect of employees not honoring cancellations, or otherwise making cancellation unduly difficult for consumers. on august 24, 2005, america online agreed to pay $ 1. 25 million to the state of new york and reformed its customer service procedures. under the agreement, aol would no longer require its customer service representatives to meet a minimum quota for customer retention in order to receive a bonus. however the agreement only covered people in the state of new york. on june 13, 2006, vincent ferrari documented his account cancellation phone call in a blog post, stating he had switched to broadband years earlier. in the recorded phone call, the aol representative refused to cancel the account unless the 30 - year