effect of changing languages is bounded ( a result called the invariance theorem ). invariance theorem informal treatment there are some description languages which are optimal, in the following sense : given any description of an object in a description language, said description may be used in the optimal description language with a constant overhead. the constant depends only on the languages involved, not on the description of the object, nor the object being described. here is an example of an optimal description language. a description will have two parts : the first part describes another description language. the second part is a description of the object in that language. in more technical terms, the first part of a description is a computer program ( specifically : a compiler for the object ' s language, written in the description language ), with the second part being the input to that computer program which produces the object as output. the invariance theorem follows : given any description language l, the optimal description language is at least as efficient as l, with some constant overhead. proof : any description d in l can be converted into a description in the optimal language by first describing l as a computer program p ( part 1 ), and then using the original description d as input to that program ( part 2 ). the total length of this new description d ′ is ( approximately ) : | d ′ | = | p | + | d | the length of p is a constant that doesn ' t depend on d. so, there is at most a constant overhead, regardless of the object described. therefore, the optimal language is universal up to this additive constant. a more formal treatment theorem : if k1 and k2 are the complexity functions relative to turing complete description languages l1 and l2, then there is a constant c – which depends only on the languages l1 and l2 chosen – such that. −c ≤ k1 ( s ) − k2 ( s ) ≤ c. proof : by symmetry, it suffices to prove that there is some constant c such that for all strings s k1 ( s ) ≤ k2 ( s ) + c. now, suppose there is a program in the language l1 which acts as an interpreter for l2 : function interpretlanguage ( string p ) where p is a program in l2. the interpreter is characterized by the following property : running interpretlanguage on input p returns the result of running p. thus, if p is a program in l2 which is a minimal description of s, then