in the southern albanian cities and surroundings of korce, berat, voskopoje and gjirokaster. involving the introduction of ottoman architecture there was a development of mosques and other islamic buildings, particularly seen in berat and gjirokaster. a productive period of historicism, art nouveau and neoclassicism merged into the 19th century, best exemplified in korce. the 20th century brought new architectural styles such as the modern italian style, which is present in tirana such as the skanderbeg square and ministries. it is also present in shkoder, vlore, sarande and durres. moreover, other towns received their present - day albania - unique appearance through various cultural or economic influences. socialist classicism arrived during the communist era in albania after the second world war. at this period many socialist - styled complexes, wide roads and factories were constructed, while town squares were redesigned and numerous of historic and important buildings demolished. notable examples of that style include the mother teresa square, pyramid of tirana, palace of congresses and so on. three albanian archaeological sites are included in the list of unesco world heritage sites. these include the ancient remains of butrint, the medieval historic centres of berat and gjirokaster, and natural and cultural heritage of the ohrid region site shared with north macedonia since 2019. furthermore, the royal illyrian tombs, the remains of apollonia, the ancient amphitheatre of durres and the fortress of bashtove has been included on the tentative list of albania. cuisine throughout the centuries, albanian cuisine has been widely influenced by albanian culture, geography and history, and as such, different parts of the country enjoy specific regional cuisines. cooking traditions especially vary between the north and the south, owing to differing topography and climate that essentially contribute to the excellent growth conditions for a wide array of herbs, fruits, and vegetables. albanians produce and use many varieties of fruits such as lemons, oranges, figs, and most notably, olives, which are perhaps the most important element of albanian cooking. spices and other herbs such as basil, lavender, mint, oregano, rosemary, and thyme are widely used, as are vegetables such as garlic, onions, peppers, potatoes, tomatoes, as well as legumes of all types. with a coastline along the adriatic and ionian in the mediterranean sea, fish, crustaceans, and seafood are a popular and an integral part of the albanian diet. otherwise, lamb is the traditional meat for