with pagan roots such as the lighting of fires on walpurgis night and saint john ' s eve. many areas celebrate fastnacht in the weeks before lent. folk costume also continues to be worn for most weddings and festivals. tourism the alps are one of the more popular tourist destinations in the world with many resorts such as oberstdorf, in bavaria, saalbach in austria, davos in switzerland, chamonix in france, and cortina d ' ampezzo in italy recording more than a million annual visitors. with over 120 million visitors a year, tourism is integral to the alpine economy with much of it coming from winter sports, although summer visitors are also an important component. the tourism industry began in the early 19th century when foreigners visited the alps, travelled to the bases of the mountains to enjoy the scenery, and stayed at the spa - resorts. large hotels were built during the belle epoque ; cog - railways, built early in the 20th century, brought tourists to ever - higher elevations, with the jungfraubahn terminating at the jungfraujoch, well above the eternal snow - line, after going through a tunnel in eiger. during this period winter sports were slowly introduced : in 1882 the first figure skating championship was held in st. moritz, and downhill skiing became a popular sport with english visitors early in the 20th century, as the first ski - lift was installed in 1908 above grindelwald. in the first half of the 20th century the olympic winter games were held three times in alpine venues : the 1924 winter olympics in chamonix, france ; the 1928 winter olympics in st. moritz, switzerland ; and the 1936 winter olympics in garmisch - partenkirchen, germany. during world war ii the winter games were cancelled but after that time the winter games have been held in st. moritz ( 1948 ), cortina d ' ampezzo ( 1956 ), innsbruck, austria ( 1964 and 1976 ), grenoble, france, ( 1968 ), albertville, france, ( 1992 ), and torino ( 2006 ). in 1930, the lauberhorn rennen ( lauberhorn race ), was run for the first time on the lauberhorn above wengen ; the equally demanding hahnenkamm was first run in the same year in kitzbuhl, austria. both races continue to be held each january on successive weekends. the lauberhorn is the more strenuous downhill race at and poses danger to racers who reach within seconds of