external fringes by considering the intersections between direct waves and waves reflected off the nearer edge. for the external fringes, to obtain tolerable agreement with observation, he had to suppose that the reflected wave was inverted ; and he noted that the predicted paths of the fringes were hyperbolic. in the part of the memoir that most clearly surpassed young, fresnel explained the ordinary laws of reflection and refraction in terms of interference, noting that if two parallel rays were reflected or refracted at other than the prescribed angle, they would no longer have the same phase in a common perpendicular plane, and every vibration would be cancelled by a nearby vibration. he noted that his explanation was valid provided that the surface irregularities were much smaller than the wavelength. on 10 november, fresnel sent a supplementary note dealing with newton ' s rings and with gratings, including, for the first time, transmission gratings — although in that case the interfering rays were still assumed to be " inflected ", and the experimental verification was inadequate because it used only two threads. as fresnel was not a member of the institute, the fate of his memoir depended heavily on the report of a single member. the reporter for fresnel ' s memoir turned out to be arago ( with poinsot as the other reviewer ). on 8 november, arago wrote to fresnel : fresnel was troubled, wanting to know more precisely where he had collided with young. concerning the curved paths of the " colored bands ", young had noted the hyperbolic paths of the fringes in the two - source interference pattern, corresponding roughly to fresnel ' s internal fringes, and had described the hyperbolic fringes that appear on the screen within rectangular shadows. he had not mentioned the curved paths of the external fringes of a shadow ; but, as he later explained, that was because newton had already done so. newton evidently thought the fringes were caustics. thus arago erred in his belief that the curved paths of the fringes were fundamentally incompatible with the corpuscular theory. arago ' s letter went on to request more data on the external fringes. fresnel complied, until he exhausted his leave and was assigned to rennes in the departement of ille - et - vilaine. at this point arago interceded with gaspard de prony, head of the ecole des ponts, who wrote to louis - mathieu mole, head of the corps des ponts