aachen (, ; ; french and traditional english : aix - la - chapelle ) is the 13th - largest city in north rhine - westphalia and the 27th - largest city of germany, with around 249, 000 inhabitants. it is the westernmost city in germany, and borders belgium and the netherlands to the west, the triborder area. it is located between maastricht ( nl ) and liege ( be ) in the west, and bonn and cologne in the east. the wurm river flows through the city, and together with monchengladbach, aachen is the only larger german city in the drainage basin of the meuse. aachen is the seat of the city region aachen ( ). aachen developed from a roman settlement and ( bath complex ), subsequently becoming the preferred medieval imperial residence of emperor charlemagne of the frankish empire, and, from 936 to 1531, the place where 31 holy roman emperors were crowned kings of the germans. one of germany ' s leading institutes of higher education in technology, the rwth aachen university ( ), is located in the city. its university hospital uniklinikum aachen is europe ' s largest single - building hospital. aachen ' s industries include science, engineering and information technology. in 2009, aachen was ranked eighth among cities in germany for innovation. the regional dialect spoken in the city is a central franconian, ripuarian variant with strong limburgish influences from the dialects in the neighbouring netherlands. as a rhenish city, aachen is one of the main centres of carnival celebrations in germany, along with cologne and mainz. the culinary specialty for which the city is best known is aachener printen, a type of gingerbread. history early history flint quarries on the lousberg, schneeberg, and konigshugel, first used during neolithic times ( 3000 – 2500 bc ), attest to the long occupation of the site of aachen, as do recent finds under the modern city ' s elisengarten pointing to a former settlement from the same period. bronze age ( around 1600 bc ) settlement is evidenced by the remains of barrows ( burial mounds ) found, for example, on the klausberg. during the iron age, the area was settled by celtic peoples who were perhaps drawn by the marshy aachen basin ' s hot sulphur springs where they worshipped grannus, god of light and healing. later, the 25 - hectare roman spa resort town of aquae granni was, according to legend, founded by grenus, under