by the country during his long reign and the support he gave to the portuguese navy. afonso granted public funding to raise a proper commercial fleet and ordered the first portuguese maritime explorations. the conflict with pedro, and the explorations he initiated, eventually became the foundation of the portuguese national epic, os lusiadas by luis de camoes. the dramatic circumstances of the relationship between father, son and ines was used as the basis for the plot of more than twenty operas and ballets. the story with its tragic denouement is immortalized in several plays and poems in portuguese, such as os lusiadas by luis de camoes ( canto iii, stanzas 118 – 135 ), and in spanish, including nise lastimosa and nise laureada ( 1577 ) by jeronimo bermudez, reinar despues de morir by luis velez de guevara, as well as a play by french playwright henry de montherlant called la reine morte ( the dead queen ). mary russell mitford also wrote a drama based on the story entitled inez de castro. ines de castro is a novel by maria pilar queralt del hierro in spanish and portuguese. marriage and descendants on 12 september 1309, afonso married beatrice of castile, daughter of sancho iv of castile, and maria de molina, and had four sons and three daughters. afonso broke the tradition of previous kings and did not have any children out of wedlock. maria of portugal, queen of castile ( 131318 january 1357 ), was the wife of alfonso xi of castile, and mother of the future king peter of castile. due to the affair of her husband with his mistress eleanor de guzman " it was an unfortunate union from the start, contributing to dampening the relations of both kingdoms " ; afonso ( 1315 – 1317 ), died in his infancy. buried at the disappeared convento das donas of the dominican order in santarem ; denis ( born 12 february 1317 ), died a few months after his birth, and was buried in alcobaca monastery ; peter i of portugal ( 8 april 132018 january 1367 ), the first surviving male offspring, he succeeded his father. when his wife constanza died in 1345, beatrice took care of the education of the two orphans, the infantes maria and ferdinand i of portugal, who later became king ; isabel ( 21 december 132411