niles, an admirer of hospital sketches. alcott asked niles if he would publish a book of short stories by his daughter ; instead, he suggested she write a book about girls. louisa may was not interested initially but agreed to try. " they want a book of 200 pages or more ", alcott told his daughter. the result was little women, published later that year. the book, which fictionalized the alcott family during the girls ' coming - of - age years, recast the father figure as a chaplain, away from home at the front in the civil war. alcott spoke, as opportunity arose, before the " lyceums " then common in various parts of the united states, or addressed groups of hearers as they invited him. these " conversations " as he called them, were more or less informal talks on a great range of topics, spiritual, aesthetic and practical, in which he emphasized the ideas of the school of american transcendentalists led by emerson, who was always his supporter and discreet admirer. he often discussed platonic philosophy, the illumination of the mind and soul by direct communion with spirit ; upon the spiritual and poetic monitions of external nature ; and upon the benefit to man of a serene mood and a simple way of life. final years alcott ' s published books, all from late in his life, include tablets ( 1868 ), concord days ( 1872 ), new connecticut ( 1881 ), and sonnets and canzonets ( 1882 ). louisa may attended to her father ' s needs in his final years. she purchased a house for her sister anna which had been the last home of henry david thoreau, now known as the thoreau - alcott house. louisa and her parents moved in with anna as well. after the death of his wife abby may on november 25, 1877, alcott never returned to orchard house, too heartbroken to live there. he and louisa may collaborated on a memoir and went over her papers, letters, and journals. " my heart bleeds with the memories of those days ", he wrote, " and even long years, of cheerless anxiety and hopeless dependence. " louisa noted her father had become " restless with his anchor gone ". they gave up on the memoir project and louisa burned many of her mother ' s papers. on january 19, 1879, alcott and franklin benjamin sanborn wrote a prospectus for a new school which they distributed to potentially interested people throughout the country. the result was the concord school