. " in a similar token, a. s. neill founded what became the summerhill school in 1921, also declaring being free from coercion. anarchist education is based largely on the idea that a child ' s right to develop freely and without manipulation ought to be respected and that rationality would lead children to morally good conclusions ; however, there has been little consensus among anarchist figures as to what constitutes manipulation. ferrer believed that moral indoctrination was necessary and explicitly taught pupils that equality, liberty and social justice were not possible under capitalism, along with other critiques of government and nationalism. late 20th century and contemporary anarchist writers ( paul goodman, herbert read, and colin ward ) intensified and expanded the anarchist critique of state education, largely focusing on the need for a system that focuses on children ' s creativity rather than on their ability to attain a career or participate in consumerism as part of a consumer society. contemporary anarchists such as ward claim that state education serves to perpetuate socioeconomic inequality. while few anarchist education institutions have survived to the modern - day, major tenets of anarchist schools, among them respect for child autonomy and relying on reasoning rather than indoctrination as a teaching method, have spread among mainstream educational institutions. judith suissa names three schools as explicitly anarchists ' schools, namely the free skool santa cruz in the united states which is part of a wider american - canadian network of schools, the self - managed learning college in brighton, england, and the paideia school in spain. the arts the connection between anarchism and art was quite profound during the classical era of anarchism, especially among artistic currents that were developing during that era such as futurists, surrealists and others. in literature, anarchism was mostly associated with the new apocalyptics and the neo - romanticism movement. in music, anarchism has been associated with music scenes such as punk. anarchists such as leo tolstoy and herbert read stated that the border between the artist and the non - artist, what separates art from a daily act, is a construct produced by the alienation caused by capitalism and it prevents humans from living a joyful life. other anarchists advocated for or used art as a means to achieve anarchist ends. in his book breaking the spell : a history of anarchist filmmakers, videotape guerrillas, and digital ninjas, chris robe claims that " anarchist - inflected practices have increasingly structured movement - based video activism. " throughout the 20th century, many prominent anarchists (