winter left for hyperborea, he would leave the delphic oracle to dionysus. this contrast appears to be shown on the two sides of the borghese vase. apollo is often associated with the golden mean. this is the greek ideal of moderation and a virtue that opposes gluttony. in antiquity, apollo was associated with the planet mercury. the ancient greeks believed that mercury as observed during the morning was a different planet than the one during the evening, because each twilight mercury would appear farther from the sun as it set than it had the night before. the morning planet was called apollo, and the one at evening hermes / mercury before they realised they were the same, thereupon the name ' mercury / hermes ' was kept, and ' apollo ' was dropped. apollo in the arts apollo is a common theme in greek and roman art and also in the art of the renaissance. the earliest greek word for a statue is " delight " (, agalma ), and the sculptors tried to create forms which would inspire such guiding vision. maurice bowra notices that the greek artist puts into a god the highest degree of power and beauty that can be imagined. the sculptors derived this from observations on human beings, but they also embodied in concrete form, issues beyond the reach of ordinary thought. the naked bodies of the statues are associated with the cult of the body which was essentially a religious activity. the muscular frames and limbs combined with slim waists indicate the greek desire for health, and the physical capacity which was necessary in the hard greek environment. the statues of apollo and the other gods present them in their full youth and strength. " in the balance and relation of their limbs, such figures express their whole character, mental and physical, and reveal their central being., the radiant reality of youth in its heyday ". archaic sculpture numerous free - standing statues of male youths from archaic greece exist, and were once thought to be representations of apollo, though later discoveries indicated that many represented mortals. in 1895, v. i. leonardos proposed the term kouros ( " male youth " ) to refer to those from keratea ; this usage was later expanded by henri lechat in 1904 to cover all statues of this format. the earliest examples of life - sized statues of apollo may be two figures from the ionic sanctuary on the island of delos. such statues were found across the greek - speaking world, the preponderance of these were found at the sanctuaries of apollo with more than one hundred