patron and mentor ; the final painting in the series goes even further and shows marie de ' medici with athena ' s iconography, as the mortal incarnation of the goddess herself. the flemish sculptor jean - pierre - antoine tassaert ( jan peter anton tassaert ) later portrayed catherine ii of russia as athena in a marble bust in 1774. during the french revolution, statues of pagan gods were torn down all throughout france, but statues of athena were not. instead, athena was transformed into the personification of freedom and the republic and a statue of the goddess stood in the center of the place de la revolution in paris. in the years following the revolution, artistic representations of athena proliferated. a statue of athena stands directly in front of the austrian parliament building in vienna, and depictions of athena have influenced other symbols of western freedom, including the statue of liberty and britannia. for over a century, a full - scale replica of the parthenon has stood in nashville, tennessee. in 1990, the curators added a gilded forty - two - foot ( 12. 5 m ) tall replica of phidias ' s athena parthenos, built from concrete and fiberglass. the great seal of california bears the image of athena kneeling next to a brown grizzly bear. athena has occasionally appeared on modern coins, as she did on the ancient athenian drachma. her head appears on the $ 50 1915 - s panama - pacific commemorative coin. modern interpretations one of sigmund freud ' s most treasured possessions was a small, bronze sculpture of athena, which sat on his desk. freud once described athena as " a woman who is unapproachable and repels all sexual desires - since she displays the terrifying genitals of the mother. " feminist views on athena are sharply divided ; some feminists regard her as a symbol of female empowerment, while others regard her as " the ultimate patriarchal sell out... who uses her powers to promote and advance men rather than others of her sex. " in contemporary wicca, athena is venerated as an aspect of the goddess and some wiccans believe that she may bestow the " owl gift " ( " the ability to write and communicate clearly " ) upon her worshippers. due to her status as one of the twelve olympians, athena is a major deity in hellenismos, a neopagan religion which seeks to authentically revive and recreate the religion of ancient greece in the modern world. athena is a natural patron of universities : at