and jonathan aitken, a newton biographer, estimates that the song is performed about 10 million times annually. it has had particular influence in folk music, and has become an emblematic black spiritual. its universal message has been a significant factor in its crossover into secular music. " amazing grace " became newly popular during the 1960s revival of american folk music, and it has been recorded thousands of times during and since the 20th century. john newton ' s conversion according to the dictionary of american hymnology, " amazing grace " is john newton ' s spiritual autobiography in verse. in 1725, newton was born in wapping, a district in london near the thames. his father was a shipping merchant who was brought up as a catholic but had protestant sympathies, and his mother was a devout independent, unaffiliated with the anglican church. she had intended newton to become a clergyman, but she died of tuberculosis when he was six years old. for the next few years, while his father was at sea newton was raised by his emotionally distant stepmother. he was also sent to boarding school, where he was mistreated. at the age of eleven, he joined his father on a ship as an apprentice ; his seagoing career would be marked by headstrong disobedience. as a youth, newton began a pattern of coming very close to death, examining his relationship with god, then relapsing into bad habits. as a sailor, he denounced his faith after being influenced by a shipmate who discussed with him characteristicks of men, manners, opinions, times, a book by the third earl of shaftesbury. in a series of letters newton later wrote, " like an unwary sailor who quits his port just before a rising storm, i renounced the hopes and comforts of the gospel at the very time when every other comfort was about to fail me. " his disobedience caused him to be pressed into the royal navy, and he took advantage of opportunities to overstay his leave. he deserted the navy to visit mary " polly " catlett, a family friend with whom he had fallen in love. after enduring humiliation for deserting, he was traded as crew to a slave ship. he began a career in slave trading. newton often openly mocked the captain by creating obscene poems and songs about him, which became so popular that the crew began to join in. his disagreements with several colleagues resulted in his being starved almost to death, imprisoned while at sea, and chained like the slaves