alfred habdank skarbek korzybski (, ; july 3, 1879 – march 1, 1950 ) was a polish - american independent scholar who developed a field called general semantics, which he viewed as both distinct from, and more encompassing than, the field of semantics. he argued that human knowledge of the world is limited both by the human nervous system and the languages humans have developed, and thus no one can have direct access to reality, given that the most we can know is that which is filtered through the brain ' s responses to reality. his best known dictum is " the map is not the territory ". early life and career born in warsaw, vistula country, which was then part of the russian empire, korzybski belonged to an aristocratic polish family whose members had worked as mathematicians, scientists, and engineers for generations. he learned the polish language at home and the russian language in schools, and having a french and german governess, he became fluent in four languages as a child. korzybski studied engineering at the warsaw university of technology. during the first world war ( 1914 – 1918 ) korzybski served as an intelligence officer in the russian army. after being wounded in a leg and suffering other injuries, he moved to north america in 1916 ( first to canada, then to the united states ) to coordinate the shipment of artillery to russia. he also lectured to polish - american audiences about the conflict, promoting the sale of war bonds. after the war he decided to remain in the united states, becoming a naturalized citizen in 1940. he met mira edgerly, a painter of portraits on ivory, shortly after the 1918 armistice ; they married in january 1919 ; the marriage lasted until his death. e. p. dutton published korzybski ' s first book, manhood of humanity, in 1921. in this work he proposed and explained in detail a new theory of humankind : mankind as a " time - binding " class of life ( humans perform time binding by the transmission of knowledge and abstractions through time which become accreted in cultures ). in 1925 and 1926, korzybski observed psychiatric patients at st. elizabeth ' s hospital in d. c. under the supervision of william alanson white. general semantics korzybski ' s work culminated in the initiation of a discipline that he named general semantics ( gs ). this should not be confused with semantics. the basic principles of general semantics, which include time - binding, are described in the publication science and sanity