##is is passed like fecal matter. it is speculated that an ambergris mass too large to be passed through the intestines is expelled via the mouth, but this remains under debate. another theory states that an ambergris mass is formed when the colon of a whale is enlarged by a blockage from intestinal worms and cephalopod parts resulting in the death of the whale and the mass being excreted into the sea. ambergris takes years to form. christopher kemp, the author of floating gold : a natural ( and unnatural ) history of ambergris, says that it is only produced by sperm whales, and only by an estimated one percent of them. ambergris is rare ; once expelled by a whale, it often floats for years before making landfall. the slim chances of finding ambergris and the legal ambiguity involved led perfume makers away from ambergris, and led chemists on a quest to find viable alternatives. ambergris is found primarily in the atlantic ocean and on the coasts of south africa ; brazil ; madagascar ; the east indies ; the maldives ; china ; japan ; india ; australia ; new zealand ; and the molucca islands. most commercially collected ambergris comes from the bahamas in the atlantic, particularly new providence. in 2021, fishermen found a 127 kg ( 280 - pound ) piece of ambergris off the coast of yemen, valued at us $ 1. 5 million. fossilised ambergris from 1. 75 million years ago has also been found. physical properties ambergris is found in lumps of various shapes and sizes, usually weighing from to or more. when initially expelled by or removed from the whale, the fatty precursor of ambergris is pale white in color ( sometimes streaked with black ), soft, with a strong fecal smell. following months to years of photodegradation and oxidation in the ocean, this precursor gradually hardens, developing a dark grey or black color, a crusty and waxy texture, and a peculiar odor that is at once sweet, earthy, marine, and animalic. its scent has been generally described as a vastly richer and smoother version of isopropanol without its stinging harshness. in this developed condition, ambergris has a specific gravity ranging from 0. 780 to 0. 926 ( meaning it floats in water ). it melts at about to a fatty, yellow resinous liquid ; and at it is volatilised into a white vapor. it is soluble in