vr content to huffpost ' s global audience across desktop, mobile, and apps. in july 2016, verizon communications announced its intent to purchase the core internet business of yahoo!. verizon merged aol with yahoo into a new company called " oath inc. ", which in january 2019 rebranded itself as verizon media. in april 2018, oath inc. sold moviefone to moviepass parent helios and matheson analytics. in november 2020 the huffington post was sold to buzzfeed in a stock deal. 2021 – present : apollo global management on may 3, 2021, verizon announced it would sell 90 percent of its verizon media division to apollo global management for $ 5 billion. the division became the second incarnation of yahoo! inc. products and services content as of september 1, 2021, the following media brands became subsidiary of aol ' s parent yahoo inc. engadget autoblog techcrunch built by girls aol ' s content contributors consists of over 20, 000 bloggers, including politicians, celebrities, academics, and policy experts, who contribute on a wide range of topics making news. in addition to mobile - optimized web experiences, aol produces mobile applications for existing aol properties like autoblog, engadget, the huffington post, techcrunch, and products such as alto, pip, and vivv. advertising aol has a global portfolio of media brands and advertising services across mobile, desktop, and tv. services include brand integration and sponsorships through its in - house branded content arm, partner studio by aol, as well as data and programmatic offerings through ad technology stack, one by aol. aol acquired a number of businesses and technologies help to form one by aol. these acquisitions included adaptv in 2013 and convertro, precision demand, and vidible in 2014. one by aol is further broken down into one by aol for publishers ( formerly vidible, aol on network and be on for publishers ) and one by aol for advertisers, each of which have several sub - platforms. on september 10, 2018, aol ' s parent company oath consolidated brightroll, one by aol and yahoo gemini to ' simplify ' adtech service by launching a single advertising proposition dubbed oath ad platforms, now yahoo! ad tech. membership aol offers a range of integrated products and properties including communication tools, mobile apps and services and subscription packages. in 2017, before