powerful organizations have been subject to crime fiction. the alps acted as a geographical barrier to italy, and the alps for centuries were permeated with established smuggling routes, known as green line. after world war ii, members of the schutzstaffel that feared prosecution as war criminals, known in modern english only as ss, disappeared into a crowd of refugees. massive numbers of refugees entered italy illegally, by navigating the alps. undocumented migrants smugglers of humans claim that crossing the alps, is less dangerous or deadly, than traveling 355 km on water between tripoli and lampedusa with a tramp ship ( carretta del mare ) or a dinghy. undocumented migrants, visa overstayers, false tourists, asylum seekers, and other clandestine humans, lose their lives crossing the alps. the exact number of smuggled humans who die a brutal death in the alps, can only be estimated. largest alpine cities the largest city within the alps is the city of grenoble in france. other larger and important cities within the alps with over 100, 000 inhabitants are in tyrol with bolzano / bozen ( italy ), trento ( italy ) and innsbruck ( austria ). larger cities outside the alps are milan, verona, turin ( italy ), munich ( germany ), graz, vienna, salzburg ( austria ), ljubljana, maribor, kranj ( slovenia ), zurich, geneva ( switzerland ), nice and lyon ( france ). cities with over 100, 000 inhabitants in the alps are : alpine people and culture the population of the region is 14 million spread across eight countries. on the rim of the mountains, on the plateaus, and on the plains the economy consists of manufacturing and service jobs whereas in the higher altitudes and the mountains farming is still essential to the economy. farming and forestry continue to be mainstays of alpine culture, industries that provide for export to the cities and maintain the mountain ecology. the alpine regions are multicultural and linguistically diverse. dialects are common and vary from valley to valley and region to region. in the slavic alps alone 19 dialects have been identified. some of the romance dialects spoken in the french, swiss and italian alps of aosta valley derive from arpitan, while the southern part of the western range is related to occitan ; the german dialects derive from germanic tribal languages. romansh, spoken by two percent of the population in southeast switzerland, is an ancient rhaeto - romanic language derived from latin, remnants of ancient celtic languages