on the elections in 2008 lists up all irregularities surrounding the parliamentary elections of 2008. political parties and elections judicial branch supreme court ( or " tribunal da relacao " ) judges of the supreme court are appointed by the president. the constitutional court, with the power of judicial review, contains 11 justices. four are appointed by the president, four by the national assembly, two by the superior council of the judiciary, and one elected by the public. administrative divisions angola has eighteen provinces : bengo, benguela, bie, cabinda, cuando cubango, cuanza norte, cuanza sul, cunene, huambo, huila, luanda, lunda norte, lunda sul, malanje, moxico, namibe, uige, zaire political pressure groups and leaders front for the liberation of the enclave of cabinda or flec ( henrique n ' zita tiago ; antonio bento bembe ) note : flec is waging a small - scale, highly factionalized, armed struggle for the independence of cabinda province international organization participation african, caribbean and pacific group of states, afdb, ceeac, united nations economic commission for africa, fao, group of 77, iaea, ibrd, icao, international criminal court ( signatory ), icftu, international red cross and red crescent movement, international development association, ifad, ifc, ifrcs, international labour organization, international monetary fund, international maritime organization, interpol, ioc, international organization for migration, iso ( correspondent ), itu, non - aligned council ( temporary ), unctad, unesco, unido, upu, world customs organization, world federation of trade unions, who, wipo, wmo, wtoo, wtro see also references further reading angola livro branco sobre as eleicoes de 2008. http : / / www. kas. de / proj / home / pub / 8 / 2 / year - 2009 / dokument _ id - 17396 / index. html bosl, anton ( 2008 ). angola ' s parliamentary elections in 2008. a country on its way to one - party - democracy, kas auslandsinformationen 10 / 2008. http : / / www. kas. de / wf / de / 33. 15186 / amundsen, i. ( 2011 ) angola party politics : into the african trend. angola brief vol. 1 no.