chipewyan who hunted, trapped, and fished for a living. the first europeans to visit alberta were french canadians during the late 18th century, working as fur traders. french was the predominant language used in some early fur trading forts in the region, such as the first fort edmonton ( in present day fort saskatchewan ). after the british arrival in canada, approximately half of the province of alberta, south of the athabasca river drainage, became part of rupert ' s land which consisted of all land drained by rivers flowing into hudson bay. this area was granted by charles ii of england to the hudson ' s bay company ( hbc ) in 1670, and rival fur trading companies were not allowed to trade in it. the athabasca river and the rivers north of it were not in hbc territory because they drained into the arctic ocean instead of hudson bay, and they were prime habitats for fur - bearing animals. the first european explorer of the athabasca region was peter pond, who learned of the methye portage, which allowed travel from southern rivers into the rivers north of rupert ' s land. other north american fur traders formed the north west company ( nwc ) of montreal to compete with the hbc in 1779. the nwc occupied the northern part of alberta territory. peter pond built fort athabasca on lac la biche in 1778. roderick mackenzie built fort chipewyan on lake athabasca ten years later in 1788. his cousin, sir alexander mackenzie, followed the north saskatchewan river to its northernmost point near edmonton, then setting northward on foot, trekked to the athabasca river, which he followed to lake athabasca. it was there he discovered the mighty outflow river which bears his name — the mackenzie river — which he followed to its outlet in the arctic ocean. returning to lake athabasca, he followed the peace river upstream, eventually reaching the pacific ocean, and so he became the first european to cross the north american continent north of mexico. the extreme southernmost portion of alberta was part of the french ( and spanish ) territory of louisiana and was sold to the united states in 1803. in the treaty of 1818, the portion of louisiana north of the forty - ninth parallel was ceded to great britain. fur trade expanded in the north, but bloody battles occurred between the rival hbc and nwc, and in 1821 the british government forced them to merge to stop the hostilities. the amalgamated hudson ' s bay company dominated trade in alberta until 1870 when the newly