last quarter of the 19th century on the grounds of the former world ' s fair. the northeastern part of the square is bordered by the large rijksmuseum. in front of the rijksmuseum on the square itself is a long, rectangular pond. this is transformed into an ice rink in winter. the northwestern part of the square is bordered by the van gogh museum, house of bols cocktail & genever experience and coster diamonds. the southwestern border of the museum square is the van baerlestraat, which is a major thoroughfare in this part of amsterdam. the concertgebouw is located across this street from the square. to the southeast of the square are several large houses, one of which contains the american consulate. a parking garage can be found underneath the square, as well as a supermarket. the museumplein is covered almost entirely with a lawn, except for the northeastern part of the square which is covered with gravel. the current appearance of the square was realised in 1999, when the square was remodelled. the square itself is the most prominent site in amsterdam for festivals and outdoor concerts, especially in the summer. plans were made in 2008 to remodel the square again because many inhabitants of amsterdam are not happy with its current appearance. the possesses the largest and most important collection of classical dutch art. it opened in 1885. its collection consists of nearly one million objects. the artist most associated with amsterdam is rembrandt, whose work, and the work of his pupils, is displayed in the rijksmuseum. rembrandt ' s masterpiece the night watch is one of the top pieces of art of the museum. it also houses paintings from artists like bartholomeus van der helst, johannes vermeer, frans hals, ferdinand bol, albert cuyp, jacob van ruisdael and paulus potter. aside from paintings, the collection consists of a large variety of decorative art. this ranges from delftware to giant doll - houses from the 17th century. the architect of the gothic revival building was p. j. h. cuypers. the museum underwent a 10 - year, 375 million euro renovation starting in 2003. the full collection was reopened to the public on 13 april 2013 and the rijksmuseum has remained the most visited museum in amsterdam with 2. 2 million visitors in 2016 and 2. 16 million in 2017. van gogh lived in amsterdam for a short while and there is a museum dedicated to his