alfred bernhard nobel (, ; 21 october 1833 – 10 december 1896 ) was a swedish chemist, engineer, inventor, businessman, and philanthropist. he is known for creating dynamite as well as having bequeathed his fortune to establish the nobel prize. he also made several important contributions to science, holding 355 patents in his lifetime. nobel ' s most famous invention was dynamite, an explosive using nitroglycerin ; it was patented in 1867. nobel displayed an early aptitude for science and learning, particularly in chemistry and languages ; he became fluent in six languages and filed his first patent at the age of 24. he embarked on many business ventures with his family, most notably owning the company bofors, which was an iron and steel producer that he had developed into a major manufacturer of cannons and other armaments. nobel was later inspired to donate his fortune to the nobel prize institution, which would annually recognize those who " conferred the greatest benefit to humankind ". the synthetic element nobelium was named after him, and his name and legacy also survives in companies such as dynamit nobel and akzonobel, which descend from mergers with companies he founded. nobel was elected a member of the royal swedish academy of sciences, which, pursuant to his will, would be responsible for choosing the nobel laureates in physics and in chemistry. personal life early life and education alfred nobel was born in stockholm, united kingdoms of sweden and norway on 21 october 1833. he was the third son of immanuel nobel ( 1801 – 1872 ), an inventor and engineer, and karolina andriette nobel ( nee ahlsell 1805 – 1889 ). the couple married in 1827 and had eight children. the family was impoverished and only alfred and his three brothers survived beyond childhood. through his father, alfred nobel was a descendant of the swedish scientist olaus rudbeck ( 1630 – 1702 ), and in his turn, the boy was interested in engineering, particularly explosives, learning the basic principles from his father at a young age. alfred nobel ' s interest in technology was inherited from his father, an alumnus of royal institute of technology in stockholm. following various business failures caused by the loss of some barges of building material, immanuel nobel was forced into bankruptcy, nobel ' s father moved to saint petersburg, russia, and grew successful there as a manufacturer of machine tools and explosives. he invented the veneer lathe ( which made possible the production of modern plywood ) and started work on the torpedo. in 1842, the family joined him in the city.