simply announce to their creditors that their liability is limited to the capital specifically invested in the corporation ". there are limits to the right to contract under some interpretations of anarcho - capitalism. rothbard believes that the right to contract is based in inalienable rights and because of this any contract that implicitly violates those rights can be voided at will, preventing a person from permanently selling himself or herself into unindentured slavery. that restriction aside, the right to contract under anarcho - capitalist order would be pretty broad. for example, rothbard went as far as to justify stork markets, arguing that a market in guardianship rights would facilitate the transfer of guardianship from abusive or neglectful parents to those more interested or suited to raising children. other anarcho - capitalists have also suggested the legalization of organ markets, as in iran ' s renal market. other interpretations conclude that banning such contracts would in itself be an unacceptably invasive interference in the right to contract. included in the right of contract is " the right to contract oneself out for employment by others ". while anarchists criticize wage labour describing it as wage slavery, anarcho - capitalists view it as a consensual contract. some anarcho - capitalists prefer to see self - employment prevail over wage labor. david d. friedman has expressed a preference for a society where " almost everyone is self - employed " and " instead of corporations there are large groups of entrepreneurs related by trade, not authority. each sells not his time, but what his time produces ". law and order and the use of violence different anarcho - capitalists propose different forms of anarcho - capitalism and one area of disagreement is in the area of law. in the market for liberty, morris and linda tannehill object to any statutory law whatsoever. they argue that all one has to do is ask if one is aggressing against another in order to decide if an act is right or wrong. however, while also supporting a on force and fraud, rothbard supports the establishment of a mutually agreed - upon centralized libertarian legal code which private courts would pledge to follow, as he presumes a high degree of convergence amongst individuals about what constitutes natural justice. unlike both the tannehills and rothbard who see an ideological commonality of ethics and morality as a requirement, david d. friedman proposes that " the systems of law will be produced for profit on the open market, just as books and bra