ann nichols, and robert sanderson. woundings ( e. g., garson romalis ) and attempted murders have also taken place in the united states and canada. hundreds of bombings, arsons, acid attacks, invasions, and incidents of vandalism against abortion providers have occurred. notable perpetrators of anti - abortion violence include eric robert rudolph, scott roeder, shelley shannon, and paul jennings hill, the first person to be executed in the united states for murdering an abortion provider. legal protection of access to abortion has been brought into some countries where abortion is legal. these laws typically seek to protect abortion clinics from obstruction, vandalism, picketing, and other actions, or to protect women and employees of such facilities from threats and harassment. far more common than physical violence is psychological pressure. in 2003, chris danze organized anti - abortion organizations throughout texas to prevent the construction of a planned parenthood facility in austin. the organizations released the personal information online of those involved with construction, sent them up to 1200 phone calls a day and contacted their churches. some protestors record women entering clinics on camera. non - human examples spontaneous abortion occurs in various animals. for example, in sheep it may be caused by stress or physical exertion, such as crowding through doors or being chased by dogs. in cows, abortion may be caused by contagious disease, such as brucellosis or campylobacter, but can often be controlled by vaccination. eating pine needles can also induce abortions in cows. several plants, including broomweed, skunk cabbage, poison hemlock, and tree tobacco, are known to cause fetal deformities and abortion in cattle and in sheep and goats. in horses, a fetus may be aborted or resorbed if it has lethal white syndrome ( congenital intestinal aganglionosis ). foal embryos that are homozygous for the dominant white gene ( ww ) are theorized to also be aborted or resorbed before birth. in many species of sharks and rays, stress - induced abortions occur frequently on capture. viral infection can cause abortion in dogs. cats can experience spontaneous abortion for many reasons, including hormonal imbalance. a combined abortion and spaying is performed on pregnant cats, especially in trap – neuter – return programs, to prevent unwanted kittens from being born. female rodents may terminate a pregnancy when exposed to the smell of a male not responsible for the pregnancy, known as the bruce effect