, athens, argos and corinth. the following battle of coroneia was a classic clash between two lines of hoplites. the anti - spartan allies were rapidly defeated, but the thebans managed to retreat in good order, despite agesilaus ' activity on the front line, which caused him several injuries. the next day the thebans requested a truce to recover their dead, therefore conceding defeat, although they had not been bested on the battlefield. agesilaus appears to have tried to win an honourable victory, by risking his life and being merciful with some thebans who had sought shelter in the nearby temple of athena itonia. he then moved to delphi, where he offered one tenth of the booty he had amassed since his landing at ephesos, and returned to sparta. no pitched battle took place in greece in 393. perhaps agesilaus was still recovering from his wounds, or he was deprived of command because of the opposition of lysander ' s and pausanias ' friends, who were disappointed by his lack of decisive victory and his appointment of peisander as navarch before the disaster of knidos. the loss of the spartan fleet besides allowed konon to capture the island of kythera, in the south of the peloponnese, from where he could raid spartan territory. in 392, sparta sent antalcidas to asia in order to negotiate a general peace with tiribazus, the satrap of lydia, while sparta would recognise persia ' s sovereignty over the asian greek cities. however, the greek allies also sent emissaries to sardis to refuse antalcidas ' plan, and artaxerxes likewise rejected it. a second peace conference in sparta failed the following year because of athens. a personal enemy of antalcidas, agesilaus likely disapproved these talks, which show that his influence at home had waned. plutarch says that he befriended the young agiad king agesipolis, possibly to prevent his opponents from coalescing behind him. by 391 agesilaus had apparently recovered his influence as he was appointed at the head of the army, while his half - brother teleutias became navarch. the target was argos, which had absorbed corinth into a political union the previous year. in 390 bc he made several successful expeditions into corinthian territory, capturing lechaeum and peiraion. the