g., including the proposed original. speakers whose native variety has either or will use the same pronunciation when speaking msa. even speakers from cairo, whose native egyptian arabic has, normally use when speaking msa. the of persian gulf speakers is the only variant pronunciation which is not found in msa ; is used instead, but may use [ j ] in msa for comfortable pronunciation. another reason of different pronunciations is influence of colloquial dialects. the differentiation of pronunciation of colloquial dialects is the influence from other languages previously spoken and some still presently spoken in the regions, such as coptic in egypt, berber, punic, or phoenician in north africa, himyaritic, modern south arabian, and old south arabian in yemen and oman, and aramaic and canaanite languages ( including phoenician ) in the levant and mesopotamia. another example : many colloquial varieties are known for a type of vowel harmony in which the presence of an " emphatic consonant " triggers backed allophones of nearby vowels ( especially of the low vowels, which are backed to in these circumstances and very often fronted to in all other circumstances ). in many spoken varieties, the backed or " emphatic " vowel allophones spread a fair distance in both directions from the triggering consonant. in some varieties, most notably egyptian arabic, the " emphatic " allophones spread throughout the entire word, usually including prefixes and suffixes, even at a distance of several syllables from the triggering consonant. speakers of colloquial varieties with this vowel harmony tend to introduce it into their msa pronunciation as well, but usually with a lesser degree of spreading than in the colloquial varieties. for example, speakers of colloquial varieties with extremely long - distance harmony may allow a moderate, but not extreme, amount of spreading of the harmonic allophones in their msa speech, while speakers of colloquial varieties with moderate - distance harmony may only harmonize immediately adjacent vowels in msa. vowels modern standard arabic has six pure vowels ( while most modern dialects have eight pure vowels which includes the long vowels ), with short and corresponding long vowels. there are also two diphthongs : and. the pronunciation of the vowels differs from speaker to speaker, in a way that tends to reflect the pronunciation of the corresponding colloquial variety. nonetheless, there are some common trends. most noticeable is the differing pronunciation of and, which tend towards fronted, or in most