occurred during this time and he was at the height of his powers at this point in his life. in the murder on the links, the belgian pits his grey cells against a french murderer. in the middle east, he solved the cases death on the nile and murder in mesopotamia with ease and even survived an appointment with death. as he passed through eastern europe on his return trip, he solved the murder on the orient express. however, he did not travel to africa or asia, probably to avoid seasickness. it is this villainous sea that troubles me! the mal de mer – it is horrible suffering! it was during this time he met the countess vera rossakoff, a glamorous jewel thief. the history of the countess is, like poirot ' s, steeped in mystery. she claims to have been a member of the russian aristocracy before the russian revolution and suffered greatly as a result, but how much of that story is true is an open question. even poirot acknowledges that rossakoff offered wildly varying accounts of her early life. poirot later became smitten with the woman and allowed her to escape justice. it is the misfortune of small, precise men always to hanker after large and flamboyant women. poirot had never been able to rid himself of the fatal fascination that the countess held for him. although letting the countess escape was morally questionable, it was not uncommon. in the nemean lion, poirot sided with the criminal, miss amy carnaby, allowing her to evade prosecution by blackmailing his client sir joseph hoggins, who, poirot discovered, had plans to commit murder. poirot even sent miss carnaby two hundred pounds as a final payoff prior to the conclusion of her dog kidnapping campaign. in the murder of roger ackroyd, poirot allowed the murderer to escape justice through suicide and then withheld the truth to spare the feelings of the murderer ' s relatives. in the augean stables, he helped the government to cover up vast corruption. in murder on the orient express, poirot allowed the murderers to go free after discovering that twelve different people participated in the murder, each one stabbing the victim in a darkened carriage after drugging him into unconsciousness so that there was no way for anyone to definitively determine which of them actually delivered the killing blow. the victim had committed a disgusting crime which led to the deaths of at least five people, and there was no question of his