##n in the industrial and post - industrial era, especially in modern times. due to its grounding in classical arabic, modern standard arabic is removed over a millennium from everyday speech, which is construed as a multitude of dialects of this language. these dialects and modern standard arabic are described by some scholars as not mutually comprehensible. the former are usually acquired in families, while the latter is taught in formal education settings. however, there have been studies reporting some degree of comprehension of stories told in the standard variety among preschool - aged children. the relation between modern standard arabic and these dialects is sometimes compared to that of classical latin and vulgar latin vernaculars ( which became romance languages ) in medieval and early modern europe. msa is the variety used in most current, printed arabic publications, spoken by some of the arabic media across north africa and the middle east, and understood by most educated arabic speakers. " literary arabic " and " standard arabic " ( ) are less strictly defined terms that may refer to modern standard arabic or classical arabic. some of the differences between classical arabic ( ca ) and modern standard arabic ( msa ) are as follows : certain grammatical constructions of ca that have no counterpart in any modern vernacular dialect ( e. g., the energetic mood ) are almost never used in modern standard arabic. case distinctions are very rare in arabic vernaculars. as a result, msa is generally composed without case distinctions in mind, and the proper cases are added after the fact, when necessary. because most case endings are noted using final short vowels, which are normally left unwritten in the arabic script, it is unnecessary to determine the proper case of most words. the practical result of this is that msa, like english and standard chinese, is written in a strongly determined word order and alternative orders that were used in ca for emphasis are rare. in addition, because of the lack of case marking in the spoken varieties, most speakers cannot consistently use the correct endings in extemporaneous speech. as a result, spoken msa tends to drop or regularize the endings except when reading from a prepared text. the numeral system in ca is complex and heavily tied in with the case system. this system is never used in msa, even in the most formal of circumstances ; instead, a significantly simplified system is used, approximating the system of the conservative spoken varieties. msa uses much classical vocabulary ( e. g., ' to go ' ) that is not present in the spoken varieties, but deletes classical words