legions. on 18 may ad 14, her one - year - old son gaius was sent by augustus from rome to join her in gaul. she was pregnant at the time and, while germanicus was collecting taxes across gaul, she remained at an unspecified separate location, presumably for her safety. augustus sent her a letter with her son ' s party, which read : later that year, on 19 august, augustus died while away in campania. as a result, tiberius was made princeps. while germanicus was administering the oath of fealty to tiberius, a mutiny began among the forces on the rhine. during the mutiny, agrippina brought out their sixth child, gaius, and made preparations to take him away to a safer town nearby. he was in a full army outfit including the legionary hobnailed boots ( caligae ). these military - booties earned gaius the nickname " caligula " ( lit. " little boots " ), and garnered sympathy for agrippina and the child among the soldiery. tacitus attributes her actions as having quelled the mutiny ( tacitus, annals 1. 40 – 4 ). once the mutiny was put to an end, germanicus allowed the soldiers to deal with the ringleaders, which they did with brutal severity. he then led them against the germanic tribes, perhaps in an effort to prevent future mutiny. germanicus would remain in gaul fighting against the germanic tribes until ad 16, at which time he was recalled to rome by tiberius. his campaigns won him much renown among the roman people, and he was awarded a triumph on 26 may ad 17. widowhood in ad 18, agrippina left for the eastern provinces with her family. germanicus was sent the east to govern the provinces, the same assignment her father was given years earlier. agrippina was pregnant on their journey east and, on the way to syria, she gave birth to her youngest daughter julia livilla on the island of lesbos. inscriptions celebrating her fertility have been found on the island. tiberius sent gnaeus calpurnius piso to assist her husband, naming him governor of syria. during their time there, germanicus was active in his administration of the eastern regions. piso did not get along well with germanicus and their relationship only got worse. in ad 19, germanicus ordered piso to leave the province, which piso began to do. on his way back to rome, piso stopped at the island of kos off the coast of