1949. the publisher wrote to orwell, saying : frederic warburg also faced pressures against publication, even from people in his own office and from his wife pamela, who felt that it was not the moment for ingratitude towards stalin and the red army, which had played a major part in defeating adolf hitler. a russian translation was printed in the paper posev, and in permitting a russian translation of animal farm, orwell refused in advance all royalties. a translation in ukrainian, which was produced in germany, was confiscated in large part by the american wartime authorities and handed over to the soviet repatriation commission. in october 1945, orwell wrote to frederic warburg expressing interest in pursuing the possibility that the political cartoonist david low might illustrate animal farm. low had written a letter saying that he had had " a good time with animal farm – an excellent bit of satire – it would illustrate perfectly ". nothing came of this, and a trial issue produced by secker & warburg in 1956 illustrated by john driver was abandoned. the folio society published an edition in 1984 illustrated by quentin blake and an edition illustrated by the cartoonist ralph steadman was published by secker & warburg in 1995 to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the first edition of animal farm. preface orwell originally wrote a preface complaining about british self - censorship and how the british people were suppressing criticism of the ussr, their world war ii ally : although the first edition allowed space for the preface, it was not included, and as of june 2009, most editions of the book have not included it. secker and warburg published the first edition of animal farm in 1945, without an introduction. however, the publisher had provided space for a preface in the author ' s proof composited from the manuscript. for reasons unknown, no preface was supplied, and the page numbers had to be renumbered at the last minute. in 1972, ian angus found the original typescript titled " the freedom of the press ", and bernard crick published it, together with his introduction, in the times literary supplement on 15 september 1972 as " how the essay came to be written ". orwell ' s essay criticised british self - censorship by the press, specifically the suppression of unflattering descriptions of stalin and the soviet government. the same essay also appeared in the italian 1976 edition of animal farm with another introduction by crick, claiming to be the first edition with the preface. other publishers were still declining to publish it. reception contemporary reviews of the work were not universally