aberdeenshire rfc which was founded in 1875 and runs junior, senior men ' s, senior ladies and touch sections from the woodside sports complex and also aberdeen wanderers rfc. in 2005 the president of the sru said it was hoped eventually to establish a professional team in aberdeen. in november 2008 the city hosted a rugby international at pittodrie between scotland and canada, with scotland winning 41 – 0. in november 2010 the city once again hosted a rugby international at pittodrie between scotland and samoa, with scotland winning 19 – 16. rugby league aberdeen warriors rugby league team play in the rugby league conference division one. the warriors also run under 15 ' s and 17 ' s teams. aberdeen grammar school won the saltire schools cup in 2011. golf the royal aberdeen golf club, founded in 1780 is the sixth oldest golf club in the world, and hosted the senior british open in 2005, and the amateur team event the walker cup in 2011. royal aberdeen also hosted the scottish open in 2014, won by justin rose. the club has a second course, and there are public golf courses at auchmill, balnagask, hazlehead and king ' s links. there are new courses planned for the area, including world - class facilities with major financial backing, the city and shire are set to become important in golf tourism. in summer 2012, donald trump opened a new state of the art golf course at menie, just north of the city, as the trump international golf links, scotland. swimming the city of aberdeen swim team ( coast ) was based in northfield swimming pool, but since the opening of the aberdeen aquatics centre in 2014, it is now based there, as it has a 50 m pool as opposed to the 25 m pool at northfield. it has been in operation since 1996. the team comprises several smaller swimming clubs and has enjoyed success throughout scotland and in international competitions. three of the team ' s swimmers qualified for the 2006 commonwealth games. rowing there are four boat clubs that row on the river dee : aberdeen boat club ( abc ), aberdeen schools rowing association ( asra ), aberdeen university boat club ( aubc ) and robert gordon university boat club ( rgubc ). cricket the city has one national league side, stoneywood - dyce. local " grades " cricket has been played in aberdeen since 1884. aberdeenshire were the 2009 and 2014 scottish national premier league and scottish cup champions. ice hockey aberdeen lynx are an ice hockey team that plays in the scottish national league and is based at the linx