the time, consensus was not settled on what caused the cretaceous – paleogene extinction and the boundary layer, with theories including a nearby supernova, climate change, or a geomagnetic reversal. the alvarezes ' impact hypothesis was rejected by many paleontologists, who believed that the lack of fossils found close to the k – pg boundary — the " three - meter problem " — suggested a more gradual die - off of fossil species. there is broad consensus that the chicxulub impactor was an asteroid with a carbonaceous chondrite composition, rather than a comet. the impactor was around in diameter — large enough that, if set at sea level, it would have reached taller than mount everest. asteroid deflection strategies various collision avoidance techniques have different trade - offs with respect to metrics such as overall performance, cost, failure risks, operations, and technology readiness. there are various methods for changing the course of an asteroid / comet. these can be differentiated by various types of attributes such as the type of mitigation ( deflection or fragmentation ), energy source ( kinetic, electromagnetic, gravitational, solar / thermal, or nuclear ), and approach strategy ( interception, rendezvous, or remote station ). strategies fall into two basic sets : fragmentation and delay. fragmentation concentrates on rendering the impactor harmless by fragmenting it and scattering the fragments so that they miss the earth or are small enough to burn up in the atmosphere. delay exploits the fact that both the earth and the impactor are in orbit. an impact occurs when both reach the same point in space at the same time, or more correctly when some point on earth ' s surface intersects the impactor ' s orbit when the impactor arrives. since the earth is approximately 12, 750 km in diameter and moves at approx. 30 km per second in its orbit, it travels a distance of one planetary diameter in about 425 seconds, or slightly over seven minutes. delaying, or advancing the impactor ' s arrival by times of this magnitude can, depending on the exact geometry of the impact, cause it to miss the earth. " project icarus " was one of the first projects designed in 1967 as a contingency plan in case of collision with 1566 icarus. the plan relied on the new saturn v rocket, which did not make its first flight until after the report had been completed. six saturn v rockets would be used, each launched at variable intervals from months to hours away from impact. each rocket was to be fitted with a