before offering his resignation in 1942. he left the position having " done such a good job that there is virtually no need for a full - time successor. " modernization as the american stock exchange in 1953 the curb exchange was renamed the american stock exchange. the exchange was shaken by a scandal in 1961, and in 1962 began a reorganization. its reputation recently damaged by charges of mismanagement, in 1962 the american stock exchange named edwin etherington its president. writes cnn, he and executive vice president paul kolton were " tapped in 1962 to clean up and reinvigorate the scandal - plagued american stock exchange. " as of 1971, it was the second largest stock exchange in the united states. paul kolton succeeded ralph s. saul as amex president on june 17, 1971, making him the first person to be selected from within the exchange to serve as its leader, succeeding ralph s. saul, who announced his resignation in march 1971. in november 1972, kolton was named as the exchange ' s first chief executive officer and its first salaried top executive. as chairman, kolton oversaw the introduction of options trading. kolton opposed the idea of a merger with the new york stock exchange while he headed the exchange saying that " two independent, viable exchanges are much more likely to be responsive to new pressures and public needs than a single institution ". kolton announced in july 1977 that he would be leaving his position at the american exchange in november of that year. in 1977, thomas peterffy purchased a seat on the american stock exchange. peterffy created a major stir among traders by introducing handheld computers onto the trading floor in the early 1980s. introducing etfs etfs or exchange - traded funds had their genesis in 1989 with index participation shares, an s & p 500 proxy that traded on the american stock exchange and the philadelphia stock exchange. this product was short - lived after a lawsuit by the chicago mercantile exchange was successful in stopping sales in the united states. in 1990, a similar product, toronto index participation shares, which tracked the tse 35 and later the tse 100 indices, started trading on the toronto stock exchange ( tse ) in 1990. the popularity of these products led the american stock exchange to try to develop something that would satisfy regulations by the u. s. securities and exchange commission. nathan most and steven bloom, under the direction of ivers riley, designed and developed standard & poor ' s depositary receipts ( nyse arca : spy ), which were introduced in january 1993. known as spdrs or