consideration of the record of the evidence presented to the trial court and all the pre - trial and trial court proceedings are reviewed — unless the appeal is by way of re - hearing, new evidence will usually only be considered on appeal in " very " rare instances, for example if that material evidence was unavailable to a party for some very significant reason such as prosecutorial misconduct. in some systems, an appellate court will only consider the written decision of the lower court, together with any written evidence that was before that court and is relevant to the appeal. in other systems, the appellate court will normally consider the record of the lower court. in those cases the record will first be certified by the lower court. the appellant has the opportunity to present arguments for the granting of the appeal and the appellee ( or respondent ) can present arguments against it. arguments of the parties to the appeal are presented through their appellate lawyers, if represented, or " pro se " if the party has not engaged legal representation. those arguments are presented in written briefs and sometimes in oral argument to the court at a hearing. at such hearings each party is allowed a brief presentation at which the appellate judges ask questions based on their review of the record below and the submitted briefs. in an adversarial system, appellate courts do not have the power to review lower court decisions unless a party appeals it. therefore, if a lower court has ruled in an improper manner, or against legal precedent, that judgment will stand if not appealed – even if it might have been overturned on appeal. the united states legal system generally recognizes two types of appeals : a trial " de novo " or an appeal on the record. a trial de novo is usually available for review of informal proceedings conducted by some minor judicial tribunals in proceedings that do not provide all the procedural attributes of a formal judicial trial. if unchallenged, these decisions have the power to settle more minor legal disputes once and for all. if a party is dissatisfied with the finding of such a tribunal, one generally has the power to request a trial " de novo " by a court of record. in such a proceeding, all issues and evidence may be developed newly, as though never heard before, and one is not restricted to the evidence heard in the lower proceeding. sometimes, however, the decision of the lower proceeding is itself admissible as evidence, thus helping to curb frivolous appeals. in some cases, an application for " trial de novo " effectively erases the prior trial as if it had never taken place