##al phrase, the application of which is unclear. " he ate the cookies on the couch ", for example, could mean that he ate those cookies that were on the couch ( as opposed to those that were on the table ), or it could mean that he was sitting on the couch when he ate the cookies. " to get in, you will need an entrance fee of $ 10 or your voucher and your drivers ' license. " this could mean that you need either ten dollars or both your voucher and your license. or it could mean that you need your license and you need either ten dollars or a voucher. only rewriting the sentence, or placing appropriate punctuation can resolve a syntactic ambiguity. for the notion of, and theoretic results about, syntactic ambiguity in artificial, formal languages ( such as computer programming languages ), see ambiguous grammar. usually, semantic and syntactic ambiguity go hand in hand. the sentence " we saw her duck " is also syntactically ambiguous. conversely, a sentence like " he ate the cookies on the couch " is also semantically ambiguous. rarely, but occasionally, the different parsings of a syntactically ambiguous phrase result in the same meaning. for example, the command " cook, cook! " can be parsed as " cook ( noun used as vocative ), cook ( imperative verb form )! ", but also as " cook ( imperative verb form ), cook ( noun used as vocative )! ". it is more common that a syntactically unambiguous phrase has a semantic ambiguity ; for example, the lexical ambiguity in " your boss is a funny man " is purely semantic, leading to the response " funny ha - ha or funny peculiar? " spoken language can contain many more types of ambiguities which are called phonological ambiguities, where there is more than one way to compose a set of sounds into words. for example, " ice cream " and " i scream ". such ambiguity is generally resolved according to the context. a mishearing of such, based on incorrectly resolved ambiguity, is called a mondegreen. philosophy philosophers ( and other users of logic ) spend a lot of time and effort searching for and removing ( or intentionally adding ) ambiguity in arguments because it can lead to incorrect conclusions and can be used to deliberately conceal bad arguments. for example, a politician might say, " i oppose taxes which hinder economic growth ",