problems at home. once converted to islam, they were safe in algiers. many occupied positions of authority, such as samson rowlie, an englishman who became treasurer of algiers. the city under ottoman control was enclosed by a wall on all sides, including along the seafront. in this wall, five gates allowed access to the city, with five roads from each gate dividing the city and meeting in front of the ketchaoua mosque. in 1556, a citadel was constructed at the highest point in the wall. a major road running north to south divided the city in two : the upper city ( al - gabal, or ' the mountain ' ) which consisted of about fifty small quarters of andalusian, jewish, moorish and kabyle communities, and the lower city ( al - wata, or ' the plains ' ) which was the administrative, military and commercial centre of the city, mostly inhabited by ottoman turkish dignitaries and other upper - class families. in august 1816, the city was bombarded by a british squadron under lord exmouth ( a descendant of thomas pellew, taken in an algerian slave raid in 1715 ), assisted by men - of - war from the kingdom of the netherlands, destroying the corsair fleet harboured in algiers. french rule the history of algiers from 1830 to 1962 is bound to the larger history of algeria and its relationship to france. on july 4, 1830, under the pretext of an affront to the french consul — whom the dey had hit with a fly - whisk when the consul said the french government was not prepared to pay its large outstanding debts to two algerian merchants — a french army under general de bourmont attacked the city in the 1830 invasion of algiers. the city capitulated the following day. algiers became the capital of french algeria. many europeans settled in algiers, and by the early 20th century they formed a majority of the city ' s population. during the 1930s, the architect le corbusier drew up plans for a complete redesign of the colonial city. le corbusier was highly critical of the urban style of algiers, describing the european district as " nothing but crumbling walls and devastated nature, the whole a sullied blot ". he also criticised the difference in living standards he perceived between the european and african residents of the city, describing a situation in which " the ' civilised ' live like rats in holes " whereas " the ' barbarians ' live in solitude, in well - being ". however, these