268, battle of lake benacusromans under emperor claudius ii defeat the alemanni. 271 battle of placentiaemperor aurelian is defeated by the alemanni forces invading italy battle of fanoaurelian defeats the alemanni, who begin to retreat from italy battle of paviaaurelian destroys the retreating alemanni army. 298 battle of lingonescaesar constantius chlorus defeats the alemanni battle of vindonissaconstantius defeats the alemanni. 356, battle of reimscaesar julian is defeated by the alemanni 357, battle of strasbourgjulian expels the alemanni from the rhineland 368, battle of soliciniumromans under emperor valentinian i defeat an alemanni incursion. 378, battle of argentovariawestern emperor gratianus is victorious over the alemanni. 451, battle of the catalaunian fieldsroman general aetius and his army of romans and barbarian allies defeat attila ' s army of huns and other germanic allies, including the alemanni. 457, battle of campi canninialemanni invade italy and are defeated near lake maggiore by majorian 554, battle of the volturnusbyzantine general narses defeats a combined force of franks and alemanni in southern italy. subjugation by the franks the kingdom of alamannia between strasbourg and augsburg lasted until 496, when the alemanni were conquered by clovis i at the battle of tolbiac. the war of clovis with the alemanni forms the setting for the conversion of clovis, briefly treated by gregory of tours. ( book ii. 31 ) after their defeat in 496, the alemanni bucked the frankish yoke and put themselves under the protection of theodoric the great of the ostrogoths but after his death they were again subjugated by the franks under theudebert i in 536. subsequently, the alemanni formed part of the frankish dominions and were governed by a frankish duke. in 746, carloman ended an uprising by summarily executing all alemannic nobility at the blood court at cannstatt, and for the following century, alemannia was ruled by frankish dukes. following the treaty of verdun of 843, alemannia became a province of the eastern kingdom of louis the german, the precursor of the holy