one hand and roman catholics who recognised the primacy of the pope on the other, resulted in an association of churches that was both deliberately vague about doctrinal principles, yet bold in developing parameters of acceptable deviation. these parameters were most clearly articulated in the various rubrics of the successive prayer books, as well as the thirty - nine articles of religion ( 1563 ). these articles have historically shaped and continue to direct the ethos of the communion, an ethos reinforced by its interpretation and expansion by such influential early theologians such as richard hooker, lancelot andrewes and john cosin. with the expansion of the british empire and the growth of anglicanism outside great britain and ireland, the communion sought to establish new vehicles of unity. the first major expressions of this were the lambeth conferences of the communion ' s bishops, first convened in 1867 by charles longley, the archbishop of canterbury. from the beginning, these were not intended to displace the autonomy of the emerging provinces of the communion, but to " discuss matters of practical interest, and pronounce what we deem expedient in resolutions which may serve as safe guides to future action ". chicago lambeth quadrilateral one of the enduringly influential early resolutions of the conference was the so - called chicago - lambeth quadrilateral of 1888. its intent was to provide the basis for discussions of reunion with the roman catholic and orthodox churches, but it had the ancillary effect of establishing parameters of anglican identity. it establishes four principles with these words : instruments of communion as mentioned above, the anglican communion has no international juridical organisation. the archbishop of canterbury ' s role is strictly symbolic and unifying and the communion ' s three international bodies are consultative and collaborative, their resolutions having no legal effect on the autonomous provinces of the communion. taken together, however, the four do function as " instruments of communion ", since all churches of the communion participate in them. in order of antiquity, they are : the archbishop of canterbury functions as the spiritual head of the communion. the archbishop is the focus of unity, since no church claims membership in the communion without being in communion with him. the present archbishop is justin welby. the lambeth conference ( first held in 1867 ) is the oldest international consultation. it is a forum for bishops of the communion to reinforce unity and collegiality through manifesting the episcopate, to discuss matters of mutual concern, and to pass resolutions intended to act as guideposts. it is held