stopping place for trade and culture between crete and the peloponesus, so these stories may preserve traces of the migration of aphrodite ' s cult from the middle east to mainland greece. according to the version of her birth recounted by hesiod in his theogony, cronus severed uranus ' genitals and threw them behind him into the sea. the foam from his genitals gave rise to aphrodite ( hence her name, which hesiod interprets as " foam - arisen " ), while the giants, the erinyes ( furies ), and the meliae emerged from the drops of his blood. hesiod states that the genitals " were carried over the sea a long time, and white foam arose from the immortal flesh ; with it a girl grew. " after aphrodite was born from the sea - foam, she washed up to shore in the presence of the other gods. hesiod ' s account of aphrodite ' s birth following uranus ' s castration is probably derived from the song of kumarbi, an ancient hittite epic poem in which the god kumarbi overthrows his father anu, the god of the sky, and bites off his genitals, causing him to become pregnant and give birth to anu ' s children, which include ishtar and her brother teshub, the hittite storm god. in the iliad, aphrodite is described as the daughter of zeus and dione. dione ' s name appears to be a feminine cognate to dios and dion, which are oblique forms of the name zeus. zeus and dione shared a cult at dodona in northwestern greece. in the theogony, hesiod describes dione as an oceanid, but apollodorus makes her the thirteenth titan, child of gaia and uranus. marriage aphrodite is consistently portrayed as a nubile, infinitely desirable adult, having had no childhood. she is often depicted nude. in the iliad, aphrodite is the apparently unmarried consort of ares, the god of war, and the wife of hephaestus is a different goddess named charis. likewise, in hesiod ' s theogony, aphrodite is unmarried and the wife of hephaestus is aglaea, the youngest of the three charites. in book eight of the odyssey, however, the blind singer demodocus describes ap