platform dialect of apl, based on apl2 and with several extensions, which was first released by british company microapl in 2002. although no longer in development or on commercial sale it is now available free of charge from dyalog. york apl york apl was developed at the york university, ontario around 1968, running on ibm 360 mainframes. one notable difference between it and apl \ 360 was that it defined the " shape " ( ρ ) of a scalar as 1 whereas apl \ 360 defined it as the more mathematically correct 0 — this made it easier to write functions that acted the same with scalars and vectors. gnu apl gnu apl is a free implementation of extended apl as specified in iso / iec 13751 : 2001 and is thus an implementation of apl2. it runs on linux, macos, several bsd dialects, and on windows ( either using cygwin for full support of all its system functions or as a native 64 - bit windows binary with some of its system functions missing ). gnu apl uses unicode internally and can be scripted. it was written by jurgen sauermann. richard stallman, founder of the gnu project, was an early adopter of apl, using it to write a text editor as a high school student in the summer of 1969. interpretation and compilation of apl apl is traditionally an interpreted language, having language characteristics such as weak variable typing not well suited to compilation. however, with arrays as its core data structure it provides opportunities for performance gains through parallelism, parallel computing, massively parallel applications, and very - large - scale integration ( vlsi ), and from the outset apl has been regarded as a high - performance language – for example, it was noted for the speed with which it could perform complicated matrix operations " because it operates on arrays and performs operations like matrix inversion internally ". nevertheless, apl is rarely purely interpreted and compilation or partial compilation techniques that are, or have been, used include the following : idiom recognition most apl interpreters support idiom recognition and evaluate common idioms as single operations. for example, by evaluating the idiom bv / as a single operation ( where bv is a boolean vector and a is an array ), the creation of two intermediate arrays is avoided. optimised bytecode weak typing in apl means that a name may reference an array ( of any datatype ), a function or an operator. in general, the