to distance himself from the byzantines, traditional allies of the lombards, who had been lukewarm when it came to supporting audoin against the gepids. the new frankish alliance was important because of the franks ' known hostility to the byzantine empire, providing the lombards with more than one option. however, the prosopography of the later roman empire interprets events and sources differently, believing that alboin married chlothsind when already a king in or shortly before 561, the year of chlothar ' s death. alboin first distinguished himself on the battlefield in a clash with the gepids. at the battle of asfeld ( 552 ), he killed turismod, son of the gepid king thurisind, in a victory that resulted in the emperor justinian ' s intervention to maintain equilibrium between the rival regional powers. after the battle, according to a tradition reported by paul the deacon, to be granted the right to sit at his father ' s table, alboin had to ask for the hospitality of a foreign king and have him donate his weapons, as was customary. for this initiation, he went to the court of thurisind, where the gepid king gave him turismod ' s arms. walter goffart believes it is probable that in this narrative paul was making use of an oral tradition, and is sceptical that it can be dismissed as merely a typical topos of an epic poem. reign in pannonia alboin came to the throne after the death of his father, sometime between 560 and 565. as was customary among the lombards, alboin took the crown after an election by the tribe ' s freemen, who traditionally selected the king from the dead sovereign ' s clan. shortly afterwards, in 565, a new war erupted with the gepids, now led by cunimund, thurisind ' s son. the cause of the conflict is uncertain, as the sources are divided ; the lombard paul the deacon accuses the gepids, while the byzantine historian menander protector places the blame on alboin, an interpretation favoured by historian walter pohl. an account of the war by the byzantine theophylact simocatta sentimentalises the reasons behind the conflict, claiming it originated with alboin ' s vain courting and subsequent kidnapping of cunimund ' s daughter rosamund, that alboin proceeded then to marry. the tale is treated