and a monument at the rooseveltplatz. only two, possibly three, original portraits of vivaldi are known to survive : an engraving, an ink sketch and an oil painting. the engraving, which was the basis of several copies produced later by other artists, was made in 1725 by francois morellon de la cave for the first edition of il cimento dell ' armonia e dell ' inventione, and shows vivaldi holding a sheet of music. the ink sketch, a caricature, was done by ghezzi in 1723 and shows vivaldi ' s head and shoulders in profile. it exists in two versions : a first jotting kept at the vatican library, and a much lesser - known, slightly more detailed copy recently discovered in moscow. the oil painting, which can be seen in the international museum and library of music of bologna, is anonymous and is thought to depict vivaldi due to its strong resemblance to the la cave engraving. during his lifetime, vivaldi was popular in many countries throughout europe, including france, but after his death his popularity dwindled. after the end of the baroque period, vivaldi ' s published concerti became relatively unknown, and were largely ignored. even his most famous work, the four seasons, was unknown in its original edition during the classical and romantic periods. vivaldi ' s work was rediscovered in the 20th century. works a composition by vivaldi is identified by rv number, which refers to its place in the " ryom - verzeichnis " or " repertoire des oeuvres d ' antonio vivaldi ", a catalog created in the 20th century by the musicologist peter ryom. le quattro stagioni ( the four seasons ) of 1723 is his most famous work. part of il cimento dell ' armonia e dell ' inventione ( " the contest between harmony and invention " ), it depicts moods and scenes from each of the four seasons. this work has been described as an outstanding instance of pre - 19th - century program music. vivaldi wrote more than 500 other concertos. about 350 of these are for solo instrument and strings, of which 230 are for violin, the others being for bassoon, cello, oboe, flute, viola d ' amore, recorder, lute, or mandolin. about forty concertos are for two instruments and strings, and about thirty are for three or more instruments and strings. as well as about 46 operas, vivaldi composed a large body of