seen as a government matter, except in the case of rape. australian children had few rights and were legally considered the chattel of their parents. from the late 18th century, and especially in the 19th century, attitudes started to change. by the mid - 19th century there was increased concern over child sexual abuse. reforms in the 19th and 20th century a general shift in social and legal attitudes toward issues of sex occurred during the modern era. attitudes on the appropriate age of permission for females to engage in sexual activity drifted toward adulthood. while ages from ten to thirteen years were typically regarded as acceptable ages for sexual consent in western countries during the mid - 19th century, by the end of the 19th century changing attitudes towards sexuality and childhood resulted in the raising of the age of consent. english common law had traditionally set the age of consent within the range of ten to twelve years old, but the offences against the person act 1875 raised this to thirteen in great britain and ireland. early feminists of the social purity movement, such as josephine butler and others, instrumental in securing the repeal of the contagious diseases acts, began to turn towards the problem of child prostitution by the end of the 1870s. sensational media revelations about the scourge of child prostitution in london in the 1880s then caused outrage among the respectable middle - classes, leading to pressure for the age of consent to be raised again. the investigative journalist william thomas stead of the pall mall gazette was pivotal in exposing the problem of child prostitution in the london underworld through a publicity stunt. in 1885 he " purchased " one victim, eliza armstrong, the thirteen - year - old daughter of a chimney sweep, for five pounds and took her to a brothel where she was drugged. he then published a series of four exposes entitled the maiden tribute of modern babylon, which shocked its readers with tales of child prostitution and the abduction, procurement, and sale of young english virgins to continental " pleasure palaces ". the " maiden tribute " was an instant sensation with the reading public, and victorian society was thrown into an uproar about prostitution. fearing riots on a national scale, the home secretary, sir william harcourt, pleaded in vain with stead to cease publication of the articles. a wide variety of reform groups held protest meetings and marched together to hyde park demanding that the age of consent be raised. the government was forced to propose the criminal law amendment act 1885, which raised the age of consent from thirteen to sixteen and clamped down on prostitution. in the united states, as late as the 1880s most states