1995, and again for 2017 discontinued special categories academy juvenile award : 1934 to 1960 criticism and controversies accusations of commercialism due to the positive exposure and prestige of the academy awards, many studios spend millions of dollars and hire publicists specifically to promote their films during what is typically called the " oscar season. " this has generated accusations of the academy awards being influenced more by marketing than by quality. william friedkin, an academy award - winning film director and former producer of the ceremony, expressed this sentiment at a conference in new york in 2009, describing it as " the greatest promotion scheme that any industry ever devised for itself. " tim dirks, editor of amc ' s filmsite. org, has written of the academy awards : a recent technique that has been claimed to be used during the oscar season is the whisper campaign. these campaigns are intended to spread negative perceptions of other movies nominated and are believed to be perpetrated by those that were involved in creating the movie. examples of whisper campaigns include the allegations against zero dark thirty suggesting that it justifies torture and the claim that lincoln distorts history. accusations of bias typical criticism of the academy awards for best picture is that among the winners and nominees there is an over - representation of romantic historical epics, biographical dramas, romantic dramedies and family melodramas, most of which are released in the u. s. in the last three months of the calendar year. the oscars have been infamously known for selecting specific genres of movies to be awarded. the term " oscar bait " was coined to describe such movies. this has led, at times, to more specific criticisms that the academy is disconnected from the audience, e. g., by favoring " oscar bait " over audience favorites or favoring historical melodramas over critically acclaimed movies that depict current life issues. allegations of a lack of diversity the academy awards have long received criticism over its lack of diversity among the nominees. this criticism is based on the statistics from every academy awards since 1929, which show that only 6. 4 % of academy award nominees have been non - white and since 1991, 11. 2 % of nominees have been non - white, with the rate of winners being even more polarizing. due to a variety of reasons, including marketability and historical bans on interracial couples, a number of high - profile oscars have been given to yellowface portrayals, as well as performances of asian characters rewritten for white characters. it took until 2023 for an asian woman to