the feminine nisbah suffix - iyyah. this is formed by adding the feminine suffix - ah onto nisba adjectives to form abstract nouns. for example, from the basic root ' share ' can be derived the form viii verb ' to cooperate, participate ', and in turn its verbal noun ' cooperation, participation ' can be formed. this in turn can be made into a nisbah adjective ' socialist ', from which an abstract noun ' socialism ' can be derived. other recent formations are ' republic ' ( lit. " public - ness ", < ' multitude, general public ' ), and the gaddafi - specific variation ' people ' s republic ' ( lit. " masses - ness ", < ' the masses ', pl. of, as above ). colloquial varieties the spoken dialects have lost the case distinctions and make only limited use of the dual ( it occurs only on nouns and its use is no longer required in all circumstances ). they have lost the mood distinctions other than imperative, but many have since gained new moods through the use of prefixes ( most often / bi - / for indicative vs. unmarked subjunctive ). they have also mostly lost the indefinite " nunation " and the internal passive. the following is an example of a regular verb paradigm in egyptian arabic. writing system the arabic alphabet derives from the aramaic through nabatean, to which it bears a loose resemblance like that of coptic or cyrillic scripts to greek script. traditionally, there were several differences between the western ( north african ) and middle eastern versions of the alphabet — in particular, the faʼ had a dot underneath and qaf a single dot above in the maghreb, and the order of the letters was slightly different ( at least when they were used as numerals ). however, the old maghrebi variant has been abandoned except for calligraphic purposes in the maghreb itself, and remains in use mainly in the quranic schools ( zaouias ) of west africa. arabic, like all other semitic languages ( except for the latin - written maltese, and the languages with the ge ' ez script ), is written from right to left. there are several styles of scripts such as thuluth, muhaqqaq, tawqi, rayhan, and notably naskh, which is used in print and by computers, and ruqʻah, which is commonly used for correspondence. originally arabic was made up of only rasm without diacritical marks later dia