consisting of 4, 000 men near dashtab, and continued to win a number of victories before stopping at bam for a time. soon, a government force of 24, 000 men forced hasan ali shah to flee from bam to rigan on the border of baluchistan, where he suffered a decisive defeat. hasan ali shah decided to escape to afghanistan, accompanied by his brothers and many soldiers and servants. afghanistan fleeing iran, hasan ali shah arrived in kandahar, afghanistan in 1841 – a town that had been occupied by an anglo - indian army in 1839 in the first anglo - afghan war. a close relationship developed between hasan ali shah and the british, which coincided with the final years of the first anglo - afghan war ( 1838 – 1842 ). after his arrival, hasan ali shah wrote to sir william macnaghten, discussing his plans to seize and govern herat on behalf of the british. although the proposal seemed to have been approved, the plans of the british were thwarted by the uprising of dost muhammad ' s son muhammad akbar khan, who defeated and annihilated the british - indian garrison at gandamak on its retreat from kabul in january 1842. sindh hasan ali shah soon proceeded to sindh, where he rendered further services to the british. the british were able to annex sindh and for his services, hasan ali shah received an annual pension of £2, 000 from general charles james napier, the british conqueror of sindh with whom he had a good relationship. bombay in october 1844, hasan ali shah left sindh for the city of bombay in the bombay presidency, british india passing through cutch and kathiawar where he spent some time visiting the communities of his followers in the area. after arriving in bombay in february 1846, the persian government demanded his extradition from india. the british refused and only agreed to transfer hasan ali shah ' s residence to calcutta, where it would be harder for him to launch new attacks against the persian government. the british also negotiated the safe return of hasan ali shah to persia, which was in accordance with his own wish. the government agreed to hasan ali shah ' s return provided that he would avoid passing through baluchistan and kirman and that he was to settle peacefully in mahallat. hasan ali shah was eventually forced to leave for calcutta in april 1847, where he remained until he received news of the death of muhammad shah qajar. hasan ali shah left for bombay and the british attempted to obtain permission for his return to persia. although some of his lands were restored to the control of