##ים ( sefarim hachizonim : " the external books " ), are books written in large part by jews, especially during the second temple period, not accepted as sacred manuscripts when the hebrew bible was canonized. some of these books are considered sacred by some christians, and are included in their versions of the old testament. the jewish apocrypha is distinctive from the new testament apocrypha and biblical apocrypha as it is the only one of these collections which works within a jewish theological framework. although orthodox jews believe in the exclusive canonization of the current 24 books in the hebrew bible, they also consider the oral torah, which they believe was handed down from moses, to be authoritative. some argue that the sadducees, unlike the pharisees but like the samaritans, seem to have maintained an earlier and smaller number of texts as canonical, preferring to hold to only what was written in the law of moses ( the torah ), making most of the presently accepted canon, both jewish and christian, apocryphal in their eyes. others believe that it is often mistakenly asserted that the sadducees only accepted the pentateuch ( torah ). the essenes in judea and the therapeutae in egypt were said to have a secret literature ( see dead sea scrolls ). other traditions maintained different customs regarding canonicity. the ethiopian jews, for instance, seem to have retained a spread of canonical texts similar to the ethiopian orthodox christians. christianity intertestamental books during the apostolic age many jewish texts of hellenistic origin existed within judaism and were frequently used by christians. patristic authorities frequently recognized these books as important to the emergence of christianity, but the inspired authority and value of the apocrypha remained widely disputed. christians included several of these books in the canons of the christian bibles, calling them the " apocrypha " or the " hidden books ". in the sixteenth century, during the protestant reformation, the canonical validity of the intertestamental books was challenged and fourteen books were classed in 80 book protestant bibles as an intertestamental section called the apocrypha, which straddles the old testament and new testament. prior to 1629, all english - language protestant bibles included the old testament, apocrypha, and new testament ; examples include the " matthew ' s bible ( 1537 ), the great bible ( 1539 ), the geneva bible ( 1560 ), the bishop '