##cer healing time and leg ulcer size, however larger, more recent studies of higher quality have been unable to corroborate these outcomes. as such, further research is required to clarify the role of aspirin in this context. other adverse effects aspirin can induce swelling of skin tissues in some people. in one study, angioedema appeared one to six hours after ingesting aspirin in some of the people. however, when the aspirin was taken alone, it did not cause angioedema in these people ; the aspirin had been taken in combination with another nsaid - induced drug when angioedema appeared. aspirin causes an increased risk of cerebral microbleeds having the appearance on mri scans of 5 to 10mm or smaller, hypointense ( dark holes ) patches. a study of a group with a mean dosage of aspirin of 270mg per day estimated an average absolute risk increase in intracerebral hemorrhage ( ich ) of 12 events per 10, 000 persons. in comparison, the estimated absolute risk reduction in myocardial infarction was 137 events per 10, 000 persons, and a reduction of 39 events per 10, 000 persons in ischemic stroke. in cases where ich already has occurred, aspirin use results in higher mortality, with a dose of about 250mg per day resulting in a relative risk of death within three months after the ich around 2. 5 ( 95 % confidence interval 1. 3 to 4. 6 ). aspirin and other nsaids can cause abnormally high blood levels of potassium by inducing a hyporeninemic hypoaldosteronic state via inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis ; however, these agents do not typically cause hyperkalemia by themselves in the setting of normal renal function and euvolemic state. use of low - dose aspirin before a surgical procedure has been associated with an increased risk of bleeding events in some patients, however, ceasing aspirin prior to surgery has also been associated with an increase in major adverse cardiac events. an analysis of multiple studies found a three - fold increase in adverse events such as myocardial infarction in patients who ceased aspirin prior to surgery. the analysis found that the risk is dependent on the type of surgery being performed and the patient indication for aspirin use. on 9 july 2015, the us food and drug administration ( fda ) toughened warnings of