##baidulina has composed solos, concertos, and chamber works for accordion. astor piazzolla ' s concert tangos are performed widely. piazzolla performed on the bandoneon, but his works are performed on either bandoneon or accordion. australia the earliest mention of the novel accordion instrument in australian music occurs in the 1830s. the accordion initially competed against cheaper and more convenient reed instruments such as mouth organ, concertina and melodeon. frank fracchia was an australian accordion composer and copies of his works " my dear, can you come out tonight " and " dancing with you " are preserved in australian libraries. other australian composers who arranged music for accordion include reginald stoneham. the popularity of the accordion peaked in the late 1930s and continued until the 1950s. the accordion was particularly favoured by buskers. bosnia and herzegovina the accordion is a traditional instrument in bosnia and herzegovina. it is the dominant instrument used in sevdalinka, a traditional genre of folk music from bosnia and herzegovina. it is also considered a national instrument of the country. brazil the accordion was brought to brazil by settlers and immigrants from europe, especially from italy and germany, who mainly settled in the south ( rio grande do sul, santa catarina and parana ). the first instrument brought was a " concertina " ( a 120 button chromatic accordion ). the instrument was popular in the 1950s, and it was common to find several accordions in the same house. there are many different configurations and tunes which were adapted from the cultures that came from europe. accordion is the official symbol instrument of the rio grande do sul state, where was voted by unanimity in the deputy chamber. during the boom of accordions there were around 65 factories in brazil, where most of them ( 52 ) in the south, in rio grande do sul state, with only 7 outside the south. one of the most famous and genuinely brazilian brands was acordeoes todeschini from bento goncalves - rs, closed in 1973. the todeschini accordion is very appreciated today and survives with very few maintainers. the most notable musicians of button accordions are renato borghetti, adelar bertussi, albino manique and edson dutra. compared to many other countries, the instrument is very popular in mainstream pop music. in some parts of the country, such as the northeast it is the most popular melodic instrument. as opposed to most european folk accordions, a very dry tuning is usually used in brazil.