writings. the following passage is an example : schopenhauer deemed schelling the most talented of the three and wrote that he would recommend his " elucidatory paraphrase of the highly important doctrine of kant " concerning the intelligible character, if he had been honest enough to admit he was parroting kant, instead of hiding this relation in a cunning manner. schopenhauer reserved his most unqualified damning condemnation for hegel, whom he considered less worthy than fichte or schelling. whereas fichte was merely a windbag ( windbeutel ), hegel was a " commonplace, inane, loathsome, repulsive, and ignorant charlatan. " the philosophers karl popper and mario bunge agreed with this distinction. hegel, schopenhauer wrote in the preface to his two fundamental problems of ethics, not only " performed no service to philosophy, but he has had a detrimental influence on philosophy, and thereby on german literature in general, really a downright stupefying, or we could even say a pestilential influence, which it is therefore the duty of everyone capable of thinking for himself and judging for himself to counteract in the most express terms at every opportunity. " influence and legacy schopenhauer remained the most influential german philosopher until the first world war. his philosophy was a starting point for a new generation of philosophers including julius bahnsen, paul deussen, lazar von hellenbach, karl robert eduard von hartmann, ernst otto lindner, philipp mainlander, friedrich nietzsche, olga plumacher and agnes taubert. his legacy shaped the intellectual debate, and forced movements that were utterly opposed to him, neo - kantianism and positivism, to address issues they would otherwise have completely ignored, and in doing so he changed them markedly. the french writer maupassant commented that " to - day even those who execrate him seem to carry in their own souls particles of his thought ". other philosophers of the 19th century who cited his influence include hans vaihinger, volkelt, solovyov and weininger. schopenhauer was well read by physicists, most notably einstein, schrodinger, wolfgang pauli, and majorana. einstein described schopenhauer ' s thoughts as a " continual consolation " and called him a genius. in his berlin study three figures hung on the wall : faraday, maxwell, schopenhauer. konrad wachs