example of traditional piety among our youth. " at the urging of cicero, the senate inducted octavian as senator on 1 january 43 bc, yet he also was given the power to vote alongside the former consuls. in addition, octavian was granted imperium pro praetore ( commanding power ) which legalized his command of troops, sending him to relieve the siege along with hirtius and pansa ( the consuls for 43 bc ). he assumed the fasces on 7 january, a date that he would later commemorate as the beginning of his public career. antony ' s forces were defeated at the battles of forum gallorum ( 14 april ) and mutina ( 21 april ), forcing antony to retreat to transalpine gaul. both consuls were killed, however, leaving octavian in sole command of their armies. the senate heaped many more rewards on decimus brutus than on octavian for defeating antony, then attempted to give command of the consular legions to decimus brutus. in response, octavian stayed in the po valley and refused to aid any further offensive against antony. in july, an embassy of centurions sent by octavian entered rome and demanded the consulship left vacant by hirtius and pansa and also that the decree should be rescinded which declared antony a public enemy. when this was refused, he marched on the city with eight legions. he encountered no military opposition in rome and on 19 august 43 bc was elected consul with his relative quintus pedius as co - consul. meanwhile, antony formed an alliance with marcus aemilius lepidus, another leading caesarian. second triumvirate proscriptions in a meeting near bononia in october 43 bc, octavian, antony, and lepidus formed the second triumvirate. their powers were made official by the senate on 27 november. this explicit arrogation of special powers lasting five years was then legalised by law passed by the plebs, unlike the unofficial first triumvirate formed by pompey, julius caesar, and marcus licinius crassus. the triumvirs then set in motion proscriptions, in which between 130 and 300 senators and 2, 000 equites were branded as outlaws and deprived of their property and, for those who failed to escape, their lives. this decree issued by the triumvirate was motivated in part by a need to raise money to pay the salaries of their troops for the upcoming conflict