in the odyssey, she is caught in the act of adultery with ares, the god of war. in the first homeric hymn to aphrodite, she seduces the mortal shepherd anchises. aphrodite was also the surrogate mother and lover of the mortal shepherd adonis, who was killed by a wild boar. along with athena and hera, aphrodite was one of the three goddesses whose feud resulted in the beginning of the trojan war and she plays a major role throughout the iliad. aphrodite has been featured in western art as a symbol of female beauty and has appeared in numerous works of western literature. she is a major deity in modern neopagan religions, including the church of aphrodite, wicca, and hellenismos. etymology hesiod derives aphrodite from ( ) " sea - foam ", interpreting the name as " risen from the foam ", but most modern scholars regard this as a spurious folk etymology. early modern scholars of classical mythology attempted to argue that aphrodite ' s name was of greek or indo - european origin, but these efforts have now been mostly abandoned. aphrodite ' s name is generally accepted to be of non - greek ( probably semitic ) origin, but its exact derivation cannot be determined. scholars in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, accepting hesiod ' s " foam " etymology as genuine, analyzed the second part of aphrodite ' s name as * - odite " wanderer " or * - dite " bright ". more recently, michael janda, also accepting hesiod ' s etymology, has argued in favor of the latter of these interpretations and claims the story of a birth from the foam as an indo - european mytheme. similarly, krzysztof tomasz witczak proposes an indo - european compound " very " and " to shine ", also referring to eos, and daniel kolligan has interpreted her name as " shining up from the mist / foam ". other scholars have argued that these hypotheses are unlikely since aphrodite ' s attributes are entirely different from those of both eos and the vedic deity ushas. a number of improbable non - greek etymologies have also been suggested. one semitic etymology compares aphrodite to the assyrian bariritu, the name of a female demon that appears in middle babylonian and late babylonian texts. hammarstrom looks to et