to form the hydride ion h−. in the former case it resembles superficially the alkali metals ; in the latter case, the halogens, but the differences due to the lack of a 1p subshell are important enough that neither group fits the properties of hydrogen well. group 14 is also a good fit in terms of thermodynamic properties such as ionisation energy and electron affinity, but hydrogen cannot be tetravalent. thus none of the three placements are entirely satisfactory, although group 1 is the most common placement ( if one is chosen ) because of the electron configuration and the fact that the hydron is by far the most important of all monatomic hydrogen species, being the foundation of acid - base chemistry. as an example of hydrogen ' s unorthodox properties stemming from its unusual electron configuration and small size, the hydrogen ion is very small ( radius around 150 fm compared to the 50 – 220 pm size of most other atoms and ions ) and so is nonexistent in condensed systems other than in association with other atoms or molecules. indeed, transferring of protons between chemicals is the basis of acid - base chemistry. also unique is hydrogen ' s ability to form hydrogen bonds, which are an effect of charge - transfer, electrostatic, and electron correlative contributing phenomena. while analogous lithium bonds are also known, they are mostly electrostatic. nevertheless, hydrogen can take on the same structural role as the alkali metals in some molecular crystals, and has a close relationship with the lightest alkali metals ( especially lithium ). ammonium and derivatives the ammonium ion ( ) has very similar properties to the heavier alkali metals, acting as an alkali metal intermediate between potassium and rubidium, and is often considered a close relative. for example, most alkali metal salts are soluble in water, a property which ammonium salts share. ammonium is expected to behave stably as a metal ( ions in a sea of delocalised electrons ) at very high pressures ( though less than the typical pressure where transitions from insulating to metallic behaviour occur around, 100 gpa ), and could possibly occur inside the ice giants uranus and neptune, which may have significant impacts on their interior magnetic fields. it has been estimated that the transition from a mixture of ammonia and dihydrogen molecules to metallic ammonium may occur at pressures just below 25 gpa. under standard conditions, ammonium can form a metallic amalgam with mercury. other " pseudo - alkali metals