##or of justice without any forgiveness. " stephen ashby clarifies : " arminius allowed for only two possible ways in which the sinner might be justified : ( 1 ) by our absolute and perfect adherence to the law, or ( 2 ) purely by god ' s imputation of christ ' s righteousness. " w. stephen gunter concurs that arminius would not take a rigid position on the doctrine of imputed righteousness ( the righteousness of christ is imputed for righteousness of the believer ). for keith d. stanglin and thomas h. mccall, arminius would not object to saying rather that " the righteousness of christ is imputed to righteousness ". forlines put it this way : " on the condition of faith, we are placed in union with christ. based on that union, we receive his death and righteousness ". christ ' s atonement has a substitutionary effect which is limited only to the elect. arminius held that god ' s justice was satisfied by penal substitution. hugo grotius taught that it was satisfied governmentally. according to roger olson, historical and contemporary arminians have held to one of these views. conversion of man grace is resistible : god takes initiative in the salvation process and his grace comes to all people. this grace ( often called pre - regenerating or prevenient grace ) acts on all people to convince them of the gospel, draw them strongly towards salvation, and enable the possibility of sincere faith. picirilli states that " indeed this grace is so close to regeneration that it inevitably leads to regeneration unless finally resisted. " the offer of salvation through grace does not act irresistibly in a purely cause - effect, deterministic method but rather in an influence - and - response fashion that can be both freely accepted and freely denied. man has a freed will to respond or resist : free will is granted and limited by god ' s sovereignty, but god ' s sovereignty allows all men the choice to accept the gospel of jesus through faith, simultaneously allowing all men to resist. conversion is synergistic : as roger olson put it : " [ arminius ] ' evangelical synergism reserves all the power, ability and efficacy in salvation to grace, but allows humans the god - granted ability to resist or not resist it. the only " contribution " humans make is nonresistance to grace. " election of man election is conditional : arminius defined election as " the decree of