large hadron collider at cern. particles and their antiparticles have equal and opposite charges, so that an uncharged particle also gives rise to an uncharged antiparticle. in many cases, the antiparticle and the particle coincide : pairs of photons, z0 bosons, mesons, and hypothetical gravitons and some hypothetical wimps all self - annihilate. however, electrically neutral particles need not be identical to their antiparticles : for example, the neutron and antineutron are distinct. history experiment in 1932, soon after the prediction of positrons by paul dirac, carl d. anderson found that cosmic - ray collisions produced these particles in a cloud chamber – a particle detector in which moving electrons ( or positrons ) leave behind trails as they move through the gas. the electric charge - to - mass ratio of a particle can be measured by observing the radius of curling of its cloud - chamber track in a magnetic field. positrons, because of the direction that their paths curled, were at first mistaken for electrons travelling in the opposite direction. positron paths in a cloud - chamber trace the same helical path as an electron but rotate in the opposite direction with respect to the magnetic field direction due to their having the same magnitude of charge - to - mass ratio but with opposite charge and, therefore, opposite signed charge - to - mass ratios. the antiproton and antineutron were found by emilio segre and owen chamberlain in 1955 at the university of california, berkeley. since then, the antiparticles of many other subatomic particles have been created in particle accelerator experiments. in recent years, complete atoms of antimatter have been assembled out of antiprotons and positrons, collected in electromagnetic traps. dirac hole theory solutions of the dirac equation contain negative energy quantum states. as a result, an electron could always radiate energy and fall into a negative energy state. even worse, it could keep radiating infinite amounts of energy because there were infinitely many negative energy states available. to prevent this unphysical situation from happening, dirac proposed that a " sea " of negative - energy electrons fills the universe, already occupying all of the lower - energy states so that, due to the pauli exclusion principle, no other electron could fall into them. sometimes, however, one of these negative - energy particles could be lifted out of this dirac sea to become a positive - energy particle