level languages, there is a one - to - one correspondence between many simple assembly statements and machine language instructions. however, in some cases, an assembler may provide pseudoinstructions ( essentially macros ) which expand into several machine language instructions to provide commonly needed functionality. for example, for a machine that lacks a " branch if greater or equal " instruction, an assembler may provide a pseudoinstruction that expands to the machine ' s " set if less than " and " branch if zero ( on the result of the set instruction ) ". most full - featured assemblers also provide a rich macro language ( discussed below ) which is used by vendors and programmers to generate more complex code and data sequences. since the information about pseudoinstructions and macros defined in the assembler environment is not present in the object program, a disassembler cannot reconstruct the macro and pseudoinstruction invocations but can only disassemble the actual machine instructions that the assembler generated from those abstract assembly - language entities. likewise, since comments in the assembly language source file are ignored by the assembler and have no effect on the object code it generates, a disassembler is always completely unable to recover source comments. each computer architecture has its own machine language. computers differ in the number and type of operations they support, in the different sizes and numbers of registers, and in the representations of data in storage. while most general - purpose computers are able to carry out essentially the same functionality, the ways they do so differ ; the corresponding assembly languages reflect these differences. multiple sets of mnemonics or assembly - language syntax may exist for a single instruction set, typically instantiated in different assembler programs. in these cases, the most popular one is usually that supplied by the cpu manufacturer and used in its documentation. two examples of cpus that have two different sets of mnemonics are the intel 8080 family and the intel 8086 / 8088. because intel claimed copyright on its assembly language mnemonics ( on each page of their documentation published in the 1970s and early 1980s, at least ), some companies that independently produced cpus compatible with intel instruction sets invented their own mnemonics. the zilog z80 cpu, an enhancement of the intel 8080a, supports all the 8080a instructions plus many more ; zilog invented an entirely new assembly language, not only for the new instructions but also for all of the 8080a instructions. for example,