to the theory ) a bright spot in the center of the shadow, illuminated as brightly as the exterior. this seems to have been intended as a reductio ad absurdum. arago, undeterred, assembled an experiment with an obstacle 2mm in diameter — and there, in the center of the shadow, was poisson ' s spot. the unanimous report of the committee, read at the meeting of the academie on 15 march 1819, awarded the prize to " the memoir marked no. 2, and bearing as epigraph : natura simplex et fecunda. " at the same meeting, after the judgment was delivered, the president of the academie opened a sealed note accompanying the memoir, revealing the author as fresnel. the award was announced at the public meeting of the academie a week later, on 22 march. arago ' s verification of poisson ' s counter - intuitive prediction passed into folklore as if it had decided the prize. that view, however, is not supported by the judges ' report, which gave the matter only two sentences in the penultimate paragraph. neither did fresnel ' s triumph immediately convert laplace, biot, and poisson to the wave theory, for at least four reasons. first, although the professionalization of science in france had established common standards, it was one thing to acknowledge a piece of research as meeting those standards, and another thing to regard it as conclusive. second, it was possible to interpret fresnel ' s integrals as rules for combining rays. arago even encouraged that interpretation, presumably in order to minimize resistance to fresnel ' s ideas. even biot began teaching the huygens - fresnel principle without committing himself to a wave basis. third, fresnel ' s theory did not adequately explain the mechanism of generation of secondary waves or why they had any significant angular spread ; this issue particularly bothered poisson. fourth, the question that most exercised optical physicists at that time was not diffraction, but polarization — on which fresnel had been working, but was yet to make his critical breakthrough. polarization background : emissionism and selectionism an emission theory of light was one that regarded the propagation of light as the transport of some kind of matter. while the corpuscular theory was obviously an emission theory, the converse did not follow : in principle, one could be an emissionist without being a corpuscularist. this was convenient because, beyond the ordinary laws of reflection and refraction, emissionists