fully, the production of steel in decent quantities did not occur until the introduction of blister steel during the middle ages. this method introduced carbon by heating wrought iron in charcoal for long periods of time, but the absorption of carbon in this manner is extremely slow thus the penetration was not very deep, so the alloy was not homogeneous. in 1740, benjamin huntsman began melting blister steel in a crucible to even out the carbon content, creating the first process for the mass production of tool steel. huntsman ' s process was used for manufacturing tool steel until the early 1900s. the introduction of the blast furnace to europe in the middle ages meant that people could produce pig iron in much higher volumes than wrought iron. because pig iron could be melted, people began to develop processes to reduce carbon in liquid pig iron to create steel. puddling had been used in china since the first century, and was introduced in europe during the 1700s, where molten pig iron was stirred while exposed to the air, to remove the carbon by oxidation. in 1858, henry bessemer developed a process of steel - making by blowing hot air through liquid pig iron to reduce the carbon content. the bessemer process led to the first large scale manufacture of steel. steel is an alloy of iron and carbon, but the term alloy steel usually only refers to steels that contain other elements — like vanadium, molybdenum, or cobalt — in amounts sufficient to alter the properties of the base steel. since ancient times, when steel was used primarily for tools and weapons, the methods of producing and working the metal were often closely guarded secrets. even long after the age of reason, the steel industry was very competitive and manufacturers went through great lengths to keep their processes confidential, resisting any attempts to scientifically analyze the material for fear it would reveal their methods. for example, the people of sheffield, a center of steel production in england, were known to routinely bar visitors and tourists from entering town to deter industrial espionage. thus, almost no metallurgical information existed about steel until 1860. because of this lack of understanding, steel was not generally considered an alloy until the decades between 1930 and 1970 ( primarily due to the work of scientists like william chandler roberts - austen, adolf martens, and edgar bain ), so " alloy steel " became the popular term for ternary and quaternary steel - alloys. after benjamin huntsman developed his crucible steel in 1740, he began experimenting with the addition of elements like manganese ( in the