afghanistan, officially the islamic emirate of afghanistan, is a landlocked country located at the crossroads of central asia and south asia. referred to as the heart of asia, it is bordered by pakistan to the east and south, iran to the west, turkmenistan to the northwest, uzbekistan to the north, tajikistan to the northeast, and china to the northeast and east. occupying of land, the country is predominantly mountainous with plains in the north and the southwest, which are separated by the hindu kush mountain range. kabul is the country ' s largest city and serves as its capital. according to the world population review,, afghanistan ' s population is 40. 2 million the national statistics information authority of afghanistan estimated the population to be 32. 9 million. human habitation in afghanistan dates to the middle paleolithic era. popularly referred to as the graveyard of empires, the land has historically been home to various peoples and has witnessed numerous military campaigns, including those by the persians, alexander the great, the maurya empire, arab muslims, the mongols, the british, the soviet union, and a us - led coalition. afghanistan also served as the source from which the greco - bactrians and the mughals, amongst others, rose to form major empires. the various conquests and periods in both the iranian and indian cultural spheres made the area a center for zoroastrianism, buddhism, hinduism, and later islam. the modern state of afghanistan began with the durrani afghan empire in the 18th century, although dost mohammad khan is sometimes considered to be the founder of the first modern afghan state. dost mohammad died in 1863, days after his last campaign to unite afghanistan, and afghanistan was consequently thrown back into civil war. during this time, afghanistan became a buffer state in the great game between the british empire and the russian empire. from india, the british attempted to subjugate afghanistan but were repelled in the first anglo - afghan war. however, the second anglo - afghan war saw a british victory and the successful establishment of british political influence. following the third anglo - afghan war in 1919, afghanistan became free of foreign political hegemony, and emerged as the independent kingdom of afghanistan in june 1926 under amanullah khan. this monarchy lasted almost half a century, until zahir shah was overthrown in 1973, following which the republic of afghanistan was established. since the late 1970s, afghanistan ' s history has been dominated by extensive warfare, including coups, invasions, insurgencies, and civil wars. the