increase above 1, the evidence is increasingly inconsistent with the null hypothesis. two apparent experimental methods of increasing f are increasing the sample size and reducing the error variance by tight experimental controls. there are two methods of concluding the anova hypothesis test, both of which produce the same result : the textbook method is to compare the observed value of f with the critical value of f determined from tables. the critical value of f is a function of the degrees of freedom of the numerator and the denominator and the significance level ( α ). if f ≥ fcritical, the null hypothesis is rejected. the computer method calculates the probability ( p - value ) of a value of f greater than or equal to the observed value. the null hypothesis is rejected if this probability is less than or equal to the significance level ( α ). the anova f - test is known to be nearly optimal in the sense of minimizing false negative errors for a fixed rate of false positive errors ( i. e. maximizing power for a fixed significance level ). for example, to test the hypothesis that various medical treatments have exactly the same effect, the f - test ' s p - values closely approximate the permutation test ' s p - values : the approximation is particularly close when the design is balanced. such permutation tests characterize tests with maximum power against all alternative hypotheses, as observed by rosenbaum. the anova f - test ( of the null - hypothesis that all treatments have exactly the same effect ) is recommended as a practical test, because of its robustness against many alternative distributions. extended algorithm anova consists of separable parts ; partitioning sources of variance and hypothesis testing can be used individually. anova is used to support other statistical tools. regression is first used to fit more complex models to data, then anova is used to compare models with the objective of selecting simple ( r ) models that adequately describe the data. " such models could be fit without any reference to anova, but anova tools could then be used to make some sense of the fitted models, and to test hypotheses about batches of coefficients. " " [ w ] e think of the analysis of variance as a way of understanding and structuring multilevel models — not as an alternative to regression but as a tool for summarizing complex high - dimensional inferences... " for a single factor the simplest experiment suitable for anova analysis is the completely randomized experiment with a single factor. more