, as certain assumptions are made, to wit : the affidavit in place of sworn testimony promotes judicial economy. the lawyer is an officer of the court and knows that a false swearing by them, if found out, could be grounds for severe penalty up to and including disbarment. the lawyer if called upon would be able to present independent and more detailed evidence to prove the facts set forth in his affidavit. affidavits should not be confused with unsworn declarations under penalty of perjury. in federal courts and about 20 states as of 2006, unsworn declarations under penalty of perjury are authorized by statute as acceptable in lieu of affidavits. the key differences are that an unsworn declaration does not bear the jurat of a notary public and the declarant is not required to swear an oath or affirmation. rather, the signature of the declarant under a carefully worded phrase binding them to the truth of their statements " under penalty of perjury " is deemed as a matter of law to be sufficiently solemn to remind the declarant of their duty to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. the point of such affidavit substitution statutes is that unsworn declarations can be prepared and executed far more quickly and economically than affidavits, in that the witness need not meet personally with a notary public for the notarization process. the acceptance of an affidavit by one society does not confirm its acceptance as a legal document in other jurisdictions. equally, the acceptance that a lawyer is an officer of the court ( for swearing the affidavit ) is not a given. this matter is addressed by the use of the apostille, a means of certifying the legalization of a document for international use under the terms of the 1961 hague convention abolishing the requirement of legalization for foreign public documents. documents which have been notarized by a notary public, and certain other documents, and then certified with a conformant apostille, are accepted for legal use in all the nations that have signed the hague convention. thus most affidavits now require to be apostilled if used for cross border issues. see also declaration ( law ) deposition ( law ) fishman affidavit, a well - known example of an affidavit performativity statutory declaration sworn declaration references evidence law legal documents notary