, 000 prisoners were taken and the continental army in the south effectively destroyed. on may 29, lieutenant - colonel banastre tarleton ' s mainly loyalist force routed a continental army force nearly three times its size under the command of colonel abraham buford at the battle of waxhaws. the battle is controversial for allegations of a massacre, which were later used as a recruiting tool by the patriots. clinton returned to new york, leaving cornwallis to oversee the south ; despite their success, the two men left barely on speaking terms, with dire consequences for the future conduct of the war. the southern strategy depended on local support, but this was undermined by a series of coercive measures. previously, captured patriots were sent home after swearing not to take up arms against the king ; they were now required to fight their former comrades, while the confiscation of patriot - owned plantations led formerly neutral " grandees " to side with them. skirmishes at williamson ' s plantation, cedar springs, rocky mount, and hanging rock signaled widespread resistance to the new oaths throughout south carolina. in july 1780, congress appointed general horatio gates commander in the south ; he was defeated at the battle of camden on august 16, leaving cornwallis free to enter north carolina. despite battlefield success, the british could not control the countryside and patriot attacks continued ; before moving north, cornwallis sent loyalist militia under major patrick ferguson to cover his left flank, leaving their forces too far apart to provide mutual support. in early october, ferguson was defeated at the battle of kings mountain, dispersing organized loyalist resistance in the region. despite this, cornwallis continued into north carolina hoping for loyalist support, while washington replaced gates with general nathanael greene in december 1780. greene divided his army, leading his main force southeast pursued by cornwallis ; a detachment was sent southwest under daniel morgan, who defeated tarleton ' s british legion at cowpens on january 17, 1781, nearly eliminating it as a fighting force. the patriots now held the initiative in the south, with the exception of a raid on richmond led by benedict arnold in january 1781. greene led cornwallis on a series of countermarches around north carolina ; by early march, the british were exhausted and short of supplies and greene felt strong enough to fight the battle of guilford court house on march 15. although victorious, cornwallis suffered heavy casualties and retreated to wilmington, north carolina seeking supplies and reinforcements. the patriots now controlled most of the carolinas and georgia outside the coastal areas ; after a minor