her mother euphrosyne doukaina kamatera. in the hagia sophia constantine laskaris was acclaimed as emperor, but being unable to persuade the varangians to continue the fight, in the early hours of 13 april he also fled, leaving constantinople under crusader control. alexios v and his companions eventually reached mosynopolis, which had been occupied by the deposed emperor alexios iii angelos and his followers. at first they were well received, with alexios v marrying eudokia angelina. later, however, alexios iii arranged for his new son - in - law to be made captive and blinded, thereby rendering him ineligible for the imperial throne. having been abandoned by both his supporters and his father - in - law, alexios v was captured near mosynopolis, or possibly in anatolia, by the advancing latins under thierry de loos in november 1204. on his return to constantinople as a prisoner, alexios v was tried for treason against alexios iv. in his trial the blind ex - emperor argued that it was alexios iv who had committed treason to his country, through his intention to invite the crusaders to enter constantinople in force. on being condemned, he was executed by novel means : he was thrown to his death from the top of the column of theodosius. the new, alien, latin regime of conquerors in constantinople may have viewed the public trial and execution of the man who murdered the last " legitimate emperor " as a way to cast an aura of legitimacy on themselves. alexios v was the last byzantine emperor to reign in constantinople before the establishment of the latin empire, which controlled the city for the next 57 years, until it was recovered by the nicaean emperor michael viii palaiologos in 1261. see also list of byzantine emperors sack of constantinople ( 1204 ) references bibliography akropolites, g. the history, trans. ruth macrides ( 2007 ) oxford university press falk, a. ( 2010 ) franks and saracens : reality and fantasy in the crusades, karnac books giarenis, i. ( 2017 ) " the crisis of the fourth crusade in byzantium ( 1203 – 1204 ) and the emergence of networks for anti - latin reaction and political action ", mediterranean world, 23, pp. 73 – 80. head, c. ( 1980 ) " physical descriptions of the emperors in byzantine historical writing ", byzantion, vol. 50, no. 1 ( 1980 ), peeters