programming : " surely the most powerful stroke for software productivity, reliability, and simplicity has been the progressive use of high - level languages for programming. most observers credit that development with at least a factor of five in productivity, and with concomitant gains in reliability, simplicity, and comprehensibility. " today, it is typical to use small amounts of assembly language code within larger systems implemented in a higher - level language, for performance reasons or to interact directly with hardware in ways unsupported by the higher - level language. for instance, just under 2 % of version 4. 9 of the linux kernel source code is written in assembly ; more than 97 % is written in c. assembly language syntax assembly language uses a mnemonic to represent, e. g., each low - level machine instruction or opcode, each directive, typically also each architectural register, flag, etc. some of the mnemonics may be built in and some user defined. many operations require one or more operands in order to form a complete instruction. most assemblers permit named constants, registers, and labels for program and memory locations, and can calculate expressions for operands. thus, programmers are freed from tedious repetitive calculations and assembler programs are much more readable than machine code. depending on the architecture, these elements may also be combined for specific instructions or addressing modes using offsets or other data as well as fixed addresses. many assemblers offer additional mechanisms to facilitate program development, to control the assembly process, and to aid debugging. some are column oriented, with specific fields in specific columns ; this was very common for machines using punched cards in the 1950s and early 1960s. some assemblers have free - form syntax, with fields separated by delimiters, e. g., punctuation, white space. some assemblers are hybrid, with, e. g., labels, in a specific column and other fields separated by delimiters ; this became more common than column oriented syntax in the 1960s. terminology a macro assembler is an assembler that includes a macroinstruction facility so that ( parameterized ) assembly language text can be represented by a name, and that name can be used to insert the expanded text into other code. open code refers to any assembler input outside of a macro definition. a cross assembler ( see also cross compiler ) is an assembler that is run on a computer or operating system ( the host system ) of a different type from the system on which the