lunz reprinted the book in 1896. menahem mendel of kamenitz, considered the first hotelier in the land of israel, wrote about the tomb of abner is his 1839 book korot ha - itim, which was translated into english as the book of the occurrences of the times to jeshurun in the land of israel. he states, " here i write of the graves of the righteous to which i paid my respects. hebron – described above is the character and order of behavior of those coming to pray at the cave of ha - machpelah. i went there, between the stores, over the grave of avner ben ner and was required to pay a yishmaeli – the grave was in his courtyard – to allow me to enter. " the author and traveler j. j. benjamin mentioned visiting the tomb in his book eight years in asia and africa ( 1859, hanover ). he states, " on leaving the sepulchre of the patriarchs, and proceeding on the road leading to the jewish quarter, to the left of the courtyard, is seen a turkish dwelling house, by the side of which is a small grotto, to which there is a descent of several steps. this is the tomb of abner, captain of king saul. it is held in much esteem by the arabs, and the proprietor of it takes care that it is always kept in the best order. he requires from those who visit it a small gratuity. " the british scholar israel abrahams wrote in his 1912 book the book of delight and other papers, " hebron was the seat of david ' s rule over judea. abner was slain here by joab, and was buried here – they still show abner ' s tomb in the garden of a large house within the city. by the pool at hebron were slain the murderers of ishbosheth... " over the years the tomb fell into disrepair and neglect. it was closed to the public in 1994. in 1996, a group of 12 israeli women filed a petition with the supreme court requesting the government to reopen the tomb of abner. more requests were made over the years < ref > { { cite web | title = articles by david wilder : the mystery of the tomb of avner ben ner or understanding uzis whims | url = http : / / davidwilder. blogspot. co. il / 1997 / 05 / mystery - of - tomb - of - avner