– 1935 ) kurosawa was born on march 23, 1910, in oimachi in the omori district of tokyo. his father isamu ( 1864 – 1948 ), a member of a samurai family from akita prefecture, worked as the director of the army ' s physical education institute ' s lower secondary school, while his mother shima ( 1870 – 1952 ) came from a merchant ' s family living in osaka. akira was the eighth and youngest child of the moderately wealthy family, with two of his siblings already grown up at the time of his birth and one deceased, leaving kurosawa to grow up with three sisters and a brother. in addition to promoting physical exercise, isamu kurosawa was open to western traditions and considered theatre and motion pictures to have educational merit. he encouraged his children to watch films ; young akira viewed his first movies at the age of six. an important formative influence was his elementary school teacher mr. tachikawa, whose progressive educational practices ignited in his young pupil first a love of drawing and then an interest in education in general. during this time, the boy also studied calligraphy and kendo swordsmanship. another major childhood influence was heigo kurosawa ( 1906 - 1933 ), akira ' s older brother by four years. in the aftermath of the great kanto earthquake and the subsequent kanto massacre of 1923, heigo took the thirteen - year - old akira to view the devastation. when the younger brother wanted to look away from the corpses of humans and animals scattered everywhere, heigo forbade him to do so, encouraging akira instead to face his fears by confronting them directly. some commentators have suggested that this incident would influence kurosawa ' s later artistic career, as the director was seldom hesitant to confront unpleasant truths in his work. heigo was academically gifted, but soon after failing to secure a place in tokyo ' s foremost high school, he began to detach himself from the rest of the family, preferring to concentrate on his interest in foreign literature. in the late 1920s, heigo became a benshi ( silent film narrator ) for tokyo theaters showing foreign films and quickly made a name for himself. akira, who at this point planned to become a painter, moved in with him, and the two brothers became inseparable. with heigo ' s guidance, akira devoured not only films but also theater and circus performances, while exhibiting his paintings and working for the left - wing proletarian artists ' league. however, he was never able to make a living