advanced chemistry is a german hip hop group from heidelberg, a scenic city in baden - wurttemberg, south germany. advanced chemistry was founded in 1987 by toni l, linguist, gee - one, dj mike md ( mike dippon ) and mc torch. each member of the group holds german citizenship, and toni l, linguist, and torch are of italian, ghanaian, and haitian backgrounds, respectively. influenced by north american socially conscious rap and the native tongues movement, advanced chemistry is regarded as one of the main pioneers in german hip hop. they were one of the first groups to rap in german ( although their name is in english ). furthermore, their songs tackled controversial social and political issues, distinguishing them from early german hip hop group " die fantastischen vier " ( the fantastic four ), which had a more light - hearted, playful, party image. career advanced chemistry frequently rapped about their lives and experiences as children of immigrants, exposing the marginalization experienced by most ethnic minorities in germany, and the feelings of frustration and resentment that being denied a german identity can cause. the song " fremd im eigenen land " ( foreign in your own nation ) was released by advanced chemistry in november 1992. the single became a staple in the german hip hop scene. it made a strong statement about the status of immigrants throughout germany, as the group was composed of multi - national and multi - racial members. the video shows several members brandishing their german passports as a demonstration of their german citizenship to skeptical and unaccepting ' ethnic ' germans. this idea of national identity is important, as many rap artists in germany have been of foreign origin. these so - called gastarbeiter ( guest workers ) children saw breakdance, graffiti, rap music, and hip hop culture as a means of expressing themselves. since the release of " fremd im eigenen land ", many other german - language rappers have also tried to confront anti - immigrant ideas and develop themes of citizenship. however, though many ethnic minority youth in germany find these german identity themes appealing, others view the desire of immigrants to be seen as german negatively, and they have actively sought to revive and recreate concepts of identity in connection to traditional ethnic origins. advanced chemistry helped to found the german chapter of the zulu nation. the rivalry between advanced chemistry and die fantastischen vier has served to highlight a dichotomy in the routes that hip hop has taken in becoming a part of the german soundscape. while die fantastischen