andrew johnson ( december 29, 1808july 31, 1875 ) was the 17th president of the united states, serving from 1865 to 1869. he assumed the presidency following the assassination of abraham lincoln, as he was vice president at that time. johnson was a democrat who ran with lincoln on the national union party ticket, coming to office as the civil war concluded. he favored quick restoration of the seceded states to the union without protection for the newly freed people who were formerly enslaved. this led to conflict with the republican - dominated congress, culminating in his impeachment by the house of representatives in 1868. he was acquitted in the senate by one vote. johnson was born into poverty and never attended school. he was apprenticed as a tailor and worked in several frontier towns before settling in greeneville, tennessee. he served as alderman and mayor there before being elected to the tennessee house of representatives in 1835. after briefly serving in the tennessee senate, johnson was elected to the house of representatives in 1843, where he served five two - year terms. he became governor of tennessee for four years, and was elected by the legislature to the senate in 1857. during his congressional service, he sought passage of the homestead bill which was enacted soon after he left his senate seat in 1862. southern slave states seceded to form the confederate states of america, including tennessee, but johnson remained firmly with the union. he was the only sitting senator from a confederate state who did not resign his seat upon learning of his state ' s secession. in 1862, lincoln appointed him as military governor of tennessee after most of it had been retaken. in 1864, johnson was a logical choice as running mate for lincoln, who wished to send a message of national unity in his re - election campaign, and became vice president after a victorious election in 1864. johnson implemented his own form of presidential reconstruction, a series of proclamations directing the seceded states to hold conventions and elections to reform their civil governments. southern states returned many of their old leaders and passed black codes to deprive the freedmen of many civil liberties, but congressional republicans refused to seat legislators from those states and advanced legislation to overrule the southern actions. johnson vetoed their bills, and congressional republicans overrode him, setting a pattern for the remainder of his presidency. johnson opposed the fourteenth amendment which gave citizenship to former slaves. in 1866, he went on an unprecedented national tour promoting his executive policies, seeking to break republican opposition. as the conflict grew between the branches of government, congress passed the tenure of