##ble particles is an old idea that appeared in many ancient cultures. the word atom is derived from the ancient greek word atomos, which means " uncuttable ". this ancient idea was based in philosophical reasoning rather than scientific reasoning. modern atomic theory is not based on these old concepts. in the early 19th century, the scientist john dalton noticed that chemical elements seemed to combine with each other by discrete units of weight, and he decided to use the word " atom " to refer to these units, as he thought these were the fundamental units of matter. about a century later it was discovered that dalton ' s atoms are not actually indivisible, but the term stuck. dalton ' s law of multiple proportions in the early 1800s, the english chemist john dalton compiled experimental data gathered by him and other scientists and discovered a pattern now known as the " law of multiple proportions ". he noticed that in chemical compounds which contain a particular chemical element, the content of that element in these compounds will differ in weight by ratios of small whole numbers. this pattern suggested that each chemical element combines with other elements by a basic unit of weight, and dalton decided to call these units " atoms ". for example, there are two types of tin oxide : one is a grey powder that is 88. 1 % tin and 11. 9 % oxygen, and the other is a white powder that is 78. 7 % tin and 21. 3 % oxygen. adjusting these figures, in the grey powder there is about 13. 5 g of oxygen for every 100 g of tin, and in the white powder there is about 27 g of oxygen for every 100 g of tin. 13. 5 and 27 form a ratio of 1 : 2. dalton concluded that in these oxides, for every tin atom there are one or two oxygen atoms respectively ( sno and sno2 ). dalton also analyzed iron oxides. there is one type of iron oxide that is a black powder which is 78. 1 % iron and 21. 9 % oxygen ; and there is another iron oxide that is a red powder which is 70. 4 % iron and 29. 6 % oxygen. adjusting these figures, in the black powder there is about 28 g of oxygen for every 100 g of iron, and in the red powder there is about 42 g of oxygen for every 100 g of iron. 28 and 42 form a ratio of 2 : 3. dalton concluded that in these oxides, for every two atoms of iron, there are two or three atoms of oxygen respectively ( fe2o