in england, while he was returning to his russian prison. in denmark, he was able to enjoy joining his children, nephews and nieces, in muddy ponds looking for tadpoles, sneaking into his father - in - law ' s orchard to steal apples, and playing pranks, such as turning a water hose on the visiting king oscar ii of sweden. alexander had an extremely poor relationship with his brother grand duke vladimir. at a restaurant, grand duke vladimir had a brawl with the french actor lucien guitry when the latter kissed his wife, duchess marie of mecklenburg - schwerin. the prefect of st. petersburg needed to escort vladimir out of the restaurant. alexander was so furious that he temporarily exiled vladimir and his wife and threatened to exile them permanently to siberia if they did not leave immediately. when alexander and his family survived the borki train disaster in 1888, alexander joked, " i can imagine how disappointed vladimir is going to be when he learns that we all stayed alive! " this tension was reflected in the rivalry between maria feodorovna and vladimir ' s wife, grand duchess marie pavlovna. alexander had better relationships with his other brothers : alexei ( who he made rear admiral and then a grand admiral of the russian navy ), sergei ( who he made governor of moscow ) and paul. despite the antipathy that alexander had towards his stepmother, catherine dolgorukov, he nevertheless allowed her to remain in the winter palace for some time after his father ' s assassination and to retain various keepsakes of him. these included alexander ii ' s blood - soaked uniform that he died wearing, and his reading glasses. even though he disliked their mother, alexander was kind to his half - siblings. his youngest half - sister princess catherine alexandrovna yurievskaya remembered when he would play with her and her siblings : " the emperor... seemed a playful and kind goliath among all the romping children. " on the imperial train derailed in an accident at borki. at the moment of the crash, the imperial family was in the dining car. its roof collapsed, and alexander held its remains on his shoulders as the children fled outdoors. the onset of alexander ' s kidney failure was later attributed to the blunt trauma suffered in this incident. illness and death in 1894, alexander iii became ill with terminal kidney disease ( nephritis ). his first cousin, queen olga of greece, offered him to stay at her villa mon repos, on the island of corf