greeks in order to teach them directly. historian elizabeth eisenstein claims that the fall of constantinople in 1453 had placed under threat the importance and survival of greek scholarship, but that publications such as those by the aldine press secured it once more. erasmus was one of the scholars learned in greek with whom the aldine press partnered in order to provide accurately translated text. the aldine press also expanded into modern languages, mainly italian and french. humanist typefaces aldus manutius eventually took on a project to improve upon the humanistic font designs of jenson ' s typefaces, hiring francesco griffo to design and cut typefaces for his print editions of classical literature. humanistic fonts, based on the formal hand of renaissance humanist scribes and notaries, had been in development from the time movable print arrived in italy, notably by nicolas jenson in 1470. griffo developed his own further refinements of style, resulting in one of the earliest roman typefaces produced. italic typeface adapting this admired and influential roman - faced font, manutius and griffo went on to produce a cursive variant, the first of what is now known as italic type. the word italic is derived from early italian versions of italic faces, which were designed primarily in order to save on the cost of paper. the aldine press first used italic type in a woodcut of saint catherine of siena in 1500. their 1501 edition of virgil ' s opera was the first book to be printed in italic type. the roman typeface and italic form created and pioneered by aldus manutius and francesco griffo were highly influential in typographic development. portable books ( or libelli portatiles ) beginning in 1505 manutius produced plain texts in a portable form, using the term enchiridion, meaning " handbook " ( later misnamed " pocketbook " ). the octavo was the first version of the editio minor. although these new, portable books were not cheap, the books of the aldine press did not force upon their buyers a substantial investment comparable to that of large volumes of text and commentary during this era. these books consisted on an edited text issued without commentary, printed in a typeface mimicking chancery script ( the cursive handwriting of the humanist ), produced in a small book which could sit comfortably in the hand. the editio minor, in many ways, brought financial and logistical