signatories were, at least nominally, anglican. for these american patriots, even the forms of anglican services were in doubt, since the prayer book rites of matins, evensong, and holy communion all included specific prayers for the british royal family. consequently, the conclusion of the war of independence eventually resulted in the creation of two new anglican churches, the episcopal church in the united states in those states that had achieved independence ; and in the 1830s the church of england in canada became independent from the church of england in those north american colonies which had remained under british control and to which many loyalist churchmen had migrated. reluctantly, legislation was passed in the british parliament ( the consecration of bishops abroad act 1786 ) to allow bishops to be consecrated for an american church outside of allegiance to the british crown ( since no dioceses had ever been established in the former american colonies ). both in the united states and in canada, the new anglican churches developed novel models of self - government, collective decision - making, and self - supported financing ; that would be consistent with separation of religious and secular identities. in the following century, two further factors acted to accelerate the development of a distinct anglican identity. from 1828 and 1829, dissenters and catholics could be elected to the house of commons, which consequently ceased to be a body drawn purely from the established churches of scotland, england, and ireland ; but which nevertheless, over the following ten years, engaged in extensive reforming legislation affecting the interests of the english and irish churches ; which, by the acts of union of 1800, had been reconstituted as the united church of england and ireland. the propriety of this legislation was bitterly contested by the oxford movement ( tractarians ), who in response developed a vision of anglicanism as religious tradition deriving ultimately from the ecumenical councils of the patristic church. those within the church of england opposed to the tractarians, and to their revived ritual practices, introduced a stream of bills in parliament aimed to control innovations in worship. this only made the dilemma more acute, with consequent continual litigation in the secular and ecclesiastical courts. over the same period, anglican churches engaged vigorously in christian missions, resulting in the creation, by the end of the century, of over ninety colonial bishoprics, which gradually coalesced into new self - governing churches on the canadian and american models. however, the case of john colenso, bishop of natal, reinstated in 1865 by the english judicial committee of the privy council over the heads of the church in south africa, demonstrated acute