, and agreed, to host protesters as spectators at the launch, and abernathy, awestruck by the spectacle, prayed for the astronauts. racial and financial inequalities frustrated citizens who wondered why money spent on the apollo program was not spent taking care of humans on earth. a poem by gil scott - heron called " whitey on the moon " ( 1970 ) illustrated the racial inequality in the united states that was highlighted by the space race. the poem starts with : twenty percent of the world ' s population watched humans walk on the moon for the first time. while apollo 11 sparked the interest of the world, the follow - on apollo missions did not hold the interest of the nation. one possible explanation was the shift in complexity. landing someone on the moon was an easy goal to understand ; lunar geology was too abstract for the average person. another is that kennedy ' s goal of landing humans on the moon had already been accomplished. a well - defined objective helped project apollo accomplish its goal, but after it was completed it was hard to justify continuing the lunar missions. while most americans were proud of their nation ' s achievements in space exploration, only once during the late 1960s did the gallup poll indicate that a majority of americans favored " doing more " in space as opposed to " doing less ". by 1973, 59 percent of those polled favored cutting spending on space exploration. the space race had been won, and cold war tensions were easing as the us and soviet union entered the era of detente. this was also a time when inflation was rising, which put pressure on the government to reduce spending. what saved the space program was that it was one of the few government programs that had achieved something great. drastic cuts, warned caspar weinberger, the deputy director of the office of management and budget, might send a signal that " our best years are behind us ". after the apollo 11 mission, officials from the soviet union said landing humans on the moon was dangerous and unnecessary. at the time the soviet union was attempting to retrieve lunar samples robotically. the soviets publicly denied there was a race to the moon, and indicated they were not making an attempt. mstislav keldysh said in july 1969, " we are concentrating wholly on the creation of large satellite systems. " it was revealed in 1989 that the soviets had tried to send people to the moon, but were unable due to technological difficulties. the public ' s reaction in the soviet union was mixed. the soviet government limited the release of information about the lunar