in april 2022 to celebrate spider - man ' s 60th anniversary. since the third volume, the title has had various release schedules, including monthly and bi - weekly, among others. publication history writer - editor stan lee and artist and co - plotter steve ditko created the character of spider - man, and the pair produced 38 issues from march 1963 to july 1966. ditko left after the 38th issue, while lee remained as writer until issue 100. since then, many writers and artists have taken over the monthly comic through the years, chronicling the adventures of marvel ' s most identifiable hero. the amazing spider - man has been the character ' s flagship series for his first fifty years in publication, and was the only monthly series to star spider - man until peter parker, the spectacular spider - man, in 1976, although 1972 saw the debut of marvel team - up, with the vast majority of issues featuring spider - man along with a rotating cast of other marvel characters. most of the major characters and villains of the spider - man saga have been introduced in amazing, and with few exceptions, it is where most key events in the character ' s history have occurred. the title was published continuously until no. 441 ( nov. 1998 ) when marvel comics relaunched it as vol. 2 no. 1 ( jan. 1999 ), but on spider - man ' s 40th anniversary, this new title reverted to using the numbering of the original series, beginning again with issue no. 500 ( dec. 2003 ) and lasting until the final issue, no. 700 ( feb. 2013 ). 1960s due to strong sales on the character ' s first appearance in amazing fantasy no. 15, spider - man was given his own ongoing series in march 1963. the initial years of the series, under lee and ditko, chronicled spider - man ' s nascent career as a masked super - human vigilante with his civilian life as hard - luck yet perpetually good - humored and well - meaning teenager peter parker. peter balanced his career as spider - man with his job as a freelance photographer for the daily bugle under the bombastic editor - publisher j. jonah jameson to support himself and his frail aunt may. at the same time, peter dealt with public hostility towards spider - man and the antagonism of his classmates flash thompson and liz allan at midtown high school, while embarking on a tentative, ill - fated romance with jameson ' s secretary, betty brant. by focusing on parker ' s everyday problems, lee and