of honour, hospitality, treachery, and revenge. the first compilation of albanian folk music was made by two himariot musicians, neco muka and koco cakali, in paris, during their work with albanian soprano tefta tashko - koco. several gramophone compilations were recorded at the time by the three artists, which eventually led to the recognition of albanian iso - polyphony as a unesco intangible cultural heritage. is a traditional albanian song contest organised by the national broadcaster radio televizioni shqiptar ( rtsh ). the festival is celebrated annually since its inauguration in 1962 and has launched the careers of some of albania ' s most successful singers including vace zela and parashqevi simaku. it is significantly a music competition among albanian performers presenting unreleased songs in premiere, composed by albanian authors and voted by juries or by public. contemporary artists rita ora, bebe rexha, era istrefi, dua lipa, ava max, bleona, elvana gjata, ermonela jaho, and inva mula have achieved international recognition for their music, while soprano ermonela jaho has been described by some as the " world ' s most acclaimed soprano ". albanian opera singer saimir pirgu was nominated for the 2017 grammy award. literature the cultural renaissance was first of all expressed through the development of the albanian language in the area of church texts and publications. the protestant reforms invigorated hopes for the development of the local language and literary tradition, when cleric gjon buzuku translated the catholic liturgy into albanian, trying to do for albanian what martin luther had done for german. meshari ( the missal ) written by gjon buzuku was published in 1555 and is considered one of the first literary work of written albanian during the middle ages. the refined level of the language and the stabilised orthography must be the result of an earlier tradition of written albanian, a tradition that is not well understood. however, there is some fragmented evidence, pre - dating buzuku, which indicates that albanian was written from at least the 14th century. albanian writings from these centuries must not have been religious texts only, but historical chronicles too. they are mentioned by the humanist marin barleti, who in his book siege of shkoder ( rrethimi i shkodres ) from 1504, confirms that he leafed through such chronicles written in the language of the people