. when released from his chains, he becomes a godlike entity named demiurge. the 2018 video game darksiders iii features a demon named abraxis. south korean band bts ' s videos frequently mention abraxas and much of their storyline is based around the deity. in 1970, the second studio album of latin rock band santana was named abraxas, derived from a passage in the hermann hesse novel demian. in 1987 the abraxas foundation was founded by boyd rice as a social darwinist think tank. in the 2018 thriller mandy, the " horn of abraxas " is a sort of stone flute with magical properties. brother swan uses it to summon the black skulls, a demonic biker gang. in the 2019 role - playing game fire emblem : three houses, abraxas is the name of a damage - dealing faith spell. on their 2004 album lemuria, symphonic metal band therion has a track titled abraxas, with lyrics delving into the gnostic mythologies of the word. in the 2010 song " lead poisoning " by alkaline trio, matt skiba sings the line " now i pray to abraxas my soul to keep ". in season 1, episode 2 of netflix ' s 2020 animated show the midnight gospel the main character, clancy gilroy, purchases an avatar named braxis, which he then uses to explore alternate universes. braxis looks like the traditional images of abraxas where the creature has a human body and the head of a rooster. like the traditional images, braxis has serpents for legs and his arms are also like those in traditional representations. in the 2018 video game assassin ' s creed odyssey, abraxas is the name of the legendary fiery horse the player acquires if they reach the tier 1 level in the hierarchy of mercenaries. in j. k. rowling ' s harry potter series ( 1997 – 2007 ), abraxas is the name of lucius malfoy ' s father, as well as the name of a race of winged horses in the same fictional world. in the 2015 sci - fi / action movie jupiter ascending, the most powerful family in the cosmos known as the house of abrasax. abraxas, in the gnostic role of great archon, is the antagonist of the 2021 video game cruelty squad. in the 2021 tv - adaptation of isaac asimov ' s foundation series, the abraxas conjecture is the