they are supersaturated with the secondary constituents. as time passes, the atoms of these supersaturated alloys can separate from the crystal lattice, becoming more stable, and forming a second phase that serves to reinforce the crystals internally. some alloys, such as electrum — an alloy of silver and gold — occur naturally. meteorites are sometimes made of naturally occurring alloys of iron and nickel, but are not native to the earth. one of the first alloys made by humans was bronze, which is a mixture of the metals tin and copper. bronze was an extremely useful alloy to the ancients, because it is much stronger and harder than either of its components. steel was another common alloy. however, in ancient times, it could only be created as an accidental byproduct from the heating of iron ore in fires ( smelting ) during the manufacture of iron. other ancient alloys include pewter, brass and pig iron. in the modern age, steel can be created in many forms. carbon steel can be made by varying only the carbon content, producing soft alloys like mild steel or hard alloys like spring steel. alloy steels can be made by adding other elements, such as chromium, molybdenum, vanadium or nickel, resulting in alloys such as high - speed steel or tool steel. small amounts of manganese are usually alloyed with most modern steels because of its ability to remove unwanted impurities, like phosphorus, sulfur and oxygen, which can have detrimental effects on the alloy. however, most alloys were not created until the 1900s, such as various aluminium, titanium, nickel, and magnesium alloys. some modern superalloys, such as incoloy, inconel, and hastelloy, may consist of a multitude of different elements. an alloy is technically an impure metal, but when referring to alloys, the term impurities usually denotes undesirable elements. such impurities are introduced from the base metals and alloying elements, but are removed during processing. for instance, sulfur is a common impurity in steel. sulfur combines readily with iron to form iron sulfide, which is very brittle, creating weak spots in the steel. lithium, sodium and calcium are common impurities in aluminium alloys, which can have adverse effects on the structural integrity of castings. conversely, otherwise pure - metals that contain unwanted impurities are often called " impure metals " and are not usually referred to as alloys. oxygen, present in the air, readily combines with most metals to