##ism. afterward, he discovered soviet cinema, and sergei eisenstein ' s and vsevolod pudovkin ' s theories of montage. 1926 ' s the lodger was inspired by both german and soviet aesthetics, styles which solidified the rest of his career. although hitchcock ' s work in the 1920s found some success, several british reviewers criticised hitchcock ' s films for being unoriginal and conceited. raymond durgnat opined that hitchcock ' s films were carefully and intelligently constructed, but thought they can be shallow and rarely present a " coherent worldview ". earning the title " master of suspense ", the director experimented with ways to generate tension in his work. he said, " my suspense work comes out of creating nightmares for the audience. and i play with an audience. i make them gasp and surprise them and shock them. when you have a nightmare, it ' s awfully vivid if you ' re dreaming that you ' re being led to the electric chair. then you ' re as happy as can be when you wake up because you ' re relieved. " during filming of north by northwest, hitchcock explained his reasons for recreating the set of mount rushmore : " the audience responds in proportion to how realistic you make it. one of the dramatic reasons for this type of photography is to get it looking so natural that the audience gets involved and believes, for the time being, what ' s going on up there on the screen. " in a 1963 interview with italian journalist oriana fallaci, hitchcock was asked how in spite of appearing to be a pleasant, innocuous man, he seemed to enjoy making films involving suspense and terrifying crime. he responded : hitchcock ' s films, from the silent to the sound era, contained a number of recurring themes that he is famous for. his films explored audience as a voyeur, notably in rear window, marnie and psycho. he understood that human beings enjoy voyeuristic activities and made the audience participate in it through the character ' s actions. of his fifty - three films, eleven revolved around stories of mistaken identity, where an innocent protagonist is accused of a crime and is pursued by police. in most cases, it is an ordinary, everyday person who finds themselves in a dangerous situation. hitchcock told truffaut : " that ' s because the theme of the innocent man being accused, i feel, provides the audience with a greater sense of danger. it ' s easier for them to identify with him than with