saying : " tarkovsky for me is the greatest [ of us all ], the one who invented a new language, true to the nature of film, as it captures life as a reflection, life as a dream ". the japanese filmmaker akira kurosawa remarked on tarkovsky ' s films as saying : " his unusual sensitivity is both overwhelming and astounding. it almost reaches a pathological intensity. probably there is no equal among film directors alive now. " kurosawa also commented : " i love all of tarkovsky ' s films. i love his personality and all his works. every cut from his films is a marvelous image in itself. but the finished image is nothing more than the imperfect accomplishment of his idea. his ideas are only realized in part. and he had to make do with it. " the iranian filmmaker abbas kiarostami remarked that : " tarkovsky ' s works separate me completely from physical life, and are the most spiritual films i have seen ". the polish filmmaker krzysztof kieslowski commented that : " andrei tarkovsky was one of the greatest directors of recent years, " and regarded tarkovsky ' s film ivan ' s childhood as an influence on his own work. the turkish filmmaker nuri bilge ceylan said that when he first discovered the films of andrei tarkovsky as a college student, unsure of what he wanted to do with his life, he was utterly baffled by the lauded russian master. he walked out of a screening of solaris at the halfway point, and stopped a vhs tape of mirror at a similar juncture. today, he considers the latter to be the greatest film ever made. " i ' ve seen it maybe 20 times, " he says. the armenian filmmaker sergei parajanov remarked that watching tarkovsky ' s film, ivan ' s childhood was his main inspiration to become a filmmaker by saying : " i did not know how to do anything and i would not have done anything if there had not been ivan ' s childhood ". the austrian filmmaker michael haneke voted for mirror on his top 10 films in the 2002 sight & sound directors ' poll and later said that he has seen the picture at least 25 times. the german filmmaker wim wenders dedicated his film wings of desire to tarkovsky ( along with francois truffaut and yasujiro ozu ). the french filmmaker chris marker directed a documentary film as a homage to tarkovsky called one day in the life of andrei arsenevich and used tarkovsky ' s