course, leading his men into the battle of annual, one of spain ' s worst defeats. alfonso, who was on holiday in the south of france at the time, was informed of the " disaster of the annual " while he was playing golf. reportedly, alfonso ' s response to the news was to shrug his shoulders and say " chicken meat is cheap ", before resuming his game. alfonso remained in france and did not return to spain to comfort the families of the soldiers lost in the battle, which many people at the time saw as a callous and cold act, a sign that the king was indifferent over the lives of his soldiers. in 1922, the cortes started an investigation into the responsibility for the annual disaster and soon discovered evidence that the king had been one of the main supporters of silvestre ' s advance into the rif mountains. after the " disaster of the annual ", spain ' s war in the rif went from bad to worse, and as the spanish were barely hanging on to morocco, support for the abandonistas grew as many people could see no point to the war. in august 1923, spanish soldiers embarking for morocco mutinied, other soldiers in malaga simply refused to board the ships that were to take them to morocco, while in barcelona huge crowds of left - wingers had staged anti - war protests at which spanish flags were burned while the flag of the rif republic was waved about. with the africanists comprising only a minority, it was clear that it was only a matter of time before the abandonistas forced the spanish to give up on the rif, which was part of the reason for the military coup d ' etat later in 1923. on 13 september 1923, miguel primo de rivera, captain general of catalonia, staged a military coup with the collaboration from a quad of africanist generals based in madrid who were associated to the innermost military clique of alfonso xiii and who wanted to prevent investigations about annual from tarnishing the monarch ( jose cavalcanti, federico berenguer, leopoldo saro and antonio daban ), even if primo de rivera had embraced abandonista positions prior to that point. primo de rivera ruled as a dictator with the king ' s support until january 1930. on 28 january 1930, amid economic problems, general unpopularity and a putschist plot led by general manuel goded in motion, of which alfonso xiii was most probably aware, miguel primo de rivera was forced to resign, exiling to paris, only