the republic of azerbaijan is a member of the united nations, the non - aligned movement, the organization for security and cooperation in europe, nato ' s partnership for peace, the euro - atlantic partnership council, the world health organization, the european bank for reconstruction and development ; the council of europe, cfe treaty, the community of democracies ; the international monetary fund ; and the world bank. the major trends in the foreign relations of the republic of azerbaijan toward both global and regional powers active in caucasus area. external variables are categorized depending on their original nature into two groups : global and regional. the former category includes global players such as moscow and washington, while the latter category rival regional players, namely ankara and tehran. azerbaijan has formal involvement with senior ex - u. s. government officials including james baker and henry kissinger, as they serve on the honorary council of advisors of the u. s. - azerbaijan chamber of commerce ( usacc ). usacc is co - chaired by tim cejka, president of exxonmobil and reza vaziri, president of r. v. investment group and chairman of the anglo asian mining plc ( lse ticker : aaz ). diplomatic relations azerbaijan maintains diplomatic relations with 185 united nations member states, the state of palestine and the holy see. azerbaijan does not have diplomatic relations with the following countries : armenia botswana central african republic cyprus kiribati federated states of micronesia tonga azerbaijan also maintains good relations with the european union, in the framework of its eastern european neighbourhood policy ( see azerbaijan and the european union ). list list of countries with which azerbaijan maintains diplomatic relations with : information on some of the countries with which azerbaijan maintains formal relations multilateral africa americas asia europe oceania international organizations asdb bsec ce cis eapc ebrd ece eco escap fao guam iaea ibrd icao icrm ida idb ifad ifc ifrcs ilo imf imo interpol ioc, iom iso ( correspondent ) itu ituc oas ( observer ) oic opcw osce pfp united nations unctad unesco unido upu wco wftu who wipo wmo wtoo wto ( observer ) other entities sovereign military order of malta – there are no relations states with limited recognition disputes nagorno - karabakh / azerbaijan the frozen conflict over currently largely armenian - populated region of nagorno - karabakh within the republic of azerbaijan began when in 1988 the armenian majority of nagorno -