of governance and public administration, which would add additional us $ 8. 5 million to the agreement. by signing another document on the same day, usaid increased the aid by additional us $ 7. 5 million in support for more competitive and diversified private sector in armenia. the financial allocations will be directed to the financing of the usaid - funded project in infrastructures, agriculture, tourism after the signing of the new bilateral agreements, the total amount of the u. s. grants to armenia amounted to around us $ 81 million. european union according to the agreement signed in 2020 eu will provide armenia with 65 million euros for implementation of three programs in such areas as energy efficiency, environment and community development and formation of tools for implementation of the comprehensive and enhanced partnership agreement. with curtailment of the mcc funding, the european union may replace the us as armenia ' s chief source of foreign aid for the first time since independence. from 2011 to 2013, the european union is expected to advance at least €157. 3 million ( $ 208 million ) in aid to armenia. domestic business environment since transition of power to new leadership in 2018 armenian government works on improving domestic business environment. numerous formerly privileged business are now required to pay taxes and officially register all workers. mainly due to this there were 9. 7 % more payroll employees registered in january 2019 as compared to january 2018. in april 2019 armenian parliament approved reforms of management of joint stock companies effectively enacting a blocking minority shareholders stake of 25 % to cope with shareholder oppression. following the advice of economic advisers who cautioned armenia ' s leadership against the consolidation of economic power in the hands of a few, in january 2001, the government of armenia established the state commission for the protection of economic competition. its members cannot be dismissed by the government. foreign trade facilitation in june 2011, armenia adopted a law on free economic zones ( fez ), and developed several key regulations at the end of 2011 to attract foreign investments into fezs : exemptions from vat ( value added tax ), profit tax, customs duties, and property tax. the “ alliance ” fez was opened in august 2013, and currently has nine businesses taking advantage of its facilities. the focus of “ alliance ” fez is on high - tech industries which include information and communication technologies, electronics, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology, architecture and engineering, industrial design and alternative energy. in 2014, the government expanded operations in the alliance fez to include industrial production as long as there is no similar production already occurring in