to support such a translation. history pre - european settlement indigenous peoples of varying cultures lived in the area for thousands of years before the advent of european colonization. trade with the northeastern tribes by the ohio river began during the burial mound period ( 1000bce700ce ) and continued until european contact. the agrarian mississippian culture covered most of the state from 1000 to 1600 ce, with one of its major centers built at what is now the moundville archaeological site in moundville, alabama. this is the second - largest complex of the classic middle mississippian era, after cahokia in present - day illinois, which was the center of the culture. analysis of artifacts from archaeological excavations at moundville were the basis of scholars ' formulating the characteristics of the southeastern ceremonial complex ( secc ). contrary to popular belief, the secc appears to have no direct links to mesoamerican culture but developed independently. the ceremonial complex represents a major component of the religion of the mississippian peoples ; it is one of the primary means by which their religion is understood. among the historical tribes of native american people living in present - day alabama at the time of european contact were the cherokee, an iroquoian language people ; and the muskogean - speaking alabama ( alibamu ), chickasaw, choctaw, creek, and koasati. while part of the same large language family, the muskogee tribes developed distinct cultures and languages. european settlement the spanish were the first europeans to reach alabama during their exploration of north america in the 16th century. the expedition of hernando de soto passed through mabila and other parts of the state in 1540. more than 160 years later, the french founded the region ' s first european settlement at old mobile in 1702. the city was moved to the current site of mobile in 1711. this area was claimed by the french from 1702 to 1763 as part of la louisiane. after the french lost to the british in the seven years ' war, it became part of british west florida from 1763 to 1783. after the united states victory in the american revolutionary war, the territory was divided between the united states and spain. the latter retained control of this western territory from 1783 until the surrender of the spanish garrison at mobile to u. s. forces on april 13, 1813. thomas bassett, a loyalist to the british monarchy during the revolutionary era, was one of the earliest white settlers in the state outside mobile. he settled in the tombigbee district during the early