##os, new mexico, in june 1976, john mauchly and konrad zuse were reported to have been astonished. design and construction according to atanasoff ' s account, several key principles of the atanasoff – berry computer were conceived in a sudden insight after a long nighttime drive to rock island, illinois, during the winter of 1937 – 38. the abc innovations included electronic computation, binary arithmetic, parallel processing, regenerative capacitor memory, and a separation of memory and computing functions. the mechanical and logic design was worked out by atanasoff over the next year. a grant application to build a proof of concept prototype was submitted in march 1939 to the agronomy department, which was also interested in speeding up computation for economic and research analysis. $ 5, 000 of further funding ( ) to complete the machine came from the nonprofit research corporation of new york city. the abc was built by atanasoff and berry in the basement of the physics building at iowa state college during 1939 – 1942. the initial funds were released in september, and the 11 - tube prototype was first demonstrated in october 1939. a december demonstration prompted a grant for construction of the full - scale machine. the abc was built and tested over the next two years. a january 15, 1941, story in the des moines register announced the abc as " an electrical computing machine " with more than 300 vacuum tubes that would " compute complicated algebraic equations " ( but gave no precise technical description of the computer ). the system weighed more than. it contained approximately of wire, 280 dual - triode vacuum tubes, 31 thyratrons, and was about the size of a desk. it was not programmable, which distinguishes it from more general machines of the same era, such as konrad zuse ' s 1941 z3 ( or earlier iterations ) and the colossus computers of 1943 – 1945. nor did it implement the stored - program architecture, first implemented in the manchester baby of 1948, required for fully general - purpose practical computing machines. the machine was, however, the first to implement : using vacuum tubes, rather than wheels, ratchets, mechanical switches, or telephone relays, allowing for greater speed than previous computers using capacitors for memory, rather than mechanical components, allowing for greater speed and density the memory of the atanasoff – berry computer was a system called regenerative capacitor memory, which consisted of a pair of drums, each containing 1600 capacitors that rotated on a common shaft once per second. the