to parliament and led a high - profile campaign to secure the pardon. leech made the case in the house of commons that turing ' s contribution to the war made him a national hero and that it was " ultimately just embarrassing " that the conviction still stood. leech continued to take the bill through parliament and campaigned for several years, gaining the public support of numerous leading scientists, including stephen hawking. at the british premiere of a film based on turing ' s life, the imitation game, the producers thanked leech for bringing the topic to public attention and securing turing ' s pardon. leech is now regularly described as the " architect " of turing ' s pardon and subsequently the alan turing law which went on to secure pardons for 75, 000 other men and women convicted of similar crimes. on 26 july 2012, a bill was introduced in the house of lords to grant a statutory pardon to turing for offences under section 11 of the criminal law amendment act 1885, of which he was convicted on 31 march 1952. late in the year in a letter to the daily telegraph, the physicist stephen hawking and 10 other signatories including the astronomer royal lord rees, president of the royal society sir paul nurse, lady trumpington ( who worked for turing during the war ) and lord sharkey ( the bill ' s sponsor ) called on prime minister david cameron to act on the pardon request. the government indicated it would support the bill, and it passed its third reading in the house of lords in october. at the bill ' s second reading in the house of commons on 29 november 2013, conservative mp christopher chope objected to the bill, delaying its passage. the bill was due to return to the house of commons on 28 february 2014, but before the bill could be debated in the house of commons, the government elected to proceed under the royal prerogative of mercy. on 24 december 2013, queen elizabeth ii signed a pardon for turing ' s conviction for " gross indecency ", with immediate effect. announcing the pardon, lord chancellor chris grayling said turing deserved to be " remembered and recognised for his fantastic contribution to the war effort " and not for his later criminal conviction. the queen officially pronounced turing pardoned in august 2014. the queen ' s action is only the fourth royal pardon granted since the conclusion of the second world war. pardons are normally granted only when the person is technically innocent, and a request has been made by the family or other interested party ; neither condition was met in regard to turing ' s conviction. in september