to unconfirmed reports by the azeri media, russia has supplied $ 1 billion worth of arms and ammunitions to armenia in 1996 ; and handed over an additional $ 800 million worth of arms to armenia in 2008 – 2009. according to azernews, the weapons in this latest transfer include 21 tanks, 12 armored vehicles, five other battle machines, a great number of rocket launchers, over 1, 050 cases of grenades, nearly 7, 900 types of ammunition, 120 grenade launchers, over 4, 000 sub - machine guns, tnt fuses, mines of various types, 14 mine - launchers, 9 grad launchers, five cannons, and other weapons. officer training is another sphere of russian - armenian military cooperation. in the first years of sovereignty when armenia lacked a military educational establishment of its own, officers of its army were trained in russia. even now when armenia has a military college on its own territory, the armenian officer corps honors the tradition and is trained at russian military educational establishments. in 1997, 600 armenian servicemen were being trained at russian military academies : the training was conducted by the marshal bagramyan training brigade. at the first meeting of the joint russian - armenian government panel for military - technical cooperation that took place during autumn 2005, prime minister mikhail fradkov reported that, russian factories will participate in the armenian program of military modernization, and that russia is prepared to supply the necessary spare parts and equipment. in accordance with this agreement, armenia and russia agreed to work together in exporting weapons and other military equipment to third countries in december 2009. the export agreement was signed by defense minister seyran ohanyan and a visiting senior russian official, konstantin biryulin, during a meeting of a russian - armenian inter - governmental commission on bilateral military - technical cooperation. the agreement envisages the two countries ' interaction in exporting military production to third countries, which will help to strengthen the armed forces of the two states, and further cement the already close russian – armenian military cooperation. a russian - armenian defense agreement signed in august 2010 extends russia ' s military presence in armenia till 2044 and commits russia to supplying armenia with modern and compatible weaponry and special military hardware at reduced prices. at the beginning of 2009, azerbaijani media published allegations that russia had made extensive weapons transfers to armenia throughout 2008 costing about $ 800 million. on 12 january 2009, the russian ambassador was invited to the azerbaijani ministry of foreign affairs and asked about this information. on 21 january 2009, russian ministry of foreign relations officially denied the transfers