less. fuel cost per gallon is routinely twenty to thirty cents higher than the contiguous united states average, with only hawaii having higher prices. culture some of alaska ' s popular annual events are the iditarod trail sled dog race from anchorage to nome, world ice art championships in fairbanks, the blueberry festival and alaska hummingbird festival in ketchikan, the sitka whale fest, and the stikine river garnet fest in wrangell. the stikine river attracts the largest springtime concentration of american bald eagles in the world. the alaska native heritage center celebrates the rich heritage of alaska ' s 11 cultural groups. their purpose is to encourage cross - cultural exchanges among all people and enhance self - esteem among native people. the alaska native arts foundation promotes and markets native art from all regions and cultures in the state, using the internet. music influences on music in alaska include the traditional music of alaska natives as well as folk music brought by later immigrants from russia and europe. prominent musicians from alaska include singer jewel, traditional aleut flautist mary youngblood, folk singer - songwriter libby roderick, christian music singer - songwriter lincoln brewster, metal / post hardcore band 36 crazyfists and the groups pamyua and portugal. the man. there are many established music festivals in alaska, including the alaska folk festival, the fairbanks summer arts festival the anchorage folk festival, the athabascan old - time fiddling festival, the sitka jazz festival, and the sitka summer music festival. the most prominent orchestra in alaska is the anchorage symphony orchestra, though the fairbanks symphony orchestra and juneau symphony are also notable. the anchorage opera is currently the state ' s only professional opera company, though there are several volunteer and semi - professional organizations in the state as well. the official state song of alaska is " alaska ' s flag ", which was adopted in 1955 ; it celebrates the flag of alaska. alaska on film and television the 1983 disney movie never cry wolf was at least partially shot in alaska. the 1991 film white fang, based on jack london ' s 1906 novel and starring ethan hawke, was filmed in and around haines. steven seagal ' s 1994 on deadly ground, starring michael caine, was filmed in part at the worthington glacier near valdez. many reality television shows are filmed in alaska. in 2011, the anchorage daily news found ten set in the state. sports public health and public safety the alaska state troopers are alaska ' s statewide police force. they have a long and storied history