the earth ' s crust is estimated at 0. 2 parts per million, comparable to thallium at 0. 5 parts per million and silver at 0. 07 ppm. even though this element is not abundant, it is found in more than 100 mineral species. antimony is sometimes found natively ( e. g. on antimony peak ), but more frequently it is found in the sulfide stibnite ( sb2s3 ) which is the predominant ore mineral. compounds antimony compounds are often classified according to their oxidation state : sb ( iii ) and sb ( v ). the + 5 oxidation state is more common. oxides and hydroxides antimony trioxide is formed when antimony is burnt in air. in the gas phase, the molecule of the compound is, but it polymerizes upon condensing. antimony pentoxide ( ) can be formed only by oxidation with concentrated nitric acid. antimony also forms a mixed - valence oxide, antimony tetroxide ( ), which features both sb ( iii ) and sb ( v ). unlike oxides of phosphorus and arsenic, these oxides are amphoteric, do not form well - defined oxoacids, and react with acids to form antimony salts. antimonous acid is unknown, but the conjugate base sodium antimonite ( ) forms upon fusing sodium oxide and. transition metal antimonites are also known. antimonic acid exists only as the hydrate, forming salts as the antimonate anion. when a solution containing this anion is dehydrated, the precipitate contains mixed oxides. the most important antimony ore is stibnite ( ). other sulfide minerals include pyrargyrite ( ), zinkenite, jamesonite, and boulangerite. antimony pentasulfide is non - stoichiometric, which features antimony in the + 3 oxidation state and s – s bonds. several thioantimonides are known, such as and. halides antimony forms two series of halides : and. the trihalides,,, and are all molecular compounds having trigonal pyramidal molecular geometry. the trifluoride is prepared by the reaction of with hf : + 6 hf → 2 + 3 it is lewis acidic and readily accepts fluoride ions to form the complex anions and. molten is a weak electrical conductor. the trichloride is