are characterised by one or more wings and a central fuselage. the fuselage typically also carries a tail or empennage for stability and control, and an undercarriage for takeoff and landing. engines may be located on the fuselage or wings. on a fixed - wing aircraft the wings are rigidly attached to the fuselage, while on a rotorcraft the wings are attached to a rotating vertical shaft. smaller designs sometimes use flexible materials for part or all of the structure, held in place either by a rigid frame or by air pressure. the fixed parts of the structure comprise the airframe. power the source of motive power for an aircraft is normally called the powerplant, and includes engine or motor, propeller or rotor, ( if any ), jet nozzles and thrust reversers ( if any ), and accessories essential to the functioning of the engine or motor ( e. g. : starter, ignition system, intake system, exhaust system, fuel system, lubrication system, engine cooling system, and engine controls ). powered aircraft are typically powered by internal combustion engines ( piston or turbine ) burning fossil fuels - - typically gasoline ( avgas ) or jet fuel. a very few are powered by rocket power, ramjet propulsion, or by electric motors, or by internal combustion engines of other types, or using other fuels. a very few have been powered, for short flights, by human muscle energy ( e. g. : gossamer condor ). avionics the avionics comprise any electronic aircraft flight control systems and related equipment, including electronic cockpit instrumentation, navigation, radar, monitoring, and communications systems. flight characteristics flight envelope the flight envelope of an aircraft refers to its approved design capabilities in terms of airspeed, load factor and altitude. the term can also refer to other assessments of aircraft performance such as maneuverability. when an aircraft is abused, for instance by diving it at too - high a speed, it is said to be flown outside the envelope, something considered foolhardy since it has been taken beyond the design limits which have been established by the manufacturer. going beyond the envelope may have a known outcome such as flutter or entry to a non - recoverable spin ( possible reasons for the boundary ). range the range is the distance an aircraft can fly between takeoff and landing, as limited by the time it can remain airborne. for a powered aircraft the time limit is determined by the fuel load and rate of consumption. for an unpowered aircraft, the maximum flight time is limited by factors such as weather conditions and pilot endurance.