what the term encompasses. " for the purposes of its 2005 report on global anti - semitism, the term was considered to mean " hatred toward jews — individually and as a group — that can be attributed to the jewish religion and / or ethnicity. " in 2005, the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia ( now the fundamental rights agency ), then an agency of the european union, developed a more detailed working definition, which states : " antisemitism is a certain perception of jews, which may be expressed as hatred toward jews. rhetorical and physical manifestations of antisemitism are directed toward jewish or non - jewish individuals and / or their property, toward jewish community institutions and religious facilities. " it also adds that " such manifestations could also target the state of israel, conceived as a jewish collectivity, " but that " criticism of israel similar to that leveled against any other country cannot be regarded as antisemitic. " it provides contemporary examples of ways in which antisemitism may manifest itself, including promoting the harming of jews in the name of an ideology or religion ; promoting negative stereotypes of jews ; holding jews collectively responsible for the actions of an individual jewish person or group ; denying the holocaust or accusing jews or israel of exaggerating it ; and accusing jews of dual loyalty or a greater allegiance to israel than their own country. it also lists ways in which attacking israel could be antisemitic, and states that denying the jewish people their right to self - determination, e. g. by claiming that the existence of a state of israel is a racist endeavor, can be a manifestation of antisemitism — as can applying double standards by requiring of israel a behavior not expected or demanded of any other democratic nation, or holding jews collectively responsible for the actions of the state of israel. the definition wrong and negative perception of people with jewish descent has been adopted by the european parliament working group on antisemitism, in 2010, a similar definition that avoided using the word wrong was adopted by the united states department of state, in 2014, that definition was adopted in the operational hate crime guidance of the uk college of policing and was also adopted by the campaign against antisemitism. in 2016, the u. s. state department definition was adopted by the international holocaust remembrance alliance. the working definition of antisemitism is among the most controversial documents related to opposition to antisemitism, and critics argue that it has been used to censor criticism of israel. evolution of usage