this habitat type in the world. in an average dry season, of land are water - covered, while in the wet season, the flooded area of the amazon basin rises to. the quantity of water released by the amazon to the atlantic ocean is enormous : up to in the rainy season, with an average of from 1973 to 1990. the amazon is responsible for about 20 % of the earth ' s fresh water entering the ocean. the river pushes a vast plume of fresh water into the ocean. the plume is about long and between wide. the fresh water, being lighter, flows on top of the seawater, diluting the salinity and altering the colour of the ocean surface over an area up to in extent. for centuries ships have reported fresh water near the amazon ' s mouth yet well out of sight of land in what otherwise seemed to be the open ocean. the atlantic has sufficient wave and tidal energy to carry most of the amazon ' s sediments out to sea, thus the amazon does not form a true delta. the great deltas of the world are all in relatively protected bodies of water, while the amazon empties directly into the turbulent atlantic. there is a natural water union between the amazon and the orinoco basins, the so - called casiquiare canal. the casiquiare is a river distributary of the upper orinoco, which flows southward into the rio negro, which in turn flows into the amazon. the casiquiare is the largest river on earth that links two major river systems, a so - called bifurcation. discharge average discharge at the estuary ; period from 2003 to 2015 : average discharge at obidos gauge station ; period from 1969 to 2018 : average discharge ( q - 173, 000 m3 / s ) and sediment load ( s - 754 x 106 ton / year ) at obidos gauge station ( period from 1996 to 2007 ) average, minimum and maximum discharge at itacoatiara and santarem ( lower amazon ). period from 1998 / 01 / 01 to 2022 / 12 / 31 ( source : the flood observatory ) : flooding not all of the amazon ' s tributaries flood at the same time of the year. many branches begin flooding in november and might continue to rise until june. the rise of the rio negro starts in february or march and begins to recede in june. the madeira river rises and falls two months earlier than most of the rest of the amazon river. the depth of the amazon between manacapuru and obido