medical reasons to have an abortion later in pregnancy ( after 20 weeks ). a study was conducted from 2008 to 2010 at the university of california san francisco where more than 440 women were asked about why they experienced delays in obtaining abortion care, if there were any. this study found that almost half of individuals who obtained an abortion after 20 weeks did not suspect that they were pregnant until later in their pregnancy. other barriers to abortion care found in the study included lack of information about where to access an abortion, difficulties with transportation, lack of insurance coverage, and inability to pay for the abortion procedure. medical reasons for seeking an abortion later in pregnancy include fetal anomalies and health risk to the pregnant person. there are diagnostic tests that can diagnose down syndrome or cystic fibrosis as early as 10 weeks into gestation, but structural fetal anomalies are often detected much later in pregnancy. a proportion of structural fetal anomalies are lethal, which means that the fetus will almost certainly die before or shortly after birth. life - threatening conditions may also develop later in pregnancy, such as early severe preeclampsia, newly diagnosed cancer in need of urgent treatment, and intrauterine infection ( chorioamnionitis ), which often occurs along with premature rupture of the amniotic sac ( pprom ). if serious medical conditions such as these arise before the fetus is viable, the person carrying the pregnancy may pursue an abortion to preserve their own health. motivation personal the reasons why women have abortions are diverse and vary across the world. some of the reasons may include an inability to afford a child, domestic violence, lack of support, feeling they are too young, and the wish to complete education or advance a career. additional reasons include not being able or willing to raise a child conceived as a result of rape or incest. societal some abortions are undergone as the result of societal pressures. these might include the preference for children of a specific sex or race, disapproval of single or early motherhood, stigmatization of people with disabilities, insufficient economic support for families, lack of access to or rejection of contraceptive methods, or efforts toward population control ( such as china ' s one - child policy ). these factors can sometimes result in compulsory abortion or sex - selective abortion. maternal and fetal health an additional factor is maternal health which was listed as the main reason by about a third of women in 3 of 27 countries and about 7 % of women in a further 7 of these 27 countries. in