. since obtaining candidate status in 2014, the country has also embarked on a comprehensive reform agenda to align itself with european union ( eu ) accession standards, with the objective of becoming an eu member state. albania and kosovo maintain a fraternal relationship strengthened by their substantial cultural, ethnical and historical ties. both countries foster enduring diplomatic ties, with albania actively supporting kosovo ' s development and international integration efforts. its fundamental contribution to kosovo ' s path to independence is underscored by its early recognition of kosovo ' s sovereignty in 2008. furthermore, both governments hold annual joint meetings, displayed by the inaugural meeting in 2014, which serves as an official platform to enhance bilateral cooperation and reinforce their joint commitment to policies that promote the stability and prosperity of the broader albanian region. military the albanian armed forces consist of land, air and naval forces and constitute the military and paramilitary forces of the country. they are led by a commander - in - chief under the supervision of the ministry of defence and by the president as the supreme commander during wartime. however, in times of peace its powers are executed through the prime minister and the defence minister. the chief purpose of the armed forces of albania is the defence of the independence, the sovereignty and the territorial integrity of the country, as well as the participation in humanitarian, combat, non - combat and peace support operations. military service is voluntary since 2010 with the age of 19 being the legal minimum age for the duty. albania has committed to increase the participations in multinational operations. since the fall of communism, the country has participated in six international missions but only one united nations mission in georgia, where it sent three military observers. since february 2008, albania has participated officially in nato ' s operation active endeavor in the mediterranean sea. it was invited to join nato on 3 april 2008, and it became a full member on 2 april 2009. albania reduced the number of active troops from 65, 000 in 1988 to 14, 500 in 2009. the military now consists mainly of a small fleet of aircraft and sea vessels. increasing the military budget was one of the most important conditions for nato integration. as of 1996 military spending was an estimated 1. 5 % of the country ' s gdp, only to peak in 2009 at 2 % and fall again to 1. 5 %. administrative divisions albania is defined within a territorial area of in the balkan peninsula. it is informally divided into three regions, the northern, central and southern regions. since its declaration of independence in 1912, albania has reformed its internal organization 21 times. presently, the primary administrative