jupiter agreed. the river god numicus cleansed aeneas of all his mortal parts and venus anointed him with ambrosia and nectar, making him a god. aeneas was recognized as the god jupiter indiges. english mythology the english once widely claimed as history, an original peopling of their island – prior to the event, a land only of fantastical giants – by descendants of aeneas, though even in the time of the renaissance, a non - english audience as well at least one english writer found details of the stories less than convincing. the island known later as great britain, was also previously known as alba, similarity of name supporting connection to the city of alba in italy, said to have been built by alcanius, son of aeneas, and third ruler of the latins after latinus, being either his grandson or step - grandson. even if one ignored obviously far - fetched elements of this foundation myth of britain, johannes rastell writing in 1529 questioned, along these lines : supposing the original brits were descendants of a line of latin kings — brute the son of silvius, son alcanius, son of aeneas who came to the italian peninsula from troy — then why should such a fact have escaped record in the writings of julius caesar when that roman military supreme commander had personally surveyed the lands there he had conquered for rome by 48 bc? and indeed, why should the son brutus have escaped from latin histories altogether, given they did deal with silvius and alcanius, and ' all they ' re childera & what became of them & how they endyd that succeeded them as kyngis '? other details he found were able to be discounted without resort to factual records, or with only very few facts needed other than everyday experience. were the early inhabitants of britain giants, descended from the devil in union with 32 daughters of a king dioclisian of syria? to rastell, if the devil had power to sow such seeds at the earlier time, then why not in his own time? where were the giants today? other fanciful elements he reduced by logical deduction from intuitive psychological insights, for example the greatly diminished chance of 32 daughters married to 32 kings on a single day, and all cooperating to kill those 32 husbands in a single night ; or in combination with analysis of logistical realities, such as the suggested voyage of all 32 murderous widows to britain without dispersion or diversion, over three thousand miles. ras