invasive, out - competing native species. animal welfare as with the farming of terrestrial animals, social attitudes influence the need for humane practices and regulations in farmed marine animals. under the guidelines advised by the farm animal welfare council good animal welfare means both fitness and a sense of well - being in the animal ' s physical and mental state. this can be defined by the five freedoms : freedom from hunger & thirst freedom from discomfort freedom from pain, disease, or injury freedom to express normal behaviour freedom from fear and distress however, the controversial issue in aquaculture is whether fish and farmed marine invertebrates are actually sentient, or have the perception and awareness to experience suffering. although no evidence of this has been found in marine invertebrates, recent studies conclude that fish do have the necessary receptors ( nociceptors ) to sense noxious stimuli and so are likely to experience states of pain, fear and stress. consequently, welfare in aquaculture is directed at vertebrates, finfish in particular. common welfare concerns welfare in aquaculture can be impacted by a number of issues such as stocking densities, behavioural interactions, disease and parasitism. a major problem in determining the cause of impaired welfare is that these issues are often all interrelated and influence each other at different times. optimal stocking density is often defined by the carrying capacity of the stocked environment and the amount of individual space needed by the fish, which is very species specific. although behavioural interactions such as shoaling may mean that high stocking densities are beneficial to some species, in many cultured species high stocking densities may be of concern. crowding can constrain normal swimming behaviour, as well as increase aggressive and competitive behaviours such as cannibalism, feed competition, territoriality and dominance / subordination hierarchies. this potentially increases the risk of tissue damage due to abrasion from fish - to - fish contact or fish - to - cage contact. fish can suffer reductions in food intake and food conversion efficiency. in addition, high stocking densities can result in water flow being insufficient, creating inadequate oxygen supply and waste product removal. dissolved oxygen is essential for fish respiration and concentrations below critical levels can induce stress and even lead to asphyxiation. ammonia, a nitrogen excretion product, is highly toxic to fish at accumulated levels, particularly when oxygen concentrations are low. many of these interactions and effects cause stress in the fish, which can be a major factor in facilitating fish disease. for many parasites, in