. napoleon – " a large, rather fierce - looking berkshire boar, the only berkshire on the farm, not much of a talker, but with a reputation for getting his own way ". an allegory of joseph stalin, napoleon is the leader of animal farm. snowball – napoleon ' s rival and original head of the farm after jones ' s overthrow. his life parallels that of leon trotsky, although there is no reference to snowball having been murdered ( as trotsky was ) ; he may also combine some elements from lenin. squealer – a small, white, fat porker who serves as napoleon ' s second - in - command and minister of propaganda, is a collective portrait of the soviet nomenklatura and journalists, such as of the national daily pravda ( the truth ), able to justify every twist and turn in stalin ' s policy. minimus – a poetic pig who writes the second national anthem of animal farm after the singing of " beasts of england " is banned ; later he composes a poem " comrade napoleon ". literary theorist john rodden compares him to the poet vladimir mayakovsky, who eulogized lenin and the soviet union, although mayakovsky neither wrote anthems nor praised stalin in his poems. the piglets – hinted to be the children of napoleon and are the first generation of animals subjugated to his idea of animal inequality. the young pigs – four pigs who complain about napoleon ' s takeover of the farm but are quickly silenced and later executed, the first animals killed in napoleon ' s farm purge. probably based on the great purge of grigory zinoviev, lev kamenev, nikolai bukharin, and alexei rykov. pinkeye – a minor pig who is mentioned only once ; he is the taste - tester that samples napoleon ' s food to make sure it is not poisoned, in response to rumours about an assassination attempt on napoleon. humans mr. jones – a heavy drinker who is the original owner of manor farm, a farm in disrepair with farmhands who often loaf on the job. he is an allegory of russian tsar nicholas ii, who abdicated following the february revolution of 1917 and was murdered, along with the rest of his family, by the bolsheviks on 17 july 1918. the animals revolt after jones goes on a drinking binge, returns hungover the following day and neglects them completely. jones is married, but his wife plays no active role in the book. she seems to live with