##drin heard that armstrong would be the first because armstrong was a civilian, which made aldrin livid. aldrin attempted to persuade other lunar module pilots he should be first, but they responded cynically about what they perceived as a lobbying campaign. attempting to stem interdepartmental conflict, slayton told aldrin that armstrong would be first since he was the commander. the decision was announced in a press conference on april 14, 1969. for decades, aldrin believed the final decision was largely driven by the lunar module ' s hatch location. because the astronauts had their spacesuits on and the spacecraft was so small, maneuvering to exit the spacecraft was difficult. the crew tried a simulation in which aldrin left the spacecraft first, but he damaged the simulator while attempting to egress. while this was enough for mission planners to make their decision, aldrin and armstrong were left in the dark on the decision until late spring. slayton told armstrong the plan was to have him leave the spacecraft first, if he agreed. armstrong said, " yes, that ' s the way to do it. " the media accused armstrong of exercising his commander ' s prerogative to exit the spacecraft first. chris kraft revealed in his 2001 autobiography that a meeting occurred between gilruth, slayton, low, and himself to make sure aldrin would not be the first to walk on the moon. they argued that the first person to walk on the moon should be like charles lindbergh, a calm and quiet person. they made the decision to change the flight plan so the commander was the first to egress from the spacecraft. pre - launch the ascent stage of lm - 5 eagle arrived at the kennedy space center on january 8, 1969, followed by the descent stage four days later, and csm - 107 columbia on january 23. there were several differences between eagle and apollo 10 ' s lm - 4 snoopy ; eagle had a vhf radio antenna to facilitate communication with the astronauts during their eva on the lunar surface ; a lighter ascent engine ; more thermal protection on the landing gear ; and a package of scientific experiments known as the early apollo scientific experiments package ( easep ). the only change in the configuration of the command module was the removal of some insulation from the forward hatch. the csm was mated on january 29, and moved from the operations and checkout building to the vehicle assembly building on april 14. the s - ivb third stage of saturn v as - 50