and don black ; andersson and ulvaeus got involved in the project, and contributed with one new song, " i am the seeker ". " abbacadabra " premiered on 8 december 1983 at the lyric hammersmith theatre in london, to mixed reviews and full houses for eight weeks, closing on 21 january 1984. lyngstad was also involved in this production, recording " belle " in english as " time ", a duet with actor and singer b. a. robertson : the single sold well, and was produced and recorded by mike batt. in may 1984, lyngstad performed " i have a dream " with a children ' s choir at the united nations organisation gala, in geneva, switzerland. all four members made their ( at the time, final ) public appearance as four friends more than as abba in january 1986, when they recorded a video of themselves performing an acoustic version of " tivedshambo " ( which was the first song written by their manager stig anderson ), for a swedish tv show honouring anderson on his 55th birthday. the four had not seen each other for more than two years. that same year they also performed privately at another friend ' s 40th birthday : their old tour manager, claes af geijerstam. they sang a self - written song titled " der kleine franz " that was later to resurface in chess. also in 1986, abba live was released, featuring selections of live performances from the group ' s 1977 and 1979 tours. the four members were guests at the 50th birthday of gorel hanser in 1999. hanser was a long - time friend of all four, and also former secretary of stig anderson. honouring gorel, abba performed a swedish birthday song " med en enkel tulipan " a cappella. andersson has on several occasions performed abba songs. in june 1992, he and ulvaeus appeared with u2 at a stockholm concert, singing the chorus of " dancing queen ", and a few years later during the final performance of the b & b in concert in stockholm, andersson joined the cast for an encore at the piano. andersson frequently adds an abba song to the playlist when he performs with his bao band. he also played the piano during new recordings of the abba songs " like an angel passing through my room " with opera singer anne sofie von otter, and " when all is said and done " with swede viktoria tolstoy. in 2002, andersson and ulva