the middle east, the suez crisis of 1956 as well as the preceding crisis in iran, demonstrated the sharp upsurge of nationalism, which was as assertive of the region ' s social and economic aspirations as of its political independence. africa was also set on its course to decolonisation, swept by what harold macmillan, the then british prime minister, termed the " wind of change ". by the early 1960s, most of east and central africa, where the majority of the ismaʿili population on the continent resided, including tanganyika, kenya, uganda, madagascar, rwanda, burundi and zaire, had attained their political independence. religious and social views the aga khan was deeply influenced by the views of sir sayyid ahmad khan. along with sir sayyid, the aga khan was one of the backers and founders of the aligarh university, for which he tirelessly raised funds and to which he donated large sums of his own money. the aga khan himself can be considered an islamic modernist and an intellectual of the aligarh movement. from a religious standpoint, the aga khan followed a modernist approach to islam. he believed there to be no contradiction between religion and modernity, and urged muslims to embrace modernity. although he opposed a wholesale replication of western society by muslims, the aga khan did believe increased contact with the west would be overall beneficial to muslim society. he was intellectually open to western philosophy and ideas, and believed engagement with them could lead to a revival and renaissance within islamic thought. like many other islamic modernists, the aga khan held a low opinion of the traditional religious establishment ( the ʿulamaʾ ) as well as what he saw as their rigid formalism, legalism, and literalism. instead, he advocated for renewed ijtihad ( independent reasoning ) and ijmaʿ ( consensus ), the latter of which he understood in a modernist way to mean consensus - building. according to him, muslims should go back to the original sources, especially the qurʾan, in order to discover the true essence and spirit of islam. once the principles of the faith were discovered, they would be seen to be universal and modern. islam, in his view, had an underlying liberal and democratic spirit. he also called for full civil and religious liberties, peace and disarmament, and an end to all wars. the aga khan opposed sectarianism, which he believed to sap the strength and unity of the muslim community. in specific, he called