angilbert ( – 18 february 814 ) was a noble frankish poet who was educated under alcuin and served charlemagne as a secretary, diplomat, and son - in - law. he is venerated as a pre - congregation saint and is still honored on the day of his death, 18 february. life angilbert seems to have been brought up at the court of charlemagne at the palace school in aquae granni ( aachen ). he was educated there as the pupil and then friend of the great english scholar alcuin. when charlemagne sent his young son pepin to italy as king of the lombards, angilbert went along as primicerius palatii, a high administrator of the satellite court. as the friend and adviser of pepin, he assisted for a while in the government of italy. angilbert delivered the document on iconoclasm from the frankish synod of frankfurt to pope adrian i, and was later sent on three important embassies to the pope, in 792, 794, and 796. at one time, he served an officer of the maritime provinces. he accompanied charlemagne to rome in 800 and was one of the witnesses to his will in 811. there are various traditions concerning angilbert ' s relationship with bertha, daughter of charlemagne. one holds that they were married, another that they were not. they had, however, at least two sons and one daughter, one of whom, nithard, became a notable figure in the mid - 9th century, while their daughter bertha went on to marry helgaud ii, count of ponthieu. control of marriage and the meanings of legitimacy were hotly contested in the middle ages. bertha and angilbert are an example of how resistance to the idea of a sacramental marriage could coincide with holding church offices. on the other hand, some historians have speculated that charlemagne opposed formal marriages for his daughters out of concern for political rivalries from their potential husbands ; none of charlemagne ' s daughters were married, despite political offers of arranged marriages. in 790, angilbert retired to the abbey of centulum, the " monastery of st richarius " ( ) at present - day saint - riquier in picardy. elected abbot in 794, he rebuilt the monastery and endowed it with a library of 200 volumes. it was not uncommon for the merovingian, carolingian, or later kings to make laymen abbots of monasteries ; the layman would often use