ministries and administrative and non - administrative functions not requiring ordained ministry or status as a male cleric in those churches or programs ). there are exigent circumstances, where due to apostolical privilege, certain abbesses have been granted rights and responsibilities above the normal, such as the abbess of the cistercian monastery of the abbey of santa maria la real de las huelgas near burgos, spain. also granted exceptional rights was the abbess of the cistercian order in conversano italy. she was granted the ability to appoint her own vicar - general, select and approve the confessors, along with the practice of receiving the public homage of her clergy. this practice continued until some of the duties were modified due to an appeal by the clergy to rome. finally in 1750, the public homage was abolished. during the middle ages ( 7th – 10th centuries ) in the catholic church, greater restrictions on abbesses ' spiritual independence gained pace. instruments of church authority, from papal bulls down to local sanctions, were increasingly used to restrict their freedom to dispense blessings, administer sacraments, including the veiling of nuns, and publicly read the gospels or preach. such spiritual — and even temporal — authority had in earlier church history, largely been unremarkable. as thomas oestereich, contributor to the catholic encyclopedia ( 1913 ), makes clear, abbesses ' past spiritual authority was increasingly seen as the " usurpation " of corresponding priestly power, and a solely male privilege. he gives an example of the attitude toward such practice, from the 9th century, which persists in church administrative control into the modern era : similarly, in 1210, innocent iii ( died 1216 ) expressed his view of the cistercian abbesses of burgos and palencia in spain, who preached and heard confessions of their own religious, characterizing these acts as " unheard of, most indecorous, and highly preposterous. " history historically, in some celtic monasteries, abbesses presided over joint - houses of monks and nuns, the most famous example being saint brigid of kildare ' s leadership in the founding of the monastery at kildare in ireland. this custom accompanied celtic monastic missions to france, spain, and even to rome itself. in 1115, robert, the founder of fontevraud abbey near chinon and saumur, france, committed the government of the whole order, men as well as women, to a female superior. in lutheran churches, the title of abbess ( ) has in