amalasuintha ( 495 – 30 april 535 ) was a ruler of the ostrogothic kingdom from 526 to 535. initially serving as regent for her son athalaric, she became queen after his premature death. highly educated, amalasuintha was praised by both cassiodorus and procopius for her wisdom and her ability to speak three languages ( greek, gothic, and latin ). her status as an independent female monarch, and obvious affinity for roman culture, caused discontent among the gothic nobles in her court, and she was deposed and killed after six months of sole rule. family amalasuintha was likely born in ravenna in 495, the only child of theodoric and his wife audofleda, the sister of clovis, king of the franks. the union of amalasuintha ’ s parents were of a political purpose, as many royal marriages were at the time. theodoric married audofleda about the year 493, after he had defeated the various gothic kingdoms and sought an alliance with the franks. amalasuintha was born into the amali dynasty on her father ’ s side, which dynasty comprised goths of germanic descent. like her father, amalasuintha was married out of political reasons to eutharic, an amali prince, to ensure a legitimate heir to the throne. they had two children together, athalaric and matasuntha. eutharic died in 522, causing theodoric some alarm, as his kingdom lacked an adult male heir to inherit the throne. as amalasuintha ' s son athalaric was only 10 years old at the time of theodoric ' s death, amalasuintha took control of the kingdom alongside her son as regent and, although accounts by cassiodorus and procopius refer to athalaric as king, she effectively ruled on his behalf. rule regent according to procopius, the goth aristocracy wanted athalaric to be raised in the gothic manner, but amalasuintha wanted him to resemble the roman princes. amalasuintha had close ties to the byzantine emperor justinian i, which would have made her adherence to roman learning and customs especially objectionable to her fellow goths. the regency lasted until 534, when athalaric died from what was most likely the combination of excessive drinking ( a part of gothic culture ) and a disease, probably diabetes. in order to secure the power in the amali name, amalasuin