a uranium bomb. selznick complained that the notion was " science fiction ", only to be confronted by the news of the detonation of two atomic bombs on hiroshima and nagasaki in japan in august 1945. transatlantic pictures hitchcock formed an independent production company, transatlantic pictures, with his friend sidney bernstein. he made two films with transatlantic, one of which was his first colour film. with rope ( 1948 ), hitchcock experimented with marshalling suspense in a confined environment, as he had done earlier with lifeboat. the film appears as a very limited number of continuous shots, but it was actually shot in 10 ranging from to 10 minutes each ; a 10 - minute length of film was the most that a camera ' s film magazine could hold at the time. some transitions between reels were hidden by having a dark object fill the entire screen for a moment. hitchcock used those points to hide the cut, and began the next take with the camera in the same place. the film features james stewart in the leading role, and was the first of four films that stewart made with hitchcock. it was inspired by the leopold and loeb case of the 1920s. critical response at the time was mixed. under capricorn ( 1949 ), set in 19th - century australia, also uses the short - lived technique of long takes, but to a more limited extent. he again used technicolor in this production, then returned to black - and - white for several years. transatlantic pictures became inactive after the last two films. hitchcock filmed stage fright ( 1950 ) at elstree studios in england, where he had worked during his british international pictures contract many years before. he paired one of warner bros. ' most popular stars, jane wyman, with the expatriate german actor marlene dietrich and used several prominent british actors, including michael wilding, richard todd and alastair sim. this was hitchcock ' s first proper production for warner bros., which had distributed rope and under capricorn, because transatlantic pictures was experiencing financial difficulties. his thriller strangers on a train ( 1951 ) was based on the novel of the same name by patricia highsmith. hitchcock combined many elements from his preceding films. he approached dashiell hammett to write the dialogue, but raymond chandler took over, then left over disagreements with the director. in the film, two men casually meet, one of whom speculates on a foolproof method to murder ; he suggests that two people, each wishing to do away with someone, should each perform the other ' s