part of the neolithic population may have been the same as the mesolithic population of the southern balkans like in the konispol cave where the mesolithic stratum co - exists with pre - pottery neolithic finds. cardium pottery culture appears in coastal albania and across the adriatic after 6500 bce, while the settlements of the interior took part in the processes which formed starcevo culture. the indo - europeanization of albania in the context of the ie - ization of the western balkans began after 2800 bce. the presence of the early bronze age tumuli in the vicinity of later apollonia dates to 2679±174 calbce ( 2852 - 2505 calbce ). these burial mounds belong to the southern expression of the adriatic - ljubljana culture ( related to later cetina culture ) which moved southwards along the adriatic from the northern balkans. the same community built similar mounds in montenegro ( rakica kuce ) and northern albania ( shtoj ). the first archaeogenetic find related to the ie - ization of albania involves a man with predominantly yamnaya ancestry buried in a tumulus of northeastern albania which dates to 2663 – 2472 calbce. during the middle bronze age, cetina culture sites and finds appear in albania. cetina culture moved southwards across the adriatic from the cetina valley of dalmatia. in albania, cetina finds are concentrated around southern lake shkoder and appear typically in tumulus cemeteries like in shkrel and shtoj and hillforts like gajtan ( shkoder ) as well as cave sites like blaz, nezir and keputa ( central albania ) and lake basin sites like sovjan ( southeastern albania ). antiquity the incorporated territory of albania was historically inhabited by indo - european peoples, amongst them numerous illyrian and epirote tribes. there were also several greek colonies. the territory referred to as illyria corresponded roughly to the area east of the adriatic sea in the mediterranean sea extending in the south to the mouth of the vjose. the first account of the illyrian groups comes from periplus of the euxine sea, a greek text written in the 4th century bc. the bryges were also present in central albania, while the south was inhabited by the epirote chaonians, whose capital was at phoenice. other colonies such as apollonia and epidamnos were established by greek