the least stable superoxides can form. because the superoxide releases the most energy when formed, the superoxide is preferentially formed for the larger alkali metals where the more complex anions are not polarised. ( the oxides and peroxides for these alkali metals do exist, but do not form upon direct reaction of the metal with oxygen at standard conditions. ) in addition, the small size of the li + and o2− ions contributes to their forming a stable ionic lattice structure. under controlled conditions, however, all the alkali metals, with the exception of francium, are known to form their oxides, peroxides, and superoxides. the alkali metal peroxides and superoxides are powerful oxidising agents. sodium peroxide and potassium superoxide react with carbon dioxide to form the alkali metal carbonate and oxygen gas, which allows them to be used in submarine air purifiers ; the presence of water vapour, naturally present in breath, makes the removal of carbon dioxide by potassium superoxide even more efficient. all the stable alkali metals except lithium can form red ozonides ( mo3 ) through low - temperature reaction of the powdered anhydrous hydroxide with ozone : the ozonides may be then extracted using liquid ammonia. they slowly decompose at standard conditions to the superoxides and oxygen, and hydrolyse immediately to the hydroxides when in contact with water. potassium, rubidium, and caesium also form sesquioxides m2o3, which may be better considered peroxide disuperoxides,. rubidium and caesium can form a great variety of suboxides with the metals in formal oxidation states below + 1. rubidium can form rb6o and rb9o2 ( copper - coloured ) upon oxidation in air, while caesium forms an immense variety of oxides, such as the ozonide cso3 and several brightly coloured suboxides, such as cs7o ( bronze ), cs4o ( red - violet ), cs11o3 ( violet ), cs3o ( dark green ), cso, cs3o2, as well as cs7o2. the last of these may be heated under vacuum to generate cs2o. the alkali metals can also react analogously with the heavier chalcogens ( sulfur, selenium, tellurium, and polonium ), and all the alkali