a relative in king alfred ' s will and he attested charters in a high position until 934. a charter of king edward ' s reign described him as the king ' s brother – mistakenly according to keynes and lapidge, but in the view of janet nelson, he probably was an illegitimate son of king alfred. death and burial alfred died on 26 october 899 at the age of 50 or 51. how he died is unknown, but he suffered throughout his life with a painful and unpleasant illness. his biographer asser gave a detailed description of alfred ' s symptoms, and this has allowed modern doctors to provide a possible diagnosis. it is thought that he had either crohn ' s disease or haemorrhoids. his grandson king eadred seems to have had a similar illness. alfred was temporarily buried at the old minster in winchester with his wife ealhswith and later, his son edward the elder. before his death he had ordered the construction of the new minster hoping that it would become a mausoleum for him and his family. four years after his death, the bodies of alfred and his family were exhumed and moved to their new resting place in the new minster and remained there for 211 years. when william the conqueror rose to the english throne after the norman conquest in 1066, many anglo - saxon abbeys were demolished and replaced with norman cathedrals. one of those unfortunate abbeys was the very new minster abbey where alfred was laid to rest. before demolition, the monks at the new minster exhumed the bodies of alfred and his family to safely transfer them to a new location. the new minster monks moved to hyde in 1110 a little north of the city, and they transferred to hyde abbey along with alfred ' s body and those of his wife and children, which were interred before the high altar. in 1536, many roman catholic churches were vandalized by the people of england spurred by disillusionment with the church during the dissolution of the monasteries. one such catholic church was the site of alfred ' s burial, hyde abbey. once again, alfred ' s place of rest was disturbed for the now 3rd time. hyde abbey was dissolved in 1538 during the reign of henry viii, the church site was demolished and treated like a quarry, as the stones that made up the abbey were then re - used in local architecture. the stone graves housing alfred and his family stayed underground, and the land returned to farming. these graves remained intact until 1788 when the site was