a type of divine legislation. similarly alfred divided his code into 120 chapters because 120 was the age at which moses died and, in the number - symbolism of early medieval biblical exegetes, 120 stood for law. the link between mosaic law and alfred ' s code is the apostolic letter which explained that christ " had come not to shatter or annul the commandments but to fulfill them ; and he taught mercy and meekness " ( intro, 49. 1 ). the mercy that christ infused into mosaic law underlies the injury tariffs that figure so prominently in barbarian law codes since christian synods " established, through that mercy which christ taught, that for almost every misdeed at the first offence secular lords might with their permission receive without sin the monetary compensation which they then fixed ". the only crime that could not be compensated with a payment of money was treachery to a lord " since almighty god adjudged none for those who despised him, nor did christ, the son of god, adjudge any for the one who betrayed him to death ; and he commanded everyone to love his lord as himself ". alfred ' s transformation of christ ' s commandment, from " love your neighbour as yourself " ( matt. 22 : 39 – 40 ) to love your secular lord as you would love the lord christ himself, underscores the importance that alfred placed upon lordship which he understood as a sacred bond instituted by god for the governance of man. when one turns from the domboc introduction to the laws themselves, it is difficult to uncover any logical arrangement. the impression is of a hodgepodge of miscellaneous laws. the law code, as it has been preserved, is singularly unsuitable for use in lawsuits. in fact, several of alfred ' s laws contradicted the laws of ine that form an integral part of the code. patrick wormald ' s explanation is that alfred ' s law code should be understood not as a legal manual but as an ideological manifesto of kingship " designed more for symbolic impact than for practical direction ". in practical terms the most important law in the code may well have been the first : " we enjoin, what is most necessary, that each man keep carefully his oath and his pledge " which expresses a fundamental tenet of anglo - saxon law. alfred devoted considerable attention and thought to judicial matters. asser underscores his concern for judicial fairness. alfred, according to asser, insisted upon reviewing contested judgments made by his ealdormen and reeves and " would