largely in opposition to the ordination of openly homosexual bishops and other clergy and are usually referred to as belonging to the anglican realignment movement, or else as " orthodox " anglicans. these disagreements were especially noted when the episcopal church ( us ) consecrated an openly gay bishop in a same - sex relationship, gene robinson, in 2003, which led some episcopalians to defect and found the anglican church in north america ( acna ) ; then, the debate reignited when the church of england agreed to allow clergy to enter into same - sex civil partnerships, as long as they remained celibate, in 2005. the church of nigeria opposed the episcopal church ' s decision as well as the church of england ' s approval for celibate civil partnerships. " the more liberal provinces that are open to changing church doctrine on marriage in order to allow for same - sex unions include brazil, canada, new zealand, scotland, south india, south africa, the us and wales ". in 2023, the church of england announced that it will authorise " prayers of thanksgiving, dedication and for god ' s blessing for same - sex couples ". the church of england also permits clergy to enter into same - sex civil partnerships. the church of ireland has no official position on civil unions, and one senior cleric has entered into a same - sex civil partnership. the church of ireland recognised that it will " treat civil partners the same as spouses ". the anglican church of australia does not have an official position on homosexuality. the conservative anglican churches encouraging the realignment movement are more concentrated in the global south. for example, the anglican church of kenya, the church of nigeria and the church of uganda have opposed homosexuality. gafcon, a fellowship of conservative anglican churches, has appointed " missionary bishops " in response to the disagreements with the perceived liberalisation in the anglican churches in north america and europe. in 2023, ten archbishops within the anglican communion and two breakaway churches in north america and brazil from the global south fellowship of anglican churches ( gsfa ) declared a state of impaired communion with the church of england and announced that they would no longer recognise the archbishop of canterbury as the " first among equals " among the bishops in the anglican communion. however, in the same statement, the ten archbishops said that they would not leave the anglican communion. debates about social theology and ethics have occurred at the same time as debates on prayer book revision and the acceptable grounds for achieving full communion with non - anglican churches. ecclesiology, polity and ethos the