an architect is a person who plans, designs and oversees the construction of buildings. to practice architecture means to provide services in connection with the design of buildings and the space within the site surrounding the buildings that have human occupancy or use as their principal purpose. etymologically, the term architect derives from the latin, which derives from the greek ( -, chief +, builder ), i. e., chief builder. the professional requirements for architects vary from location to location. an architect ' s decisions affect public safety and thus the architect must undergo specialized training consisting of advanced education and a practicum ( or internship ) for practical experience to earn a license to practice architecture. practical, technical, and academic requirements for becoming an architect vary by jurisdiction though the formal study of architecture in academic institutions has played a pivotal role in the development of the profession. origins throughout ancient and medieval history, most architectural design and construction was carried out by artisans — such as stone masons and carpenters, rising to the role of master builder. until modern times, there was no clear distinction between architect and engineer. in europe, the titles architect and engineer were primarily geographical variations that referred to the same person, often used interchangeably. " architect " derives from greek (, " master builder ", " chief ). it is suggested that various developments in technology and mathematics allowed the development of the professional ' gentleman ' architect, separate from the hands - on craftsman. paper was not used in europe for drawing until the 15th century, but became increasingly available after 1500. pencils were used for drawing by 1600. the availability of both paper and pencils allowed pre - construction drawings to be made by professionals. concurrently, the introduction of linear perspective and innovations such as the use of different projections to describe a three - dimensional building in two dimensions, together with an increased understanding of dimensional accuracy, helped building designers communicate their ideas. however, development was gradual and slow going. until the 18th - century, buildings continued to be designed and set out by craftsmen, with the exception of high - status projects. architecture in most developed countries, only those qualified with an appropriate license, certification, or registration with a relevant body ( often governmental ), may legally practice architecture. such licensure usually required a university degree, successful completion of exams, as well as a training period. representation of oneself as an architect through the use of terms and titles were restricted to licensed individuals by law, although in general, derivatives such as architectural designer were not legally protected. to practice architecture implies