so that the equilibrium shifts towards the right to produce more potassium gas and proceeds almost to completion. metals like sodium are obtained by electrolysis of molten salts. rb & cs obtained mainly as by products of li processing. to make pure caesium, ores of caesium and rubidium are crushed and heated to 650 °c with sodium metal, generating an alloy that can then be separated via a fractional distillation technique. because metallic caesium is too reactive to handle, it is normally offered as caesium azide ( csn3 ). caesium hydroxide is formed when caesium interacts aggressively with water and ice ( csoh ). rubidium is the 16th most prevalent element in the earth ' s crust ; however, it is quite rare. some minerals found in north america, south africa, russia, and canada contain rubidium. some potassium minerals ( lepidolites, biotites, feldspar, carnallite ) contain it, together with caesium. pollucite, carnallite, leucite, and lepidolite are all minerals that contain rubidium. as a by - product of lithium extraction, it is commercially obtained from lepidolite. rubidium is also found in potassium rocks and brines, which is a commercial supply. the majority of rubidium is now obtained as a byproduct of refining lithium. rubidium is used in vacuum tubes as a getter, a material that combines with and removes trace gases from vacuum tubes. for several years in the 1950s and 1960s, a by - product of the potassium production called alkarb was a main source for rubidium. alkarb contained 21 % rubidium while the rest was potassium and a small fraction of caesium. today the largest producers of caesium, for example the tanco mine in manitoba, canada, produce rubidium as by - product from pollucite. today, a common method for separating rubidium from potassium and caesium is the fractional crystallisation of a rubidium and caesium alum ( cs, rb ) al ( so4 ) 2 · 12h2o, which yields pure rubidium alum after approximately 30 recrystallisations. the limited applications and the lack of a mineral rich in rubidium limit the production of rubidium compounds to 2 to 4 tonnes per year. caesium, however, is not produced from the above reaction. instead, the mining of pollucite ore is