case with nearly all. the abrasax - image alone, without external iconisms, and either without, or but a simple, inscription. the abrasax - imago proper is usually found with a shield, a sphere or wreath and whip, a sword or sceptre, a cock ' s head, the body clad with armor, and a serpent ' s tail. there are, however, innumerable modifications of these figures : lions ', hawks ', and eagles ' skins, with or without mottos, with or without a trident and star, and with or without reverses. abrasax combined with other gnostic powers. if, in a single instance, this supreme being was represented in connection with powers of subordinate rank, nothing could have been more natural than to represent it also in combination with its emanations, the seven superior spirits, the thirty aeons, and the three hundred and sixty - five cosmical genii ; and yet this occurs upon none of the relics as yet discovered, whilst those with powers not belonging to the gnostic system are frequently met with. abrasax with jewish symbols. this combination predominates, not indeed with symbolical figures, but in the form of inscriptions, such as : iao, eloai, adonai, sabaoth, michael, gabriel, uriel, onoel, ananoel, raphael, japlael, and many others. the name ιαω, to which σαβαωθ is sometimes added, is found with this figure even more frequently than αβρασαξ, and they are often combined. beside an abrasax figure the following, for instance, is found : ιαω αβρασαξ αδων ατα, " iao abrasax, thou art the lord ". with the abrasax - shield are also found the divine names sabaoth iao, iao abrasax, adonai abrasax, etc. abrasax with persian deities. chiefly, perhaps exclusively, in combination with mithras, and possibly a few specimens with the mystical gradations of mithriaca, upon gnostic relics. abrasax with egyptian deities. it is represented as a figure, with the sun - god phre leading his chariot, or standing upon a lion borne by a crocodile ; also as a name, in connection with isis, phtha, neith, athor, thot, anub