million asteroids with a diameter of 1 km or more. the absolute magnitudes of most of the known asteroids are between 11 and 19, with the median at about 16. the total mass of the asteroid belt is estimated to be kg, which is just 3 % of the mass of the moon ; the mass of the kuiper belt and scattered disk is over 100 times as large. the four largest objects, ceres, vesta, pallas, and hygiea, account for maybe 62 % of the belt ' s total mass, with 39 % accounted for by ceres alone. trojans trojans are populations that share an orbit with a larger planet or moon, but do not collide with it because they orbit in one of the two lagrangian points of stability, and, which lie 60° ahead of and behind the larger body. in the solar system, most known trojans share the orbit of jupiter. they are divided into the greek camp at ( ahead of jupiter ) and the trojan camp at ( trailing jupiter ). more than a million jupiter trojans larger than one kilometer are thought to exist, of which more than 7, 000 are currently catalogued. in other planetary orbits only nine mars trojans, 28 neptune trojans, two uranus trojans, and two earth trojans, have been found to date. a temporary venus trojan is also known. numerical orbital dynamics stability simulations indicate that saturn and uranus probably do not have any primordial trojans. near - earth asteroids near - earth asteroids, or neas, are asteroids that have orbits that pass close to that of earth. asteroids that actually cross earth ' s orbital path are known as earth - crossers., a total of 28, 772 near - earth asteroids were known ; 878 have a diameter of one kilometer or larger. a small number of neas are extinct comets that have lost their volatile surface materials, although having a faint or intermittent comet - like tail does not necessarily result in a classification as a near - earth comet, making the boundaries somewhat fuzzy. the rest of the near - earth asteroids are driven out of the asteroid belt by gravitational interactions with jupiter. many asteroids have natural satellites ( minor - planet moons )., there were 85 neas known to have at least one moon, including three known to have two moons. the asteroid 3122 florence, one of the largest potentially hazardous asteroids with a diameter of, has two moons measuring across, which were discovered by radar imaging during the asteroid ' s 2017 approach to