as many as 50, 000 in one night have been recorded. its claws enable it to dig through the extremely hard crust of a termite or ant mound quickly. it avoids inhaling the dust by sealing the nostrils. when successful, the aardvark ' s long ( up to ) tongue licks up the insects ; the termites ' biting, or the ants ' stinging attacks are rendered futile by the tough skin. after an aardvark visit at a termite mound, other animals will visit to pick up all the leftovers. termite mounds alone do not provide enough food for the aardvark, so they look for termites that are on the move. when these insects move, they can form columns long and these tend to provide easy pickings with little effort exerted by the aardvark. these columns are more common in areas of livestock or other hoofed animals. the trampled grass and dung attract termites from the odontotermes, microtermes, and pseudacanthotermes genera. on a nightly basis they tend to be more active during the first portion of night ( roughly the four hours between 8 : 00p. m. and 12 : 00a. m. ) ; however, they do not seem to prefer bright or dark nights over the other. during adverse weather or if disturbed they will retreat to their burrow systems. they cover between per night ; however, some studies have shown that they may traverse as far as in a night. aardvarks shift their circadian rhythms to more diurnal activity patterns in response to a reduced food supply. this survival tactic may signify an increased risk of imminent mortality. vocalisation the aardvark is a rather quiet animal. however, it does make soft grunting sounds as it forages and loud grunts as it makes for its tunnel entrance. it makes a bleating sound if frightened. when it is threatened it will make for one of its burrows. if one is not close it will dig a new one rapidly. this new one will be short and require the aardvark to back out when the coast is clear. movement the aardvark is known to be a good swimmer and has been witnessed successfully swimming in strong currents. it can dig a yard of tunnel in about five minutes, but otherwise moves fairly slowly. when leaving the burrow at night, they pause at the entrance for about ten minutes, sniffing and listening. after this period of watchfulness