an antisymmetric part, called the torsion. this modification was made by einstein and cartan in the 1920s. equations of motion in general relativity, gravitational force is reimagined as curvature of spacetime. a curved path like an orbit is not the result of a force deflecting a body from an ideal straight - line path, but rather the body ' s attempt to fall freely through a background that is itself curved by the presence of other masses. a remark by john archibald wheeler that has become proverbial among physicists summarizes the theory : " spacetime tells matter how to move ; matter tells spacetime how to curve. " the einstein field equations cover the latter aspect of the theory, relating the curvature of spacetime to the distribution of matter and energy. the geodesic equation covers the former aspect, stating that freely falling bodies follow lines that are as straight as possible in a curved spacetime. einstein regarded this as an " independent fundamental assumption " that had to be postulated in addition to the field equations in order to complete the theory. believing this to be a shortcoming in how general relativity was originally presented, he wished to derive it from the field equations themselves. since the equations of general relativity are non - linear, a lump of energy made out of pure gravitational fields, like a black hole, would move on a trajectory which is determined by the einstein field equations themselves, not by a new law. accordingly, einstein proposed that the field equations would determine the path of a singular solution, like a black hole, to be a geodesic. both physicists and philosophers have often repeated the assertion that the geodesic equation can be obtained from applying the field equations to the motion of a gravitational singularity, but this claim remains disputed. old quantum theory photons and energy quanta in a 1905 paper, einstein postulated that light itself consists of localized particles ( quanta ). einstein ' s light quanta were nearly universally rejected by all physicists, including max planck and niels bohr. this idea only became universally accepted in 1919, with robert millikan ' s detailed experiments on the photoelectric effect, and with the measurement of compton scattering. einstein concluded that each wave of frequency f is associated with a collection of photons with energy hf each, where h is planck ' s constant. he did not say much more, because he was not sure how the particles were related to the wave. but he did suggest that this idea would explain certain experimental results, notably the