hokkaido. the resurgence of ainu culture and language is in large part due to the pioneering efforts of the late ainu folklorist, activist, and former diet member shigeru kayano, himself a native speaker. he first opened an ainu language school in 1987 funded by ainu kyokai. although some researchers have attempted to show that the ainu and japanese languages are related, modern scholars have rejected the idea that the relationship goes beyond contact, such as the mutual borrowing of words. no attempt to show a relationship with ainu to any other language has gained wide acceptance, and linguists currently classify ainu as a language isolate. most ainu people speak either japanese or russian. the ainu language has no indigenous system of writing and has historically been transliterated using japanese kana or russian cyrillic., it was typically written either in katakana or in the latin alphabet. many of the ainu dialects, especially those from different extremities of hokkaido, are not mutually intelligible. however, all ainu speakers understand the classic ainu language of the yukar, a form of ainu epic. without a writing system, the ainu were masters of narration, with the yukar and other forms of narration such as uepeker ( uwepeker ) tales being committed to memory and related at gatherings which often lasted many hours or even days. concepts expressed with prepositions in english, such as to, from, by, in, and at, appear as postpositional forms in ainu. whereas prepositions come before the word they modify, postpositions come after it. a single sentence in ainu can comprise many added or agglutinated sounds or affixes that represent nouns or ideas. culture traditional ainu culture is quite different from japanese culture. according to tanaka sakurako from the university of british columbia, the ainu culture can be included into a wider " northern circumpacific region ", referring to various indigenous cultures of northeast asia and " beyond the bering strait " in north america. never shaving after a certain age, the men have full beards and moustaches. men and women alike cut their hair level with the shoulders at the sides of the head, trimmed semi - circularly behind. the women tattoo ( ) their mouths, and sometimes their forearms. the mouth tattoos start at a young age with a small spot on the upper lip, gradually increasing with size. the soot deposited on a pot hung over a