plains by the thermodon river. however, long gone and not seen again during his lifetime, the amazons had allegedly retreated into the mountains. strabo, however, added that other authors, among them metrodorus of scepsis and hypsicrates claim that after abandoning themiscyra, the amazons had chosen to resettle beyond the borders of the gargareans, an all - male tribe native to the northern foothills of the caucasian mountains. the amazons and gargareans had for many generations met in secrecy once a year during two months in spring, in order to produce children. these encounters would take place in accordance with ancient tribal customs and collective offers of sacrifices. all females were retained by the amazons themselves, and males were returned to the gargareans. 5th century bc poet magnes sings of the bravery of the lydians in a cavalry - battle against the amazons. heracles myth hippolyte was an amazon queen killed by heracles, who had set out to obtain the queen ' s magic belt in a task he was to accomplish as one of the labours of heracles. although neither side had intended to resort to lethal combat, a misunderstanding led to the fight. in the course of this, heracles killed the queen and several other amazons. in awe of the strong hero, the amazons eventually handed the belt to heracles. in another version, heracles does not kill the queen, but exchanges her kidnapped sister melanippe for the belt. theseus myth queen hippolyte was abducted by theseus, who took her to athens, where she experienced forced marriage, sexual slavery, rape, and - as a result of forced pregnancy - bore him a son, hippolytus. in other versions, the kidnapped amazon is called antiope, the sister of hippolyte. in revenge, the amazons invaded greece, plundered some cities along the coast of attica, and besieged and occupied athens. hippolyte, who fought on the side of athens, according to another account was killed during the final battle along with all of the amazons. amazons and dionysus according to plutarch, the god dionysus and his companions fought amazons at ephesus. the amazons fled to samos and dionysus pursued them and killed a great number of them at a site since called panaema ( blood - soaked field ). the christian author eusebius writes that