the stations of sincan and kayas. on 13 march 2009, the new yuksek hızlı tren ( yht ) high - speed rail service began operation between ankara and eskisehir. on 23 august 2011, another yht high - speed line commercially started its service between ankara and konya. on 25 july 2014, the ankara – istanbul high - speed line of yht entered service. esenboga international airport, located in the north - east of the city, is ankara ' s main airport. ankara public transportation statistics the average amount of time people spend commuting on public transit in ankara on a weekday is 71 minutes. 17 % of public transit passengers, ride for more than two hours every day. the average amount of time people wait at a stop or station for public transit is sixteen minutes, while 28 % of users wait for over twenty minutes on average every day. the average distance people usually ride in a single trip with public transit is, while 27 % travel for over in a single direction. politics since 8 april 2019, the mayor of ankara is mansur yavas from the republican people ' s party ( chp ), who won the mayoral election in 2019. ankara is politically a triple battleground between the ruling conservative ak party, the opposition kemalist center - left republican people ' s party ( chp ) and the nationalist far - right mhp. the province of ankara is divided into 25 districts. the chp ' s key and almost only political stronghold in ankara lies within the central area of cankaya, which is the city ' s most populous district. while the chp has always gained between 60 and 70 % of the vote in cankaya since 2002, political support elsewhere throughout ankara is minimal. the high population within cankaya, as well as yenimahalle to an extent, has allowed the chp to take overall second place behind the ak party in both local and general elections, with the mhp a close third, despite the fact that the mhp is politically stronger than the chp in almost every other district. overall, the ak party enjoys the most support throughout the city. the electorate of ankara thus tend to vote in favor of the political right, far more so than the other main cities of istanbul and izmir. in retrospect, the 2013 – 14 protests against the ak party government were particularly strong in ankara, proving to be fatal on multiple occasions. the city suffered from a series of terrorist attacks in 2015 and 2016, most