rumors that he may have been fathered by another man. polly johnson eventually remarried to a man named turner doughtry, who was as poor as she was. johnson ' s mother apprenticed her son william to a tailor, james selby. andrew also became an apprentice in selby ' s shop at age ten and was legally bound to serve until his 21st birthday. johnson lived with his mother for part of his service, and one of selby ' s employees taught him rudimentary literacy skills. his education was augmented by citizens who would come to selby ' s shop to read to the tailors as they worked. even before he became an apprentice, johnson came to listen. the readings caused a lifelong love of learning, and one of his biographers, annette gordon - reed, suggests that johnson, later a gifted public speaker, learned the art as he threaded needles and cut cloth. johnson was not happy at james selby ' s, and after about five years, both he and his brother ran away. selby responded by placing a reward for their return : " ten dollars reward. ran away from the subscriber, two apprentice boys, legally bound, named william and andrew johnson... [ payment ] to any person who will deliver said apprentices to me in raleigh, or i will give the above reward for andrew johnson alone. " the brothers went to carthage, north carolina, where andrew johnson worked as a tailor for several months. fearing he would be arrested and returned to raleigh, johnson moved to laurens, south carolina. he found work quickly, met his first love, mary wood, and made her a quilt as a gift. however, she rejected his marriage proposal. he returned to raleigh, hoping to buy out his apprenticeship, but could not come to terms with selby. unable to stay in raleigh, where he risked being apprehended for abandoning selby, he decided to move west. move to tennessee johnson left north carolina for tennessee, traveling mostly on foot. after a brief period in knoxville, he moved to mooresville, alabama. he then worked as a tailor in columbia, tennessee, but was called back to raleigh by his mother and stepfather, who saw limited opportunities there and who wished to emigrate west. johnson and his party traveled through the blue ridge mountains to greeneville, tennessee. andrew johnson fell in love with the town at first sight, and when he became prosperous purchased the land where he had first camped and planted a tree in commemoration. in greeneville, johnson established a successful