rebels as enemies, rather than subjects whose loyalty might be regained. those standing orders would be in effect for three years until clinton was relieved. north initially backed the southern strategy attempting to exploit divisions between the mercantile north and slave - owning south, but after the defeat of yorktown, he was forced to accept the fact that this policy had failed. it was clear the war was lost, although the royal navy forced the french to relocate their fleet to the caribbean in november 1781 and resumed a close blockade of american trade. the resulting economic damage and rising inflation meant the us was now eager to end the war, while france was unable to provide further loans ; congress could no longer pay its soldiers. on february 27, 1782, a whig motion to end the offensive war in america was carried by 19 votes. north now resigned, obliging the king to invite lord rockingham to form a government ; a consistent supporter of the patriot cause, he made a commitment to us independence a condition of doing so. george iii reluctantly accepted and the new government took office on march 27, 1782 ; however, rockingham died unexpectedly on july 1, and was replaced by lord shelburne who acknowledged american independence. american congress signs a peace when lord rockingham, the whig leader and friend of the american cause was elevated to prime minister, congress consolidated its diplomatic consuls in europe into a peace delegation at paris. all were experienced in congressional leadership. the dean of the delegation was benjamin franklin of pennsylvania. he had become a celebrity in the french court, but he was also an enlightenment scientist with influence in the courts of european great powers in prussia, england ' s former ally, and austria, a catholic empire like spain. since the 1760s, franklin had been an organizer of british american inter - colony cooperation, and then served as a colonial lobbyist to parliament in london. john adams of massachusetts had been consul to the dutch republic and was a prominent early new england patriot. john jay of new york had been consul to spain and was a past president of the continental congress. as consul to the dutch republic, henry laurens of south carolina had secured a preliminary agreement for a trade agreement. he had been a successor to john jay as president of congress and with franklin was a member of the american philosophical society. although active in the preliminaries, he was not a signer of the conclusive treaty. the whig negotiators for lord rockingham and his successor, prime minister lord shelburne, included long - time friend of benjamin franklin from his time