schools. universities around the world have classes that teach arabic as part of their foreign languages, middle eastern studies, and religious studies courses. arabic language schools exist to assist students to learn arabic outside the academic world. there are many arabic language schools in the arab world and other muslim countries. because the quran is written in arabic and all islamic terms are in arabic, millions of muslims ( both arab and non - arab ) study the language. software and books with tapes are an important part of arabic learning, as many of arabic learners may live in places where there are no academic or arabic language school classes available. radio series of arabic language classes are also provided from some radio stations. a number of websites on the internet provide online classes for all levels as a means of distance education ; most teach modern standard arabic, but some teach regional varieties from numerous countries. vocabulary lexicography pre - modern arabic lexicography the tradition of arabic lexicography extended for about a millennium before the modern period. early lexicographers ( lughawiyyun ) sought to explain words in the quran that were unfamiliar or had a particular contextual meaning, and to identify words of non - arabic origin that appear in the quran. they gathered shawahid ( ' instances of attested usage ' ) from poetry and the speech of the arabs — particularly the bedouin ( ) who were perceived to speak the “ purest, ” most eloquent form of arabic — initiating a process of jamʿ al - lugha ( ' compiling the language ' ) which took place over the 8th and early 9th centuries. kitab al - ' ayn ( ), attributed to al - khalil ibn ahmad al - farahidi, is considered the first lexicon to include all arabic roots ; it sought to exhaust all possible root permutations — later called taqalib ( ) — calling those that are actually used mustaʿmal ( ) and those that are not used muhmal ( ). lisan al - ʿarab ( 1290 ) by ibn manzur gives 9, 273 roots, while taj al - ʿarus ( 1774 ) by murtada az - zabidi gives 11, 978 roots. this lexicographic tradition was traditionalist and corrective in nature — holding that linguistic correctness and eloquence derive from qurʾanic usage,, and bedouin speech — positioning itself against lahn al - ʿamma ( ), the solecism it viewed as defective. western lexicography of