23 june 1912, as recorded by a blue plaque on the outside of the house of his birth, later the colonnade hotel. turing had an elder brother, john ferrier turing, father of sir john dermot turing, 12th baronet of the turing baronets. turing ' s father ' s civil service commission was still active during turing ' s childhood years, and his parents travelled between hastings in the united kingdom and india, leaving their two sons to stay with a retired army couple. at hastings, turing stayed at baston lodge, upper maze hill, st leonards - on - sea, now marked with a blue plaque. the plaque was unveiled on 23 june 2012, the centenary of turing ' s birth. very early in life, turing showed signs of the genius that he was later to display prominently. his parents purchased a house in guildford in 1927, and turing lived there during school holidays. the location is also marked with a blue plaque. school turing ' s parents enrolled him at st michael ' s, a primary school at 20 charles road, st leonards - on - sea, from the age of six to nine. the headmistress recognised his talent, noting that she has "... had clever boys and hardworking boys, but alan is a genius ". between january 1922 and 1926, turing was educated at hazelhurst preparatory school, an independent school in the village of frant in sussex ( now east sussex ). in 1926, at the age of 13, he went on to sherborne school, an independent boarding school in the market town of sherborne in dorset, where he boarded at westcott house. the first day of term coincided with the 1926 general strike, in britain, but turing was so determined to attend that he rode his bicycle unaccompanied from southampton to sherborne, stopping overnight at an inn. turing ' s natural inclination towards mathematics and science did not earn him respect from some of the teachers at sherborne, whose definition of education placed more emphasis on the classics. his headmaster wrote to his parents : " i hope he will not fall between two stools. if he is to stay at public school, he must aim at becoming educated. if he is to be solely a scientific specialist, he is wasting his time at a public school ". despite this, turing continued to show remarkable ability in the studies he loved, solving advanced problems in 1927 without having studied even elementary calculus. in 1928, aged 16, turing encountered albert einstein ' s work ; not only did