is detached ( bari ) from matter ( madda ), quality ( kayf ), quantity ( kam ), place ( ayn ), situation ( wad ) and time ( waqt ). avicenna ' s theology on metaphysical issues ( ilahiyyat ) has been criticized by some islamic scholars, among them al - ghazali, ibn taymiyya and ibn al - qayyim. while discussing the views of the theists among the greek philosophers, namely socrates, plato and aristotle in al - munqidh min ad - dalal ( " deliverance from error " ), al - ghazali noted that the greek philosophers " must be taxed with unbelief, as must their partisans among the muslim philosophers, such as avicenna and al - farabi and their likes. " he added that " none, however, of the muslim philosophers engaged so much in transmitting aristotle ' s lore as did the two men just mentioned. [... ] the sum of what we regard as the authentic philosophy of aristotle, as transmitted by al - farabi and avicenna, can be reduced to three parts : a part which must be branded as unbelief ; a part which must be stigmatized as innovation ; and a part which need not be repudiated at all. " argument for god ' s existence avicenna made an argument for the existence of god which would be known as the " proof of the truthful " ( arabic : burhan al - siddiqin ). avicenna argued that there must be a " necessary existent " ( arabic : wajib al - wujud ), an entity that cannot not exist and through a series of arguments, he identified it with the islamic conception of god. present - day historian of philosophy peter adamson called this argument one of the most influential medieval arguments for god ' s existence, and avicenna ' s biggest contribution to the history of philosophy. al - biruni correspondence correspondence between avicenna ( with his student ahmad ibn ' ali al - ma ' sumi ) and al - biruni has survived in which they debated aristotelian natural philosophy and the peripatetic school. abu rayhan began by asking avicenna eighteen questions, ten of which were criticisms of aristotle ' s on the heavens. theology avicenna was a devout muslim and sought to reconcile rational philosophy with islamic theology. his aim was to prove the existence of god and