development. other medical devices and aids that can be considered prosthetics include hearing aids, artificial eyes, palatal obturator, gastric bands, and dentures. prostheses are specifically not orthoses, although given certain circumstances a prosthesis might end up performing some or all of the same functionary benefits as an orthosis. prostheses are technically the complete finished item. for instance, a c - leg knee alone is not a prosthesis, but only a prosthetic component. the complete prosthesis would consist of the attachment system to the residual limb — usually a " socket ", and all the attachment hardware components all the way down to and including the terminal device. despite the technical difference, the terms are often used interchangeably. the terms " prosthetic " and " orthotic " are adjectives used to describe devices such as a prosthetic knee. the terms " prosthetics " and " orthotics " are used to describe the respective allied health fields. an occupational therapist ' s role in prosthetics include therapy, training and evaluations. prosthetic training includes orientation to prosthetics components and terminology, donning and doffing, wearing schedule, and how to care for residual limb and the prosthesis. exoskeletons a powered exoskeleton is a wearable mobile machine that is powered by a system of electric motors, pneumatics, levers, hydraulics, or a combination of technologies that allow for limb movement with increased strength and endurance. its design aims to provide back support, sense the user ' s motion, and send a signal to motors which manage the gears. the exoskeleton supports the shoulder, waist and thigh, and assists movement for lifting and holding heavy items, while lowering back stress. adaptive seating and positioning people with balance and motor function challenges often need specialized equipment to sit or stand safely and securely. this equipment is frequently specialized for specific settings such as in a classroom or nursing home. positioning is often important in seating arrangements to ensure that user ' s body pressure is distributed equally without inhibiting movement in a desired way. positioning devices have been developed to aid in allowing people to stand and bear weight on their legs without risk of a fall. these standers are generally grouped into two categories based on the position of the occupant. prone standers distribute the body weight to the front of the individual and usually have a tray in front