##laric eventually became king in his own right, the political continuity of the visigothic kingdom was broken ; " amalaric ' s succession was the result of new power structures, not old ones, " as heather describes it. with amalaric ' s death in 531, the visigothic kingdom entered an extended period of unrest which lasted until leovigild assumed the throne in 569. ability as king in religion alaric was an arian, like all the early visigothic nobles, but he greatly mitigated the persecution policy of his father euric toward the catholics and authorized them to hold in 506 the council of agde. he was on uneasy terms with the catholic bishops of arelate ( modern arles ) as epitomized in the career of the gallo - roman caesarius, bishop of arles, who was appointed bishop in 503. caesarius was suspected of conspiring with the burgundians, whose king had married the sister of clovis, to assist the burgundians capture arles. alaric exiled him for a year to bordeaux in aquitania, then allowed him to return unharmed when the crisis had passed. alaric displayed similar wisdom in political affairs by appointing a commission headed by the referendary anianus to prepare an abstract of the roman laws and imperial decrees, which would form the authoritative code for his roman subjects. this is generally known as the breviarium alaricianum or breviary of alaric. legacy the ( alaric ' s mountain ), near carcassonne, is named after the visigoth king. local rumour has it that he left a vast treasure buried in the caves beneath the mountain. the ( alaric ' s canal ) in the hautes - pyrenees department is named after him. references further reading edward gibbon, history of the decline and fall of the roman empire chapter 38 alarico ii, diccionario biografico espanol, luis agustin garcia moreno, real academia de la historia. balt dynasty ancient child monarchs 507 deaths 5th - century visigothic monarchs 6th - century visigothic monarchs monarchs killed in action year of birth unknown year of birth uncertain