well as anti - atoms corresponding to the known chemical elements. there is strong evidence that the observable universe is composed almost entirely of ordinary matter, as opposed to an equal mixture of matter and antimatter. this asymmetry of matter and antimatter in the visible universe is one of the great unsolved problems in physics. the process by which this inequality between matter and antimatter particles developed is called baryogenesis. definitions antimatter particles carry the same charge as matter particles, but of opposite sign. that is, an antiproton is negatively charged and an antielectron ( positron ) is positively charged. neutrons do not carry a net charge, but their constituent quarks do. protons and neutrons have a baryon number of + 1, while antiprotons and antineutrons have a baryon number of – 1. similarly, electrons have a lepton number of + 1, while that of positrons is – 1. when a particle and its corresponding antiparticle collide, they are both converted into energy. the french term contra - terrene led to the initialism " c. t. " and the science fiction term " seetee ", as used in such novels as seetee ship. conceptual history the idea of negative matter appears in past theories of matter that have now been abandoned. using the once popular vortex theory of gravity, the possibility of matter with negative gravity was discussed by william hicks in the 1880s. between the 1880s and the 1890s, karl pearson proposed the existence of " squirts " and sinks of the flow of aether. the squirts represented normal matter and the sinks represented negative matter. pearson ' s theory required a fourth dimension for the aether to flow from and into. the term antimatter was first used by arthur schuster in two rather whimsical letters to nature in 1898, in which he coined the term. he hypothesized antiatoms, as well as whole antimatter solar systems, and discussed the possibility of matter and antimatter annihilating each other. schuster ' s ideas were not a serious theoretical proposal, merely speculation, and like the previous ideas, differed from the modern concept of antimatter in that it possessed negative gravity. the modern theory of antimatter began in 1928, with a paper by paul dirac. dirac realised that his relativistic version of the schrodinger wave equation for electrons predicted the possibility of