its population had grown to over 73, 000. britain ' s extended post - war policy for the u. s. continued to try to establish an indian buffer state below the great lakes as late as 1814 during the war of 1812. the formally acquired western american lands continued to be populated by a dozen or so american indian tribes that had been british allies for the most part. though british forts on their lands had been ceded to either the french or the british prior to the creation of the united states, natives were not referred to in the british cession to the u. s. while tribes were not consulted by the british for the treaty, in practice the british refused to abandon the forts on territory they formally transferred. instead, they provisioned military allies for continuing frontier raids and sponsored the northwest indian war ( 1785 – 1795 ), including erecting an additional british fort miami in maumee, ohio. british sponsorship of local warfare on the u. s. continued until the anglo - american jay treaty, authored by alexander hamilton went into effect on february 29, 1796. at the same time, the spanish also sponsored war within the u. s. by indian proxies in its southwest territory ceded by france to britain, then britain to the americans. of the european powers with american colonies adjacent to the newly created united states, spain was most threatened by american independence, and it was correspondingly the most hostile to it. its territory adjacent to the u. s. was relatively undefended, so spanish policy developed a combination of initiatives. spanish soft power diplomatically challenged the british territorial cession west to the mississippi river and the previous northern boundaries of spanish florida. it imposed a high tariff on american goods, then blocked american settler access to the port of new orleans. spanish hard power extended war alliances and arms to southwestern natives to resist american settlement. a former continental army general, james wilkinson settled in kentucky county, virginia in 1784, and there he fostered settler secession from virginia during the spanish - allied chickamauga cherokee war. beginning in 1787, he received pay as spanish agent 13, and subsequently expanded his efforts to persuade american settlers west of the appalachian mountains to secede from the united states, first in the washington administration and later again in the jefferson administration. casualties and losses the total loss of life throughout the conflict is largely unknown. as was typical in wars of the era, diseases such as smallpox claimed more lives than battle. between 1775 and 1782, a smallpox epidemic broke out throughout north america, killing an estimated 130, 000 among all its