in the runup to the election, he took an office in the illinois state capitol to deal with the influx of attention. he also hired john george nicolay as his personal secretary, who would remain in that role during the presidency. on november 6, 1860, lincoln was elected the 16th president. he was the first republican president and his victory was entirely due to his support in the north and west. no ballots were cast for him in 10 of the 15 southern slave states, and he won only two of 996 counties in all the southern states, an omen of the impending civil war. lincoln received 1, 866, 452 votes, or 39. 8 % of the total in a four - way race, carrying the free northern states, as well as california and oregon. his victory in the electoral college was decisive : lincoln had 180 votes to 123 for his opponents. presidency ( 1861 – 1865 ) secession and inauguration the south was outraged by lincoln ' s election, and in response secessionists implemented plans to leave the union before he took office in march 1861. on december 20, 1860, south carolina took the lead by adopting an ordinance of secession ; by february 1, 1861, florida, mississippi, alabama, georgia, louisiana, and texas followed. six of these states declared themselves to be a sovereign nation, the confederate states of america, and adopted a constitution. the upper south and border states ( delaware, maryland, virginia, north carolina, tennessee, kentucky, missouri, and arkansas ) initially rejected the secessionist appeal. president buchanan and president - elect lincoln refused to recognize the confederacy, declaring secession illegal. the confederacy selected jefferson davis as its provisional president on february 9, 1861. attempts at compromise followed but lincoln and the republicans rejected the proposed crittenden compromise as contrary to the party ' s platform of free - soil in the territories. lincoln said, " i will suffer death before i consent... to any concession or compromise which looks like buying the privilege to take possession of this government to which we have a constitutional right ". lincoln supported the corwin amendment to the constitution, which passed congress and was awaiting ratification by the states when lincoln took office. that doomed amendment would have protected slavery in states where it already existed. on march 4, 1861, in his first inaugural address, lincoln said that, because he holds " such a provision to now be implied constitutional law, i have no objection to its being made express and irrevocable ". a few weeks before the war, lincoln sent a letter to every governor