via letter on 28 april 1962. the correspondence between huxley and the society is kept at the cambridge university library. the society invited huxley to appear at a banquet and give a lecture at somerset house, london, in june 1963. huxley wrote a draft of the speech he intended to give at the society ; however, his deteriorating health meant he was not able to attend. death on his deathbed, unable to speak owing to advanced laryngeal cancer, huxley made a written request to his wife laura for " lsd, 100 µg, intramuscular. " according to her account of his death in this timeless moment, she obliged with an injection at 11 : 20 a. m. and a second dose an hour later ; huxley died aged 69, at 5 : 20 p. m. pst on 22 november 1963. media coverage of huxley ' s death, along with that of fellow british author c. s. lewis, was overshadowed by the assassination of john f. kennedy on the same day, less than seven hours before huxley ' s death. in a 2009 article for new york magazine titled " the eclipsed celebrity death club ", christopher bonanos wrote : this coincidence served as the basis for peter kreeft ' s book between heaven and hell : a dialog somewhere beyond death with john f. kennedy, c. s. lewis, & aldous huxley, which imagines a conversation among the three men taking place in purgatory following their deaths. huxley ' s memorial service took place in london in december 1963 ; it was led by his elder brother julian. on 27 october 1971, his ashes were interred in the family grave at the watts cemetery, home of the watts mortuary chapel in compton, guildford, surrey, england. huxley had been a long - time friend of russian composer igor stravinsky, who dedicated his last orchestral composition to huxley. what became variations : aldous huxley in memoriam was begun in july 1963, completed in october 1964, and premiered by the chicago symphony orchestra on 17 april 1965. awards 1939 : james tait black memorial prize 1959 : american academy of arts and letters award of merit. 1962 : companion of literature commemoration in 2021, huxley was one of six british writers commemorated on a series of uk postage stamps issued by royal mail to celebrate british science fiction. one classic science fiction novel from each author was depicted, with brave new world chosen to represent huxley. bibliography adaptations a woman ' s vengeance ( 1948 ),