intervention on behalf of his young son is also given. apollo also demanded that all other methods of divination be made inferior to his, a wish that zeus granted him readily. because of this, athena, who had been practicing divination by throwing pebbles, cast her pebbles away in displeasure. however, apollo had committed a blood murder and had to be purified. because python was a child of gaia, gaia wanted apollo to be banished to tartarus as a punishment. zeus didn ' t agree and instead exiled his son from olympus, and instructed him to get purified. apollo had to serve as a slave for nine years. after the servitude was over, as per his father ' s order, he travelled to the vale of tempe to bathe in waters of peneus. there zeus himself performed purificatory rites on apollo. purified, apollo was escorted by his half - sister athena to delphi where the oracular shrine was finally handed over to him by gaia. according to a variation, apollo had also travelled to crete, where carmanor purified him. apollo later established the pythian games to appropriate gaia. henceforth, apollo became the god who cleansed himself from the sin of murder, made men aware of their guilt and purified them. soon after, zeus instructed apollo to go to delphi and establish his law. but apollo, disobeying his father, went to the land of hyperborea and stayed there for a year. he returned only after the delphians sang hymns to him and pleaded with him to come back. zeus, pleased with his son ' s integrity, gave apollo the seat next to him on his right side. he also gave apollo various gifts, like a golden tripod, a golden bow and arrows, a golden chariot and the city of delphi. soon after his return, apollo needed to recruit people to delphi. so, when he spotted a ship sailing from crete, he sprang aboard in the form of a dolphin. the crew was awed into submission and followed a course that led the ship to delphi. there apollo revealed himself as a god. initiating them to his service, he instructed them to keep righteousness in their hearts. the pythia was apollo ' s high priestess and his mouthpiece through whom he gave prophecies. pythia is arguably the constant favorite of apollo among the mortals. tityos hera once again sent another giant, tityos