the camera obscura but this treatise is important in many other respects. ancient optics and medieval optics were divided into optics and burning mirrors. optics proper mainly focused on the study of vision, while burning mirrors focused on the properties of light and luminous rays. on the shape of the eclipse is probably one of the first attempts made by ibn al - haytham to articulate these two sciences. very often ibn al - haytham ' s discoveries benefited from the intersection of mathematical and experimental contributions. this is the case with on the shape of the eclipse. besides the fact that this treatise allowed more people to study partial eclipses of the sun, it especially allowed to better understand how the camera obscura works. this treatise is a physico - mathematical study of image formation inside the camera obscura. ibn al - haytham takes an experimental approach, and determines the result by varying the size and the shape of the aperture, the focal length of the camera, the shape and intensity of the light source. in his work he explains the inversion of the image in the camera obscura, the fact that the image is similar to the source when the hole is small, but also the fact that the image can differ from the source when the hole is large. all these results are produced by using a point analysis of the image. refractometer in the seventh tract of his book of optics, alhazen described an apparatus for experimenting with various cases of refraction, in order to investigate the relations between the angle of incidence, the angle of refraction and the angle of deflection. this apparatus was a modified version of an apparatus used by ptolemy for similar purpose. unconscious inference alhazen basically states the concept of unconscious inference in his discussion of colour before adding that the inferential step between sensing colour and differentiating it is shorter than the time taken between sensing and any other visible characteristic ( aside from light ), and that " time is so short as not to be clearly apparent to the beholder. " naturally, this suggests that the colour and form are perceived elsewhere. alhazen goes on to say that information must travel to the central nerve cavity for processing and : the sentient organ does not sense the forms that reach it from the visible objects until after it has been affected by these forms ; thus it does not sense color as color or light as light until after it has been affected by the form of color or light. now the affectation received by the sentient organ from the form of color or of light is