thinking was his belief that, because of the action of natural selection, organisms were in a state of balance with their environment, and that everything in nature, served a useful purpose. wallace pointed out that vaccination, which at the time was often unsanitary, could be dangerous. in 1890, wallace gave evidence to a royal commission investigating the controversy. it found errors in his testimony, including some questionable statistics. the lancet averred that wallace and other activists were being selective in their choice of statistics. the commission found that smallpox vaccination was effective and should remain compulsory, though they recommended some changes in procedures to improve safety, and that the penalties for people who refused to comply be made less severe. years later, in 1898, wallace wrote a pamphlet, vaccination a delusion ; its penal enforcement a crime, attacking the commission ' s findings. it, in turn, was attacked by the lancet, which stated that it repeated many of the same errors as his evidence given to the commission. legacy and historical perception honours as a result of his writing, wallace became a well - known figure both as a scientist and as a social activist, and was often sought out for his views. he became president of the anthropology section of the british association in 1866, and of the entomological society of london in 1870. he was elected to the american philosophical society in 1873. the british association elected him as head of its biology section in 1876. he was elected to the royal society in 1893. he was asked to chair the international congress of spiritualists meeting in london in 1898. he received honorary doctorates and professional honours, such the royal society ' s royal medal in 1868 and its darwin medal in 1890, and the order of merit in 1908. obscurity and rehabilitation wallace ' s fame faded quickly after his death. for a long time, he was treated as a relatively obscure figure in the history of science. reasons for this lack of attention may have included his modesty, his willingness to champion unpopular causes without regard for his own reputation, and the discomfort of much of the scientific community with some of his unconventional ideas. the reason that the theory of evolution is popularly credited to darwin is likely the impact of darwin ' s on the origin of species. recently, wallace has become better known, with the publication of at least five book - length biographies and two anthologies of his writings published since 2000. a web page dedicated to wallace scholarship is maintained at western kentucky university. in a 2010 book, the environmentalist tim flanne