he finds evidence that the older system of the arts before our modern system ( fine art ) held art to be any skilled human activity ; for example, ancient greek society did not possess the term art, but techne. techne can be understood neither as art or craft, the reason being that the distinctions of art and craft are historical products that came later on in human history. techne included painting, sculpting and music, but also cooking, medicine, horsemanship, geometry, carpentry, prophecy, and farming, etc. new criticism and the " intentional fallacy " following duchamp during the first half of the 20th century, a significant shift to general aesthetic theory took place which attempted to apply aesthetic theory between various forms of art, including the literary arts and the visual arts, to each other. this resulted in the rise of the new criticism school and debate concerning the intentional fallacy. at issue was the question of whether the aesthetic intentions of the artist in creating the work of art, whatever its specific form, should be associated with the criticism and evaluation of the final product of the work of art, or, if the work of art should be evaluated on its own merits independent of the intentions of the artist. in 1946, william k. wimsatt and monroe beardsley published a classic and controversial new critical essay entitled " the intentional fallacy ", in which they argued strongly against the relevance of an author ' s intention, or " intended meaning " in the analysis of a literary work. for wimsatt and beardsley, the words on the page were all that mattered ; importation of meanings from outside the text was considered irrelevant, and potentially distracting. in another essay, " the affective fallacy ", which served as a kind of sister essay to " the intentional fallacy " wimsatt and beardsley also discounted the reader ' s personal / emotional reaction to a literary work as a valid means of analyzing a text. this fallacy would later be repudiated by theorists from the reader - response school of literary theory. ironically, one of the leading theorists from this school, stanley fish, was himself trained by new critics. fish criticizes wimsatt and beardsley in his 1970 essay " literature in the reader ". as summarized by berys gaut and paisley livingston in their essay " the creation of art " : " structuralist and post - structuralists theorists and critics were sharply critical of many aspects of new criticism, beginning with the emphasis on aesthetic appreciation and the so - called