of the audience ; based on its vote, one of two different endings would be performed. rand and o ' connor moved to new york city in december 1934 so she could handle revisions for the broadway production. her first novel, the semi - autobiographical we the living, was published in 1936. set in soviet russia, it focuses on the struggle between the individual and the state. initial sales were slow, and the american publisher let it go out of print, although european editions continued to sell. she adapted the story as a stage play, but the broadway production closed in less than a week. after the success of her later novels, rand was able to release a revised version in 1959 that has since sold over three million copies. rand started her next major novel, the fountainhead, in december 1935, but took a break from it in 1937 to write her novella anthem. the novella presents a dystopian future world in which totalitarian collectivism has triumphed to such an extent that the word i has been forgotten and replaced with we. it was published in england in 1938, but rand could not find an american publisher at that time. as with we the living, rand ' s later success allowed her to get a revised version published in 1946, and this sold over 3. 5 million copies. the fountainhead and political activism during the 1940s, rand became politically active. she and her husband were full - time volunteers for republican wendell willkie ' s 1940 presidential campaign. this work put her in contact with other intellectuals sympathetic to free - market capitalism. she became friends with journalist henry hazlitt, who introduced her to the austrian school economist ludwig von mises. despite philosophical differences with them, rand strongly endorsed the writings of both men throughout her career, and they expressed admiration for her. mises once called her " the most courageous man in america ", a compliment that particularly pleased her because he said " man " instead of " woman ". rand became friends with libertarian writer isabel paterson. rand questioned her about american history and politics during their many meetings, and gave paterson ideas for her only non - fiction book, the god of the machine. rand ' s first major success as a writer came in 1943 with the fountainhead, a novel about an uncompromising architect named howard roark and his struggle against what rand described as " second - handers " who attempt to live through others, placing others above themselves. twelve publishers rejected it before bobbs - merrill company accepted it at the insistence of editor archibald ogden, who threatened to quit