sydney and melbourne, and silver and lead discoveries at broken hill provided some relief. only one year of deficit was recorded, but the price paid was retrenchments and lean public spending. wine and copper were the only industries not to suffer a downturn. 20th century adelaide was australia ' s third largest city for most of the 20th century. electric street lighting was introduced in 1900 and electric trams were transporting passengers in 1909. 28, 000 men were sent to fight in world war i. historian f. w. crowley examined the reports of visitors in the early 20th century, noting that " many visitors to adelaide admired the foresighted planning of its founders ", as well as pondering the riches of the young city. adelaide enjoyed a postwar boom, entering a time of relative prosperity. its population grew, and it became the third most populous metropolitan area in the country, after sydney and melbourne. its prosperity was short - lived, with the return of droughts and the great depression of the 1930s. it later returned to fortune under strong government leadership. secondary industries helped reduce the state ' s dependence on primary industries. world war ii brought industrial stimulus and diversification to adelaide under the playford government, which advocated adelaide as a safe place for manufacturing due to its less vulnerable location. shipbuilding was expanded at the nearby port of whyalla. the south australian government in this period built on former wartime manufacturing industries but neglected cultural facilities which meant south australia ' s economy lagged behind. international manufacturers like general motors holden and chrysler made use of these factories around the adelaide area in suburbs like elizabeth, completing its transformation from an agricultural service centre to a 20th - century motor city. the mannum – adelaide pipeline brought river murray water to adelaide in 1955 and an airport opened at west beach in 1955. flinders university and the flinders medical centre were established in the 1960s at bedford park, south of the city. today, flinders medical centre is one of the largest teaching hospitals in south australia. in the post - war years around the early 1960s, adelaide was surpassed by brisbane as australia ' s third largest city. the dunstan governments of the 1970s saw something of an adelaide ' cultural revival ', establishing a wide array of social reforms. the city became noted for its progressivism as south australia became the first australian state or territory to decriminalise homosexuality between consenting adults in 1975. adelaide became a centre for the arts, building upon the biennial " adelaide festival of arts " that commenced in 1960. the state bank collapsed in 1991 during an economic recession. the effects lasted