script revisions, notes to other production personnel written by or to hitchcock, and other production material, krohn observed that hitchcock ' s work often deviated from how the screenplay was written or how the film was originally envisioned. he noted that the myth of storyboards in relation to hitchcock, often regurgitated by generations of commentators on his films, was to a great degree perpetuated by hitchcock himself or the publicity arm of the studios. for example, the celebrated crop - spraying sequence of north by northwest was not storyboarded at all. after the scene was filmed, the publicity department asked hitchcock to make storyboards to promote the film, and hitchcock in turn hired an artist to match the scenes in detail. even when storyboards were made, scenes that were shot differed from them significantly. krohn ' s analysis of the production of hitchcock classics like notorious reveals that hitchcock was flexible enough to change a film ' s conception during its production. another example krohn notes is the american remake of the man who knew too much, whose shooting schedule commenced without a finished script and moreover went over schedule, something that, as krohn notes, was not an uncommon occurrence on many of hitchcock ' s films, including strangers on a train and topaz. while hitchcock did do a great deal of preparation for all his films, he was fully cognisant that the actual film - making process often deviated from the best - laid plans and was flexible to adapt to the changes and needs of production as his films were not free from the normal hassles faced and common routines used during many other film productions. krohn ' s work also sheds light on hitchcock ' s practice of generally shooting in chronological order, which he notes sent many films over budget and over schedule and, more importantly, differed from the standard operating procedure of hollywood in the studio system era. equally important is hitchcock ' s tendency to shoot alternative takes of scenes. this differed from coverage in that the films were not necessarily shot from varying angles so as to give the editor options to shape the film how they chose ( often under the producer ' s aegis ). rather they represented hitchcock ' s tendency to give himself options in the editing room, where he would provide advice to his editors after viewing a rough cut of the work. according to krohn, this and a great deal of other information revealed through his research of hitchcock ' s personal papers, script revisions and the like refute the notion of hitchcock as a director who was always in control of his films, whose