to decriminalise homosexuality between consenting adults in 1975. adelaide became a centre for the arts, building upon the biennial " adelaide festival of arts " that commenced in 1960. the state bank collapsed in 1991 during an economic recession. the effects lasted until 2004, when standard & poor ' s reinstated south australia ' s aaa credit rating. adelaide ' s tallest building, completed in 2020, is called the adelaidean and is located at 11 frome street. 21st century in the early years of the 21st century, a significant increase in the state government ' s spending on adelaide ' s infrastructure occurred. the rann government invested a $ 535 million in a major upgrade of the adelaide oval to enable australian football league to be played in the city centre and more than a $ 2 billion to build a new royal adelaide hospital on land adjacent to the adelaide railway station. the glenelg tramline was extended through the city to hindmarsh down to east terrace and the suburban railway line extended south to seaford. following a period of stagnation in the 1990s and 2000s, adelaide began several major developments and redevelopments. the adelaide convention centre was redeveloped and expanded at a cost of a $ 350 million beginning in 2012. three historic buildings were adapted for modern use : the torrens building in victoria square as the adelaide campus for carnegie mellon university, university college london, and torrens university ; the stock exchange building as the science exchange of the royal institution australia ; and the glenside psychiatric hospital as the adelaide studios of the sa film corporation. the government invested more than a $ 2 billion to build a desalination plant, powered by renewable energy, as an ' insurance policy ' against droughts affecting adelaide ' s water supply. the adelaide festival, fringe, and womadelaide became annual events. geography adelaide is north of the fleurieu peninsula, on the adelaide plains between the gulf st vincent and the low - lying mount lofty ranges. the city stretches from the coast to the foothills, and from gawler at its northern extent to sellicks beach in the south. according to the regional development australia, an australian government planning initiative, the " adelaide metropolitan region " has a total land area of, while a more expansive definition by the australian bureau of statistics defines a " greater adelaide " statistical area totalling. the city sits at an average elevation of above sea level. mount lofty, east of the adelaide metropolitan region in the adelaide hills at an elevation of, is the tallest point of the city and in the state south of burr