his work, retour de l ' u. r. s. s. ( return from the ussr, 1936 ), he broke with such socialist friends as jean - paul sartre ; the book was adressed to pro - soviet readers, so the purpose was to expose a reader to doubts instead of presenting harsh criticism. while admitting the economic and social achievements of the ussr compared to the russian empire, he noted the decay of culture, the erasure of the individuality of soviet citizens, and the suppression of any dissent : gide does not express his attitude towards stalin, but he describes the signs of his personality cult : " in each [ home ],... the same portrait of stalin, and nothing else " ; " portrait of stalin..., in the same place no doubt where the icon used to be. is it adoration, love, or fear? i do not know ; always and everywhere he is present. " however, gide wrote that these problems could be solved by raising the cultural level of the soviet society. when gide began preparing his manuscript for publication, the kremlin was immediately informed about it, and the soon gide would be visited by the soviet author ilya ehrenburg, who said that he agreed with gide, but asked to postpone the publication, as the soviet union assisted the republicans in spain ; two days later, louis aragon delivered a letter from jef last asking to postpone the publication. these measures didn ' t help, and as the book was published, gide was condemned in the soviet press and by the " friends of the ussr " : nordahl grieg wrote that the reason of writing the book was gide ' s impatience, and that with his book he made a favour to the fascists, who greeted it with joy. in 1937, in response, gide published afterthoughts on the u. s. s. r. ; earlier, gide read trotsky ' s the revolution betrayed and met victor serge who provided him more information about the soviet union. in afterthoughts, gide is more direct in his criticism of the soviet society : " citrine, trotsky, mercier, yvon, victor serge, leguay, rudolf and many others have helped me with their documentation. everything they have taught me so far i had only suspected it – has confirmed and reinforced my fears ". the main points of afterthoughts were that the dictatorship of the proletariat became the