bce mortuary stele known as the stele of ankh - ef - en - khonsu ; crowley thought it important that the exhibit ' s number was 666, the number of the beast in christian belief, and in later years termed the artefact the " stele of revealing. " according to crowley ' s later statements, on 8 april he heard a disembodied voice claiming to be that of aiwass, the messenger of horus, or hoor - paar - kraat. crowley said that he wrote down everything the voice told him over the course of the next three days, and titled it liber al vel legis or the book of the law. the book proclaimed that humanity was entering a new aeon, and that crowley would serve as its prophet. it stated that a supreme moral law was to be introduced in this aeon, " do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the law, " and that people should learn to live in tune with their will. this book, and the philosophy that it espoused, became the cornerstone of crowley ' s religion, thelema. crowley said that at the time he had been unsure what to do with the book of the law. often resenting it, he said that he ignored the instructions which the text commanded him to perform, which included taking the stele of revealing from the museum, fortifying his own island, and translating the book into all the world ' s languages. according to his account, he instead sent typescripts of the work to several occultists he knew, putting the manuscript away and ignoring it. kanchenjunga and china : 1905 – 1906 returning to boleskine, crowley came to believe that mathers had begun using magic against him, and the relationship between the two broke down. on 28 july 1905, rose gave birth to crowley ' s first child, a daughter named lilith, with crowley writing the pornographic snowdrops from a curate ' s garden to entertain his recuperating wife. he also founded a publishing company through which to publish his poetry, naming it the society for the propagation of religious truth in parody of the society for promoting christian knowledge. among its first publications were crowley ' s collected works, edited by ivor back, an old friend of crowley ' s who was both a practicing surgeon and an enthusiast of literature. his poetry often received strong reviews ( either positive or negative ), but never sold well. in an attempt to gain more publicity