people with some college education but without degrees. according to national assessment of educational progress ( neap ), alabama ranks 39 in reading and 40 in math among fourth - grade students in the rankings from 2022. generally prohibited in the west at large, school corporal punishment is not unusual in alabama, with 27, 260 public school students paddled at least one time, according to government data for the 2011 – 2012 school year. the rate of school corporal punishment in alabama is surpassed by only mississippi and arkansas. colleges and universities alabama ' s programs of higher education include 14 four - year public universities, two - year community colleges, and 17 private, undergraduate and graduate universities. in the state are four medical schools ( as of fall 2015 ) ( university of alabama school of medicine, university of south alabama and alabama college of osteopathic medicine and the edward via college of osteopathic medicine — auburn campus ), two veterinary colleges ( auburn university and tuskegee university ), a dental school ( university of alabama school of dentistry ), an optometry college ( university of alabama at birmingham ), two pharmacy schools ( auburn university and samford university ), and five law schools ( university of alabama school of law, birmingham school of law, cumberland school of law, miles law school, and the thomas goode jones school of law ). public, post - secondary education in alabama is overseen by the alabama commission on higher education and the alabama department of postsecondary education. colleges and universities in alabama offer degree programs from two - year associate degrees to a multitude of doctoral level programs. the largest single campus is the university of alabama, located in tuscaloosa, with 37, 665 enrolled for fall 2016. troy university was the largest institution in the state in 2010, with an enrollment of 29, 689 students across four alabama campuses ( troy, dothan, montgomery, and phenix city ), as well as sixty learning sites in seventeen other states and eleven other countries. the oldest institutions are the public university of north alabama in florence and the catholic church - affiliated spring hill college in mobile, both founded in 1830. accreditation of academic programs is through the southern association of colleges and schools ( sacs ) as well as other subject - focused national and international accreditation agencies such as the association for biblical higher education ( abhe ), the council on occupational education ( coe ), and the accrediting council for independent colleges and schools ( acics ). according to the 2011 u. s. news & world report,