, and respublica. since late 2000s, the " auyl " people ' s democratic patriotic party remains the largest and most influential agrarian - oriented party in kazakhstan, as its presidential candidate jiguli dairabaev had become the second - place frontrunner in the 2022 presidential election after sweeping 3. 4 % of the vote. in the 2023 legislative election, the auyl party for the first time was represented the parliament after winning nine seats in the lower chamber majilis. the party raises rural issues in regard to decaying villages, rural development and the agro - industrial complex, the issues of social security of the rural population, and has consistently opposed the ongoing rural flight in kazakhstan. latvia in latvia, the union of greens and farmers is supportive of traditional small farms and perceives them as more environmentally friendly than large - scale farming : nature is threatened by development, while small farms are threatened by large industrial - scale farms. lithuania in lithuania, as of 2017, the government is led by the lithuanian farmers and greens union, under the leadership of industrial farmer ramunas karbauskis. nordic countries poland in poland, the polish people ' s party ( polskie stronnictwo ludowe, psl ) traces its tradition to an agrarian party in austro - hungarian - controlled galician poland. after the fall of the communist regime, psl ' s biggest success came in 1993 elections, where it won 132 out of 460 parliamentary seats. since then, psl ' s support has steadily declined, until 2019, when they formed polish coalition with an anti - establishment, direct democracy kukiz ' 15 party, and managed to get 8. 5 % of popular vote. moreover, psl tends to get much better results in local elections. in 2014 elections they have managed to get 23. 88 % of votes. the right - wing law and justice party has also become supportive of agrarian policies in recent years and polls show that most of their support comes from rural areas. agrounia resembles the features of agrarianism. romania in romania, older party parties from transylvania, moldavia, and wallachia merged to become the national peasants ' party ( pnt ) in 1926. iuliu maniu ( 1873 – 1953 ) was a prime minister with an agrarian cabinet from 1928 to 1930 and briefly in 1932 – 1933, but the great depression made proposed reforms impossible. the forcefully - introduced and illegal communist regime dissolved the party in 1947 ( along with other historical parties such as the national liberal party ), but it