the points of its extremes defined the exact shape mathematically, and made possible calculations for the entire orbit as well as predictions based on observation. in addition, it mapped out exactly the largest straight - line distance that earth traverses over the course of a year, defining times and places for observing the largest parallax ( apparent shifts of position ) in nearby stars. knowing earth ' s shift and a star ' s shift enabled the star ' s distance to be calculated. but all measurements are subject to some degree of error or uncertainty, and the uncertainties in the length of the astronomical unit only increased uncertainties in the stellar distances. improvements in precision have always been a key to improving astronomical understanding. throughout the twentieth century, measurements became increasingly precise and sophisticated, and ever more dependent on accurate observation of the effects described by einstein ' s theory of relativity and upon the mathematical tools it used. improving measurements were continually checked and cross - checked by means of improved understanding of the laws of celestial mechanics, which govern the motions of objects in space. the expected positions and distances of objects at an established time are calculated ( in au ) from these laws, and assembled into a collection of data called an ephemeris. nasa jet propulsion laboratory horizons system provides one of several ephemeris computation services. in 1976, to establish an even precise measure for the astronomical unit, the iau formally adopted a new definition. although directly based on the then - best available observational measurements, the definition was recast in terms of the then - best mathematical derivations from celestial mechanics and planetary ephemerides. it stated that " the astronomical unit of length is that length ( a ) for which the gaussian gravitational constant ( k ) takes the value when the units of measurement are the astronomical units of length, mass and time ". equivalently, by this definition, one au is " the radius of an unperturbed circular newtonian orbit about the sun of a particle having infinitesimal mass, moving with an angular frequency of " ; or alternatively that length for which the heliocentric gravitational constant ( the product g ) is equal to ( ) 2 au3 / d2, when the length is used to describe the positions of objects in the solar system. subsequent explorations of the solar system by space probes made it possible to obtain precise measurements of the relative positions of the inner planets and other objects by means of radar and telemetry. as with all radar measurements, these rely on measuring the time taken for photons to be reflected