in mathematics, the term " almost all " means " all but a negligible quantity ". more precisely, if is a set, " almost all elements of " means " all elements of but those in a negligible subset of ". the meaning of " negligible " depends on the mathematical context ; for instance, it can mean finite, countable, or null. in contrast, " almost no " means " a negligible quantity " ; that is, " almost no elements of " means " a negligible quantity of elements of ". meanings in different areas of mathematics prevalent meaning throughout mathematics, " almost all " is sometimes used to mean " all ( elements of an infinite set ) except for finitely many ". this use occurs in philosophy as well. similarly, " almost all " can mean " all ( elements of an uncountable set ) except for countably many ". examples : almost all positive integers are greater than 1012. almost all prime numbers are odd ( 2 is the only exception ). almost all polyhedra are irregular ( as there are only nine exceptions : the five platonic solids and the four kepler – poinsot polyhedra ). if p is a nonzero polynomial, then p ( x ) = 0 for almost all x ( if not all x ). meaning in measure theory when speaking about the reals, sometimes " almost all " can mean " all reals except for a null set ". similarly, if s is some set of reals, " almost all numbers in s " can mean " all numbers in s except for those in a null set ". the real line can be thought of as a one - dimensional euclidean space. in the more general case of an n - dimensional space ( where n is a positive integer ), these definitions can be generalised to " all points except for those in a null set " or " all points in s except for those in a null set " ( this time, s is a set of points in the space ). even more generally, " almost all " is sometimes used in the sense of " almost everywhere " in measure theory, or in the closely related sense of " almost surely " in probability theory. examples : in a measure space, such as the real line, countable sets are null. the set of rational numbers is countable, so almost all real numbers are irrational. georg cantor ' s first set theory article proved that the set of algebraic numbers is countable as well,