several in - between types, such as fighter - bombers and attack aircraft, including attack helicopters. non - combat aircraft are not designed for combat as their primary function, but may carry weapons for self - defense. non - combat roles include search and rescue, reconnaissance, observation, transport, training, and aerial refueling. these aircraft are often variants of civil aircraft. most military aircraft are powered heavier - than - air types. other types, such as gliders and balloons, have also been used as military aircraft ; for example, balloons were used for observation during the american civil war and world war i, and military gliders were used during world war ii to land troops. civil civil aircraft divide into commercial and general types, however there are some overlaps. commercial aircraft include types designed for scheduled and charter airline flights, carrying passengers, mail and other cargo. the larger passenger - carrying types are the airliners, the largest of which are wide - body aircraft. some of the smaller types are also used in general aviation, and some of the larger types are used as vip aircraft. general aviation is a catch - all covering other kinds of private ( where the pilot is not paid for time or expenses ) and commercial use, and involving a wide range of aircraft types such as business jets ( bizjets ), trainers, homebuilt, gliders, warbirds and hot air balloons to name a few. the vast majority of aircraft today are general aviation types. experimental an experimental aircraft is one that has not been fully proven in flight, or that carries a special airworthiness certificate, called an experimental certificate in united states parlance. this often implies that the aircraft is testing new aerospace technologies, though the term also refers to amateur - built and kit - built aircraft, many of which are based on proven designs. model a model aircraft is a small unmanned type made to fly for fun, for static display, for aerodynamic research or for other purposes. a scale model is a replica of some larger design. see also lists early flying machines flight altitude record list of aircraft list of civil aircraft list of fighter aircraft list of individual aircraft list of large aircraft list of aviation, aerospace and aeronautical terms topics aircraft hijacking aircraft spotting air traffic control airport flying car personal air vehicle powered parachute spacecraft spaceplane references external links history the evolution of modern aircraft ( nasa ) virtual museum smithsonian air and space museum - online collection with a particular focus on history of aircraft and spacecraft amazing early flying machines slideshow by life magazine information airliners. net aviation dictionary - free aviation