through the sandstone from the west and the amazon began to flow eastward, leading to the emergence of the amazon rainforest. during glacial periods, sea levels dropped and the great amazon lake rapidly drained and became a river, which would eventually become the disputed world ' s longest, draining the most extensive area of rainforest on the planet. paralleling the amazon river is a large aquifer, dubbed the hamza river, the discovery of which was made public in august 2011. protected areas flora and fauna flora fauna more than one - third of all known species in the world live in the amazon rainforest. it is the richest tropical forest in the world in terms of biodiversity. in addition to thousands of species of fish, the river supports crabs, algae, and turtles. mammals along with the orinoco, the amazon is one of the main habitats of the boto, also known as the amazon river dolphin ( inia geoffrensis ). it is the largest species of river dolphin, and it can grow to lengths of up to. the colour of its skin changes with age ; young animals are gray, but become pink and then white as they mature. the dolphins use echolocation to navigate and hunt in the river ' s tricky depths. the boto is the subject of a legend in brazil about a dolphin that turns into a man and seduces maidens by the riverside. the tucuxi ( sotalia fluviatilis ), also a dolphin species, is found both in the rivers of the amazon basin and in the coastal waters of south america. the amazonian manatee ( trichechus inunguis ), also known as " seacow ", is found in the northern amazon river basin and its tributaries. it is a mammal and a herbivore. its population is limited to freshwater habitats, and, unlike other manatees, it does not venture into saltwater. it is classified as vulnerable by the international union for conservation of nature. the amazon and its tributaries are the main habitat of the giant otter ( pteronura brasiliensis ). sometimes known as the " river wolf, " it is one of south america ' s top carnivores. because of habitat destruction and hunting, its population has dramatically decreased. it is now listed on appendix i of the convention on international trade in endangered species ( cites ), which effectively bans international trade. reptiles the anaconda is found in shallow waters in the amazon basin. one of the world ' s largest species of snake, the anaconda spends most