with the minster chapter in a charter of warter priory [ 5 ] and we can therefore infer that alfred was probably dead before that date, it would appear likely that alfred was born in the final decades of the eleventh century. alfred is also remembered in the late fourteenth century beverley cartulary as ‘ a man of venerable life and an ardent student of the scriptures ’ ( london, bl, add. 61901, fol. 60v ) and from york minster, in hanging tablets carrying historical notices about the foundation of the church of york ( wooden tryptichs ), which also date from the late fourteenth century, excerpts from the history of ‘ alfridus beverlacens thesaurarius ’ are attached on the left hand tryptich. [ 6 ] writings alfred ’ s history narrates the history of britain from its supposed foundation by the trojan brutus down to the death of henry i in 1135. compiled over the years c. 1148 – c. 1151 ( previously held to be 1143 ) and at a time of crisis and schism in the church of york, the work was sparked by the appearance in c. 1136 of geoffrey of monmouth ’ s historia regum britanniae history of the kings of britain ( hrb ) and by the reaction at the time to that work. what appears to have been alfred ’ s original intention, to make excerpts of those parts of the work which did not ‘ exceed the bounds of credibility ’, developed into a more ambitious attempt to integrate geoffrey ’ s history into an existing understanding of britain ’ s early history, based largely on the accounts of classical authorities such as orosius, eutropius and suetonius, and on bede ’ s historia ecclesiastica ( he ). to assimilate the hrb within existing historical understanding required its content to be significantly adapted and its two - thousand - year continuous narrative is divided into five distinct historical periods, designated the quinque status ( five states or eras ), and these occupy the first five chapters of the work. chapters six to nine of the history narrate the foundation of the heptarchic english kingdoms, the emergence of west saxon hegemony and the creation of the kingdom of england, the danish wars and the coming of the normans. alfred compiles his account from three main sources : from lincoln, the historia anglorum ( ha ) of henry of huntingdon ; from worcester, the genealogies and accounts of the saxon kingdoms contained