no real evidence shows that he took monastic vows, he lived as if he had. in 781, king elfwald sent alcuin to rome to petition the pope for official confirmation of york ' s status as an archbishopric and to confirm the election of the new archbishop, eanbald i. on his way home, he met charlemagne ( whom he had met once before ), this time in the italian city of parma. charlemagne alcuin ' s intellectual curiosity allowed him to be reluctantly persuaded to join charlemagne ' s court. he joined an illustrious group of scholars whom charlemagne had gathered around him, the mainsprings of the carolingian renaissance : peter of pisa, paulinus of aquileia, rado, and abbot fulrad. alcuin would later write, " the lord was calling me to the service of king charles ". alcuin became master of the palace school of charlemagne in aachen ( ) in 782. it had been founded by the king ' s ancestors as a place for the education of the royal children ( mostly in manners and the ways of the court ). however, charlemagne wanted to include the liberal arts, and most importantly, the study of religion. from 782 to 790, alcuin taught charlemagne himself, his sons pepin and louis, as well as young men sent to be educated at court, and the young clerics attached to the palace chapel. bringing with him from york his assistants pyttel, sigewulf, and joseph, alcuin revolutionised the educational standards of the palace school, introducing charlemagne to the liberal arts and creating a personalised atmosphere of scholarship and learning, to the extent that the institution came to be known as the ' school of master albinus '. in this role as adviser, he took issue with the emperor ' s policy of forcing pagans to be baptised on pain of death, arguing, " faith is a free act of the will, not a forced act. we must appeal to the conscience, not compel it by violence. you can force people to be baptised, but you cannot force them to believe. " his arguments seem to have prevailed – charlemagne abolished the death penalty for paganism in 797. charlemagne gathered the best men of every land in his court, and became far more than just the king at the centre. it seems that he made many of these men his closest friends and counsellors. they referred to him as ' david ', a reference to the biblical king david. al