cities. an estimated 400, 000 people enter the labor market each year. several small companies and factories began operating in different parts of the country, which not only provide revenues to the government but also create new jobs. improvements to the business environment have resulted in more than $ 1. 5 billion in telecom investment and created more than 100, 000 jobs since 2003. afghan rugs are becoming popular again, allowing many carpet dealers around the country to hire more workers ; in 2016 – 17 it was the fourth most exported group of items. afghanistan is a member of wto, saarc, eco, and oic. it holds an observer status in sco. in 2018, a majority of imports come from either iran, china, pakistan and kazakhstan, while 84 % of exports are to pakistan and india. since the taliban ' s takeover of the country in august 2021, the united states has frozen about $ 9 billion in assets belonging to the afghan central bank, blocking the taliban from accessing billions of dollars held in us bank accounts. the gdp of afghanistan is estimated to have dropped by 20 % following the taliban return to power. following this, after months of free - fall, the afghan economy began stabilizing, as a result of the taliban ' s restrictions on smuggled imports, limits on banking transactions, and u. n aid. in 2023, the afghan economy began seeing signs of revival. this has also been followed by stable exchange rates, low inflation, stable revenue collection, and the rise of trade in exports. in the third quarter of 2023, the afghani rose to be the best performing currency in the world, climbing over 9 % against the us dollar. agriculture agricultural production is the backbone of afghanistan ' s economy and has traditionally dominated the economy, employing about 40 % of the workforce as of 2018. the country is known for producing pomegranates, grapes, apricots, melons, and several other fresh and dry fruits. it is the world ' s largest producer of opium – as much as 16 % or more of the nation ' s economy is derived from the cultivation and sale of opium. it is also one of the world ' s top producers of cannabis. saffron, the most expensive spice, grows in afghanistan, particularly herat province. in recent years, there has been an uptick in saffron production, which authorities and farmers trying to replace poppy cultivation. between 2012 and 2019, the saffron cultivated and produced in afghanistan was consecutively ranked the world ' s best