united states would achieve it first. on may 25, 1961, twenty days after the first us crewed spaceflight freedom 7, kennedy proposed the crewed moon landing in a special message to the congress on urgent national needs : nasa expansion at the time of kennedy ' s proposal, only one american had flown in space — less than a month earlier — and nasa had not yet sent an astronaut into orbit. even some nasa employees doubted whether kennedy ' s ambitious goal could be met. by 1963, kennedy even came close to agreeing to a joint us - ussr moon mission, to eliminate duplication of effort. with the clear goal of a crewed landing replacing the more nebulous goals of space stations and circumlunar flights, nasa decided that, in order to make progress quickly, it would discard the feasibility study designs of convair, ge, and martin, and proceed with faget ' s command and service module design. the mission module was determined to be useful only as an extra room, and therefore unnecessary. they used faget ' s design as the specification for another competition for spacecraft procurement bids in october 1961. on november 28, 1961, it was announced that north american aviation had won the contract, although its bid was not rated as good as the martin proposal. webb, dryden and robert seamans chose it in preference due to north american ' s longer association with nasa and its predecessor. landing humans on the moon by the end of 1969 required the most sudden burst of technological creativity, and the largest commitment of resources ( $ 25 billion ; $ in us dollars ) ever made by any nation in peacetime. at its peak, the apollo program employed 400, 000 people and required the support of over 20, 000 industrial firms and universities. on july 1, 1960, nasa established the marshall space flight center ( msfc ) in huntsville, alabama. msfc designed the heavy lift - class saturn launch vehicles, which would be required for apollo. manned spacecraft center it became clear that managing the apollo program would exceed the capabilities of robert r. gilruth ' s space task group, which had been directing the nation ' s crewed space program from nasa ' s langley research center. so gilruth was given authority to grow his organization into a new nasa center, the manned spacecraft center ( msc ). a site was chosen in houston, texas, on land donated by rice university, and administrator webb announced the conversion on september 19, 1961. it was also clear nasa would soon outgrow its practice of controlling