who specialized in the disciplines of ʿilm al - kalam ( rational theology, but understood to include natural philosophy, epistemology and philosophy of mind ) and usul al - fiqh ( jurisprudence, but understood to include philosophy of law, dialectic, and philosophy of language ). " middle ages and renaissance as early as the 14th century when dante alighieri depicted him in limbo alongside the virtuous non - christian thinkers in his divine comedy such as virgil, averroes, homer, horace, ovid, lucan, socrates, plato and saladin. avicenna has been recognized by both east and west as one of the great figures in intellectual history. johannes kepler cites avicenna ' s opinion when discussing the causes of planetary motions in chapter 2 of astronomia nova. george sarton, the author of the history of science, described avicenna as " one of the greatest thinkers and medical scholars in history " and called him " the most famous scientist of islam and one of the most famous of all races, places, and times ". he was one of the islamic world ' s leading writers in the field of medicine. along with rhazes, abulcasis, ibn al - nafis and al - ibadi, avicenna is considered an important compiler of early muslim medicine. he is remembered in the western history of medicine as a major historical figure who made important contributions to medicine and the european renaissance. his medical texts were unusual in that where controversy existed between galen and aristotle ' s views on medical matters ( such as anatomy ), he preferred to side with aristotle, where necessary updating aristotle ' s position to take into account post - aristotelian advances in anatomical knowledge. aristotle ' s dominant intellectual influence among medieval european scholars meant that avicenna ' s linking of galen ' s medical writings with aristotle ' s philosophical writings in the canon of medicine ( along with its comprehensive and logical organisation of knowledge ) significantly increased avicenna ' s importance in medieval europe in comparison to other islamic writers on medicine. his influence following translation of the canon was such that from the early fourteenth to the mid - sixteenth centuries he was ranked with hippocrates and galen as one of the acknowledged authorities, ( " prince of physicians " ). modern reception institutions in a variety of counties have been named after avicenna in honour of his scientific accomplishments, including the avicenna mausoleum and museum, bu - ali sina university, avicenna research institute and ibn sina academy