in the hebrew bible, abner ( ) was the cousin of king saul and the commander - in - chief of his army. his name also appears as " abiner son of ner ", where the longer form abiner means " my father is ner ". biblical narrative abner is initially mentioned incidentally in saul ' s history, first appearing as the son of ner, saul ' s uncle, and the commander of saul ' s army. he then comes to the story again as the commander who introduced david to saul following david ' s killing of goliath. he is not mentioned in the account of the disastrous battle of gilboa when saul ' s power was crushed. seizing the youngest but only surviving of saul ' s sons, ish - bosheth, also called eshbaal, abner set him up as king over israel at mahanaim, east of the jordan. david, who was accepted as king by judah alone, was meanwhile reigning at hebron, and for some time war was carried on between the two parties. the only engagement between the rival factions which is told at length is noteworthy, inasmuch as it was preceded by an encounter at gibeon between 12 chosen men from each side, in which all 24 seem to have perished. in the general engagement which followed, abner was defeated and put to flight. he was closely pursued by asahel, brother of joab, who is said to have been " light of foot as a wild roe ". as asahel would not desist from the pursuit, though warned, abner was compelled to slay him in self - defence. this originated a deadly feud between the leaders of the opposite parties, for joab, as next of kin to asahel, was by the law and custom of the country the avenger of his blood. however, according to josephus, in antiquities, book 7, chapter 1, joab had forgiven abner for the death of his brother, asahel, the reason being that abner had slain asahel honorably in combat after he had first warned asahel and tried to knock the wind out of him with the butt of his spear. however, probably by intervention of god, it went through asahel. the bible says everyone stopped and looked. that shows that something like this never happened before. this battle was part of a civil war between david and ish - bosheth. after this battle, abner switched sides and granted david control over the tribe of benjamin