and tearing it away without splintering bones, unlike tyrannosaurus, which is thought to have been capable of damaging bones. they also suggested that the architecture of the skull could have permitted the use of different strategies against different prey ; the skull was light enough to allow attacks on smaller and more agile ornithopods, but strong enough for high - impact ambush attacks against larger prey like stegosaurids and sauropods. their interpretations were challenged by other researchers, who found no modern analogues to a hatchet attack and considered it more likely that the skull was strong to compensate for its open construction when absorbing the stresses from struggling prey. the original authors noted that allosaurus itself has no modern equivalent, that the tooth row is well - suited to such an attack, and that articulations in the skull cited by their detractors as problematic actually helped protect the palate and lessen stress. another possibility for handling large prey is that theropods like allosaurus were " flesh grazers " which could take bites of flesh out of living sauropods that were sufficient to sustain the predator so it would not have needed to expend the effort to kill the prey outright. this strategy would also potentially have allowed the prey to recover and be fed upon in a similar way later. an additional suggestion notes that ornithopods were the most common available dinosaurian prey, and that allosaurs may have subdued them by using an attack similar to that of modern big cats : grasping the prey with their forelimbs, and then making multiple bites on the throat to crush the trachea. this is compatible with other evidence that the forelimbs were strong and capable of restraining prey. studies done by stephen lautenschager et al. from the university of bristol also indicate allosaurus could open its jaws quite wide and sustain considerable muscle force. when compared with tyrannosaurus and the therizinosaurid erlikosaurus in the same study, it was found that allosaurus had a wider gape than either ; the animal was capable of opening its jaws to a 92 - degree angle at maximum. the findings also indicate that large carnivorous dinosaurs, like modern carnivores, had wider jaw gapes than herbivores. a biomechanical study published in 2013 by eric snively and colleagues found that allosaurus had an unusually low attachment point on the skull for the longissimus capitis superficialis neck muscle compared to other theropods such as tyrannosaurus.