##t ' s le dejeuner sur l ' herbe ( 1863 ), was considered scandalous not because of the nude woman, but because she is seated next to men fully dressed in the clothing of the time, rather than in robes of the antique world. john singer sargent ' s madame pierre gautreau ( madam x ) ( 1884 ), caused a controversy over the reddish pink used to color the woman ' s ear lobe, considered far too suggestive and supposedly ruining the high - society model ' s reputation. the gradual abandonment of naturalism and the depiction of realistic representations of the visual appearance of subjects in the 19th and 20th centuries led to a rolling controversy lasting for over a century. in the 20th century, pablo picasso ' s guernica ( 1937 ) used arresting cubist techniques and stark monochromatic oils, to depict the harrowing consequences of a contemporary bombing of a small, ancient basque town. leon golub ' s interrogation iii ( 1981 ), depicts a female nude, hooded detainee strapped to a chair, her legs open to reveal her sexual organs, surrounded by two tormentors dressed in everyday clothing. andres serrano ' s piss christ ( 1989 ) is a photograph of a crucifix, sacred to the christian religion and representing christ ' s sacrifice and final suffering, submerged in a glass of the artist ' s own urine. the resulting uproar led to comments in the united states senate about public funding of the arts. theory before modernism, aesthetics in western art was greatly concerned with achieving the appropriate balance between different aspects of realism or truth to nature and the ideal ; ideas as to what the appropriate balance is have shifted to and fro over the centuries. this concern is largely absent in other traditions of art. the aesthetic theorist john ruskin, who championed what he saw as the naturalism of j. m. w. turner, saw art ' s role as the communication by artifice of an essential truth that could only be found in nature. the definition and evaluation of art has become especially problematic since the 20th century. richard wollheim distinguishes three approaches to assessing the aesthetic value of art : the realist, whereby aesthetic quality is an absolute value independent of any human view ; the objectivist, whereby it is also an absolute value, but is dependent on general human experience ; and the relativist position, whereby it is not an absolute value, but depends on, and varies with, the human experience of different humans. arrival of modernism the arrival of modernism in the late 19th