the ak - 47, officially known as the avtomat kalashnikova ( ; also known as the kalashnikov or just ak ), is a gas - operated assault rifle that is chambered for the 7. 62×39mm cartridge. developed in the soviet union by russian small - arms designer mikhail kalashnikov, it is the originating firearm of the kalashnikov ( or " ak " ) family of rifles. after more than seven decades since its creation, the ak - 47 model and its variants remain one of the most popular and widely used firearms in the world. design work on the ak - 47 began in 1945. it was presented for official military trials in 1947, and, in 1948, the fixed - stock version was introduced into active service for selected units of the soviet army. in early 1949, the ak was officially accepted by the soviet armed forces and used by the majority of the member states of the warsaw pact. the model and its variants owe their global popularity to their reliability under harsh conditions, low production cost ( compared to contemporary weapons ), availability in virtually every geographic region, and ease of use. the ak has been manufactured in many countries and has seen service with armed forces as well as irregular forces and insurgencies throughout the world., " of the estimated 500 million firearms worldwide, approximately 100 million belong to the kalashnikov family, three - quarters of which are ak - 47s ". the model is the basis for the development of many other types of individual, crew - served, and specialized firearms. history origins during world war ii, the sturmgewehr 44 rifle used by german forces made a deep impression on their soviet counterparts. the select - fire rifle was chambered for a new intermediate cartridge, the 7. 92×33mm kurz, and combined the firepower of a submachine gun with the range and accuracy of a rifle. on 15 july 1943, an earlier model of the sturmgewehr was demonstrated before the people ' s commissariat of arms of the ussr. the soviets were impressed with the weapon and immediately set about developing an intermediate caliber fully automatic rifle of their own, to replace the ppsh - 41 submachine guns and outdated mosin – nagant bolt - action rifles that armed most of the soviet army. the soviets soon developed the 7. 62×39mm m43 cartridge, used in the semi - automatic sks carbine and the rpd light machine gun. shortly after world war ii, the soviets developed the ak - 47