economics of swift ' s time. wittowsky argues that not enough critics have taken the time to focus directly on the mercantilism and theories of labour in 18th - century england. " if one regards the modest proposal simply as a criticism of condition, about all one can say is that conditions were bad and that swift ' s irony brilliantly underscored this fact ". " people are the riches of a nation " at the start of a new industrial age in the 18th century, it was believed that " people are the riches of the nation ", and there was a general faith in an economy that paid its workers low wages because high wages meant workers would work less. furthermore, " in the mercantilist view no child was too young to go into industry ". in those times, the " somewhat more humane attitudes of an earlier day had all but disappeared and the laborer had come to be regarded as a commodity ". louis a. landa composed a conducive analysis when he noted that it would have been healthier for the irish economy to more appropriately utilize their human assets by giving the people an opportunity to " become a source of wealth to the nation " or else they " must turn to begging and thievery ". this opportunity may have included giving the farmers more coin to work for, diversifying their professions, or even consider enslaving their people to lower coin usage and build up financial stock in ireland. landa wrote that, " swift is maintaining that the maxim — people are the riches of a nation — applies to ireland only if ireland is permitted slavery or cannibalism " landa presents swift ' s a modest proposal as a critique of the popular and unjustified maxim of mercantilism in the 18th century that " people are the riches of a nation ". swift presents the dire state of ireland and shows that mere population itself, in ireland ' s case, did not always mean greater wealth and economy. the uncontrolled maxim fails to take into account that a person who does not produce in an economic or political way makes a country poorer, not richer. swift also recognises the implications of this fact in making mercantilist philosophy a paradox : the wealth of a country is based on the poverty of the majority of its citizens. swift however, landa argues, is not merely criticising economic maxims but also addressing the fact that england was denying irish citizens their natural rights and dehumanising them by viewing them as a mere commodity. public reaction