use the processes of reduplication and gemination ( which often overlap in meaning ) to derive nouns, verbs, adjectives, and adverbs throughout the aa language family. gemination in particular is one of the typical features of aa. full or partial reduplication of the verb is often used to derive forms showing repeated action ( pluractionality ), though it is unclear if this is an inherited feature or has been widely borrowed. nouns grammatical gender and number the assignment of nouns and pronouns to either masculine or feminine gender is present in all branches – but not all languages – of the afroasiatic family. this sex - based gender system is widely agreed to derive from proto - afroasiatic. in most branches, gender is an inherent property of nouns. additionally, even when nouns are not cognates, they tend to have the same gender throughout afroasiatic ( " gender stability " ). in egyptian, semitic, and berber, a feminine suffix - t is attested to mark feminine nouns ; in some cushitic and chadic languages, a feminine - t suffix or prefix ( lexicalized from a demonstrative ) is used to mark definiteness. in addition to these uses, - t also functions as a diminutive, pejorative, and / or singulative marker in some languages. afroasiatic languages have a variety of ways of marking plurals ; in some branches, nouns change gender from singular to plural ( gender polarity ), while in others, plural forms are ungendered. in addition to marking plurals via a number of affixes ( with the suffixes - * uu / - * w and - * n ( a ) widely attested ), several aa languages make use of internal vowel change ( apophony ) and / or insertion ( epenthesis ). these so - called " internal a " or " broken " plurals are securely attested in semitic, berber, cushitic, and chadic, although it is unclear if the chadic examples are an independent development. another common method of forming plurals is reduplication. noun cases and states nouns cases are found in the semitic, berber, cushitic, and omotic. they are not found in chadic languages, and there is no evidence for cases in egyptian. a common pattern in aa languages with case is for the nominative to be marked by - u or - i, and the accusative to be marked by - a. however, the