met his future wife, adelaide elizabeth farrell ( nicknamed " heidi " ), when she was starting a graduate course in linguistics. being radical students, they decided against further graduate work and moved to cleveland, ohio, where they married on april 29, 1950. career seeking experiences to write about, alvin and heidi toffler spent the next five years as blue collar workers on assembly lines while studying industrial mass production in their daily work. he compared his own desire for experience to other writers, such as jack london, who in his quest for subjects to write about sailed the seas, and john steinbeck, who went to pick grapes with migrant workers. in their first factory jobs, heidi became a union shop steward in the aluminum foundry where she worked. alvin became a millwright and welder. in the evenings alvin would write poetry and fiction, but discovered he was proficient at neither. his hands - on practical labor experience helped alvin toffler land a position at a union - backed newspaper, a transfer to its washington bureau in 1957, then three years as a white house correspondent, covering congress and the white house for a pennsylvania daily newspaper. they returned to new york city in 1959 when fortune magazine invited alvin to become its labor columnist, later having him write about business and management. after leaving fortune magazine in 1962, toffler began a freelance career, writing long form articles for scholarly journals and magazines. his 1964 playboy interviews with russian novelist vladimir nabokov and ayn rand were considered among the magazine ' s best. his interview with rand was the first time the magazine had given such a platform to a female intellectual, which as one commentator said, " the real bird of paradise toffler captured for playboy in 1964 was ayn rand. " toffler was hired by ibm to conduct research and write a paper on the social and organizational impact of computers, leading to his contact with the earliest computer " gurus " and artificial intelligence researchers and proponents. xerox invited him to write about its research laboratory and at & t consulted him for strategic advice. this at & t work led to a study of telecommunications, which advised the company ' s top management to break up the company more than a decade before the government forced at & t to break up. in the mid - 1960s, the tofflers began five years of research on what would become future shock, published in 1970. it has sold over 6 million copies worldwide, according to the new york times, or over 15 million copies according to the tofflers ' web site. to