proven language family. contrasting proposals of an early emergence, tom guldemann has argued that less time may have been required for the divergence than is usually assumed, as it is possible for a language to rapidly restructure due to areal contact, with the evolution of chadic ( and likely also omotic ) serving as pertinent examples. location likewise, no consensus exists as to where proto - afroasiatic originated. scholars have proposed locations for the afroasiatic homeland across africa and west asia. roger blench writes that the debate possesses " a strong ideological flavor ", with associations between an asian origin and " high civilization ". an additional complicating factor is the lack of agreement on the subgroupings of afroasiatic ( see further subdivisions ) – this makes associating archaeological evidence with the spread of afroasiatic particularly difficult. nevertheless, there is a long - accepted link between the speakers of proto - southern cushitic languages and the east african savanna pastoral neolithic ( 5000 years ago ), and archaeological evidence associates the proto - cushitic speakers with economic transformations in the sahara dating c. 8, 500 ago, as well as the speakers of the proto - zenati variety of the berber languages with an expansion across the maghreb in the 5th century ce. an origin somewhere on the african continent has broad scholarly support, and is seen as being well - supported by the linguistic data. most scholars more narrowly place the homeland near the geographic center of its present distribution, " in the southeastern sahara or adjacent horn of africa. " the afroasiatic languages spoken in africa are not more closely related to each other than they are to semitic, as one would expect if only semitic had remained in an west asian homeland while all other branches had spread from there. likewise, all semitic languages are fairly similar to each other, whereas the african branches of afroasiatic are very diverse ; this suggests the rapid spread of semitic out of africa. proponents of an origin of afroasiatic within africa assume the proto - language to have been spoken by pre - neolithic hunter - gatherers, arguing that there is no evidence of words in proto - afroasiatic related to agriculture or animal husbandry. christopher ehret, s. o. y. keita, and paul newman also argue that archaeology does not indicate a spread of migrating farmers into africa, but rather a gradual incorporation of animal husbandry into indigenous foraging cultures. ehret, in a separate publication, argued that the two principles in linguistic approaches for determining the origin of languages