what i ' m doing. " prize memoir ( 1818 ) and sequel on 17 march 1817, the academie des sciences announced that diffraction would be the topic for the biannual physics grand prix to be awarded in 1819. the deadline for entries was set at 1 august 1818 to allow time for replication of experiments. although the wording of the problem referred to rays and inflection and did not invite wave - based solutions, arago and ampere encouraged fresnel to enter. in the fall of 1817, fresnel, supported by de prony, obtained a leave of absence from the new head of the corp des ponts, louis becquey, and returned to paris. he resumed his engineering duties in the spring of 1818 ; but from then on he was based in paris, first on the canal de l ' ourcq, and then ( from may 1819 ) with the cadastre of the pavements. on 15 january 1818, in a different context ( revisited below ), fresnel showed that the addition of sinusoidal functions of the same frequency but different phases is analogous to the addition of forces with different directions. his method was similar to the phasor representation, except that the " forces " were plane vectors rather than complex numbers ; they could be added, and multiplied by scalars, but not ( yet ) multiplied and divided by each other. the explanation was algebraic rather than geometric. knowledge of this method was assumed in a preliminary note on diffraction, dated 19 april 1818 and deposited on 20 april, in which fresnel outlined the elementary theory of diffraction as found in modern textbooks. he restated huygens ' s principle in combination with the superposition principle, saying that the vibration at each point on a wavefront is the sum of the vibrations that would be sent to it at that moment by all the elements of the wavefront in any of its previous positions, all elements acting separately. for a wavefront partly obstructed in a previous position, the summation was to be carried out over the unobstructed portion. in directions other than the normal to the primary wavefront, the secondary waves were weakened due to obliquity, but weakened much more by destructive interference, so that the effect of obliquity alone could be ignored. for diffraction by a straight edge, the intensity as a function of distance from the geometric shadow could then be expressed with sufficient accuracy in terms of what are now called the normalized fr