small modifications. for some problems they can find the optimal solution while for others they stop at local optima, that is, at solutions that cannot be improved by the algorithm but are not optimum. the most popular use of greedy algorithms is for finding the minimal spanning tree where finding the optimal solution is possible with this method. huffman tree, kruskal, prim, sollin are greedy algorithms that can solve this optimization problem. the heuristic method in optimization problems, heuristic algorithms can be used to find a solution close to the optimal solution in cases where finding the optimal solution is impractical. these algorithms work by getting closer and closer to the optimal solution as they progress. in principle, if run for an infinite amount of time, they will find the optimal solution. their merit is that they can find a solution very close to the optimal solution in a relatively short time. such algorithms include local search, tabu search, simulated annealing, and genetic algorithms. some of them, like simulated annealing, are non - deterministic algorithms while others, like tabu search, are deterministic. when a bound on the error of the non - optimal solution is known, the algorithm is further categorized as an approximation algorithm. by field of study every field of science has its own problems and needs efficient algorithms. related problems in one field are often studied together. some example classes are search algorithms, sorting algorithms, merge algorithms, numerical algorithms, graph algorithms, string algorithms, computational geometric algorithms, combinatorial algorithms, medical algorithms, machine learning, cryptography, data compression algorithms and parsing techniques. fields tend to overlap with each other, and algorithm advances in one field may improve those of other, sometimes completely unrelated, fields. for example, dynamic programming was invented for optimization of resource consumption in industry but is now used in solving a broad range of problems in many fields. by complexity algorithms can be classified by the amount of time they need to complete compared to their input size : constant time : if the time needed by the algorithm is the same, regardless of the input size. e. g. an access to an array element. logarithmic time : if the time is a logarithmic function of the input size. e. g. binary search algorithm. linear time : if the time is proportional to the input size. e. g. the traverse of a list. polynomial time : if the time is a power of the input size. e. g. the bubble sort algorithm has quadratic