3, 000 men — including cherokee, choctaw, and creek allies — attacked a red stick fort at horseshoe bend on the tallapoosa river, which was manned by about 1, 000 men. the red sticks were overwhelmed and massacred. almost all their warriors were killed, and nearly 300 women and children were taken prisoner and distributed to jackson ' s native american allies. the victory broke the power of the red sticks. jackson continued his scorched - earth campaign of burning villages, destroying supplies, and starving red stick women and children. the campaign ended when william weatherford, the red stick leader, surrendered, although some red sticks fled to east florida. on june 8, jackson was appointed a brigadier general in the united states army, and 10 days later was made a brevet major general with command of the seventh military district, which included tennessee, louisiana, the mississippi territory, and the muscogee creek confederacy. with president james madison ' s approval, jackson imposed the treaty of fort jackson. the treaty required all creek, including those who had remained allies, to surrender of land to the united states. jackson then turned his attention to the british and spanish. he moved his forces to mobile, alabama, in august, accused the spanish governor of west florida, mateo gonzalez manrique, of arming the red sticks, and threatened to attack. the governor responded by inviting the british to land at pensacola to defend it, which violated spanish neutrality. the british attempted to capture mobile, but their invasion fleet was repulsed at fort bowyer. jackson then invaded florida, defeating the spanish and british forces at the battle of pensacola on november 7. afterwards, the spanish surrendered and the british withdrew. weeks later, jackson learned that the british were planning an attack on new orleans, which was the gateway to the lower mississippi river and control of the american west. he evacuated pensacola, strengthened the garrison at mobile, and led his troops to new orleans. battle of new orleans jackson arrived in new orleans on december 1, 1814. there he instituted martial law because he worried about the loyalty of the city ' s creole and spanish inhabitants. he augmented his force by forming an alliance with jean lafitte ' s smugglers and raising units of free african americans and creek, paying non - white volunteers the same salary as whites. this gave jackson a force of about 5, 000 men when the british arrived. the british arrived in new orleans in mid - december. admiral alexander cochrane was the overall commander of the operation ; general edward pakenham commanded the