including the powerful category 5 hurricane irma, on 6 september 2017, which damaged 95 % of the structures on barbuda. some 1, 800 people were evacuated to antigua. an estimate published by time indicated that over $ 100 million would be required to rebuild homes and infrastructure. philmore mullin, director of barbuda ' s national office of disaster services, said that " all critical infrastructure and utilities are non - existent – food supply, medicine, shelter, electricity, water, communications, waste management ". he summarised the situation as follows : " public utilities need to be rebuilt in their entirety... it is optimistic to think anything can be rebuilt in six months... in my 25 years in disaster management, i have never seen something like this. " environmental issues demographics ethnic groups antigua has a population of, mostly made up of people of west african, british, and portuguese descent. the ethnic distribution consists of 91 % black, 4. 4 % mixed race, 1. 7 % white, and 2. 9 % other ( primarily east indian ). most whites are of british descent. christian levantine arabs and a small number of east asians and sephardic jews make up the remainder of the population. an increasingly large percentage of the population lives abroad, most notably in the united kingdom ( antiguan britons ), the united states and canada. a minority of antiguan residents are immigrants from other countries, particularly from dominica, guyana and jamaica, and, increasingly, from the dominican republic, st. vincent and the grenadines and nigeria. an estimated 4, 500 american citizens also make their home in antigua and barbuda, making their numbers one of the largest american populations in the english - speaking eastern caribbean. 68. 47 % of the population was born in antigua and barbuda. languages the language most commonly used in business is english. there is a noticeable distinction between the antiguan accent and the barbudan one. when compared to antiguan creole, standard english was the language of choice in the years leading up to antigua and barbuda ' s attainment of their independence. the antiguan creole language is looked down upon by the upper and middle classes in general. the antiguan creole language is discouraged from use in the educational system, and instruction is carried out in standard ( british ) english instead. a significant number of the words that are utilized in the antiguan dialect are derived from both the british and african languages. this is readily apparent in phrases such as " inn