and its solution. the episodes are often only loosely linked, and the sequence is not always logical, but it is unified by the presence of abraham himself, as either actor or witness, and by the themes of posterity and land. these themes form " narrative programs " set out in genesis 11 : 27 – 31 concerning the sterility of sarah and 12 : 1 – 3 in which abraham is ordered to leave the land of his birth for the land yhwh will show him. origins and calling terah, the ninth in descent from noah, was the father of abram, nahor, and haran ( haran ). haran was the father of lot, who was abram ' s nephew ; the entire family lived in ur of the chaldees. haran died in his native city, ur of the chaldees. abram married sarah ( sarai ), who was barren. terah, abram, sarai, and lot departed for canaan, but settled in a place named haran ( haran ), where terah died at the age of 205. god had told abram to leave his country and kindred and go to a land that he would show him, and promised to make of him a great nation, bless him, make his name great, bless them that bless him, and curse them who may curse him. abram was 75 years old when he left haran with his wife sarai, his nephew lot, and the substance and souls that they had acquired, and traveled to shechem in canaan. then he pitched his tent in the east of bethel, and built an altar which was between bethel and ai. sarai there was a severe famine in the land of canaan, so that abram and lot and their households traveled to egypt. on the way abram told sarai to say that she was his sister, so that the egyptians would not kill him. when they entered egypt, the pharaoh ' s officials praised sarai ' s beauty to pharaoh, and they took her into the palace and gave abram goods in exchange. god afflicted pharaoh and his household with plagues, which led pharaoh to try to find out what was wrong. upon discovering that sarai was a married woman, pharaoh demanded that abram and sarai leave. abram and lot separate when they lived for a while in the negev after being banished from egypt and came back to the bethel and ai area, abram ' s and lot ' s