been fully disposed of. there are two distinct forms of appellate review, " direct " and " collateral ". for example, a criminal defendant may be convicted in state court, and lose on " direct appeal " to higher state appellate courts, and if unsuccessful, mount a " collateral " action such as filing for a writ of habeas corpus in the federal courts. generally speaking, " [ d ] irect appeal statutes afford defendants the opportunity to challenge the merits of a judgment and allege errors of law or fact.... [ collateral review ], on the other hand, provide [ s ] an independent and civil inquiry into the validity of a conviction and sentence, and as such are generally limited to challenges to constitutional, jurisdictional, or other fundamental violations that occurred at trial. " " graham v. borgen ", 483 f 3d. 475 ( 7th cir. 2007 ) ( no. 04 – 4103 ) ( slip op. at 7 ) ( citation omitted ). in anglo - american common law courts, appellate review of lower court decisions may also be obtained by filing a petition for review by prerogative writ in certain cases. there is no corresponding right to a writ in any pure or continental civil law legal systems, though some mixed systems such as quebec recognize these prerogative writs. direct appeal after exhausting the first appeal as of right, defendants usually petition the highest state court to review the decision. this appeal is known as a direct appeal. the highest state court, generally known as the supreme court, exercises discretion over whether it will review the case. on direct appeal, a prisoner challenges the grounds of the conviction based on an error that occurred at trial or some other stage in the adjudicative process. preservation issues an appellant ' s claim ( s ) must usually be preserved at trial. this means that the defendant had to object to the error when it occurred in the trial. because constitutional claims are of great magnitude, appellate courts might be more lenient to review the claim even if it was not preserved. for example, connecticut applies the following standard to review unpreserved claims : 1. the record is adequate to review the alleged claim of error ; 2. the claim is of constitutional magnitude alleging the violation of a fundamental right ; 3. the alleged constitutional violation clearly exists and clearly deprived the defendant of a fair trial ; 4. if subject to harmless error analysis, the state has failed to demonstrate harmlessness of the alleged constitutional violation beyond a reasonable doubt. state post - conviction relief :