in several stories of conflicts during israel ' s wilderness wanderings. during the prolonged absence of moses on mount sinai, the people provoked aaron to make a golden calf. this incident nearly caused god to destroy the israelites. moses successfully intervened, but then led the loyal levites in executing many of the culprits ; a plague afflicted those who were left. aaron, however, escaped punishment for his role in the affair, because of the intercession of moses according to deuteronomy 9 : 20. later retellings of this story almost always excuse aaron for his role. for example, in rabbinic sources and in the quran, aaron was not the idol - maker and upon moses ' return begged his pardon because he felt mortally threatened by the israelites. on the day of aaron ' s consecration, his oldest sons, nadab and abihu, were burned up by divine fire because they offered " strange " incense. most interpreters think this story reflects a conflict between priestly families some time in israel ' s past. others argue that the story simply shows what can happen if the priests do not follow god ' s instructions given through moses. the torah generally depicts the siblings, moses, aaron, and miriam, as the leaders of israel after the exodus, a view also reflected in the biblical book of micah. numbers 12, however, reports that on one occasion, aaron and miriam complained about moses ' exclusive claim to be the ' s prophet. their presumption was rebuffed by god who affirmed moses ' uniqueness as the one with whom the spoke face to face. miriam was punished with a skin disease ( tzaraath ) that turned her skin white. aaron pleaded with moses to intercede for her, and miriam, after seven days ' quarantine, was healed. aaron once again escaped any retribution. according to numbers 16 – 17, a levite named korah led many in challenging aaron ' s exclusive claim to the priesthood. when the rebels were punished by being swallowed up by the earth, eleazar, the son of aaron, was commissioned to take charge of the censers of the dead priests. and when a plague broke out among the people who had sympathized with the rebels, aaron, at the command of moses, took his censer and stood between the living and the dead until the plague abated ( ), atoning in the process. to emphasize the validity of the levites ' claim to the offerings and tithes of the israelites