of the england wales, scottish and northern irish political parties prefixed by and focussed on green politics. the 21st century has seen decarbonisation already in electricity markets. following protests and charitable lobbying local food has seen growing market share, sometimes backed by wording in public policy papers and manifestos. the uk has many sustainability - prioritising businesses, green charity campaigns, events and lobby groups ranging from espousing allotment gardens ( hobby community farming ) through to a clear policy of local food and / or self - sustainability models. oceania australia historian f. k. crowley finds that : the national party of australia ( formerly called the country party ), from the 1920s to the 1970s, promulgated its version of agrarianism, which it called " countrymindedness ". the goal was to enhance the status of the graziers ( operators of big sheep stations ) and small farmers and justified subsidies for them. new zealand the new zealand liberal party aggressively promoted agrarianism in its heyday ( 1891 – 1912 ). the landed gentry and aristocracy ruled britain at this time. new zealand never had an aristocracy but its wealthy landowners largely controlled politics before 1891. the liberal party set out to change that by a policy it called " populism. " richard seddon had proclaimed the goal as early as 1884 : " it is the rich and the poor ; it is the wealthy and the landowners against the middle and labouring classes. that, sir, shows the real political position of new zealand. " the liberal strategy was to create a large class of small landowning farmers who supported liberal ideals. the liberal government also established the basis of the later welfare state such as old age pensions and developed a system for settling industrial disputes, which was accepted by both employers and trade unions. in 1893, it extended voting rights to women, making new zealand the first country in the world to do so. to obtain land for farmers, the liberal government from 1891 to 1911 purchased of maori land. the government also purchased from large estate holders for subdivision and closer settlement by small farmers. the advances to settlers act ( 1894 ) provided low - interest mortgages, and the agriculture department disseminated information on the best farming methods. the liberals proclaimed success in forging an egalitarian, anti - monopoly land policy. the policy built up support for the liberal party in rural north island electorates. by 1903, the liberals were so dominant that there was no longer an organized opposition in parliament. north america the united states and canada both saw a rise