anisotropy ( ) is the structural property of non - uniformity in different directions, as opposed to isotropy. an anisotropic object or pattern has properties that differ according to direction of measurement. for example, many materials exhibit very different properties when measured along different axes : physical or mechanical properties ( absorbance, refractive index, conductivity, tensile strength, etc. ). an example of anisotropy is light coming through a polarizer. another is wood, which is easier to split along its grain than across it because of the directional non - uniformity of the grain ( the grain is the same in one direction, not all directions ). fields of interest computer graphics in the field of computer graphics, an anisotropic surface changes in appearance as it rotates about its geometric normal, as is the case with velvet. anisotropic filtering ( af ) is a method of enhancing the image quality of textures on surfaces that are far away and steeply angled with respect to the point of view. older techniques, such as bilinear and trilinear filtering, do not take into account the angle a surface is viewed from, which can result in aliasing or blurring of textures. by reducing detail in one direction more than another, these effects can be reduced easily. chemistry a chemical anisotropic filter, as used to filter particles, is a filter with increasingly smaller interstitial spaces in the direction of filtration so that the proximal regions filter out larger particles and distal regions increasingly remove smaller particles, resulting in greater flow - through and more efficient filtration. in fluorescence spectroscopy, the fluorescence anisotropy, calculated from the polarization properties of fluorescence from samples excited with plane - polarized light, is used, e. g., to determine the shape of a macromolecule. anisotropy measurements reveal the average angular displacement of the fluorophore that occurs between absorption and subsequent emission of a photon. in nmr spectroscopy, the orientation of nuclei with respect to the applied magnetic field determines their chemical shift. in this context, anisotropic systems refer to the electron distribution of molecules with abnormally high electron density, like the pi system of benzene. this abnormal electron density affects the applied magnetic field and causes the observed chemical shift to change. real - world imagery images of a gravity - bound or man - made environment are particularly anisotropic in the orientation domain, with more image structure located at orientation