relying on taxation, or by cooperative self - help by groups of individuals. edward stringham argues that private adjudication of disputes could enable the market to internalize externalities and provide services that customers desire. rothbard stated that the american revolutionary war and the war of southern secession were the only two just wars in american military history. some anarcho - capitalists such as rothbard feel that violent revolution is counter - productive and prefer voluntary forms of economic secession to the extent possible. retributive justice is often a component of the contracts imagined for an anarcho - capitalist society. according to matthew o ' keefee, some anarcho - capitalists believe prisons or indentured servitude would be justifiable institutions to deal with those who violate anarcho - capitalist property relations while others believe exile or forced restitution are sufficient. rothbard stressed the importance of restitution as the primary focus of a libertarian legal order and advocated for corporal punishment for petty vandals and the death penalty for murders. bruce l. benson argues that legal codes may impose punitive damages for intentional torts in the interest of deterring crime. benson gives the example of a thief who breaks into a house by picking a lock. even if caught before taking anything, benson argues that the thief would still owe the victim for violating the sanctity of his property rights. benson opines that despite the lack of objectively measurable losses in such cases, " standardized rules that are generally perceived to be fair by members of the community would, in all likelihood, be established through precedent, allowing judgments to specify payments that are reasonably appropriate for most criminal offenses ". morris and linda tannehill raise a similar example, saying that a bank robber who had an attack of conscience and returned the money would still owe reparations for endangering the employees ' and customers ' lives and safety, in addition to the costs of the defense agency answering the teller ' s call for help. however, they believe that the robber ' s loss of reputation would be even more damaging. they suggest that specialized companies would list aggressors so that anyone wishing to do business with a man could first check his record, provided they trust the veracity of the companies ' records. they further theorise that the bank robber would find insurance companies listing him as a very poor risk and other firms would be reluctant to enter into contracts with him. influences murray rothbard has listed different ideologies of which his interpretations, he said, have