of ingelheim in germany, but the late viking age during the christianization of scandinavia was a turbulent and violent time with several naval attacks on the town, such as harald hardrada ' s assault around 1050, when the holy trinity church was burned to the ground. despite the conflicts, aarhus continued to prosper from the trade and the finding of six runestones in and around aarhus indicates the city had some significance around the year 1000, as only wealthy nobles traditionally used them. the bishopric diocese was obliterated for almost a hundred years after reginbrand in 988, but in 1060 a new bishop christian was ordained and he founded a new church in aarhus, sankt nicolai domkirke ( st. nicholas cathedral ), this time in stone. it was erected outside the town fortifications, and stood finished in 1070 at the site where church of our lady stands today, but only an underground crypt remains. middle ages the growing influence of the church during the middle ages gradually turned aarhus, with its bishopric, into a prosperous religious centre. many public and religious buildings were built in and around the town ; notably aarhus cathedral was initiated in the late 12th century by the influential bishop peder vognsen, and around 1200, aros had a total of four churches. the 13th century also marks a thorough reorganisation, erasing most of the town ' s original layout with new streets, relocations, dismantling and new constructions. the church clearly had the upper hand in the aarhus region during medieval times, and the large bishopric of aarhus prospered and expanded territory, reaching as far as viborg in extent. in 1441, christopher iii issued the oldest known charter granting market town status, although similar privileges may have existed as far back as the 12th century. the charter is the first official recognition of the town as a regional power and is by some considered aarhus ' s birth certificate. the commercial and religious status spurred town growth, and in 1477 the defensive earthen ramparts, which had ringed the town since the viking age, were abandoned to accommodate expansion. parts of the ramparts still exist today and can be experienced as steep slopes at the riverside, and they have also survived in some place names of the inner city, including the streets of volden ( the rampart ) and graven ( the moat ). aarhus grew to become one of the largest cities in the country by the early 16th century. in 1657, octroi was imposed in larger danish cities which changed the layout and face of aarhus over