he was perfectly single - minded and unrelenting in the onslaught of battle. " meanwhile, in homer ' s iliad he is described as of great stature, colossal frame, and strongest of all the achaeans. known as the " bulwark of the achaeans ", he was trained by the centaur chiron ( who had trained ajax ' s father telamon and achilles ' father peleus and later died of an accidental wound inflicted by heracles, whom he was training at the same time as achilles ). he was described as fearless, strong, and powerful but also with a very high level of combat intelligence. ajax commands his army wielding a huge shield made of seven cowhides with a layer of bronze. most notably, ajax is not wounded in any of the battles described in the iliad, and he is the only principal character on either side who does not receive substantial assistance from any of the gods ( except for agamemnon ) who take part in the battles, although, in book 13, poseidon strikes ajax with his staff, renewing his strength. unlike diomedes, agamemnon, and achilles, ajax appears as a mainly defensive warrior, instrumental in the defense of the greek camp and ships and that of patroclus ' body. when the trojans are on the offensive, he is often seen covering the retreat of the achaeans. significantly, while one of the deadliest heroes in the whole poem, ajax has no aristeia depicting him on the offensive. trojan war in the iliad, ajax is notable for his abundant strength and courage, seen particularly in two fights with hector. in book 7, ajax is chosen by lot to meet hector in a duel which lasts most of a whole day. ajax at first gets the better of the encounter, wounding hector with his spear and knocking him down with a large stone, but hector battles on until the heralds, acting at the direction of zeus, call a draw, with the two combatants exchanging gifts, ajax giving hector a purple sash and hector giving ajax his sharp sword. the second fight between ajax and hector occurs when the latter breaks into the mycenaean camp, and battles with the greeks among the ships. in book 14, ajax throws a giant rock at hector which almost kills him. in book 15, hector is restored to his strength by apollo and returns to attack the ships. ajax, wielding an enormous spear as a weapon and leaping from ship to ship, holds off the trojan armies