of the adam kadmon of the kabbalists and the primal man whom god made in his own image ". some parts at least of the figure mentioned above are solar symbols, and the basilidian abrasax is manifestly connected with the sun. j. j. bellermann has speculated that " the whole represents the supreme being, with his five great emanations, each one pointed out by means of an expressive emblem. thus, from the human body, the usual form assigned to the deity, forasmuch as it is written that god created man in his own image, issue the two supporters, nous and logos, symbols of the inner sense and the quickening understanding, as typified by the serpents, for the same reason that had induced the old greeks to assign this reptile for an attribute to pallas. his head — a cock ' s — represents phronesis, the fowl being emblematical of foresight and vigilance. his two hands bear the badges of sophia and dynamis, the shield of wisdom, and the scourge of power. " origin in the absence of other evidence to show the origin of these curious relics of antiquity the occurrence of a name known as basilidian on patristic authority has not unnaturally been taken as a sufficient mark of origin, and the early collectors and critics assumed this whole group to be the work of gnostics. during the last three centuries attempts have been made to sift away successively those gems that had no claim to be considered in any sense gnostic, or specially basilidian, or connected with abrasax. the subject is one which has exercised the ingenuity of many savants, but it may be said that all the engraved stones fall into three classes : abrasax, or stones of basilidian origin abrasaxtes, or stones originating in ancient forms of worship and adapted by the gnostics abraxoides, or stones absolutely unconnected with the doctrine of basilides while it would be rash to assert positively that no existing gems were the work of gnostics, there is no valid reason for attributing all of them to such an origin. the fact that the name occurs on these gems in connection with representations of figures with the head of a cock, a lion, or an ass, and the tail of a serpent was formerly taken in the light of what irenaeus says about the followers of basilides : incantations by mystic names