high prairie, north to peace river, west to fairview and finally south to grande prairie, where it ends at an interchange with highway 43. the section of highway 2 between calgary and edmonton has been named the queen elizabeth ii highway to commemorate the visit of the monarch in 2005. highway 2 is supplemented by two more highways that run parallel to it : highway 22, west of highway 2, known as cowboy trail, and highway 21, east of highway 2. highway 43 travels northwest into grande prairie and the peace river country. travelling northeast from edmonton, the highway 63 connects to fort mcmurrayand the athabasca oil sands. alberta has two main east – west corridors. the southern corridor, part of the trans - canada highway system, enters the province near medicine hat, runs westward through calgary, and leaves alberta through banff national park. the northern corridor, also part of the trans - canada network and known as the yellowhead highway ( highway 16 ), runs west from lloydminster in eastern alberta, through edmonton and jasper national park into british columbia. one of the most scenic drives is along the icefields parkway, which runs for between jasper and lake louise, with mountain ranges and glaciers on either side of its entire length. a third corridor stretches across southern alberta ; highway 3 runs between crowsnest pass and medicine hat through lethbridge and forms the eastern portion of the crowsnest highway. another major corridor through central alberta is highway 11 ( also known as the david thompson highway ), which runs east from the saskatchewan river crossing in banff national park through rocky mountain house and red deer, connecting with highway 12, west of stettler. the highway connects many of the smaller towns in central alberta with calgary and edmonton, as it crosses highway 2 just west of red deer. urban stretches of alberta ' s major highways and freeways are often called trails. for example, highway 2, the main north – south highway in the province, is called deerfoot trail as it passes through calgary but becomes calgary trail ( southbound ) and gateway boulevard ( northbound ) as it enters edmonton and then turns into st. albert trail as it leaves edmonton for the city of st. albert. calgary, in particular, has a tradition of calling its largest urban expressways trails and naming many of them after prominent first nations individuals and tribes, such as crowchild trail, deerfoot trail, and stoney trail. friendship partners alberta has relationships with many provinces, states, and other entities worldwide. gangwon - do, south korea ( 1974 ) hokkaido