. congress to develop and pass the ada, including justin whitlock dart jr., patrisha wright and others. ms. wright is known as " the general " for her work in coordinating the campaign to enact the ada. she is widely considered the main force behind the campaign lobbying for the ada. support and opposition support senator bob dole was a supporter and advocate for the bill. about the importance of making employment opportunities inclusive, shirley davis, director of global diversity and inclusion at the society for human resource management, said : " people with disabilities represent a critical talent pool that is underserved and underutilized ". opposition from religious groups conservative evangelicals opposed the ada because the legislation protected individuals with hiv, which they associated with homosexuality. the debate over the americans with disabilities act led some religious groups to take opposite positions. the association of christian schools international opposed the ada in its original form, primarily because the ada labeled religious institutions " public accommodations " and thus would have required churches to make costly structural changes to ensure access for all. the cost argument advanced by acsi and others prevailed in keeping religious institutions from being labeled as " public accommodations ". church groups such as the national association of evangelicals testified against the ada ' s title i employment provisions on grounds of religious liberty. the nae believed the regulation of the internal employment of churches was "... an improper intrusion [ of ] the federal government. " opposition from business interests many companies and corporations, and business groups, opposed the americans with disabilities act, arguing that the legislation would impose costs on businesses. testifying before congress, greyhound bus lines stated that the act had the potential to " deprive millions of people of affordable intercity public transportation and thousands of rural communities of their only link to the outside world. " the us chamber of commerce argued that the costs of the ada would be " enormous " and have " a disastrous impact on many small businesses struggling to survive. " the national federation of independent businesses, an organization that lobbies for small businesses, called the ada " a disaster for small business ". pro - business conservative commentators joined in opposition, writing that the americans with disabilities act was " an expensive headache to millions " that would not necessarily improve the lives of people with disabilities. " capitol crawl " shortly before the act was passed, disability rights activists with physical disabilities coalesced in front of the capitol building, shed their crutches, wheelchairs, powerchairs and other assistive devices, and immediately proceeded to crawl and pull their bodies up all