walls, where it annihilates. some hundreds of millions of antihydrogen atoms have been made in this fashion. in 2005, athena disbanded and some of the former members ( along with others ) formed the alpha collaboration, which is also based at cern. the ultimate goal of this endeavour is to test cpt symmetry through comparison of the atomic spectra of hydrogen and antihydrogen ( see hydrogen spectral series ). most of the sought - after high - precision tests of the properties of antihydrogen could only be performed if the antihydrogen were trapped, that is, held in place for a relatively long time. while antihydrogen atoms are electrically neutral, the spins of their component particles produce a magnetic moment. these magnetic moments can interact with an inhomogeneous magnetic field ; some of the antihydrogen atoms can be attracted to a magnetic minimum. such a minimum can be created by a combination of mirror and multipole fields. antihydrogen can be trapped in such a magnetic minimum ( minimum - b ) trap ; in november 2010, the alpha collaboration announced that they had so trapped 38 antihydrogen atoms for about a sixth of a second. this was the first time that neutral antimatter had been trapped. on 26 april 2011, alpha announced that they had trapped 309 antihydrogen atoms, some for as long as 1, 000 seconds ( about 17 minutes ). this was longer than neutral antimatter had ever been trapped before. alpha has used these trapped atoms to initiate research into the spectral properties of the antihydrogen. in 2016, a new antiproton decelerator and cooler called elena ( extra low energy antiproton decelerator ) was built. it takes the antiprotons from the antiproton decelerator and cools them to 90 kev, which is " cold " enough to study. this machine works by using high energy and accelerating the particles within the chamber. more than one hundred antiprotons can be captured per second, a huge improvement, but it would still take several thousand years to make a nanogram of antimatter. the biggest limiting factor in the large - scale production of antimatter is the availability of antiprotons. recent data released by cern states that, when fully operational, their facilities are capable of producing ten million antiprotons per minute. assuming a 100 % conversion of antiprotons to antihydrogen, it would take 100 billion years to produce