they cannot preserve the property of a number having a square root in r ). in the case of the complex numbers, c, there is a unique nontrivial automorphism that sends r into r : complex conjugation, but there are infinitely ( uncountably ) many " wild " automorphisms ( assuming the axiom of choice ). field automorphisms are important to the theory of field extensions, in particular galois extensions. in the case of a galois extension l / k the subgroup of all automorphisms of l fixing k pointwise is called the galois group of the extension. the automorphism group of the quaternions ( h ) as a ring are the inner automorphisms, by the skolem – noether theorem : maps of the form. this group is isomorphic to so ( 3 ), the group of rotations in 3 - dimensional space. the automorphism group of the octonions ( o ) is the exceptional lie group g2. in graph theory an automorphism of a graph is a permutation of the nodes that preserves edges and non - edges. in particular, if two nodes are joined by an edge, so are their images under the permutation. in geometry, an automorphism may be called a motion of the space. specialized terminology is also used : in metric geometry an automorphism is a self - isometry. the automorphism group is also called the isometry group. in the category of riemann surfaces, an automorphism is a biholomorphic map ( also called a conformal map ), from a surface to itself. for example, the automorphisms of the riemann sphere are mobius transformations. an automorphism of a differentiable manifold m is a diffeomorphism from m to itself. the automorphism group is sometimes denoted diff ( m ). in topology, morphisms between topological spaces are called continuous maps, and an automorphism of a topological space is a homeomorphism of the space to itself, or self - homeomorphism ( see homeomorphism group ). in this example it is not sufficient for a morphism to be bijective to be an isomorphism. history one of the earliest group automorphisms ( automorphism of a group, not simply a group of automorphisms of points ) was given by the irish mathematician william rowan hamilton in 1856, in his icosian calculus, where he discovered an order two automorphism, writing :