hr ft2 °f / btu. another source provides the following properties : conductivity = 0. 30 btu / ( hr ft °f ) or 0. 52 w / ( m k ) ; specific heat capacity = 0. 24 btu / ( lb °f ) or 1 kj / ( kg k ) and density = 106 lb / ft3 or 1700 kg / m3, giving heat capacity = 25. 4 btu / ( ft3 °f ) or 1700 kj / ( m3 k ). using the average value of the thermal conductivity as k = 32 btu / ( hr ft °f ) or 0. 55 w / ( m k ), the thermal diffusivity is calculated to be 0. 013 ft2 / h or 3. 3x10−7 m2 / s. uses poured and puddled adobe walls poured and puddled adobe ( puddled clay, piled earth ), today called cob, is made by placing soft adobe in layers, rather than by making individual dried bricks or using a form. " puddle " is a general term for a clay or clay and sand - based material worked into a dense, plastic state. these are the oldest methods of building with adobe in the americas until holes in the ground were used as forms, and later wooden forms used to make individual bricks were introduced by the spanish. adobe bricks bricks made from adobe are usually made by pressing the mud mixture into an open timber frame. in north america, the brick is typically about in size. the mixture is molded into the frame, which is removed after initial setting. after drying for a few hours, the bricks are turned on edge to finish drying. slow drying in shade reduces cracking. the same mixture, without straw, is used to make mortar and often plaster on interior and exterior walls. some cultures used lime - based cement for the plaster to protect against rain damage. depending on the form into which the mixture is pressed, adobe can encompass nearly any shape or size, provided drying is even and the mixture includes reinforcement for larger bricks. reinforcement can include manure, straw, cement, rebar, or wooden posts. straw, cement, or manure added to a standard adobe mixture can produce a stronger, more crack - resistant brick. a test is done on the soil content first. to do so, a sample of the soil is mixed into a clear container with some water, creating an almost completely saturated liquid. the container is shaken vigorously for one minute. it is then allowed to settle for a day until the soil