##s of supreme deities ( brahmas ) ; 6 existences of deities ( devas ) ; the human existence ( manussa ) ; and, lastly, 4 existences of deprivation or unhappiness ( apaya ). pure land buddhism of mahayana believes in a special place apart from the 31 planes of existence called pure land. it is believed that each buddha has their own pure land, created out of their merits for the sake of sentient beings who recall them mindfully to be able to be reborn in their pure land and train to become a buddha there. thus the main practice of pure land buddhism is to chant a buddha ' s name. in tibetan buddhism the tibetan book of the dead explains the intermediate state of humans between death and reincarnation. the deceased will find the bright light of wisdom, which shows a straightforward path to move upward and leave the cycle of reincarnation. there are various reasons why the deceased do not follow that light. some had no briefing about the intermediate state in the former life. others only used to follow their basic instincts like animals. and some have fear, which results from foul deeds in the former life or from insistent haughtiness. in the intermediate state the awareness is very flexible, so it is important to be virtuous, adopt a positive attitude, and avoid negative ideas. ideas which are rising from subconsciousness can cause extreme tempers and cowing visions. in this situation they have to understand, that these manifestations are just reflections of the inner thoughts. no one can really hurt them, because they have no more material body. the deceased get help from different buddhas who show them the path to the bright light. the ones who do not follow the path after all will get hints for a better reincarnation. they have to release the things and beings on which or whom they still hang from the life before. it is recommended to choose a family where the parents trust in the dharma and to reincarnate with the will to care for the welfare of all beings. hinduism there are two major views of afterlife in hinduism : mythical and philosophical. the philosophies of hinduism consider each individual consists of 3 bodies : physical body compose of water and bio - matter ( sthula sarira ), an energetic / psychic / mental / subtle body ( suksma - sarira ) and a causal body ( karana sarira ) comprising subliminal stuff i. e. mental impressions etc. the individual is a stream of consciousness ( atman ) which flows