reputation during his lifetime, and his knowledge caused him to be called doctor universalis. many of alain ' s writings are unable to be exactly dated, and the circumstances and details surrounding his writing are often unknown as well. however, it does seem clear that his first notable work, summa quoniam homines, was completed somewhere between 1155 and 1165, with the most conclusive date being 1160, and was probably developed through his lectures at the school in paris. among his very numerous works two poems entitle him to a distinguished place in the latin literature of the middle ages ; one of these, the de planctu naturae, is an ingenious satire on the vices of humanity. he created the allegory of grammatical " conjugation " which was to have its successors throughout the middle ages. the anticlaudianus, a treatise on morals as allegory, the form of which recalls the pamphlet of claudian against rufinus, is agreeably versified and relatively pure in its latinity. theology and philosophy as a theologian alain de lille shared in the mystic reaction of the second half of the 12th century against the scholastic philosophy. his mysticism, however, is far from being as absolute as that of the victorines. in the anticlaudianus he sums up as follows : reason, guided by prudence, can unaided discover most of the truths of the physical order ; for the apprehension of religious truths it must trust to faith. this rule is completed in his treatise, ars catholicae fidei, as follows : theology itself may be demonstrated by reason. alain even ventures an immediate application of this principle, and tries to prove geometrically the dogmas defined in the creed. this bold attempt is entirely factitious and verbal, and it is only his employment of various terms not generally used in such a connection ( axiom, theorem, corollary, etc. ) that gives his treatise its apparent originality. alan ' s philosophy was a sort of mixture of aristotelian logic and neoplatonic philosophy. the platonist seemed to outweigh the aristotelian in alan, but he felt strongly that the divine is all intelligibility and argued this notion through much aristotelian logic combined with pythagorean mathematics. works and attributions one of alain ' s most notable works was one he modeled after boethius ’ consolation of philosophy, to which he gave the title de plan