plays are much easier to write than books, because you can see them in your mind ' s eye, you are not hampered by all that description which clogs you so terribly in a book and stops you from getting on with what ' s happening. " in a letter to her daughter, christie said being a playwright was " a lot of fun! " as mary westmacott christie published six mainstream novels under the name mary westmacott, a pseudonym which gave her the freedom to explore " her most private and precious imaginative garden ". these books typically received better reviews than her detective and thriller fiction. of the first, giant ' s bread published in 1930, a reviewer for the new york times wrote, "... her book is far above the average of current fiction, in fact, comes well under the classification of a ' good book '. and it is only a satisfying novel that can claim that appellation. " it was publicized from the very beginning that " mary westmacott " was a pen name of a well - known author, although the identity behind the pen name was kept secret ; the dust jacket of giant ' s bread mentions that the author had previously written " under her real name... half a dozen books that have each passed the thirty thousand mark in sales. " ( in fact, though this was technically true, it disguised christie ' s identity through understatement. by the publication of giant ' s bread, christie had published 10 novels and two short story collections, all of which had sold considerably more than 30, 000 copies. ) after christie ' s authorship of the first four westmacott novels was revealed by a journalist in 1949, she wrote two more, the last in 1956. the other westmacott titles are : unfinished portrait ( 1934 ), absent in the spring ( 1944 ), the rose and the yew tree ( 1948 ), a daughter ' s a daughter ( 1952 ), and the burden ( 1956 ). non - fiction works christie published a few non - fiction works. come, tell me how you live, about working on an archaeological dig, was drawn from her life with mallowan. the grand tour : around the world with the queen of mystery is a collection of correspondence from her 1922 grand tour of the british empire, including south africa, australia, new zealand, and canada. agatha christie : an autobiography was published posthumously in 1977 and adjudged the best critical / biographical work at the 1978 edgar awards. titles many of christie ' s works