fellowship was founded in 1940 by schweitzer to unite us supporters in filling the gap in support for his hospital when his european supply lines were cut off by war, and continues to support the lambarene hospital today. schweitzer considered his ethic of reverence for life, not his hospital, his most important legacy, saying that his lambarene hospital was just " my own improvisation on the theme of reverence for life. everyone can have their own lambarene ". today asf helps large numbers of young americans in health - related professional fields find or create " their own lambarene " in the us or internationally. asf selects and supports nearly 250 new us and africa schweitzer fellows each year from over 100 of the leading us schools of medicine, nursing, public health, and every other field with some relation to health ( including music, law, and divinity ). the peer - supporting lifelong network of " schweitzer fellows for life " numbered over 2, 000 members in 2008, and is growing by nearly 1, 000 every four years. nearly 150 of these schweitzer fellows have served at the hospital in lambarene, for three - month periods during their last year of medical school. international albert schweitzer prize the prize was first awarded on 29 may 2011 to eugen drewermann and the physician couple rolf and raphaela maibach in konigsfeld im schwarzwald, where schweitzer ' s former residence now houses the albert schweitzer museum. sound recordings recordings of schweitzer playing the music of bach are available on cd. during 1934 and 1935 he resided in britain, delivering the gifford lectures at edinburgh university, and those on religion in modern civilization at oxford and london. he had originally conducted trials for recordings for hmv on the organ of the old queen ' s hall in london. these records did not satisfy him, the instrument being too harsh. in mid - december 1935 he began to record for columbia records on the organ of all hallows, barking - by - the - tower, london. then at his suggestion the sessions were transferred to the church of ste aurelie in strasbourg, on a mid - 18th - century organ by johann andreas silbermann ( brother of gottfried ), an organ - builder greatly revered by bach, which had been restored by the lorraine organ - builder frederic harpfer shortly before the first world war. these recordings were made in the course of a fortnight in october 1936. schwei