and resisting desiccation. the fish ' s hyomandibula bone in the hyoid region behind the gills diminished in size and became the stapes of the amphibian ear, an adaptation necessary for hearing on dry land. an affinity between the amphibians and the teleost fish is the multi - folded structure of the teeth and the paired supra - occipital bones at the back of the head, neither of these features being found elsewhere in the animal kingdom. at the end of the devonian period ( 360 million years ago ), the seas, rivers and lakes were teeming with life while the land was the realm of early plants and devoid of vertebrates, though some, such as ichthyostega, may have sometimes hauled themselves out of the water. it is thought they may have propelled themselves with their forelimbs, dragging their hindquarters in a similar manner to that used by the elephant seal. in the early carboniferous ( 360 to 323 million years ago ), the climate was relatively wet and warm. extensive swamps developed with mosses, ferns, horsetails and calamites. air - breathing arthropods evolved and invaded the land where they provided food for the carnivorous amphibians that began to adapt to the terrestrial environment. there were no other tetrapods on the land and the amphibians were at the top of the food chain, with some occupying ecological positions currently held by crocodiles. though equipped with limbs and the ability to breathe air, most still had a long tapering body and strong tail. others were the top land predators, sometimes reaching several metres in length, preying on the large insects of the period and the many types of fish in the water. they still needed to return to water to lay their shell - less eggs, and even most modern amphibians have a fully aquatic larval stage with gills like their fish ancestors. it was the development of the amniotic egg, which prevents the developing embryo from drying out, that enabled the reptiles to reproduce on land and which led to their dominance in the period that followed. after the carboniferous rainforest collapse amphibian dominance gave way to reptiles, and amphibians were further devastated by the permian – triassic extinction event. during the triassic period ( 252 to 201 million years ago ), the reptiles continued to out - compete the amphibians, leading to a reduction in both the amphibians ' size and their importance in the biosphere. according to the