spawning ground for european eels remained unknown for decades. in the early 19th century it was discovered that the southern sargasso sea is the spawning ground for both the european and american eel and that the former migrate more than and the latter. ocean currents such as the gulf stream transport eel larvae from the sargasso sea to foraging areas in north america, europe, and northern africa. recent but disputed research suggests that eels possibly use earth ' s magnetic field to navigate through the ocean both as larvae and as adults. climate climate is influenced by the temperatures of the surface waters and water currents as well as winds. because of the ocean ' s great capacity to store and release heat, maritime climates are more moderate and have less extreme seasonal variations than inland climates. precipitation can be approximated from coastal weather data and air temperature from water temperatures. the oceans are the major source of the atmospheric moisture that is obtained through evaporation. climatic zones vary with latitude ; the warmest zones stretch across the atlantic north of the equator. the coldest zones are in high latitudes, with the coldest regions corresponding to the areas covered by sea ice. ocean currents influence the climate by transporting warm and cold waters to other regions. the winds that are cooled or warmed when blowing over these currents influence adjacent land areas. the gulf stream and its northern extension towards europe, the north atlantic drift is thought to have at least some influence on climate. for example, the gulf stream helps moderate winter temperatures along the coastline of southeastern north america, keeping it warmer in winter along the coast than inland areas. the gulf stream also keeps extreme temperatures from occurring on the florida peninsula. in the higher latitudes, the north atlantic drift, warms the atmosphere over the oceans, keeping the british isles and north - western europe mild and cloudy, and not severely cold in winter, like other locations at the same high latitude. the cold water currents contribute to heavy fog off the coast of eastern canada ( the grand banks of newfoundland area ) and africa ' s north - western coast. in general, winds transport moisture and air over land areas. natural hazards every winter, the icelandic low produces frequent storms. icebergs are common from early february to the end of july across the shipping lanes near the grand banks of newfoundland. the ice season is longer in the polar regions, but there is little shipping in those areas. hurricanes are a hazard in the western parts of the north atlantic during the summer and autumn. due to a consistently strong wind shear and a weak intertropical convergence zone, south atlantic tropical cyclones are