equal of achilles in bravery, agamemnon was a representative of " kingly authority ". as commander - in - chief, he summoned the princes to the council and led the army in battle. his chief fault was his overwhelming haughtiness ; an over - exalted opinion of his position that led him to insult chryses and achilles, thereby bringing great disaster upon the greeks. agamemnon was the commander - in - chief of the greeks during the trojan war. during the fighting, agamemnon killed antiphus and fifteen other trojan soldiers, according to one source. in the iliad itself, he is shown to slaughter hundreds more in book eleven during his aristea, loosely translated to " day of glory ", which is the most similar to achilles ' aristea in book twenty - one. even before his aristea, agamemnon is considered to be one of the three best warriors on the greek side, as proven when hector challenges any champion of the greek side to fight him in book seven, and agamemnon ( along with diomedes and ajax the greater ) is one of the three hector most wishes to fight out of the nine strongest greek warriors who volunteer. end of the war according to sophocles ' s ajax, after achilles had fallen in battle agamemnon and menelaus award achilles armor to odysseus. this angers ajax, who feels he is the now the strongest among the achaean warriors and so deserves the armor. ajax considers killing them, but is driven to madness by athena and instead slaughters the herdsmen and cattle that had not yet been divided as spoils of war. he then commits suicide in shame for his actions. as ajax dies he curses the sons of atreus ( agamemnon and menelaus ), along with the entire achaean army. agamemnon and menelaus consider leaving ajax ' s body to rot, denying him a proper burial, but are convinced otherwise by odysseus and ajax ' s half - brother teucer. after the capture of troy, cassandra, the doomed prophetess and daughter of priam, fell to agamemnon ' s lot in the distribution of the prizes of war. return to greece and death after a stormy voyage, agamemnon and cassandra land in argolis, or, in another version, are blown off course and land in aegisthus ' s country. clytemnestra, ag