wave theory could not yet link it to polarization. the corpuscular theory was weak on thin plates and silent on gratings ; the wave theory was strong on both, but under - appreciated. concerning diffraction, the corpuscular theory did not yield quantitative predictions, while the wave theory had begun to do so by considering diffraction as a manifestation of interference, but had only considered two rays at a time. only the corpuscular theory gave even a vague insight into brewster ' s angle, malus ' s law, or optical rotation. concerning chromatic polarization, the wave theory explained the periodicity far better than the corpuscular theory, but had nothing to say about the role of polarization ; and its explanation of the periodicity was largely ignored. and arago had founded the study of chromatic polarization, only to lose the lead, controversially, to biot. such were the circumstances in which arago first heard of fresnel ' s interest in optics. reveries fresnel ' s letters from later in 1814 reveal his interest in the wave theory, including his awareness that it explained the constancy of the speed of light and was at least compatible with stellar aberration. eventually he compiled what he called his reveries ( musings ) into an essay and submitted it via leonor merimee to andre - marie ampere, who did not respond directly. but on 19 december, merimee dined with ampere and arago, with whom he was acquainted through the ecole polytechnique ; and arago promised to look at fresnel ' s essay. in mid 1815, on his way home to mathieu to serve his suspension, fresnel met arago in paris and spoke of the wave theory and stellar aberration. he was informed that he was trying to break down open doors ( " il enfoncait des portes ouvertes " ), and directed to classical works on optics. diffraction first attempt ( 1815 ) on 12 july 1815, as fresnel was about to leave paris, arago left him a note on a new topic : fresnel would not have ready access to these works outside paris, and could not read english. but, in mathieu — with a point - source of light made by focusing sunlight with a drop of honey, a crude micrometer of his own construction, and supporting apparatus made by a local locksmith — he began his own experiments. his technique was novel : whereas earlier investigators