( 590 - 580 bc ), even allowing alcaeus and his faction to return home in peace. sometime before 600 bc, mytilene fought athens for control of sigeion and alcaeus was old enough to participate in the fighting. according to the historian herodotus, the poet threw away his shield to make good his escape from the victorious athenians then celebrated the occasion in a poem that he later sent to his friend, melanippus. it is thought that alcaeus travelled widely during his years in exile, including at least one visit to egypt. his older brother, antimenidas, appears to have served as a mercenary in the army of nebuchadnezzar ii and probably took part in the conquest of askelon. alcaeus wrote verses in celebration of antimenides ' return, including mention of his valour in slaying the larger opponent ( frag. 350 ), and he proudly describes the military hardware that adorned their family home ( frag. 357 ). alcaeus was a contemporary and a countryman of sappho and, since both poets composed for the entertainment of mytilenean friends, they had many opportunities to associate with each other on a quite regular basis, such as at the kallisteia, an annual festival celebrating the island ' s federation under mytilene, held at the ' messon ' ( referred to as temenos in frs. 129 and 130 ), where sappho performed publicly with female choirs. alcaeus ' reference to sappho in terms more typical of a divinity, as holy / pure, honey - smiling sappho ( fr. 384 ), may owe its inspiration to her performances at the festival. the lesbian or aeolic school of poetry " reached in the songs of sappho and alcaeus that high point of brilliancy to which it never after - wards approached " and it was assumed by later greek critics and during the early centuries of the christian era that the two poets were in fact lovers, a theme which became a favourite subject in art ( as in the urn pictured above ). poetry the poetic works of alcaeus were collected into ten books, with elaborate commentaries, by the alexandrian scholars aristophanes of byzantium and aristarchus of samothrace sometime in the 3rd century bc, and yet his verses today exist only in fragmentary form, varying in size from mere phrases, such as wine, window into a man (