business owners who wanted to immediately rebuild ; the scientists wanted to identify future dangers to ensure that rebuilt infrastructure would be safe. the team produced a report on may 8, 1964, just a little more than a month after the earthquake. the united states military, which has a large active presence in alaska, also stepped in to assist within moments of the end of the quake. the u. s. army rapidly re - established communications with the lower 48 states, deployed troops to assist the citizens of anchorage, and dispatched a convoy to valdez. on the advice of military and civilian leaders, president lyndon b. johnson declared all of alaska a major disaster area the day after the quake. the u. s. navy and u. s. coast guard deployed ships to isolated coastal communities to assist with immediate needs. bad weather and poor visibility hampered air rescue and observation efforts the day after the quake, but on sunday the 29th the situation improved and rescue helicopters and observation aircraft were deployed. a military airlift immediately began shipping relief supplies to alaska, eventually delivering of food and other supplies. broadcast journalist, genie chance, assisted in recovery and relief efforts, staying on the keni air waves over anchorage for more than 24 continuous hours as the voice of calm from her temporary post within the anchorage public safety building. she was effectively designated as the public safety officer by the city ' s police chief. chance provided breaking news of the catastrophic events that continued to develop following the magnitude 9. 2 earthquake, and she served as the voice of the public safety office, coordinating response efforts, connecting available resources to needs around the community, disseminating information about shelters and prepared food rations, passing messages of well - being between loved ones, and helping to reunite families. in the longer term, the u. s. army corps of engineers led the effort to rebuild roads, clear debris, and establish new townsites for communities that had been completely destroyed, at a cost of $ 110 million. the west coast and alaska tsunami warning center was formed as a direct response to the disaster. federal disaster relief funds paid for reconstruction as well as financially supporting the devastated infrastructure of alaska ' s government, spending hundreds of millions of dollars that helped keep alaska financially solvent until the discovery of massive oil deposits at prudhoe bay. at the order of the u. s. defense department, the alaska national guard founded the alaska division of emergency services to respond to any future disasters. alaska oil boom the 1968 discovery of oil at prudhoe bay and the 1977 completion of the trans - alaska pipeline system led to