he attacked alaric ' s men. why sarus, who had been in imperial service for years under stilicho, acted at this moment remains a mystery, but alaric interpreted this attack as directed by ravenna and as bad faith from honorius. no longer would negotiations suffice for alaric, as his patience had reached its end, which led him to march on rome for a third and final time. on 24 august 410, alaric and his forces began the sack of rome, an assault that lasted three days. after hearing reports that alaric had entered the city — possibly aided by gothic slaves inside — there were reports that emperor honorius ( safe in ravenna ) broke into " wailing and lamentation " but quickly calmed once " it was explained to him that it was the city of rome that had met its end and not ' roma ', " his pet fowl. writing from bethlehem, st. jerome ( letter 127. 12, to the lady principia ) lamented : " a dreadful rumour reached us from the west. we heard that rome was besieged, that the citizens were buying their safety with gold … the city which had taken the whole world was itself taken ; nay, it fell by famine before it fell to the sword. " nonetheless, christian apologists also cited how alaric ordered that anyone who took shelter in a church was to be spared. when liturgical vessels were taken from the basilica of st. peter and alaric heard of this, he ordered them returned and had them ceremoniously restored in the church. if the account from the historian orosius can be seen as accurate, there was even a celebratory recognition of christian unity by way of a procession through the streets where romans and barbarians alike " raised a hymn to god in public " ; historian edward james concludes that such stories are likely more political rhetoric of the " noble " barbarians than a reflection of historical reality. according to historian patrick geary, roman booty was not the focus of alaric ' s sack of rome ; he came for needed food supplies. historian stephen mitchell asserts that alaric ' s followers seemed incapable of feeding themselves and relied on provisions " supplied by the roman authorities. " whatever alaric ' s intentions were cannot be known entirely, but kulikowski certainly sees the issue of available treasure in a different light, writing that " for three days, alaric ' s goths sacked the city, stripping it of the wealth of centuries. " the barbarian invaders were not gentle in