of the lord, translated by sr. albert marie surmanski, op ( washington, d. c. : catholic university of america press : 2017 ). on the causes of the properties of the elements, translated by irven m. resnick ( milwaukee : marquette university press, 2010 ) [ translation of liber de causis proprietatum elementorum ] questions concerning aristotle ' s on animals, translated by irven m. resnick and kenneth f. kitchell jr. ( washington, d. c. : catholic university of america press, 2008 ) [ translation of quaestiones super de animalibus ] the cardinal virtues : aquinas, albert, and philip the chancellor, translated by r. e. houser ( toronto : pontifical institute of mediæval studies, 2004 ) [ contains translations of parisian summa, part six : on the good and commentary on the sentences of peter lombard, book 3, dist. 33 & 36 ] the commentary of albertus magnus on book 1 of euclid ' s elements of geometry, edited by anthony lo bello ( boston : brill academic publishers, 2003 ) [ translation of priumus euclidis cum commento alberti ] on animals : a medieval summa zoologica, translated by kenneth f. kitchell jr. and irven michael resnick ( baltimore ; london : johns hopkins university press, 1999 ) [ translation of de animalibus ] paola zambelli, the speculum astronomiae and its enigma : astrology, theology, and science in albertus magnus and his contemporaries ( dordrecht ; boston : kluwer academic publishers, 1992 ) [ includes latin text and english translation of speculum astronomiae ] albert & thomas : selected writings, translated by simon tugwell, classics of western spirituality ( new york : paulist press, 1988 ) [ contains translation of super dionysii mysticam theologiam ] on union with god, translated by a benedictine of princethorpe priory ( london : burns oates & washbourne, 1911 ) [ reprinted as ( felinfach : llanerch enterprises, 1991 ) and ( london : continuum, 2000 ) ] [ translation of de adherendo deo ] see also christian mysticism list of catholic saints list of roman catholic scientist - clerics saint albert the great, patron saint archive science in the middle ages notes references citations sources sighart, joachim ( 1876 ), albert the great : his life and scholastic labours : from