is revealed in holy scripture and the catholic creeds and interpret these in light of the christian tradition of the historic church, scholarship, reason, and experience. anglicans celebrate the traditional sacraments, with special emphasis being given to the eucharist, also called holy communion, the lord ' s supper, or the mass. the eucharist is central to worship for most anglicans as a communal offering of prayer and praise in which the life, death, and resurrection of jesus christ are proclaimed through prayer, reading of the bible, singing, giving god thanks over the bread and wine for the innumerable benefits obtained through the passion of christ, the breaking of the bread, the blessing of the cup, and the partaking of the body and blood of christ as instituted at the last supper. the consecrated bread and wine, which are the true body and blood of christ in a spiritual manner, are outward symbols of an inner grace given by christ, which to the repentant conveys forgiveness and cleansing from sin. while many anglicans celebrate the eucharist in similar ways to the predominant latin catholic tradition, a considerable degree of liturgical freedom is permitted, and worship styles range from simple to elaborate. unique to anglicanism is the book of common prayer ( bcp ), the collection of services that worshippers in most anglican churches have used for centuries. it was called common prayer originally because it was intended for use in all church of england churches, which had previously followed differing local liturgies. the term was kept when the church became international because all anglicans used to share in its use around the world. in 1549, the first book of common prayer was compiled by thomas cranmer, who was then archbishop of canterbury. while it has since undergone many revisions and anglican churches in different countries have developed other service books, the prayer book is still acknowledged as one of the ties that bind anglicans together. identity early history the founding of christianity in britain is commonly attributed to joseph of arimathea, according to anglican legend, and is commemorated in glastonbury abbey. many of the early church fathers wrote of the presence of christianity in roman britain, with tertullian stating " those parts of britain into which the roman arms had never penetrated were become subject to christ ". saint alban, who was executed in ad 209, is the first christian martyr in the british isles. for this reason he is venerated as the british protomartyr. the historian heinrich zimmer writes that " just as britain was a