decade of scientific research. domesticating aquatic species involves fewer risks to humans than do land animals, which took a large toll in human lives. most major human diseases originated in domesticated animals, including diseases such as smallpox and diphtheria, that like most infectious diseases, move to humans from animals. no human pathogens of comparable virulence have yet emerged from marine species. biological control methods to manage parasites are already being used, such as cleaner fish ( e. g. lumpsuckers and wrasse ) to control sea lice populations in salmon farming. models are being used to help with spatial planning and siting of fish farms in order to minimize impact. the decline in wild fish stocks has increased the demand for farmed fish. however, finding alternative sources of protein and oil for fish feed is necessary so the aquaculture industry can grow sustainably ; otherwise, it represents a great risk for the over - exploitation of forage fish. aquaculture production now exceeds capture fishery production and together the relative gdp contribution has ranged from 0. 01 to 10 %. singling out aquaculture ' s relative contribution to gdp, however, is not easily derived due to lack of data. another recent issue following the banning in 2008 of organotins by the international maritime organization is the need to find environmentally friendly, but still effective, compounds with antifouling effects. many new natural compounds are discovered every year, but producing them on a large enough scale for commercial purposes is almost impossible. it is highly probable that future developments in this field will rely on microorganisms, but greater funding and further research is needed to overcome the lack of knowledge in this field. species groups aquatic plants microalgae, also referred to as phytoplankton, microphytes, or planktonic algae, constitute the majority of cultivated algae. macroalgae commonly known as seaweed also have many commercial and industrial uses, but due to their size and specific requirements, they are not easily cultivated on a large scale and are most often taken in the wild. in 2016, aquaculture was the source of 96. 5 percent by volume of the total 31. 2 million tonnes of wild - collected and cultivated aquatic plants combined. global production of farmed aquatic plants, overwhelmingly dominated by seaweeds, grew in output volume from 13. 5 million tonnes in 1995 to just over 30 million tonnes in 2016. seaweed farming fish the farming of fish is the most common form of aquaculture. it involves raising fish commercially in tanks, fish