roman emperor, about 1554, but, like later imports, were not very successful. angora goats were first introduced in the united states in 1849 by james p. davis. seven adult goats were a gift from sultan abdulmecid i in appreciation for his services and advice on the raising of cotton. the fleece taken from an angora goat is called mohair. a single goat produces between of hair per year. angoras are shorn twice a year, unlike sheep, which are shorn only once. angoras have high nutritional requirements due to their rapid hair growth. a poor quality diet will curtail mohair development. the united states, turkey, and south africa are the top producers of mohair. for a long period of time, angora goats were bred for their white coat. in 1998, the colored angora goat breeders association was set up to promote breeding of colored angoras. today, angora goats produce white, black ( deep black to greys and silver ), red ( the color fades significantly as the goat gets older ), and brownish fiber. angora goats were depicted on the reverse of the turkish 50 lira banknotes of 1938 – 1952. angora rabbit the angora rabbit ( ) is a variety of domestic rabbit bred for its long, soft hair. the angora is one of the oldest types of domestic rabbit, originating in ankara and its surrounding region in central anatolia, along with the angora cat and angora goat. the rabbits were popular pets with french royalty in the mid - 18th century, and spread to other parts of europe by the end of the century. they first appeared in the united states in the early 20th century. they are bred largely for their long angora wool, which may be removed by shearing, combing, or plucking ( gently pulling loose wool ). angoras are bred mainly for their wool because it is silky and soft. they have a humorous appearance, as they oddly resemble a fur ball. most are calm and docile but should be handled carefully. grooming is necessary to prevent the fiber from matting and felting on the rabbit. a condition called " wool block " is common in angora rabbits and should be treated quickly. sometimes they are shorn in the summer as the long fur can cause the rabbits to overheat. international relations twin towns and sister cities ankara is twinned with : seoul, south korea ( since 1971 ) islamabad, pakistan ( since 1982 ) kuala lumpur, malaysia ( since 1984 )