half a million tons in 2013 and is now considered fully fished. round sardinella was an important species in the 1990s but is now considered overfished. groupers and snappers are overfished and northern brown shrimp and american cupped oyster are considered fully fished approaching overfished. 44 % of stocks are being fished at unsustainable levels. south - east atlantic in the south - east atlantic catches have decreased from 3. 3 million tons in the early 1970s to 1. 3 million tons in 2013. horse mackerel and hake are the most important species, together representing almost half of the landings. off south africa and namibia deep - water hake and shallow - water cape hake have recovered to sustainable levels since regulations were introduced in 2006 and the states of southern african pilchard and anchovy have improved to fully fished in 2013. south - west atlantic in the south - west atlantic, a peak was reached in the mid - 1980s and catches now fluctuate between 1. 7 and 2. 6 million tons. the most important species, the argentine shortfin squid, which reached half a million tons in 2013 or half the peak value, is considered fully fished to overfished. another important species was the brazilian sardinella, with a production of 100, 000 tons in 2013 it is now considered overfished. half the stocks in this area are being fished at unsustainable levels : whitehead ' s round herring has not yet reached fully fished but cunene horse mackerel is overfished. the sea snail perlemoen abalone is targeted by illegal fishing and remain overfished. environmental issues endangered species endangered marine species include the manatee, seals, sea lions, turtles, and whales. drift net fishing can kill dolphins, albatrosses and other seabirds ( petrels, auks ), hastening the fish stock decline and contributing to international disputes. waste and pollution marine pollution is a generic term for the entry into the ocean of potentially hazardous chemicals or particles. the biggest culprits are rivers and with them many agriculture fertilizer chemicals as well as livestock and human waste. the excess of oxygen - depleting chemicals leads to hypoxia and the creation of a dead zone. marine debris, which is also known as marine litter, describes human - created waste floating in a body of water. oceanic debris tends to accumulate at the center of gyres and coastlines, frequently washing aground where it is known as beach litter. the