( product diversification and risk reduction ) and social acceptability ( better management practices ). " multi - trophic " refers to the incorporation of species from different trophic or nutritional levels in the same system. this is one potential distinction from the age - old practice of aquatic polyculture, which could simply be the co - culture of different fish species from the same trophic level. in this case, these organisms may all share the same biological and chemical processes, with few synergistic benefits, which could potentially lead to significant shifts in the ecosystem. some traditional polyculture systems may, in fact, incorporate a greater diversity of species, occupying several niches, as extensive cultures ( low intensity, low management ) within the same pond. a working imta system can result in greater total production based on mutual benefits to the co - cultured species and improved ecosystem health, even if the production of individual species is lower than in a monoculture over a short - term period. sometimes the term " integrated aquaculture " is used to describe the integration of monocultures through water transfer. for all intents and purposes, however, the terms " imta " and " integrated aquaculture " differ only in their degree of descriptiveness. aquaponics, fractionated aquaculture, integrated agriculture - aquaculture systems, integrated peri - urban - aquaculture systems, and integrated fisheries - aquaculture systems are other variations of the imta concept. urban aquaculture netting materials various materials, including nylon, polyester, polypropylene, polyethylene, plastic - coated welded wire, rubber, patented rope products ( spectra, thorn - d, dyneema ), galvanized steel and copper are used for netting in aquaculture fish enclosures around the world. all of these materials are selected for a variety of reasons, including design feasibility, material strength, cost, and corrosion resistance. recently, copper alloys have become important netting materials in aquaculture because they are antimicrobial ( i. e., they destroy bacteria, viruses, fungi, algae, and other microbes ) and they therefore prevent biofouling ( i. e., the undesirable accumulation, adhesion, and growth of microorganisms, plants, algae, tubeworms, barnacles, mollusks, and other organisms ). by inhibiting microbial growth, copper alloy aquaculture cages avoid costly net changes that are necessary with other materials. the resistance of organism growth on copper alloy nets also provides