helpful tool that eliminates a lot of misunderstandings associated with natural language in physics and other sciences. nonetheless, there are still some inherent ambiguities due to lexical, syntactic, and semantic reasons that persist in mathematical notation. names of functions the ambiguity in the style of writing a function should not be confused with a multivalued function, which can ( and should ) be defined in a deterministic and unambiguous way. several special functions still do not have established notations. usually, the conversion to another notation requires to scale the argument or the resulting value ; sometimes, the same name of the function is used, causing confusions. examples of such underestablished functions : sinc function elliptic integral of the third kind ; translating elliptic integral form maple to mathematica, one should replace the second argument to its square, see talk : elliptic integral # list of notations ; dealing with complex values, this may cause problems. exponential integral hermite polynomial expressions ambiguous expressions often appear in physical and mathematical texts. it is common practice to omit multiplication signs in mathematical expressions. also, it is common to give the same name to a variable and a function, for example,. then, if one sees, there is no way to distinguish whether it means multiplied by, or function evaluated at argument equal to. in each case of use of such notations, the reader is supposed to be able to perform the deduction and reveal the true meaning. creators of algorithmic languages try to avoid ambiguities. many algorithmic languages ( c + + and fortran ) require the character * as symbol of multiplication. the wolfram language used in mathematica allows the user to omit the multiplication symbol, but requires square brackets to indicate the argument of a function ; square brackets are not allowed for grouping of expressions. fortran, in addition, does not allow use of the same name ( identifier ) for different objects, for example, function and variable ; in particular, the expression f = f ( x ) is qualified as an error. the order of operations may depend on the context. in most programming languages, the operations of division and multiplication have equal priority and are executed from left to right. until the last century, many editorials assumed that multiplication is performed first, for example, is interpreted as ; in this case, the insertion of parentheses is required when translating the formulas to an algorithmic language. in addition, it is common to write an argument of a function without parent