1875, and " amazing grace " appeared three times with three different melodies, but they were the first to give it its title ; hymns were typically published using the incipits ( first line of the lyrics ), or the name of the tune such as " new britain ". publisher edwin othello excell gave the version of " amazing grace " set to " new britain " immense popularity by publishing it in a series of hymnals that were used in urban churches. excell altered some of walker ' s music, making it more contemporary and european, giving " new britain " some distance from its rural folk - music origins. excell ' s version was more palatable for a growing urban middle class and arranged for larger church choirs. several editions featuring newton ' s first three stanzas and the verse previously included by harriet beecher stowe in uncle tom ' s cabin were published by excell between 1900 and 1910. his version of " amazing grace " became the standard form of the song in american churches. recorded versions with the advent of recorded music and radio, " amazing grace " began to cross over from primarily a gospel standard to secular audiences. the ability to record combined with the marketing of records to specific audiences allowed " amazing grace " to take on thousands of different forms in the 20th century. where edwin othello excell sought to make the singing of " amazing grace " uniform throughout thousands of churches, records allowed artists to improvise with the words and music specific to each audience. allmusic lists over 1, 000 recordings – including re - releases and compilations – as of 2019. its first recording is an a cappella version from 1922 by the sacred harp choir. it was included from 1926 to 1930 in okeh records ' catalogue, which typically concentrated strongly on blues and jazz. demand was high for black gospel recordings of the song by h. r. tomlin and j. m. gates. a poignant sense of nostalgia accompanied the recordings of several gospel and blues singers in the 1940s and 1950s who used the song to remember their grandparents, traditions, and family roots. it was recorded with musical accompaniment for the first time in 1930 by fiddlin ' john carson, although to another folk hymn named " at the cross ", not to " new britain ". " amazing grace " is emblematic of several kinds of folk music styles, often used as the standard example to illustrate such musical techniques as lining out and call and response, that have been practised in both black and white folk music. mahalia jackson ' s 1947 version received