and west grew rich while the once - rich south became poor for a century. the national political power of the slaveowners and rich southerners ended. historians are less sure about the results of the postwar reconstruction, especially regarding the second - class citizenship of the freedmen and their poverty. historians have debated whether the confederacy could have won the war. most scholars, including james m. mcpherson, argue that confederate victory was at least possible. mcpherson argues that the north ' s advantage in population and resources made northern victory likely but not guaranteed. he also argues that if the confederacy had fought using unconventional tactics, it would have more easily been able to hold out long enough to exhaust the union. confederates did not need to invade and hold enemy territory to win but only needed to fight a defensive war to convince the north that the cost of winning was too high. the north needed to conquer and hold vast stretches of enemy territory and defeat confederate armies to win. lincoln was not a military dictator and could continue to fight the war only as long as the american public supported a continuation of the war. the confederacy sought to win independence by outlasting lincoln ; however, after atlanta fell and lincoln defeated mcclellan in the election of 1864, all hope for a political victory for the south ended. at that point, lincoln had secured the support of the republicans, war democrats, the border states, emancipated slaves, and the neutrality of britain and france. by defeating the democrats and mcclellan, he also defeated the copperheads, who had wanted a negotiated peace with the confederate states of america. some scholars argue that the union held an insurmountable long - term advantage over the confederacy in industrial strength and population. confederate actions, they argue, only delayed defeat. civil war historian shelby foote expressed this view succinctly : a minority view among historians is that the confederacy lost because, as e. merton coulter put it, " people did not will hard enough and long enough to win. " however, most historians reject the argument. mcpherson, after reading thousands of letters written by confederate soldiers, found strong patriotism that continued to the end ; they truly believed they were fighting for freedom and liberty. even as the confederacy was visibly collapsing in 1864 – 65, he says most confederate soldiers were fighting hard. historian gary gallagher cites general sherman, who in early 1864 commented, " the devils seem to have a determination that cannot but be admired. " despite their loss of slaves and wealth, with starvation looming, sherman continued, " yet i see no