s army. after the battle of monmouth, washington came to realize that saving entire towns was not necessary, but preserving his army and keeping the revolutionary spirit alive was more important. washington informed henry laurens, then president of the second continental congress, " that the possession of our towns, while we have an army in the field, will avail them little. " although the continental congress was responsible for the war effort and provided supplies to the troops, washington took it upon himself to pressure congress and the state legislatures to provide the essentials of war ; there was never nearly enough. congress evolved in its committee oversight and established the board of war, which included members of the military. because the board of war was also a committee ensnared with its own internal procedures, congress also created the post of secretary of war, appointing major general benjamin lincoln to the position in february 1781. washington worked closely with lincoln to coordinate civilian and military authorities and took charge of training and supplying the army. continental navy during the first summer of the war, washington began outfitting schooners and other small seagoing vessels to prey on ships supplying the british in boston. the second continental congress established the continental navy on october 13, 1775, and appointed esek hopkins as its first commander ; for most of the war, the continental navy included only a handful of small frigates and sloops, supported by numerous privateers. on november 10, 1775, congress authorized the creation of the continental marines, which ultimately evolved into, and was named, the united states marine corps. john paul jones became the first american naval hero when he captured hms drake on april 24, 1778, the first victory for any american military vessel in british waters. the last such victory was by the frigate uss alliance, commanded by captain john barry. on march 10, 1783, the alliance outgunned hms sybil in a 45 - minute duel while escorting spanish gold from havana to the congress in philadelphia. after yorktown, all us navy ships were sold or given away ; it was the first time in america ' s history that it had no fighting forces on the high seas. congress primarily commissioned privateers to reduce costs and to take advantage of the large proportion of colonial sailors found in the british empire. in total, they included 1, 700 ships that successfully captured 2, 283 enemy ships to damage the british effort and to enrich themselves with the proceeds from the sale of cargo and the ship itself. about 55, 000 sailors served aboard american privateers during the war. france at the beginning of the revolutionary war