class - conscious mother, who felt the webers were socially inferior. despite this opposition, the two married in berlin on 28 august 1928 ; seven years elapsed before margarete was invited to stay at her in - laws ' home. the couple would have six children together, but albert speer grew increasingly distant from his family after 1933. he remained so even after his release from imprisonment in 1966, despite their efforts to forge closer bonds. party architect and government functionary joining the nazis ( 1931 – 1934 ) in january 1931, speer applied for nazi party membership, and on 1 march 1931, he became member number 474, 481. the same year, with stipends shrinking amid the depression, speer surrendered his position as tessenow ' s assistant and moved to mannheim, hoping to make a living as an architect. after he failed to do so, his father gave him a part - time job as manager of his properties. in july 1932, the speers visited berlin to help out the party before the reichstag elections. while they were there his friend, nazi party official karl hanke recommended the young architect to joseph goebbels to help renovate the party ' s berlin headquarters. when the commission was completed, speer returned to mannheim and remained there as hitler took office in january 1933. the organizers of the 1933 nuremberg rally asked speer to submit designs for the rally, bringing him into contact with hitler for the first time. neither the organizers nor rudolf hess were willing to decide whether to approve the plans, and hess sent speer to hitler ' s munich apartment to seek his approval. this work won speer his first national post, as nazi party " commissioner for the artistic and technical presentation of party rallies and demonstrations ". shortly after hitler came into power, he began to make plans to rebuild the chancellery. at the end of 1933, he contracted paul troost to renovate the entire building. hitler appointed speer, whose work for goebbels had impressed him, to manage the building site for troost. as chancellor, hitler had a residence in the building and came by every day to be briefed by speer and the building supervisor on the progress of the renovations. after one of these briefings, hitler invited speer to lunch, to the architect ' s great excitement. speer quickly became part of hitler ' s inner circle ; he was expected to call on him in the morning for a walk or chat, to provide consultation on architectural matters, and