congressman split the vote with him. johnson ' s opponents tried to agree on a single candidate who might gain majority support and defeat him, but failed, and he was elected on january 26 on the 54th ballot, with a margin of a single vote. nashville erupted in rejoicing ; remarked johnson, " thank god for the vindication. " johnson ' s comeback garnered national attention, with the st. louis republican calling it " the most magnificent personal triumph which the history of american politics can show ". at his swearing - in in the senate on march 5, 1875, he was greeted with flowers, and sworn in alongside hamlin ( his predecessor as vice president ) by incumbent vice president henry wilson ( who as senator had voted for johnson ' s ouster ). many republicans ignored senator johnson, though some, such as ohio ' s john sherman ( who had voted for conviction ), shook his hand. johnson remains the only former president to serve in the senate. he spoke only once in the short session, on march 22 lambasting president grant for his use of federal troops in support of louisiana ' s reconstruction government. the former president asked, " how far off is military despotism? " and concluded his speech, " may god bless this people and god save the constitution ". death johnson returned home after the special session concluded. in late july 1875, convinced some of his opponents were defaming him in the ohio gubernatorial race, he decided to travel there to give speeches. he began the trip on july 28, and broke the journey at his daughter mary ' s farm near elizabethton, where his daughter martha was also staying. that evening he had a stroke, but refused medical treatment until the next day, when he did not improve and two doctors were sent for from elizabethton. he seemed to respond to their ministrations, but had another stroke on the evening of july 30, and died early the following morning at the age of 66. president grant had the " painful duty " of announcing the death of the only surviving past president. northern newspapers, in their obituaries, tended to focus on johnson ' s loyalty during the war, while southern ones paid tribute to his actions as president. johnson ' s funeral was held on august 3 in greeneville. he was buried with his body wrapped in an american flag and a copy of the u. s. constitution placed under his head, according to his wishes. the burial ground was dedicated as the andrew johnson national cemetery in 1906, and with his home and tailor ' s