of the following inheritance patterns : autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, or x - linked. some disorders, like als, can occur sporadically ( 85 % ) or can have a genetic cause ( 15 % ) with the same clinical symptoms and progression of disease. umns are motor neurons that project from the cortex down to the brainstem or spinal cord. lmns originate in the anterior horns of the spinal cord and synapse on peripheral muscles. both motor neurons are necessary for the strong contraction of a muscle, but damage to an umn can be distinguished from damage to a lmn by physical exam. tests cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) tests : analysis of the fluid from around the brain and spinal cord could reveal signs of an infection or inflammation. magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) : an mri of the brain and spinal cord is recommended in patients with umn signs and symptoms to explore other causes, such as a tumor, inflammation, or lack of blood supply ( stroke ). electromyogram ( emg ) & nerve conduction study ( ncs ) : the emg, which evaluates muscle function, and ncs, which evaluates nerve function, are performed together in patients with lmn signs. for patients with mnd affecting the lmns, the emg will show evidence of : ( 1 ) acute denervation, which is ongoing as motor neurons degenerate, and ( 2 ) chronic denervation and reinnervation of the muscle, as the remaining motor neurons attempt to fill in for lost motor neurons. by contrast, the ncs in these patients is usually normal. it can show a low compound muscle action potential ( cmap ), which results from the loss of motor neurons, but the sensory neurons should remain unaffected. tissue biopsy : taking a small sample of a muscle or nerve may be necessary if the emg / ncs is not specific enough to rule out other causes of progressive muscle weakness, but it is rarely used. treatment there are no known curative treatments for the majority of motor neuron disorders. please refer to the articles on individual disorders for more details. prognosis the table below lists life expectancy for patients who are diagnosed with mnd. terminology in the united states and canada, the term motor neuron disease usually refers to the group of disorders while amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is frequently called lou gehrig ' s disease. in the united kingdom and australia, the term motor neuron (