at least in the western world. by the time of plato, his philosophy was almost forgotten, and aristotle, his successor theophrastus and a few doxographers provide us with the little information that remains. however, we know from aristotle that thales, also from miletus, precedes anaximander. it is debatable whether thales actually was the teacher of anaximander, but there is no doubt that anaximander was influenced by thales ' theory that everything is derived from water. one thing that is not debatable is that even the ancient greeks considered anaximander to be from the monist school which began in miletus, with thales followed by anaximander and which ended with anaximenes. 3rd - century roman rhetorician aelian depicts anaximander as leader of the milesian colony to apollonia on the black sea coast, and hence some have inferred that he was a prominent citizen. indeed, various history ( iii, 17 ) explains that philosophers sometimes also dealt with political matters. it is very likely that leaders of miletus sent him there as a legislator to create a constitution or simply to maintain the colony ' s allegiance. anaximander lived the final few years of his life as a subject of the persian achaemenid empire. theories anaximander ' s theories were influenced by the greek mythical tradition, and by some ideas of thales – the father of western philosophy – as well as by observations made by older civilizations in the near east, especially babylon. all these were developed rationally. in his desire to find some universal principle, he assumed, like traditional religion, the existence of a cosmic order ; and his ideas on this used the old language of myths which ascribed divine control to various spheres of reality. this was a common practice for the greek philosophers in a society which saw gods everywhere, and therefore could fit their ideas into a tolerably elastic system. some scholars see a gap between the existing mythical and the new rational way of thought which is the main characteristic of the archaic period ( 8th to 6th century bc ) in the greek city - states. this has given rise to the phrase " greek miracle ". but there may not have been such an abrupt break as initially appears. the basic elements of nature ( water, air, fire, earth ) which the first greek philosophers believed made up the universe in fact represent the primordial forces imagined in earlier ways of thinking. their collision produced what the