##s were made during the third century bce in both the digestive and reproductive systems. herophilus was able to discover and describe not only the salivary glands, but the small intestine and liver. he showed that the uterus is a hollow organ and described the ovaries and uterine tubes. he recognized that spermatozoa were produced by the testes and was the first to identify the prostate gland. the anatomy of the muscles and skeleton is described in the hippocratic corpus, an ancient greek medical work written by unknown authors. aristotle described vertebrate anatomy based on animal dissection. praxagoras identified the difference between arteries and veins. also in the 4th century bce, herophilos and erasistratus produced more accurate anatomical descriptions based on vivisection of criminals in alexandria during the ptolemaic period. in the 2nd century, galen of pergamum, an anatomist, clinician, writer and philosopher, wrote the final and highly influential anatomy treatise of ancient times. he compiled existing knowledge and studied anatomy through dissection of animals. he was one of the first experimental physiologists through his vivisection experiments on animals. galen ' s drawings, based mostly on dog anatomy, became effectively the only anatomical textbook for the next thousand years. his work was known to renaissance doctors only through islamic golden age medicine until it was translated from the greek some time in the 15th century. medieval to early modern anatomy developed little from classical times until the sixteenth century ; as the historian marie boas writes, " progress in anatomy before the sixteenth century is as mysteriously slow as its development after 1500 is startlingly rapid ". between 1275 and 1326, the anatomists mondino de luzzi, alessandro achillini and antonio benivieni at bologna carried out the first systematic human dissections since ancient times. mondino ' s anatomy of 1316 was the first textbook in the medieval rediscovery of human anatomy. it describes the body in the order followed in mondino ' s dissections, starting with the abdomen, then the thorax, then the head and limbs. it was the standard anatomy textbook for the next century. leonardo da vinci ( 1452 – 1519 ) was trained in anatomy by andrea del verrocchio. he made use of his anatomical knowledge in his artwork, making many sketches of skeletal structures, muscles and organs of humans and other vertebrates that he dissected. andreas vesalius