rear. the specific name, cristatus, comes from latin and means " provided with a comb ", relating to their mane. description the aardwolf resembles a very thin striped hyena, but with a more slender muzzle, black vertical stripes on a coat of yellowish fur, and a long, distinct mane down the midline of the neck and back. it also has one or two diagonal stripes down the fore - and hind - quarters, along with several stripes on its legs. the mane is raised during confrontations to make the aardwolf appear larger. it is missing the throat spot that others in the family have. its lower leg ( from the knee down ) is all black, and its tail is bushy with a black tip. the aardwolf is about long, excluding its bushy tail, which is about long, and stands about tall at the shoulders. an adult aardwolf weighs approximately, sometimes reaching. the aardwolves in the south of the continent tend to be smaller ( about ) than the eastern version ( around ). this makes the aardwolf, the smallest extant member of the hyaenidae family. the front feet have five toes each, unlike the four - toed hyena. the skull is similar in shape to those of other hyenas, though much smaller, and its cheek teeth are specialised for eating insects. it does still have canines, but, unlike other hyenas, these teeth are used primarily for fighting and defense. its ears, which are large, are very similar to those of the striped hyena. as an aardwolf ages, it will normally lose some of its teeth, though this has little impact on its feeding habits due to the softness of the insects that it eats. distribution and habitat aardwolves live in open, dry plains and bushland, avoiding mountainous areas. due to their specific food requirements, they are found only in regions where termites of the family hodotermitidae occur. termites of this family depend on dead and withered grass and are most populous in heavily grazed grasslands and savannahs, including farmland. for most of the year, aardwolves spend time in shared territories consisting of up to a dozen dens, which are occupied for six weeks at a time. there are two distinct populations : one in southern africa, and another in east and northeast africa. the species does not occur in the intermediary miombo forests. an adult pair,