by the state, temple, or noble family that owned the land. farmers were also subject to a labor tax and were required to work on irrigation or construction projects in a corvee system. artists and craftsmen were of higher status than farmers, but they were also under state control, working in the shops attached to the temples and paid directly from the state treasury. scribes and officials formed the upper class in ancient egypt, known as the " white kilt class " in reference to the bleached linen garments that served as a mark of their rank. the upper class prominently displayed their social status in art and literature. below the nobility were the priests, physicians, and engineers with specialized training in their field. it is unclear whether slavery as understood today existed in ancient egypt ; there is difference of opinions among authors. the ancient egyptians viewed men and women, including people from all social classes, as essentially equal under the law, and even the lowliest peasant was entitled to petition the vizier and his court for redress. although slaves were mostly used as indentured servants, they were able to buy and sell their servitude, work their way to freedom or nobility, and were usually treated by doctors in the workplace. both men and women had the right to own and sell property, make contracts, marry and divorce, receive inheritance, and pursue legal disputes in court. married couples could own property jointly and protect themselves from divorce by agreeing to marriage contracts, which stipulated the financial obligations of the husband to his wife and children should the marriage end. compared with their counterparts in ancient greece, rome, and even more modern places around the world, ancient egyptian women had a greater range of personal choices, legal rights, and opportunities for achievement. women such as hatshepsut and cleopatra vii even became pharaohs, while others wielded power as divine wives of amun. despite these freedoms, ancient egyptian women did not often take part in official roles in the administration, aside from the royal high priestesses, apparently served only secondary roles in the temples ( not much data for many dynasties ), and were not so likely to be as educated as men. legal system the head of the legal system was officially the pharaoh, who was responsible for enacting laws, delivering justice, and maintaining law and order, a concept the ancient egyptians referred to as ma ' at. although no legal codes from ancient egypt survive, court documents show that egyptian law was based on a common - sense view of right and wrong that emphasized reaching agreements and resolving