the top 30 in australia and the us. in the united kingdom, abba ' s british record label, epic, decided to re - release a remixed version of " ring ring " instead of " honey, honey ", and a cover version of the latter by sweet dreams peaked at number 10. both records debuted on the uk chart within one week of each other. " ring ring " failed to reach the top 30 in the uk, increasing growing speculation that the group were simply a eurovision one - hit wonder. post - eurovision in november 1974, abba embarked on their first european tour, playing dates in denmark, west germany and austria. it was not as successful as the band had hoped, since most of the venues did not sell out. due to a lack of demand, they were even forced to cancel a few shows, including a sole concert scheduled in switzerland. the second leg of the tour, which took them through scandinavia in january 1975, was very different. they played to full houses everywhere and finally got the reception they had aimed for. live performances continued in the middle of 1975 when abba embarked on a fourteen open - air date tour of sweden and finland. their stockholm show at the grona lund amusement park had an estimated audience of 19, 200. bjorn ulvaeus later said, " if you look at the singles we released straight after waterloo, we were trying to be more like the sweet, a semi - glam rock group, which was stupid because we were always a pop group. " in late 1974, " so long " was released as a single in the united kingdom but it received no airplay from radio 1 and failed to chart in the uk ; the only countries in which it was successful were austria, sweden and germany, reaching the top ten in the first two and number 21 in the latter. in the middle of 1975, abba released " i do, i do, i do, i do, i do ", which again received little airplay on radio 1, but did manage to climb to number 38 on the uk chart, while making top five in several northern and western european countries, and number one in south africa. later that year, the release of their self - titled third studio album abba and single " sos " brought back their chart presence in the uk, where the single hit number six and the album peaked at number 13. " sos " also became abba ' s second number - one single in germany, their third in australia and their first in france, plus reached number two