- three hit in canada and japan, represented a new level of accomplishment in both songwriting and studio work, prompting rave reviews from more rock - oriented uk music weeklies such as melody maker and new musical express, and mostly appreciative notices from us critics. hit after hit flowed from arrival : " money, money, money ", another number - one in germany, france, australia and other countries of western and northern europe, plus number two in the uk ; and, " knowing me, knowing you ", abba ' s sixth consecutive german number - one, as well as another uk number - one, plus a top five hit in many other countries, although it was only a number nine hit in australia and france. the real sensation was the first single, " dancing queen ", not only topping the charts in loyal markets like the uk, germany, sweden, several other western and northern european countries, and australia, but also reaching number - one in the united states, canada, the soviet union and japan, and the top ten in france, spain and italy. all three songs were number - one hits in mexico. in south africa, abba had astounding success with each of " fernando ", " dancing queen " and " knowing me, knowing you " being among the top 20 best - selling singles for 1976 – 77. in 1977, arrival was nominated for the inaugural brit award in the category " best international album of the year ". by this time abba were popular in the uk, most of europe, australia, new zealand and canada. in frida – the dvd, lyngstad explains how she and faltskog developed as singers, as abba ' s recordings grew more complex over the years. the band ' s mainstream popularity in the united states would remain on a comparatively smaller scale, and " dancing queen " became the only billboard hot 100 number - one single for abba ( though it immediately became, and remains to this day, a major gay anthem ) with " knowing me, knowing you " later peaking at number seven ; " money, money, money ", however, had barely charted there or in canada ( where " knowing me, knowing you " had reached number five ). they did, however, get three more singles to the number - one position on other billboard us charts, including billboard adult contemporary and hot dance club play ). nevertheless, arrival finally became a true breakthrough release for abba on the us album market where it peaked at number 20 on the billboard 200 chart