this prolate spheroid in an ellipse whose major and minor semi - axes give the magnitudes of the extraordinary and ordinary ray velocities in the direction normal to the plane, and ( said fresnel ) the directions of their respective vibrations. the direction of the optic axis is the normal to the plane for which the ellipse of intersection reduces to a circle. so, for the biaxial case, fresnel simply replaced the prolate spheroid with a triaxial ellipsoid, which was to be sectioned by a plane in the same way. in general there would be two planes passing through the center of the ellipsoid and cutting it in a circle, and the normals to these planes would give two optic axes. from the geometry, fresnel deduced biot ' s sine law ( with the ray velocities replaced by their reciprocals ). the ellipsoid indeed gave the correct ray velocities ( although the initial experimental verification was only approximate ). but it did not give the correct directions of vibration, for the biaxial case or even for the uniaxial case, because the vibrations in fresnel ' s model were tangential to the wavefront — which, for an extraordinary ray, is not generally normal to the ray. this error ( which is small if, as in most cases, the birefringence is weak ) was corrected in an " extract " that fresnel read to the academie a week later, on 26 november. starting with huygens ' s spheroid, fresnel obtained a 4th - degree surface which, when sectioned by a plane as above, would yield the wave - normal velocities for a wavefront in that plane, together with their vibration directions. for the biaxial case, he generalized the equation to obtain a surface with three unequal principal dimensions ; this he subsequently called the " surface of elasticity ". but he retained the earlier ellipsoid as an approximation, from which he deduced biot ' s dihedral law. fresnel ' s initial derivation of the surface of elasticity had been purely geometric, and not deductively rigorous. his first attempt at a mechanical derivation, contained in a " supplement " dated 13 january 1822, assumed that ( i ) there were three mutually perpendicular directions in which a displacement produced a reaction in the same direction, ( ii ) the reaction was otherwise a linear