poor and low - skilled workers. effects of climate change on yields climate change and agriculture are interrelated on a global scale. climate change affects agriculture through changes in average temperatures, rainfall, and weather extremes ( like storms and heat waves ) ; changes in pests and diseases ; changes in atmospheric carbon dioxide and ground - level ozone concentrations ; changes in the nutritional quality of some foods ; and changes in sea level. global warming is already affecting agriculture, with effects unevenly distributed across the world. in a 2022 report, the intergovernmental panel on climate change describes how human - induced warming has slowed growth of agricultural productivity over the past 50 years in mid and low latitudes. methane emissions have negatively impacted crop yields by increasing temperatures and surface ozone concentrations. warming is also negatively affecting crop and grassland quality and harvest stability. ocean warming has decreased sustainable yields of some wild fish populations while ocean acidification and warming have already affected farmed aquatic species. climate change will probably increase the risk of food insecurity for some vulnerable groups, such as the poor. crop alteration and biotechnology plant breeding crop alteration has been practiced by humankind for thousands of years, since the beginning of civilization. altering crops through breeding practices changes the genetic make - up of a plant to develop crops with more beneficial characteristics for humans, for example, larger fruits or seeds, drought - tolerance, or resistance to pests. significant advances in plant breeding ensued after the work of geneticist gregor mendel. his work on dominant and recessive alleles, although initially largely ignored for almost 50 years, gave plant breeders a better understanding of genetics and breeding techniques. crop breeding includes techniques such as plant selection with desirable traits, self - pollination and cross - pollination, and molecular techniques that genetically modify the organism. domestication of plants has, over the centuries increased yield, improved disease resistance and drought tolerance, eased harvest and improved the taste and nutritional value of crop plants. careful selection and breeding have had enormous effects on the characteristics of crop plants. plant selection and breeding in the 1920s and 1930s improved pasture ( grasses and clover ) in new zealand. extensive x - ray and ultraviolet induced mutagenesis efforts ( i. e. primitive genetic engineering ) during the 1950s produced the modern commercial varieties of grains such as wheat, corn ( maize ) and barley. the green revolution popularized the use of conventional hybridization to sharply increase yield by creating " high - yielding varieties ". for example, average yields of corn ( maize ) in the us have increased from around 2. 5 tons per