, seth green had established a commercial fish - hatching operation at caledonia springs, near rochester, new york. by 1866, with the involvement of dr. w. w. fletcher of concord, massachusetts, artificial fish hatcheries were underway in both canada and the united states. when the dildo island fish hatchery opened in newfoundland in 1889, it was the largest and most advanced in the world. the word aquaculture was used in descriptions of the hatcheries experiments with cod and lobster in 1890. by the 1920s, the american fish culture company of carolina, rhode island, founded in the 1870s was one of the leading producers of trout. during the 1940s, they had perfected the method of manipulating the day and night cycle of fish so that they could be artificially spawned year around. californians harvested wild kelp and attempted to manage supply around 1900, later labeling it a wartime resource. see also agroecology alligator farm certification for aquaculture professionals fisheries science fishery industrial aquaculture list of commercially important fish species maggots used as food for fish oyster farming recirculating aquaculture system resource decoupling references sources podcast gesamp ( 2008 ) assessment and communication of environmental risks in coastal aquaculture fao reports and studies no 76. hepburn, j. 2002. taking aquaculture seriously. organic farming, winter 2002 © soil association. the scottish association for marine science and napier university. 2002. review and synthesis of the environmental impacts of aquaculture higginbotham james piscinae : artificial fishponds in roman italy university of north carolina press ( june 1997 ) wyban, carol araki ( 1992 ) tide and current : fishponds of hawai ' i university of hawaiʻi press : : timmons, m. b., ebeling, j. m., wheaton, f. w., summerfelt, s. t., vinci, b. j., 2002. recirculating aquaculture systems : 2nd edition. cayuga aqua ventures. free content work further reading holmer, marianne. aquaculture in the ecosystem. dordrecht, netherlands : springer, 2008. molyneaux, paul. swimming in circles : aquaculture and the end of wild oceans. new york : thunder ’ s mouth press, 2006. stickney, robert r. aquaculture : an introductory text. oxford, uk ; cambridge, ma : cabi publishing, 2005. world bank. changing the face of the waters : the promise and challenge of sustainable aquaculture. washington