##ncelos at malacca, who had been given a rival command of the region. three months later, on 25 november afonso reappeared at goa with a renovated fleet. diogo mendes de vasconcelos was compelled to accompany him with the reinforcements for malacca and about 300 malabari reinforcements from cannanore. in less than a day, they took goa from ismail adil shah and his ottoman allies, who surrendered on 10 december. it is estimated that 6000 of the 9000 muslim defenders of the city died, either in the fierce battle in the streets or by drowning while trying to escape. afonso regained the support of the hindu population, although he frustrated the initial expectations of timoji, who aspired to become governor. afonso rewarded him by appointing him chief " aguazil " of the city, an administrator and representative of the hindu and muslim people, as a knowledgeable interpreter of the local customs. he then made an agreement to lower the yearly tribute. in goa, afonso established the first portuguese mint in the east, after timoja ' s merchants had complained of the scarcity of currency, taking it as an opportunity to solidify the territorial conquest. the new coin, based on the existing local coins, showed a cross on the obverse and an armillary sphere ( or " esfera " ), king manuel ' s badge, on the reverse. gold cruzados or manueis, silver esferas and alf - esferas, and bronze " leais " were issued. albuquerque founded at goa the hospital real de goa or royal hospital of goa, by the church of santa catarina. upon hearing that the doctors were extorting the sickly with excessive fees, albuquerque summoned them, declaring that " you charge a physician ' s pay and don ' t know what disease the men who serve our lord the king suffer from. thus, i want to teach you what is it that they die from " and put them to work building the city walls all day till nightfall before releasing them. despite constant attacks, goa became the center of portuguese india, with the conquest triggering the compliance of neighbouring kingdoms : the sultan of gujarat and the zamorin of calicut sent embassies, offering alliances and local grants to fortify. afonso then used goa to secure the spice trade in favor of portugal and sell persian horses to vijayanagara and hindu princes in return for their assistance. conquest of malacca, 1511 afonso explained to his armies why the portuguese