. detailed plans were completed in july 1937 and the first shell of the new chancellery was complete on 1 january 1938. on 27 january 1938, speer received plenipotentiary powers from hitler to finish the new chancellery by 1 january 1939. for propaganda hitler claimed during the topping - out ceremony on 2 august 1938, that he had ordered speer to complete the new chancellery that year. shortages of labor meant the construction workers had to work in ten - to - twelve - hour shifts. the ss built two concentration camps in 1938 and used the inmates to quarry stone for its construction. a brick factory was built near the oranienburg concentration camp at speer ' s behest ; when someone commented on the poor conditions there, speer stated, " the yids got used to making bricks while in egyptian captivity ". the chancellery was completed in early january 1939. the building itself was hailed by hitler as the " crowning glory of the greater german political empire ". during the chancellery project, the pogrom of kristallnacht took place. speer made no mention of it in the first draft of inside the third reich. it was only on the urgent advice of his publisher that he added a mention of seeing the ruins of the central synagogue in berlin from his car. kristallnacht accelerated speer ' s ongoing efforts to dispossess berlin ' s jews from their homes. from 1939 on, speer ' s department used the nuremberg laws to evict jewish tenants of non - jewish landlords in berlin, to make way for non - jewish tenants displaced by redevelopment or bombing. eventually, 75, 000 jews were displaced by these measures. speer denied he knew they were being put on holocaust trains and claimed that those displaced were, " completely free and their families were still in their apartments ". he also said : "... en route to my ministry on the city highway, i could see... crowds of people on the platform of nearby nikolassee railroad station. i knew that these must be berlin jews who were being evacuated. i am sure that an oppressive feeling struck me as i drove past. i presumably had a sense of somber events. " matthias schmidt said speer had personally inspected concentration camps and described his comments as an " outright farce ". martin kitchen described speer ' s often repeated line that he knew nothing of the " dreadful things " as hollow — because not only was he fully aware of the fate of the