into a bird and jumped into a sea. from her, an island rose which was called ortygia. when hera discovered that leto was pregnant with zeus ' child, she decreed that leto can give birth only in a place where sun does not shine. during this time, the monster python also started hounding leto with an intent of killing her, because he had foreseen his death coming at the hands of leto ' s offspring. however, on zeus ' orders, boreas carried away leto and entrusted her to poseidon. to protect her, poseidon took her to the island ortygia and covered it with waves so that the sun would not shine on it. leto gave birth clinging to an olive tree and henceforth the island was called delos. other variations of apollo ' s birth include : aelian states that it took leto twelve days and twelve nights to travel from hyperborea to delos. leto changed herself into a she - wolf before giving birth. this is given as the reason why homer describes apollo as the " wolf - born god ". libanius wrote that neither land nor visible islands would receive leto, but by the will of zeus delos then became visible, and thus received leto and the children. according to strabo, the curetes helped leto by creating loud noises with their weapons and thus frightening hera, they concealed leto ' s childbirth. theognis wrote that the island was filled with ambrosial fragrance when apollo was born, and the earth laughed with joy. while in some accounts apollo ' s birth itself fixed the floating delos to the earth, there are accounts of apollo securing delos to the bottom of the ocean a little while later. this island became sacred to apollo and was one of the major cult centres of the god. apollo was born on the seventh day (, hebdomagenes ) of the month thargelion — according to delian tradition — or of the month bysios — according to delphian tradition. the seventh and twentieth, the days of the new and full moon, were ever afterwards held sacred to him. the general consensus is that artemis was born first and subsequently assisted with the birth of apollo. hyperborea hyperborea, the mystical land of eternal spring, venerated apollo above all the gods. the hyperboreans always sang and danced in his honor and hosted pythian games. there, a vast forest of beautiful trees was called " the garden of apollo ". apollo spent the winter months among