, the organization of american states, the world trade organization and the eastern caribbean ' s regional security system. antigua and barbuda is also a member of the international criminal court ( with a bilateral immunity agreement of protection for the us military as covered under article 98 of the rome statute ). in 2013, antigua and barbuda called for reparations for slavery at the united nations. prime minister baldwin spencer said " we have recently seen a number of leaders apologising ", and that they should now " match their words with concrete and material benefits. " military about 260 people are currently serving in the antigua and barbuda defense force in a variety of capacities. these personnel are distributed across the line infantry regiment, the service and support unit, the air force, and the coast guard. in addition there is the antigua and barbuda cadet corps, which is made up of two hundred young people between the ages of 12 and 18. the defence board is in charge of directing the activities of the armed forces of the nation. the national security council and the financial intelligence unit are the two intelligence agencies that antigua and barbuda have at their disposal. camp blizzard serves as the administrative center for the defense force. in 2018, antigua and barbuda signed the un treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons. administrative divisions antigua and barbuda is divided into six parishes and two dependencies : although they are referred to as dependencies, both barbuda and redonda are actually integral parts of the state and can be thought of as administrative divisions. simply put, " dependency " is just a title. the redonda is a second - level administrative division that is part of the saint john parish ' s district " a. " barbuda is a local administrative division on the same level as antigua and barbuda, and its council is the name of its local governing body. in the year 2023, there have been discussions regarding the possibility of extending governmental authority to antigua ' s parishes. there are currently sixty of what are known as major divisions on the islands of antigua and barbuda. this administrative tier is known as the second level. local government in the country of antigua and barbuda is only present on the island of barbuda at the present time ; however, there is legislation in place for a system of village councils on the island of antigua ; however, village councils have not been active since the 1940s and 1950s. human rights as of july 2022, same - sex sexual activity is legal in antigua and