##sociated himself. his conversion also brought many people to islam. he persuaded his intimate friends to convert, and presented islam to other friends in such a way that many of them also accepted the faith. those who converted to islam at the insistence of abu bakr were : uthman ibn affan ( who would become the 3rd caliph ) al - zubayr ( who played a part in the muslim conquest of egypt ) talha ibn ubayd - allah, his cousin and an important companion of the prophet. ' abd al - rahman ibn ' awf ( who would remain an important part of the rashidun caliphate ) sa ' d ibn abi waqqas ( who played a leading role in the islamic conquest of persia ) abu ubaidah ibn al - jarrah ( who was a commander in chief of the rashidun army in levant ) abu salama, he was a foster brother of prophet muhammad. khalid ibn sa ' id, ( who acted as a general under the rashidun army in syria ) abu bakr ' s acceptance proved to be a milestone in muhammad ' s mission. slavery was common in mecca, and many slaves accepted islam. when an ordinary free man accepted islam, despite opposition, he would enjoy the protection of his tribe. for slaves, however, there was no such protection and they commonly experienced persecution. abu bakr felt compassion for slaves, so he purchased eight ( four men and four women ) and then freed them, paying 40, 000 dinar for their freedom. the men were : bilal ibn rabah abu fukayha ammar ibn yasir abu fuhayra the women were : lubaynah al - nahdiah umm ubays harithah bint al - muammil most of the slaves liberated by abu bakr were either women or old and frail men. when the father of abu bakr asked him why he didn ' t liberate strong and young slaves, who could be a source of strength for him, abu bakr replied that he was freeing the slaves for the sake of god, and not for his own sake. persecution by the quraysh, 613 for three years after the birth of islam, muslims kept their faith private. in 613, according to islamic tradition, muhammad was commanded by god to call people to islam openly. the first public address inviting people to offer allegiance to muhammad was delivered by abu bakr. in a fit of fury, the young men of the quraysh tribe rushed at abu bakr and