fourth chapter in his publicly released memoirs of achievements known as the res gestae is devoted to his military victories and honors. augustus also promoted the ideal of a superior roman civilization with a task of ruling the world ( to the extent to which the romans knew it ), a sentiment embodied in words that the contemporary poet virgil attributes to a legendary ancestor of augustus : tu regere imperio populos, romane, memento — " roman, remember to rule the earth ' s peoples with authority! " the impulse for expansionism was apparently prominent among all classes at rome, and it is accorded divine sanction by virgil ' s jupiter in book 1 of the aeneid, where jupiter promises rome imperium sine fine, " sovereignty without end ". by the end of his reign, the armies of augustus had conquered northern hispania ( modern spain and portugal ) and the alpine regions of raetia and noricum ( modern switzerland, bavaria, austria, slovenia ), illyricum and pannonia ( modern albania, croatia, hungary, serbia, etc. ), and had extended the borders of africa proconsularis to the east and south. judea was added to the province of syria when augustus deposed herod archelaus, successor to client king herod the great. syria ( like egypt after antony ) was governed by a high prefect of the equestrian class rather than by a proconsul or legate of augustus. again, no military effort was needed in 25 bc when galatia ( part of modern turkey ) was converted to a roman province shortly after amyntas of galatia was killed by an avenging widow of a slain prince from homonada. the rebellious tribes of asturias and cantabria in modern - day spain were finally quelled in 19 bc, and the territory fell under the provinces of hispania and lusitania. this region proved to be a major asset in funding augustus ' s future military campaigns, as it was rich in mineral deposits that could be fostered in roman mining projects, especially the very rich gold deposits at las medulas. conquering the peoples of the alps in 16 bc was another important victory for rome, since it provided a large territorial buffer between the roman citizens of italy and rome ' s enemies in germania to the north. horace dedicated an ode to the victory, while the monumental trophy of augustus near monaco was built to honor the occasion. the capture of the alpine region also served the next offensive in 12 bc, when tiberius began the