six - month medical leave of absence from apple until the end of june 2009 and would spend the time focusing on his health. in the email, jobs stated that " the curiosity over my personal health continues to be a distraction not only for me and my family, but everyone else at apple as well ", and explained that the break would allow the company " to focus on delivering extraordinary products ". though jobs was absent, apple recorded its best non - holiday quarter ( q1 fy 2009 ) during the recession with revenue of $ 8. 16 billion and profit of $ 1. 21 billion. after years of speculation and multiple rumored " leaks ", apple unveiled a large screen, tablet - like media device known as the ipad on january 27, 2010. the ipad ran the same touch - based operating system as the iphone, and all iphone apps were compatible with the ipad. this gave the ipad a large app catalog on launch, though having very little development time before the release. later that year on april 3, 2010, the ipad was launched in the u. s. it sold more than 300, 000 units on its first day, and 500, 000 by the end of the first week. in may of the same year, apple ' s market cap exceeded that of competitor microsoft for the first time since 1989. in june 2010, apple released the iphone 4, which introduced video calling using facetime, multitasking, and a new uninsulated stainless steel design that acted as the phone ' s antenna. later that year, apple again refreshed its ipod line of mp3 players by introducing a multi - touch ipod nano, an ipod touch with facetime, and an ipod shuffle that brought back the clickwheel buttons of earlier generations. it also introduced the smaller, cheaper second generation apple tv which allowed renting of movies and shows. on january 17, 2011, jobs announced in an internal apple memo that he would take another medical leave of absence for an indefinite period to allow him to focus on his health. chief operating officer tim cook assumed jobs ' s day - to - day operations at apple, although jobs would still remain " involved in major strategic decisions ". apple became the most valuable consumer - facing brand in the world. in june 2011, jobs surprisingly took the stage and unveiled icloud, an online storage and syncing service for music, photos, files, and software which replaced mobileme, apple ' s previous attempt at content syncing. this would be the last product launch jobs would attend before his death. on august 24