and people. innovative model development measurement techniques mitigation strategies input to the establishment of standards and regulations noise research investigates the impact of noise on humans and animals to include work in definitions, abatement, transportation noise, hearing protection, jet and rocket noise, building system noise and vibration, atmospheric sound propagation, soundscapes, and low - frequency sound. psychoacoustics many studies have been conducted to identify the relationship between acoustics and cognition, or more commonly known as psychoacoustics, in which what one hears is a combination of perception and biological aspects. the information intercepted by the passage of sound waves through the ear is understood and interpreted through the brain, emphasizing the connection between the mind and acoustics. psychological changes have been seen as brain waves slow down or speed up as a result of varying auditory stimulus which can in turn affect the way one thinks, feels, or even behaves. this correlation can be viewed in normal, everyday situations in which listening to an upbeat or uptempo song can cause one ' s foot to start tapping or a slower song can leave one feeling calm and serene. in a deeper biological look at the phenomenon of psychoacoustics, it was discovered that the central nervous system is activated by basic acoustical characteristics of music. by observing how the central nervous system, which includes the brain and spine, is influenced by acoustics, the pathway in which acoustic affects the mind, and essentially the body, is evident. speech acousticians study the production, processing and perception of speech. speech recognition and speech synthesis are two important areas of speech processing using computers. the subject also overlaps with the disciplines of physics, physiology, psychology, and linguistics. structural vibration and dynamics structural acoustics is the study of motions and interactions of mechanical systems with their environments and the methods of their measurement, analysis, and control. there are several sub - disciplines found within this regime : modal analysis material characterization structural health monitoring acoustic metamaterials friction acoustics applications might include : ground vibrations from railways ; vibration isolation to reduce vibration in operating theatres ; studying how vibration can damage health ( vibration white finger ) ; vibration control to protect a building from earthquakes, or measuring how structure - borne sound moves through buildings. ultrasonics ultrasonics deals with sounds at frequencies too high to be heard by humans. specialisms include medical ultrasonics ( including medical ultrasonography ), sonochemistry, ultrasonic testing, material characterisation and underwater acoustics ( sonar ). underwater acoustics underwater acoustics is the scientific