court system, criminal defendants must file a notice of appeal within 10 days of the entry of either the judgment or the order being appealed, or the right to appeal is forfeited. appellate procedure generally speaking the appellate court examines the record of evidence presented in the trial court and the law that the lower court applied and decides whether that decision was legally sound or not. the appellate court will typically be deferential to the lower court ' s findings of fact ( such as whether a defendant committed a particular act ), unless clearly erroneous, and so will focus on the court ' s application of the law to those facts ( such as whether the act found by the court to have occurred fits a legal definition at issue ). if the appellate court finds no defect, it " affirms " the judgment. if the appellate court does find a legal defect in the decision " below " ( i. e., in the lower court ), it may " modify " the ruling to correct the defect, or it may nullify ( " reverse " or " vacate " ) the whole decision or any part of it. it may, in addition, send the case back ( " remand " or " remit " ) to the lower court for further proceedings to remedy the defect. in some cases, an appellate court may review a lower court decision " de novo " ( or completely ), challenging even the lower court ' s findings of fact. this might be the proper standard of review, for example, if the lower court resolved the case by granting a pre - trial motion to dismiss or motion for summary judgment which is usually based only upon written submissions to the trial court and not on any trial testimony. another situation is where appeal is by way of " re - hearing ". certain jurisdictions permit certain appeals to cause the trial to be heard afresh in the appellate court. sometimes, the appellate court finds a defect in the procedure the parties used in filing the appeal and dismisses the appeal without considering its merits, which has the same effect as affirming the judgment below. ( this would happen, for example, if the appellant waited too long, under the appellate court ' s rules, to file the appeal. ) generally, there is no trial in an appellate court, only consideration of the record of the evidence presented to the trial court and all the pre - trial and trial court proceedings are reviewed — unless the appeal is by way of re - hearing, new evidence will usually only be considered on appeal in " very " rare