to the ancient world, but today the horse is an endangered species. azerbaijan ' s flora consists of more than 4, 500 species of higher plants. due to the unique climate in azerbaijan, the flora is much richer in the number of species than the flora of the other republics of the south caucasus. 66 percent of the species growing in the whole caucasus can be found in azerbaijan. the country lies within four ecoregions : caspian hyrcanian mixed forests, caucasus mixed forests, eastern anatolian montane steppe, and azerbaijan shrub desert and steppe. azerbaijan had a 2018 forest landscape integrity index mean score of 6. 55 / 10, ranking it 72nd globally out of 172 countries. government and politics azerbaijan ' s government functions as an authoritarian regime in practice ; although it regularly holds elections, these are marred by electoral fraud and other unfair election practices. azerbaijan has been ruled by the aliyev political family and the new azerbaijan party ( yeni azərbaycan partiyası, yap ) established by heydar aliyev continuously since 1993. it is categorised as " not free " by freedom house, who ranked it 9 / 100 on global freedom score in 2022, calling it a " consolidated authoritarian regime ". the structural formation of azerbaijan ' s political system was completed by the adoption of the new constitution on 12 november 1995. according to article 23 of the constitution, the state symbols of the azerbaijan republic are the flag, the coat of arms, and the national anthem. the state power in azerbaijan is limited only by law for internal issues, but international affairs are also limited by international agreements ' provisions. the constitution of azerbaijan states that it is a presidential republic with three branches of power – executive, legislative, and judicial. the legislative power is held by the unicameral national assembly and the supreme national assembly in the nakhchivan autonomous republic. the parliament of azerbaijan, called milli majlis, consists of 125 deputies elected based on majority vote, with a term of five years for each elected member. the elections are held every five years, on the first sunday of november. the parliament is not responsible for the formation of the government, but the constitution requires the approval of the cabinet of ministers by milli majlis. the new azerbaijan party, and independents loyal to the ruling government, currently hold almost all of the parliament ' s 125 seats. during the 2010 parliamentary election, the opposition parties, musavat and azerbaijani popular front party, failed to win a single seat. european observers found numerous irregularities in the run -