" magnificent moustaches " and a head " exactly the shape of an egg ", who had taken refuge in britain after germany invaded belgium. christie ' s inspiration for the character came from belgian refugees living in torquay, and the belgian soldiers she helped to treat as a volunteer nurse during the first world war. her original manuscript was rejected by hodder & stoughton and methuen. after keeping the submission for several months, john lane at the bodley head offered to accept it, provided that christie change how the solution was revealed. she did so, and signed a contract committing her next five books to the bodley head, which she later felt was exploitative. it was published in 1920. christie settled into married life, giving birth to her only child, rosalind margaret clarissa ( later hicks ), in august 1919 at ashfield. archie left the air force at the end of the war and began working in the city financial sector on a relatively low salary. they still employed a maid. her second novel, the secret adversary ( 1922 ), featured a new detective couple tommy and tuppence, again published by the bodley head. it earned her £50 ( approximately ). a third novel, murder on the links, again featured poirot, as did the short stories commissioned by bruce ingram, editor of the sketch magazine, from 1923. she now had no difficulty selling her work. in 1922, the christies joined an around - the - world promotional tour for the british empire exhibition, led by major ernest belcher. leaving their daughter with agatha ' s mother and sister, in 10 months they travelled to south africa, australia, new zealand, hawaii, and canada. they learned to surf prone in south africa ; then, in waikiki, they were among the first britons to surf standing up, and extended their time there by three months to practise. she is remembered at the british surfing museum as having said about surfing, " oh it was heaven! nothing like rushing through the water at what seems to you a speed of about two hundred miles an hour. it is one of the most perfect physical pleasures i have known. " when they returned to england, archie resumed work in the city, and christie continued to work hard at her writing. after living in a series of apartments in london, they bought a house in sunningdale, berkshire, which they renamed styles after the mansion in christie ' s first detective novel. christie ' s mother, clarissa miller, died in april 1926.