debris, which is also known as marine litter, describes human - created waste floating in a body of water. oceanic debris tends to accumulate at the center of gyres and coastlines, frequently washing aground where it is known as beach litter. the north atlantic garbage patch is estimated to be hundreds of kilometers across in size. other pollution concerns include agricultural and municipal waste. municipal pollution comes from the eastern united states, southern brazil, and eastern argentina ; oil pollution in the caribbean sea, gulf of mexico, lake maracaibo, mediterranean sea, and north sea ; and industrial waste and municipal sewage pollution in the baltic sea, north sea, and mediterranean sea. a usaf c - 124 aircraft from dover air force base, delaware was carrying three nuclear bombs over the atlantic ocean when it experienced a loss of power. for their own safety, the crew jettisoned two nuclear bombs, which were never recovered. climate change north atlantic hurricane activity has increased over past decades because of increased sea surface temperature ( sst ) at tropical latitudes, changes that can be attributed to either the natural atlantic multidecadal oscillation ( amo ) or to anthropogenic climate change. a 2005 report indicated that the atlantic meridional overturning circulation ( amoc ) slowed down by 30 % between 1957 and 2004. if the amo were responsible for sst variability, the amoc would have increased in strength, which is apparently not the case. furthermore, it is clear from statistical analyses of annual tropical cyclones that these changes do not display multidecadal cyclicity. therefore, these changes in sst must be caused by human activities. the ocean mixed layer plays an important role in heat storage over seasonal and decadal time - scales, whereas deeper layers are affected over millennia and have a heat capacity about 50 times that of the mixed layer. this heat uptake provides a time - lag for climate change but it also results in thermal expansion of the oceans which contributes to sea level rise. 21st - century global warming will probably result in an equilibrium sea - level rise five times greater than today, whilst melting of glaciers, including that of the greenland ice - sheet, expected to have virtually no effect during the 21st century, will probably result in a sea - level rise of 3 – 6 m over a millennium. see also list of countries and territories bordering the atlantic ocean seven seas gulf stream shutdown shipwrecks in the atlantic ocean atlantic hurricanes atlantic history piracy in the atlantic world transatlantic crossing south atlantic peace and cooperation zone atlantic revolutions