: where and are the modulation amplitude and carrier amplitude, respectively ; the modulation amplitude is the peak ( positive or negative ) change in the rf amplitude from its unmodulated value. modulation index is normally expressed as a percentage, and may be displayed on a meter connected to an am transmitter. so if, carrier amplitude varies by 50 % above ( and below ) its unmodulated level, as is shown in the first waveform, below. for, it varies by 100 % as shown in the illustration below it. with 100 % modulation the wave amplitude sometimes reaches zero, and this represents full modulation using standard am and is often a target ( in order to obtain the highest possible signal - to - noise ratio ) but mustn ' t be exceeded. increasing the modulating signal beyond that point, known as overmodulation, causes a standard am modulator ( see below ) to fail, as the negative excursions of the wave envelope cannot become less than zero, resulting in distortion ( " clipping " ) of the received modulation. transmitters typically incorporate a limiter circuit to avoid overmodulation, and / or a compressor circuit ( especially for voice communications ) in order to still approach 100 % modulation for maximum intelligibility above the noise. such circuits are sometimes referred to as a vogad. however it is possible to talk about a modulation index exceeding 100 %, without introducing distortion, in the case of double - sideband reduced - carrier transmission. in that case, negative excursions beyond zero entail a reversal of the carrier phase, as shown in the third waveform below. this cannot be produced using the efficient high - level ( output stage ) modulation techniques ( see below ) which are widely used especially in high power broadcast transmitters. rather, a special modulator produces such a waveform at a low level followed by a linear amplifier. what ' s more, a standard am receiver using an envelope detector is incapable of properly demodulating such a signal. rather, synchronous detection is required. thus double - sideband transmission is generally not referred to as " am " even though it generates an identical rf waveform as standard am as long as the modulation index is below 100 %. such systems more often attempt a radical reduction of the carrier level compared to the sidebands ( where the useful information is present ) to the point of double - sideband suppressed - carrier transmission where the carrier is ( ideally ) reduced to zero. in all such cases the term " modulation index " loses its value as