however, and the byzantine army returned to the city without a fight. his courtiers demanded action, and alexios iii promised to fight. instead, that night ( 17 / 18 july ), alexios iii hid in the palace, and finally, with one of his daughters, eirene, and as much treasure ( 1, 000 pounds of gold ) as he could collect, got into a boat and escaped to develtos in thrace, leaving his wife and his other daughters behind. isaac ii, drawn from his prison and robed once more in the imperial purple, received his son, alexios iv, in state. life in exile alexios iii attempted to organize resistance to the new regime from adrianople and then mosynopolis, where he was joined by the later usurper alexios v doukas in april 1204, after the definitive fall of constantinople to the crusaders and the establishment of the latin empire. at first, alexios iii received alexios v well, even allowing him to marry his daughter eudokia angelina. later, alexios v was blinded and deserted by his father - in - law, who fled from the crusaders into thessaly. here alexios iii eventually surrendered, with euphrosyne, to marquis boniface of montferrat, who was establishing himself as ruler of the kingdom of thessalonica. alexios iii attempted to escape boniface ' s " protection " in 1205, seeking shelter with michael i komnenos doukas, the ruler of epirus. captured by boniface, alexios and his retinue were sent to montferrat before being brought back to thessalonica in. at that point the deposed emperor was ransomed by michael i, who sent him to asia minor, where alexios ' son - in - law theodore – now emperor of nicaea – was holding his own against the latins. here alexios conspired against his son - in - law after the latter refused to recognize alexios ' authority, receiving the support of kaykhusraw i, the sultan of rum. in the battle of antioch on the meander in 1211, the sultan was defeated and killed, and alexios was captured by theodore. alexios was then confined to a monastery at nicaea, where he died later in 1211. family by his marriage to euphrosyne doukaina kamatera, alexios had three daughters : eirene angelina, who married ( 1 ) androniko