, a significantly simplified system is used, approximating the system of the conservative spoken varieties. msa uses much classical vocabulary ( e. g., ' to go ' ) that is not present in the spoken varieties, but deletes classical words that sound obsolete in msa. in addition, msa has borrowed or coined many terms for concepts that did not exist in quranic times, and msa continues to evolve. some words have been borrowed from other languages — notice that transliteration mainly indicates spelling and not real pronunciation ( e. g., ' film ' or ' democracy ' ). the current preference is to avoid direct borrowings, preferring to either use loan translations ( e. g., ' branch ', also used for the branch of a company or organization ; ' wing ', is also used for the wing of an airplane, building, air force, etc. ), or to coin new words using forms within existing roots ( ' apoptosis ', using the root m / w / t ' death ' put into the xth form, or ' university ', based on ' to gather, unite ' ; ' republic ', based on ' multitude ' ). an earlier tendency was to redefine an older word although this has fallen into disuse ( e. g., ' telephone ' < ' invisible caller ( in sufism ) ' ; ' newspaper ' < ' palm - leaf stalk ' ). colloquial or dialectal arabic refers to the many national or regional varieties which constitute the everyday spoken language. colloquial arabic has many regional variants ; geographically distant varieties usually differ enough to be mutually unintelligible, and some linguists consider them distinct languages. however, research indicates a high degree of mutual intelligibility between closely related arabic variants for native speakers listening to words, sentences, and texts ; and between more distantly related dialects in interactional situations. the varieties are typically unwritten. they are often used in informal spoken media, such as soap operas and talk shows, as well as occasionally in certain forms of written media such as poetry and printed advertising. hassaniya arabic, maltese, and cypriot arabic are only varieties of modern arabic to have acquired official recognition. hassaniya is official in mali and recognized as a minority language in morocco, while the senegalese government adopted the latin script to write it. maltese is official in ( predominantly catholic ) malta and written with the latin script. linguists agree that it is a variety of spoken arabic, descended from siculo