##ify it against charles xii of sweden. at the end of 1709, alexei went to dresden for one year. there, he finished lessons in french, german, mathematics and fortification. after his education, alexei married princess charlotte of brunswick - wolfenbuttel, whose family was connected by marriage to many of the great families of europe ( for example, charlotte ' s sister elizabeth was married to holy roman emperor charles vi, ruler of the habsburg monarchy ). he met with princess charlotte, both were pleased with each other and the marriage went forward. in theory, alexei could have refused the marriage, and he had been encouraged by his father to at least meet his intended. " why haven ' t you written to tell me what you thought about her? " wrote peter in a letter dated 13 august 1710. the marriage contract was signed in september. the wedding was celebrated at torgau, germany, on 14 october 1711 ( o. s. ). one of the terms of the marriage contract agreed to by alexei was that while any forthcoming children were to be raised in the orthodox faith, charlotte herself was allowed to retain her protestant faith, an agreement opposed by alexei ' s followers. as for the marriage itself, the first 6 months went well but quickly became a failure within the next 6 months. alexei was drunk constantly and pronounced his bride " pock - marked " and " too thin ". he insisted on separate apartments and ignored her in public. three weeks later, the bridegroom was hurried away by his father to torun to superintend the provisioning of the russian troops in poland. for the next twelve months alexei was kept constantly on the move. his wife joined him at torun in december, but in april 1712 a peremptory ukase ordered him off to the army in pomerania, and in the autumn of the same year he was forced to accompany his father on a tour of inspection through finland. he had two children with charlotte : natalia alexeievna romanova ( 21 july 1714 – 3 december 1728 ) peter alexeyevich romanov ( 23 october 1715 – 30 january 1730 ) peter alexeyevich would succeed as the emperor peter ii in 1727. with his death in 1730, the direct male - line of the house of romanov became extinct. after the birth of natalia in 1714, alexei brought his long - time finnish serf mistress afrosinia to live in the palace. some historians speculate that it was his conservative powerbase ' s disapproval of his foreign, non - orthodox bride, more so than her appearance