dnieper and don rivers. when the goths were abroad campaigning against pharaoh vesosis, their women, on their own successfully fended off a raid by a neighboring tribe. emboldened, the women established their own army under marpesia, crossed the don and invaded eastward into asia. marpesia ' s sister lampedo remained in europe to guard the homeland. they procreated with men once a year. these women conquered armenia, syria and all of asia minor, even reaching ionia and aeolis, holding this vast territory for 100 years. in digenes akritas, the twelfth century medieval epic of basil, the greco - syrian knight of the byzantine frontier, the hero battles and then commits adultery with the female warrior maximo ( killing her afterwards in one version of the epic ), descended from some amazons and taken by alexander from the brahmans. john tzetzes lists in posthomerica twenty amazons, who fell at troy. this list is unique in its attestation for all the names but antianeira, andromache and hippothoe. other than these three, the remaining 17 amazons were named as toxophone, toxoanassa, gortyessa, iodoce, pharetre, andro, ioxeia, oistrophe, androdaixa, aspidocharme, enchesimargos, cnemis, thorece, chalcaor, eurylophe, hecate, and anchimache. famous medieval traveller john mandeville mentions them in his book : medieval and renaissance authors credit the amazons with the invention of the battle - axe. this is probably related to the sagaris, an axe - like weapon associated with both amazons and scythian tribes by greek authors ( see also thracian tomb of aleksandrovo kurgan ). paulus hector mair expresses astonishment that such a " manly weapon " should have been invented by a " tribe of women ", but he accepts the attribution out of respect for his authority, johannes aventinus. ariosto ' s orlando furioso contains a country of warrior women, ruled by queen orontea ; the epic describes an origin much like that in greek myth, in that the women, abandoned by a band of warriors and unfaithful lovers, rallied together to form a nation from which men were severely reduced, to prevent them from regaining power. the amazons and queen hippol