than the mixing of natural resources that was emphasized in early dao alchemy. for example, saliva was often considered nourishment for the inner gods and did not require any conscious alchemical reaction to produce. the inner gods were not thought of as physical presences occupying each person, but rather a collection of deities that are each said to represent and protect a specific body part or region. although those who practiced neidan prioritized meditation over external alchemical strategies, many of the same elixirs and constituents from previous daoist alchemical schools of thought continued to be utilized in tandem with meditation. eternal life remained a consideration for neidan alchemists, as it was believed that one would become immortal if an inner god were to be immortalized within them through spiritual fulfillment. black powder may have been an important invention of chinese alchemists. it is said that the chinese invented gunpowder while trying to find a potion for eternal life. described in 9th - century texts and used in fireworks in china by the 10th century, it was used in cannons by 1290. from china, the use of gunpowder spread to japan, the mongols, the muslim world, and europe. gunpowder was used by the mongols against the hungarians in 1241, and in europe by the 14th century. chinese alchemy was closely connected to taoist forms of traditional chinese medicine, such as acupuncture and moxibustion. in the early song dynasty, followers of this taoist idea ( chiefly the elite and upper class ) would ingest mercuric sulfide, which, though tolerable in low levels, led many to suicide. thinking that this consequential death would lead to freedom and access to the taoist heavens, the ensuing deaths encouraged people to eschew this method of alchemy in favor of external sources ( the aforementioned tai chi chuan, mastering of the qi, etc. ) chinese alchemy was introduced to the west by obed simon johnson. medieval europe the introduction of alchemy to latin europe may be dated to 11 february 1144, with the completion of robert of chester ' s translation of the ( " book on the composition of alchemy " ) from an arabic work attributed to khalid ibn yazid. although european craftsmen and technicians pre - existed, robert notes in his preface that alchemy ( here still referring to the elixir rather than to the art itself ) was unknown in latin europe at the time of his writing. the translation of arabic texts