ministry in the field of democratic control of armed forces, military and defense concepts and public relations since 2002. since 2004, armenian officers have been invited to study at the lithuanian war academy and the baltic defence college in tartu, estonia. lithuania covers all study expenditures. in early 2007, two armenian officers for the first time took part in a baltic lead international exercise, amber hope, which was held in lithuania. united states the united states has been steadily upping its military clout in the region. in early 2003, the united states department of defense announced several major military programs in the caucasus. washington ' s military aid to armenia in 2005 amounted to $ 5 million, and in april 2004, the two sides signed a military - technical cooperation accord. in late 2004, armenia deployed a unit of 46 soldiers, which included bomb - disposal experts, doctors, and transport specialists, to iraq as part of the american - led multi - national force iraq. in 2005, the united states allocated $ 7 million to modernize the military communications of the armenian armed forces. since 2003, armenia and the kansas national guard have exchanged military delegations as part of a national guard bureau program to promote better relations between the united states and developing nations. the program has largely consisted of mutual visits to each other ' s countries in an effort to share " ideas and [ the ] best practices for military and emergency management. " eagle partner 2023 was a military exercise which took place in armenia from 11 september to 20 september 2023. the main goal of the exercise was the fortifying of the alliance between the united states with armenia and also the training of the 12th peacekeeping brigade of the armed forces of armenia for future peacekeeping missions. peacekeeping operations as of 2022, armenia is involved in peacekeeping operations in kosovo, afghanistan, lebanon, mali and kazakhstan kosovo there are 70 armenian soldiers serving in kosovo as peacekeepers. armenia joined the kosovo force in kosovo in 2004. armenian " blue helmets " serve within the greek army battalion. the relevant memorandum was signed on 3 september 2003, in yerevan and ratified by the armenian parliament on 13 december 2003. the sixth deployment of armenian peacekeepers departed for kosovo on 14 november 2006. in 2008, the armenian national assembly voted unanimously to double the peacekeeping force in kosovo by sending an extra 34 peacekeepers to the region, increasing the total number of peacekeepers in the region to 68. armenia temporarily withdrew its peacekeepers from kosovo in february 2012 as a result of the reduction of the greek subdivisions. armenia redeployed them in july to serve alongside american soldiers