believe he was the best qualified for the position, and although he resisted offers of the position, he nevertheless sat as the de facto leader of the official opposition. mackenzie served as a major in the 27th lambton battalion of infantry from 1866 to 1874, serving on active duty during the fenian raids in 1870. prime minister ( 1873 – 1878 ) when the macdonald government fell due to the pacific scandal in 1873, the governor general, lord dufferin, called upon mackenzie, who had been chosen as leader of the liberal party a few months earlier, to form a new government. mackenzie formed a government and asked the governor general to call an election for january 1874. the liberals won a majority of the seats in the house of commons having garnered 40 % of the popular vote. mackenzie remained prime minister until the 1878 election when macdonald ' s conservatives returned to power with a majority government. for a man of mackenzie ' s humble origins to attain such a position was unusual in an age which generally offered such opportunity only to the privileged. lord dufferin expressed early misgivings about a stonemason taking over government, but on meeting mackenzie, dufferin revised his opinions : mackenzie served concurrently as minister of public works and oversaw the completion of the parliament buildings. while drawing up the plans for the west block, he included a circular staircase leading directly from his office to the outside of the building, which allowed him to escape the patronage - seekers waiting for him in his ante - chamber. proving dufferin ' s reflections on his character to be true, mackenzie disliked intensely the patronage inherent in politics. nevertheless, he found it a necessary evil to maintain party unity and ensure the loyalty of his fellow liberals. in keeping with his democratic ideals, mackenzie refused the offer of a knighthood three times, and was thus the only one of canada ' s first eight prime ministers not to be knighted. he also declined appointment to the uk privy council and hence does not bear the title " right honourable ". his pride in his working class origins never left him. once, while touring fort henry as prime minister, he asked the soldier accompanying him if he knew the thickness of the wall beside them. the embarrassed escort confessed that he didn ' t and mackenzie replied, " i do. it is five feet, ten inches. i know, because i built it myself! " as prime minister, alexander mackenzie strove to reform and simplify the machinery of government, achieving a remarkable record of reform legislation. he introduced the secret ballot ; advised the creation of the supreme court of canada ; the