john glenn, one of the mercury 7, who was 77 when he flew on sts - 95. duration and distance milestones 438 days is the longest time spent in space, by russian valeri polyakov. as of 2006, the most spaceflights by an individual astronaut is seven, a record held by both jerry l. ross and franklin chang - diaz. the farthest distance from earth an astronaut has traveled was, when jim lovell, jack swigert, and fred haise went around the moon during the apollo 13 emergency. civilian and non - government milestones the first civilian in space was valentina tereshkova aboard vostok 6 ( she also became the first woman in space on that mission ). tereshkova was only honorarily inducted into the ussr ' s air force, which did not accept female pilots at that time. a month later, joseph albert walker became the first american civilian in space when his x - 15 flight 90 crossed the line, qualifying him by the international definition of spaceflight. walker had joined the us army air force but was not a member during his flight. the first people in space who had never been a member of any country ' s armed forces were both konstantin feoktistov and boris yegorov aboard voskhod 1. the first non - governmental space traveler was byron k. lichtenberg, a researcher from the massachusetts institute of technology who flew on sts - 9 in 1983. in december 1990, toyohiro akiyama became the first paying space traveler and the first journalist in space for tokyo broadcasting system, a visit to mir as part of an estimated $ 12 million ( usd ) deal with a japanese tv station, although at the time, the term used to refer to akiyama was " research cosmonaut ". akiyama suffered severe space sickness during his mission, which affected his productivity. the first self - funded space tourist was dennis tito on board the russian spacecraft soyuz tm - 3 on 28 april 2001. self - funded travelers the first person to fly on an entirely privately funded mission was mike melvill, piloting spaceshipone flight 15p on a suborbital journey, although he was a test pilot employed by scaled composites and not an actual paying space tourist. seven others have paid the russian space agency to fly into space : dennis tito ( american ) : 28 april – 6 may 2001 ( iss ) mark shuttleworth ( south african ) : 25 april – 5 may 2002 ( iss ) gregory olsen ( american )