50 ad for a celery - like plant. the alternative name for the family, umbelliferae, derives from the inflorescence being generally in the form of a compound umbel. the family was one of the first to be recognized as a distinct group in jacques daleschamps ' 1586 historia generalis plantarum. with robert morison ' s 1672 plantarum umbelliferarum distribution nova it became the first group of plants for which a systematic study was published. the family is solidly placed within the apiales order in the apg iii system. it is closely related to araliaceae and the boundaries between these families remain unclear. traditionally groups within the family have been delimited largely based on fruit morphology, and the results from this have not been congruent with the more recent molecular phylogenetic analyses. the subfamilial and tribal classification for the family is currently in a state of flux, with many of the groups being found to be grossly paraphyletic or polyphyletic. classification and phylogeny prior to molecular phylogenetic studies, the family was subdivided primarily based on fruit characteristics. molecular phylogenetic analyses from the mid - 1990s onwards have shown that fruit characters evolved in parallel many times, so that using them in classification resulted in units that were not monophyletic. in 2004, it was proposed that apiaceae should be divided into four subfamilies : apioideae seem. azorelloideae g. m. plunkett & lowry mackinlayoideae g. m. plunkett & lowry saniculoideae burnett apioideae is by far the largest subfamily with about 90 % of the genera. most subsequent studies have supported this division, although leaving some genera unplaced. a 2021 study suggested the relationships shown in the following cladogram. the platysace clade and the genera klotzschia and hermas fell outside the four subfamilies. it was suggested that they could be accommodated in subfamilies of their own. phlyctidocarpa was formerly placed in the subfamily apioideae, but if kept there makes apioideae paraphyletic. it could be placed in an enlarged saniculoideae, or restored to apioideae if the latter were expanded to include saniculoideae. the subfamilies can be further divided into tribes and clades, with many clades falling outside formally recognized tribes. genera the