but that lydians say it was named after asies, son of cotys, who passed the name on to a tribe at sardis. in greek mythology, " asia " ( ασια ) or " asie " ( ασιη ) was the name of a " nymph or titan goddess of lydia ". the iliad ( attributed by the ancient greeks to homer ) mentions two phrygians in the trojan war named asios ( an adjective meaning " asian " ) ; and also a marsh or lowland containing a marsh in lydia as. according to many muslims, the term came from ancient egypt ' s queen asiya, the adoptive mother of moses. the term was later adopted by the romans, who used it in reference to the province of asia, located in western anatolia. one of the first writers to use asia as a name of the whole continent was pliny. in languages of the chinese character cultural sphere words related to the character yaxiya are used. this has been criticized as implying an inferiority of the continent as means inferior. however it is a mere phonetic representation. history the history of asia can be seen as the distinct histories of several peripheral coastal regions : east asia, south asia, southeast asia and the middle east ( west asia ), linked by the interior mass of the central asian steppes. the coastal periphery was home to some of the world ' s earliest known civilizations, each of them developing around fertile river valleys. the civilizations in mesopotamia, the indus valley and the yellow river shared many similarities. these civilizations may well have exchanged technologies and ideas such as mathematics and the wheel. other innovations, such as writing, seem to have been developed individually in each area. cities, states and empires developed in these lowlands. the central steppe region had long been inhabited by horse - mounted nomads who could reach all areas of asia from the steppes. the earliest postulated expansion out of the steppe is that of the indo - europeans, who spread their languages into the middle east, south asia, and the borders of china, where the tocharians resided. the northernmost part of asia, including much of siberia, was largely inaccessible to the steppe nomads, owing to the dense forests, climate and tundra. these areas remained very sparsely populated. the center and the peripheries were mostly kept separated by mountains and deserts. the caucasus and himalaya mountains and the karakum and gobi deserts formed barriers that the steppe horsemen could cross only with difficulty