politicians that study rhetoric must have " doubtful citizenships, unspeakable morals, and too much arrogance ". aristophanes and old comedy the plays of aristophanes are among the defining examples of old comedy. aristophanes ' plays are also the only full length old comedy plays that have survived from antiquity. thus making them literally among the most defining elements, for defining old comedy... for this reason, an understanding of old comedy and aristophanes ' place in it is useful to comprehend his plays in their historical and cultural context. the themes of old comedy included : inclusive comedy : old comedy provided a variety of entertainments for a diverse audience. it accommodated a serious purpose, light entertainment, hauntingly beautiful lyrics, the buffoonery of puns and invented words, obscenities, disciplined verse, wildly absurd plots and a formal, dramatic structure. fantasy and absurdity : fantasy in old comedy is unrestricted and impossibilities are ignored. situations are developed logically to absurd conclusions, an approach to humour that is echoed for instance in the works of lewis carroll and eugene ionesco ( the theatre of the absurd ). the crazy costume worn by dionysus in the frogs is typical of an absurd result obtained on logical grounds — he wears a woman ' s saffron - coloured tunic because effeminacy is an aspect of his divinity, buskin boots because he is interested in reviving the art of tragedy, and a lion skin cape because, like heracles, his mission leads him into hades. absurdities develop logically from initial premises in a plot. in the knights for instance, cleon ' s corrupt service to the people of athens is originally depicted as a household relationship in which the slave dupes his master. the introduction of a rival, who is not a member of the household, leads to an absurd shift in the metaphor, so that cleon and his rival become erastai competing for the affections of an eromenos, hawkers of oracles competing for the attention of a credulous public, athletes in a race for approval and orators competing for the popular vote. the resourceful hero : in aristophanic comedy, the hero is an independent - minded and self - reliant individual. he has something of the ingenuity of homer ' s odysseus and much of the shrewdness of the farmer idealized in hesiod ' s works and days, subjected to corrupt leaders and unreliable