##ptane, c7h16 ; octane, c8h18 ; etc. the numeral prefix is generally greek ; however, alkanes with a carbon atom count ending in nine, for example nonane, use the latin prefix non -. branched alkanes simple branched alkanes often have a common name using a prefix to distinguish them from linear alkanes, for example n - pentane, isopentane, and neopentane. iupac naming conventions can be used to produce a systematic name. the key steps in the naming of more complicated branched alkanes are as follows : identify the longest continuous chain of carbon atoms name this longest root chain using standard naming rules name each side chain by changing the suffix of the name of the alkane from " - ane " to " - yl " number the longest continuous chain in order to give the lowest possible numbers for the side - chains number and name the side chains before the name of the root chain if there are multiple side chains of the same type, use prefixes such as " di - " and " tri - " to indicate it as such, and number each one. add side chain names in alphabetical ( disregarding " di - " etc. prefixes ) order in front of the name of the root chain saturated cyclic hydrocarbons though technically distinct from the alkanes, this class of hydrocarbons is referred to by some as the " cyclic alkanes. " as their description implies, they contain one or more rings. simple cycloalkanes have a prefix " cyclo - " to distinguish them from alkanes. cycloalkanes are named as per their acyclic counterparts with respect to the number of carbon atoms in their backbones, e. g., cyclopentane ( c5h10 ) is a cycloalkane with 5 carbon atoms just like pentane ( c5h12 ), but they are joined up in a five - membered ring. in a similar manner, propane and cyclopropane, butane and cyclobutane, etc. substituted cycloalkanes are named similarly to substituted alkanes – the cycloalkane ring is stated, and the substituents are according to their position on the ring, with the numbering decided by the cahn – ingold – prelog priority rules. trivial / common names the trivial ( non - systematic ) name