) from anchorage and fairbanks to regional hubs like bethel, nome, kotzebue, dillingham, kodiak, and other larger communities as well as to major southeast and alaska peninsula communities. the bulk of remaining commercial flight offerings come from small regional commuter airlines such as ravn alaska, penair, and frontier flying service. the smallest towns and villages must rely on scheduled or chartered bush flying services using general aviation aircraft such as the cessna caravan, the most popular aircraft in use in the state. much of this service can be attributed to the alaska bypass mail program which subsidizes bulk mail delivery to alaskan rural communities. the program requires 70 % of that subsidy to go to carriers who offer passenger service to the communities. many communities have small air taxi services. these operations originated from the demand for customized transport to remote areas. perhaps the most quintessentially alaskan plane is the bush seaplane. the world ' s busiest seaplane base is lake hood, located next to ted stevens anchorage international airport, where flights bound for remote villages without an airstrip carry passengers, cargo, and many items from stores and warehouse clubs. in 2006, alaska had the highest number of pilots per capita of any u. s. state. in alaska there are 8, 795 active pilot certificates as of 2020. of these, there are 2, 507 private, 1, 496 commercial, 2, 180 airline transport, and 2, 239 student pilots. there are also 3, 987 pilots with an instrument rating and 1, 511 flight instructors. other transport another alaskan transportation method is the dogsled. in modern times ( that is, any time after the mid - late 1920s ), dog mushing is more of a sport than a true means of transportation. various races are held around the state, but the best known is the iditarod trail sled dog race, a trail from anchorage to nome ( although the distance varies from year to year, the official distance is set at ). the race commemorates the famous 1925 serum run to nome in which mushers and dogs like togo and balto took much - needed medicine to the diphtheria - stricken community of nome when all other means of transportation had failed. mushers from all over the world come to anchorage each march to compete for cash, prizes, and prestige. the " serum run " is another sled dog race that more accurately follows the route of the famous 1925 relay, leaving from the community of ne