##lor expressed no belief that there was any difference between the intellectual capabilities of " savage " people and westerners. the idea that there had once been " one universal form of primitive religion " ( whether labelled animism, totemism, or shamanism ) has been dismissed as " unsophisticated " and " erroneous " by archaeologist timothy insoll, who stated that " it removes complexity, a precondition of religion now, in all its variants. " social evolutionist conceptions tylor ' s definition of animism was part of a growing international debate on the nature of " primitive society " by lawyers, theologians, and philologists. the debate defined the field of research of a new science : anthropology. by the end of the 19th century, an orthodoxy on " primitive society " had emerged, but few anthropologists still would accept that definition. the " 19th - century armchair anthropologists " argued that " primitive society " ( an evolutionary category ) was ordered by kinship and divided into exogamous descent groups related by a series of marriage exchanges. their religion was animism, the belief that natural species and objects had souls. with the development of private property, the descent groups were displaced by the emergence of the territorial state. these rituals and beliefs eventually evolved over time into the vast array of " developed " religions. according to tylor, as society became more scientifically advanced, fewer members of that society would believe in animism. however, any remnant ideologies of souls or spirits, to tylor, represented " survivals " of the original animism of early humanity. confounding animism with totemism in 1869 ( three years after tylor proposed his definition of animism ), edinburgh lawyer john ferguson mclennan, argued that the animistic thinking evident in fetishism gave rise to a religion he named totemism. primitive people believed, he argued, that they were descended from the same species as their totemic animal. subsequent debate by the " armchair anthropologists " ( including j. j. bachofen, emile durkheim, and sigmund freud ) remained focused on totemism rather than animism, with few directly challenging tylor ' s definition. anthropologists " have commonly avoided the issue of animism and even the term itself, rather than revisit this prevalent notion in light of their new and rich ethnographies. " according to anthropologist tim ingold, animism shares