completed. in 1924, schweitzer returned to africa without his wife, but with an oxford undergraduate, noel gillespie, as his assistant. everything was heavily decayed, and building and doctoring progressed together for months. he now had salvarsan for treating syphilitic ulcers and framboesia. additional medical staff, nurse ( miss ) kottmann and dr. victor nessmann, joined him in 1924, and dr. mark lauterberg in 1925 ; the growing hospital was manned by native orderlies. later dr. trensz replaced nessmann, and martha lauterberg and hans muggenstorm joined them. joseph also returned. in 1925 – 6, new hospital buildings were constructed, and also a ward for white patients, so that the site became like a village. the onset of famine and a dysentery epidemic created fresh problems. much of the building work was carried out with the help of local people and patients. drug advances for sleeping sickness included germanin and. trensz conducted experiments showing that the non - amoebic strain of dysentery was caused by a paracholera vibrion ( facultative anaerobic bacteria ). with the new hospital built and the medical team established, schweitzer returned to europe in 1927, this time leaving a functioning hospital at work. he was there again from 1929 to 1932. gradually his opinions and concepts became acknowledged, not only in europe, but worldwide. there was a further period of work in 1935. in january 1937, he returned again to lambarene and continued working there throughout world war ii. hospital conditions the journalist james cameron visited lambarene in 1953 ( when schweitzer was 78 ) and found significant flaws in the practices and attitudes of schweitzer and his staff. the hospital suffered from squalor and was without modern amenities, and schweitzer had little contact with the local people. cameron did not make public what he had seen at the time : according to a bbc dramatisation, he made the unusual journalistic decision to withhold the story, and resisted the expressed wish of his employers to publish an expose. the poor conditions of the hospital in lambarene were also famously criticized by nigerian professor and novelist chinua achebe in his essay on joseph conrad ' s novel heart of darkness : " in a comment which has often been quoted schweitzer says : ' the african is indeed my brother but my junior brother. ' and so he proceeded