, was needed. this was a radical idea at the time, because experts believed the impulsive spark was necessary to produce radio frequency waves, and fessenden was ridiculed. he invented and helped develop one of the first continuous wave transmitters – the alexanderson alternator, with which he made what is considered the first am public entertainment broadcast on christmas eve, 1906. he also discovered the principle on which am is based, heterodyning, and invented one of the first detectors able to rectify and receive am, the electrolytic detector or " liquid baretter ", in 1902. other radio detectors invented for wireless telegraphy, such as the fleming valve ( 1904 ) and the crystal detector ( 1906 ) also proved able to rectify am signals, so the technological hurdle was generating am waves ; receiving them was not a problem. early technologies early experiments in am radio transmission, conducted by fessenden, valdemar poulsen, ernst ruhmer, quirino majorana, charles herrold, and lee de forest, were hampered by the lack of a technology for amplification. the first practical continuous wave am transmitters were based on either the huge, expensive alexanderson alternator, developed 1906 – 1910, or versions of the poulsen arc transmitter ( arc converter ), invented in 1903. the modifications necessary to transmit am were clumsy and resulted in very low quality audio. modulation was usually accomplished by a carbon microphone inserted directly in the antenna or ground wire ; its varying resistance varied the current to the antenna. the limited power handling ability of the microphone severely limited the power of the first radiotelephones ; many of the microphones were water - cooled. vacuum tubes the 1912 discovery of the amplifying ability of the audion tube, invented in 1906 by lee de forest, solved these problems. the vacuum tube feedback oscillator, invented in 1912 by edwin armstrong and alexander meissner, was a cheap source of continuous waves and could be easily modulated to make an am transmitter. modulation did not have to be done at the output but could be applied to the signal before the final amplifier tube, so the microphone or other audio source didn ' t have to modulate a high - power radio signal. wartime research greatly advanced the art of am modulation, and after the war the availability of cheap tubes sparked a great increase in the number of radio stations experimenting with am transmission of news or music. the vacuum tube was responsible for the rise of am broadcasting around 1920, the first electronic mass communication