##es are clearly cognate across the branches, although their use within the verbal systems of the individual languages varies. there is a general pattern in which n - is used for the first person plural, whereas t - is used for all forms of the second person regardless of plurality or gender, as well as feminine singular. prefixes of ʔ - ( glottal stop ) for the first person singular and y - for the third person masculine can also be reconstructed. as there is no evidence for the " prefix conjugation " in omotic, chadic, or egyptian, it is unclear whether this was a proto - afroasiatic feature that has been lost in those branches or is a shared innovation among semitic, berber, and cushitic. " suffix conjugation " some aa branches have what is called a " suffix conjugation ", formed by adding pronominal suffixes to indicate person, gender, and number to a verbal adjective. in akkadian, egyptian, berber, and cushitic this forms a " stative conjugation ", used to express the state or result of an action ; the same endings as in akkadian and egyptian are also present in the west semitic perfective verb form. in akkadian and egyptian, the suffixes appear to be reduced forms of the independent pronouns ( see pronouns ) ; the obvious correspondence between the endings in the two branches has been argued to show that egyptian and semitic are closely related. while some scholars posit an aa origin for this form, it is possible that the berber and cushitic forms are independent developments, as they show significant differences from the egyptian and semitic forms. the cushitic forms in particular may be derived from morphology found in subordinate clauses. common derivational affixes m - prefix noun derivation a prefix in m - is the most widely attested affix in aa that is used to derive nouns, and is one the features joseph greenberg used to diagnose membership in the family. it forms agent nouns, place nouns, and instrument nouns. in some branches, it can also derive abstract nouns and participles. omotic, meanwhile, shows evidence for a non - productive prefix mv - associated with the feminine gender. christopher ehret has argued that this prefix is a later development that was not present in proto - afro - asiatic, but rather derived from a paa indefinite pronoun * m -. such an etymology is rejected by a. zaborski and gabor takacs, the latter of whom