technical details. bell denied in an affidavit that he ever gave wilber any money. later developments on march 10, 1876, bell used " the instrument " in boston to call thomas watson who was in another room but out of earshot. he said, " mr. watson, come here – i want to see you " and watson soon appeared at his side. continuing his experiments in brantford, bell brought home a working model of his telephone. on august 3, 1876, from the telegraph office in brantford, ontario, bell sent a tentative telegram to the village of mount pleasant distant, indicating that he was ready. he made a telephone call via telegraph wires and faint voices were heard replying. the following night, he amazed guests as well as his family with a call between the bell homestead and the office of the dominion telegraph company in brantford along an improvised wire strung up along telegraph lines and fences, and laid through a tunnel. this time, guests at the household distinctly heard people in brantford reading and singing. the third test on august 10, 1876, was made via the telegraph line between brantford and paris, ontario, distant. this test was said by many sources to be the " world ' s first long - distance call ". the final test certainly proved that the telephone could work over long distances, at least as a one - way call. the first two - way ( reciprocal ) conversation over a line occurred between cambridge and boston ( roughly 2. 5 miles ) on october 9, 1876. during that conversation, bell was on kilby street in boston and watson was at the offices of the walworth manufacturing company. bell and his partners, hubbard and sanders, offered to sell the patent outright to western union for $ 100, 000, equal to $ today. the president of western union balked, countering that the telephone was nothing but a toy. two years later, he told colleagues that if he could get the patent for $ 25 million ( equal to $ today ), he would consider it a bargain. by then, the bell company no longer wanted to sell the patent. bell ' s investors would become millionaires while he fared well from residuals and at one point had assets of nearly one million dollars. bell began a series of public demonstrations and lectures to introduce the new invention to the scientific community as well as the general public. a short time later, his demonstration of an early telephone prototype at the 1876 centennial exposition in philadelphia brought the telephone to international attention. influential visitors to the exhibition included