is in the ural region of russia. the museum chronicles the biography of general kalashnikov and documents the invention of the ak - 47. the museum complex of kalashnikov ' s small arms, a series of halls, and multimedia exhibitions are devoted to the evolution of the ak - 47 rifle and attracts 10, 000 monthly visitors. nadezhda vechtomova, the museum director, stated in an interview that the purpose of the museum is to honor the ingenuity of the inventor and the hard work of the employees and to " separate the weapon as a weapon of murder from the people who are producing it and to tell its history in our country ". on 19 september 2017 a monument of kalashnikov was unveiled in central moscow. a protester, later detained by police, attempted to unfurl a banner reading " a creator of weapons is a creator of death ". the proliferation of this weapon is reflected by more than just numbers. the ak - 47 is included on the flag of mozambique and its emblem, an acknowledgment that the country gained its independence in large part through the effective use of their ak - 47s. it is also found in the coats of arms of east timor, zimbabwe and the revolution era burkina faso, as well as in the flags of hezbollah, syrian resistance, farc - ep, the new people ' s army, tkp / tikko and the international revolutionary people ' s guerrilla forces. u. s. and western europe countries frequently associate the ak - 47 with their enemies ; both cold war era and present - day. for example, western works of fiction ( movies, television, novels, video games ) often portray criminals, gang members, insurgents, and terrorists using ak - 47s as the weapon of choice. conversely, throughout the developing world, the ak - 47 can be positively attributed with revolutionaries against foreign occupation, imperialism, or colonialism. in ireland the ak - 47 is associated with the troubles due to its extensive use by republican paramilitaries during this period. in 2013, a decommissioned ak - 47 was included in the a history of ireland in 100 objects collection. the ak - 47 made an appearance in u. s. popular culture as a recurring focus in the nicolas cage film lord of war ( 2005 ). numerous monologues in the movie focus on the weapon, and its effects on global conflict and the gun running market. in iraq and afghanistan, private military company contractors from the u. k. and other countries used the ak