( ; born, ; 16 april 1844 – 12 october 1924 ) was a french poet, journalist, and novelist with several best - sellers. ironic and skeptical, he was considered in his day the ideal french man of letters. he was a member of the academie francaise, and won the 1921 nobel prize in literature " in recognition of his brilliant literary achievements, characterized as they are by a nobility of style, a profound human sympathy, grace, and a true gallic temperament ". france is also widely believed to be the model for narrator marcel ' s literary idol bergotte in marcel proust ' s in search of lost time. early years the son of a bookseller, france, a bibliophile, spent most of his life around books. his father ' s bookstore specialized in books and papers on the french revolution and was frequented by many writers and scholars. france studied at the college stanislas, a private catholic school, and after graduation he helped his father by working in his bookstore. after several years, he secured the position of cataloguer at bacheline - deflorenne and at lemerre. in 1876, he was appointed librarian for the french senate. literary career france began his literary career as a poet and a journalist. in 1869, le parnasse contemporain published one of his poems, " ". in 1875, he sat on the committee in charge of the third parnasse contemporain compilation. as a journalist, from 1867, he wrote many articles and notices. he became known with the novel ( 1881 ). its protagonist, skeptical old scholar sylvester bonnard, embodied france ' s own personality. the novel was praised for its elegant prose and won him a prize from the academie francaise. in ( 1893 ) france ridiculed belief in the occult, and in ( 1893 ), france captured the atmosphere of the. he was elected to the academie francaise in 1896. france took a part in the dreyfus affair. he signed emile zola ' s manifesto supporting alfred dreyfus, a jewish army officer who had been falsely convicted of espionage. france wrote about the affair in his 1901 novel monsieur bergeret. france ' s later works include penguin island (, 1908 ) which satirizes human nature by depicting the transformation of penguins into humans – after the birds have been baptized by mistake by the almost - blind abbot mael. it is a satirical history of france, starting in medieval times, going on to the author ' s own time with special attention to the drey