- > ^ { 12 } _ { 6 } c + ^ { 1 } _ { 0 } n + \ gamma the 227acbe neutron sources can be applied in a neutron probe – a standard device for measuring the quantity of water present in soil, as well as moisture / density for quality control in highway construction. such probes are also used in well logging applications, in neutron radiography, tomography and other radiochemical investigations. 225ac is applied in medicine to produce in a reusable generator or can be used alone as an agent for radiation therapy, in particular targeted alpha therapy ( tat ). this isotope has a half - life of 10 days, making it much more suitable for radiation therapy than 213bi ( half - life 46 minutes ). additionally, 225ac decays to nontoxic 209bi rather than stable but toxic lead, which is the final product in the decay chains of several other candidate isotopes, namely 227th, 228th, and 230u. not only 225ac itself, but also its daughters, emit alpha particles which kill cancer cells in the body. the major difficulty with application of 225ac was that intravenous injection of simple actinium complexes resulted in their accumulation in the bones and liver for a period of tens of years. as a result, after the cancer cells were quickly killed by alpha particles from 225ac, the radiation from the actinium and its daughters might induce new mutations. to solve this problem, 225ac was bound to a chelating agent, such as citrate, ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid ( edta ) or diethylene triamine pentaacetic acid ( dtpa ). this reduced actinium accumulation in the bones, but the excretion from the body remained slow. much better results were obtained with such chelating agents as heha ( ) or dota ( ) coupled to trastuzumab, a monoclonal antibody that interferes with the her2 / neu receptor. the latter delivery combination was tested on mice and proved to be effective against leukemia, lymphoma, breast, ovarian, neuroblastoma and prostate cancers. the medium half - life of 227ac ( 21. 77 years ) makes it very convenient radioactive isotope in modeling the slow vertical mixing of oceanic waters. the associated processes cannot be studied with the required accuracy by direct measurements of current velocities ( of the order 50 meters per year ). however, evaluation of the concentration depth - profiles