smashed any remaining hope that alfred could drive the invaders from his kingdom. alfred was forced instead to make peace with them. although the terms of the peace are not recorded, bishop asser wrote that the pagans agreed to vacate the realm and made good their promise. the viking army withdrew from reading in the autumn of 871 to take up winter quarters in mercian london. although not mentioned by asser or by the anglo - saxon chronicle, alfred probably paid the vikings silver to leave, much as the mercians were to do in the following year. hoards dating to the viking occupation of london in 871 / 872 have been excavated at croydon, gravesend and waterloo bridge. these finds hint at the cost involved in making peace with the vikings. for the next five years, the danes occupied other parts of england. in 876, under guthrum, oscetel and anwend, the danes slipped past the saxon army and attacked and occupied wareham in dorset. alfred blockaded them but was unable to take wareham by assault. he negotiated a peace that involved an exchange of hostages and oaths, which the danes swore on a " holy ring " associated with the worship of thor. the danes broke their word, and after killing all the hostages, slipped away under cover of night to exeter in devon. alfred blockaded the viking ships in devon, and with a relief fleet having been scattered by a storm, the danes were forced to submit. the danes withdrew to mercia. in january 878, the danes made a sudden attack on chippenham, a royal stronghold in which alfred had been staying over christmas " and most of the people they killed, except the king alfred, and he with a little band made his way by wood and swamp, and after easter he made a fort at athelney in the marshes of somerset, and from that fort kept fighting against the foe ". from his fort at athelney, an island in the marshes near north petherton, alfred was able to mount a resistance campaign, rallying the local militias from somerset, wiltshire and hampshire. 878 was the nadir of the history of the anglo - saxon kingdoms. with all the other kingdoms having fallen to the vikings, wessex alone was resisting. the cake legend a legend tells how when alfred first fled to the somerset levels, he was given shelter by a peasant woman who, unaware of his identity, left him to watch some wheaten cakes she had left cooking on the fire. preoccupied with the problems of his