tubeworms, barnacles, mollusks, and other organisms ). by inhibiting microbial growth, copper alloy aquaculture cages avoid costly net changes that are necessary with other materials. the resistance of organism growth on copper alloy nets also provides a cleaner and healthier environment for farmed fish to grow and thrive. issues if performed without consideration for potential local environmental impacts, aquaculture in inland waters can result in more environmental damage than wild fisheries, though with less waste produced per kg on a global scale. local concerns with aquaculture in inland waters may include waste handling, side - effects of antibiotics, competition between farmed and wild animals, and the potential introduction of invasive plant and animal species, or foreign pathogens, particularly if unprocessed fish are used to feed more marketable carnivorous fish. if non - local live feeds are used, aquaculture may introduce exotic plants or animals with disastrous effects. improvements in methods resulting from advances in research and the availability of commercial feeds has reduced some of these concerns since their greater prevalence in the 1990s and 2000s. fish waste is organic and composed of nutrients necessary in all components of aquatic food webs. in - ocean aquaculture often produces much higher than normal fish waste concentrations. the waste collects on the ocean bottom, damaging or eliminating bottom - dwelling life. waste can also decrease dissolved oxygen levels in the water column, putting further pressure on wild animals. an alternative model to food being added to the ecosystem, is the installation of artificial reef structures to increase the habitat niches available, without the need to add any more than ambient feed and nutrient. this has been used in the " ranching " of abalone in western australia. impacts on wild fish some carnivorous and omnivorous farmed fish species are fed wild forage fish. although carnivorous farmed fish represented only 13 percent of aquaculture production by weight in 2000, they represented 34 percent of aquaculture production by value. farming of carnivorous species like salmon and shrimp leads to a high demand for forage fish to match the nutrition they get in the wild. fish do not actually produce omega - 3 fatty acids, but instead accumulate them from either consuming microalgae that produce these fatty acids, as is the case with forage fish like herring and sardines, or, as is the case with fatty predatory fish, like salmon, by eating prey fish that have accumulated omega - 3 fatty acids from microalgae. to satisfy this requirement, more than 50 percent of the world fish oil production is fed to farm