of the communist party and took ginsberg and his brother eugene to party meetings. ginsberg later said that his mother " made up bedtime stories that all went something like : ' the good king rode forth from his castle, saw the suffering workers and healed them. ' " of his father ginsberg said : " my father would go around the house either reciting emily dickinson and longfellow under his breath or attacking t. s. eliot for ruining poetry with his ' obscurantism. ' i grew suspicious of both sides. " naomi ginsberg had schizophrenia which often manifested as paranoid delusions, disordered thinking and multiple suicide attempts. she would claim, for example, that the president had implanted listening devices in their home and that her mother - in - law was trying to kill her. her suspicion of those around her caused naomi to draw closer to young allen, " her little pet, " as bill morgan says in his biography of ginsberg, titled i celebrate myself : the somewhat private life of allen ginsberg. she also tried to kill herself by slitting her wrists and was soon taken to greystone, a mental hospital ; she would spend much of ginsberg ' s youth in mental hospitals. his experiences with his mother and her mental illness were a major inspiration for his two major works, " howl " and his long autobiographical poem " kaddish for naomi ginsberg ( 1894 – 1956 ) ". when he was in junior high school, he accompanied his mother by bus to her therapist. the trip deeply disturbed ginsberg — he mentioned it and other moments from his childhood in " kaddish ". his experiences with his mother ' s mental illness and her institutionalization are also frequently referred to in " howl. " for example, " pilgrim state, rockland, and grey stone ' s foetid halls " is a reference to institutions frequented by his mother and carl solomon, ostensibly the subject of the poem : pilgrim state hospital and rockland state hospital in new york and greystone park psychiatric hospital in new jersey. this is followed soon by the line " with mother finally * * * * * *. " ginsberg later admitted the deletion was the expletive " fucked. " he also says of solomon in section three, " i ' m with you in rockland where you imitate the shade of my mother, " once again showing the association between solomon and his mother. ginsberg received a letter from his mother after her death responding to a copy of " howl " he had sent her.