other than burroughs corporation. algol 60 did however become the standard for the publication of algorithms and had a profound effect on future language development. john backus developed the backus normal form method of describing programming languages specifically for algol 58. it was revised and expanded by peter naur for algol 60, and at donald knuth ' s suggestion renamed backus – naur form. peter naur : " as editor of the algol bulletin i was drawn into the international discussions of the language and was selected to be member of the european language design group in november 1959. in this capacity i was the editor of the algol 60 report, produced as the result of the algol 60 meeting in paris in january 1960. " the following people attended the meeting in paris ( from 1 to 16 january ) : friedrich ludwig bauer, peter naur, heinz rutishauser, klaus samelson, bernard vauquois, adriaan van wijngaarden, and michael woodger ( from europe ) john warner backus, julien green, charles katz, john mccarthy, alan jay perlis, and joseph henry wegstein ( from the us ). alan perlis gave a vivid description of the meeting : " the meetings were exhausting, interminable, and exhilarating. one became aggravated when one ' s good ideas were discarded along with the bad ones of others. nevertheless, diligence persisted during the entire period. the chemistry of the 13 was excellent. " algol 60 inspired many languages that followed it. tony hoare remarked : " here is a language so far ahead of its time that it was not only an improvement on its predecessors but also on nearly all its successors. " the scheme programming language, a variant of lisp that adopted the block structure and lexical scope of algol, also adopted the wording " revised report on the algorithmic language scheme " for its standards documents in homage to algol. algol and programming language research as peter landin noted, algol was the first language to combine seamlessly imperative effects with the ( call - by - name ) lambda calculus. perhaps the most elegant formulation of the language is due to john c. reynolds, and it best exhibits its syntactic and semantic purity. reynolds ' s idealized algol also made a convincing methodologic argument regarding the suitability of local effects in the context of call - by - name languages, in contrast with the global effects used by call - by - value languages such as ml. the conceptual integrity