the spell : a history of anarchist filmmakers, videotape guerrillas, and digital ninjas, chris robe claims that " anarchist - inflected practices have increasingly structured movement - based video activism. " throughout the 20th century, many prominent anarchists ( peter kropotkin, emma goldman, gustav landauer and camillo berneri ) and publications such as anarchy wrote about matters pertaining to the arts. three overlapping properties made art useful to anarchists. it could depict a critique of existing society and hierarchies, serve as a prefigurative tool to reflect the anarchist ideal society and even turn into a means of direct action such as in protests. as it appeals to both emotion and reason, art could appeal to the whole human and have a powerful effect. the 19th - century neo - impressionist movement had an ecological aesthetic and offered an example of an anarchist perception of the road towards socialism. in les chataigniers a osny by anarchist painter camille pissarro, the blending of aesthetic and social harmony is prefiguring an ideal anarchistic agrarian community. criticism the most common critique of anarchism is the assertion that humans cannot self - govern and so a state is necessary for human survival. philosopher bertrand russell supported this critique, stating that " [ p ] eace and war, tariffs, regulations of sanitary conditions and the sale of noxious drugs, the preservation of a just system of distribution : these, among others, are functions which could hardly be performed in a community in which there was no central government. " another common criticism of anarchism is that it fits a world of isolation in which only the small enough entities can be self - governing ; a response would be that major anarchist thinkers advocated anarchist federalism. another criticism of anarchism is the belief that it is inherently unstable : that an anarchist society would inevitably evolve back into a state. thomas hobbes and other early social contract theorists argued that the state emerges in response to natural anarchy in order to protect the people ' s interests and keep order. philosopher robert nozick argued that a " night - watchman state ", or minarchy, would emerge from anarchy through the process of an invisible hand, in which people would exercise their liberty and buy protection from protection agencies, evolving into a minimal state. anarchists reject these criticisms by arguing that humans in a state of nature would not just be in a state of war. anarcho - primitivists in particular argue that humans were better off in a state of nature in small tribes