differentiated from empyemas, which are accumulations of pus in a preexisting, rather than a newly formed, anatomical cavity. other conditions that can cause similar symptoms include : cellulitis, a sebaceous cyst, and necrotising fasciitis. cellulitis typically also has an erythematous reaction, but does not confer any purulent drainage. treatment the standard treatment for an uncomplicated skin or soft tissue abscess is the act of opening and draining. there does not appear to be any benefit from also using antibiotics in most cases. a small amount of evidence did not find a benefit from packing the abscess with gauze. incision and drainage the abscess should be inspected to identify if foreign objects are a cause, which may require their removal. if foreign objects are not the cause, incising and draining the abscess is standard treatment. in critical areas where surgery presents a high risk, it may be delayed or used as a last resort. the drainage of a lung abscess may be performed by positioning the affected individual in a way that enables the contents to be discharged via the respiratory tract. warm compresses and elevation of the limb may be beneficial for a skin abscess. antibiotics most people who have an uncomplicated skin abscess should not use antibiotics. antibiotics in addition to standard incision and drainage is recommended in persons with severe abscesses, many sites of infection, rapid disease progression, the presence of cellulitis, symptoms indicating bacterial illness throughout the body, or a health condition causing immunosuppression. people who are very young or very old may also need antibiotics. if the abscess does not heal only with incision and drainage, or if the abscess is in a place that is difficult to drain such as the face, hands, or genitals, then antibiotics may be indicated. in those cases of abscess which do require antibiotic treatment, staphylococcus aureus bacteria is a common cause and an anti - staphylococcus antibiotic such as flucloxacillin or dicloxacillin is used. the infectious diseases society of america advises that the draining of an abscess is not enough to address community - acquired methicillin - resistant staphylococcus aureus ( mrsa ), and in those cases, traditional antibiotics may be ineffective. alternative antibiotics effective against community - acquired mrs