astrometry is a branch of astronomy that involves precise measurements of the positions and movements of stars and other celestial bodies. it provides the kinematics and physical origin of the solar system and this galaxy, the milky way. history the history of astrometry is linked to the history of star catalogues, which gave astronomers reference points for objects in the sky so they could track their movements. this can be dated back to hipparchus, who around 190 bc used the catalogue of his predecessors timocharis and aristillus to discover earth ' s precession. in doing so, he also developed the brightness scale still in use today. hipparchus compiled a catalogue with at least 850 stars and their positions. hipparchus ' s successor, ptolemy, included a catalogue of 1, 022 stars in his work the almagest, giving their location, coordinates, and brightness. in the 10th century, abd al - rahman al - sufi carried out observations on the stars and described their positions, magnitudes and star color ; furthermore, he provided drawings for each constellation, which are depicted in his book of fixed stars. ibn yunus observed more than 10, 000 entries for the sun ' s position for many years using a large astrolabe with a diameter of nearly 1. 4 metres. his observations on eclipses were still used centuries later in simon newcomb ' s investigations on the motion of the moon, while his other observations of the motions of the planets jupiter and saturn inspired laplace ' s obliquity of the ecliptic and inequalities of jupiter and saturn. in the 15th century, the timurid astronomer ulugh beg compiled the zij - i - sultani, in which he catalogued 1, 019 stars. like the earlier catalogs of hipparchus and ptolemy, ulugh beg ' s catalogue is estimated to have been precise to within approximately 20 minutes of arc. in the 16th century, tycho brahe used improved instruments, including large mural instruments, to measure star positions more accurately than previously, with a precision of 15 – 35 arcsec. taqi al - din measured the right ascension of the stars at the constantinople observatory of taqi ad - din using the " observational clock " he invented. when telescopes became commonplace, setting circles sped measurements james bradley first tried to measure stellar parallaxes in 1729. the stellar movement proved too insignificant for his telescope, but he instead discovered the aberration of light and the nutation of the earth ' s axis. his catalog