##plifying the general principles of spiritual culture. while working on a second book, alcott and peabody had a falling out and conversations with children on the gospels was prepared with help from peabody ' s sister sophia, published at the end of december 1836. alcott ' s methods were not well received ; many found his conversations on the gospels close to blasphemous. for example, he asked students to question if biblical miracles were literal and suggested that all people are part of god. in the boston daily advertiser, nathan hale criticized alcott ' s " flippant and off hand conversation " about serious topics from the virgin birth of jesus to circumcision. joseph t. buckingham called alcott " either insane or half - witted " and " an ignorant and presuming charlatan ". the book did not sell well ; a boston lawyer bought 750 copies to use as waste paper. the temple school was widely denounced in the press. reverend james freeman clarke was one of alcott ' s few supporters and defended him against the harsh response from boston periodicals. alcott was rejected by most public opinion and, by the summer of 1837, he had only 11 students left and no assistant after margaret fuller moved to providence, rhode island. the controversy had caused many parents to remove their children and, as the school closed, alcott became increasingly financially desperate. remaining steadfast to his pedagogy, a forerunner of progressive and democratic schooling, he alienated parents in a later " parlor school " by admitting an african american child to the class, whom he then refused to expel in the face of protests. transcendentalist beginning in 1836, alcott ' s membership in the transcendental club put him in the company of such as ralph waldo emerson, orestes brownson and theodore parker. he became a member at the club ' s second meeting and hosted its third. a biographer of emerson described the group as " the occasional meetings of a changing body of liberal thinkers, agreeing in nothing but their liberality ". frederic henry hedge wrote similarly that " [ t ] here was no club in the strict sense... only occasional meetings of like - minded men and women ". alcott preferred the term " symposium " for their group. in late april 1840, alcott moved to the town of concord urged by emerson. he rented a home for $ 50 a year within walking distance of emerson ' s house. he named it dove cottage. a supporter of his philosophies, emerson