he was 12. in 853, alfred is reported by the anglo - saxon chronicle to have been sent to rome where he was confirmed by pope leo iv, who " anointed him as king ". victorian writers later interpreted this as an anticipatory coronation in preparation for his eventual succession to the throne of wessex. this is unlikely ; his succession could not have been foreseen at the time because alfred had three living elder brothers. a letter of leo iv shows that alfred was made a " consul " and a misinterpretation of this investiture, deliberate or accidental, could explain later confusion. it may be based upon the fact that alfred later accompanied his father on a pilgrimage to rome where he spent some time at the court of charles the bald, king of the franks, around 854 – 855. on their return from rome in 856, æthelwulf was deposed by his son æthelbald. with civil war looming, the magnates of the realm met in council to form a compromise. æthelbald retained the western shires ( i. e. historical wessex ), and æthelwulf ruled in the east. after king æthelwulf died in 858, wessex was ruled by three of alfred ' s brothers in succession : æthelbald, æthelberht and æthelred. the reigns of alfred ' s brothers alfred is not mentioned during the short reigns of his older brothers æthelbald and æthelberht. the anglo - saxon chronicle describes the great heathen army of danes landing in east anglia with the intent of conquering the four kingdoms which constituted anglo - saxon england in 865. alfred ' s public life began in 865 at age 16 with the accession of his third brother, 18 - year - old æthelred. during this period, bishop asser gave alfred the unique title of secundarius, which may indicate a position similar to the celtic tanist, a recognised successor closely associated with the reigning monarch. this arrangement may have been sanctioned by alfred ' s father or by the witan to guard against the danger of a disputed succession should æthelred fall in battle. it was a well known tradition among other germanic peoples – such as the swedes and franks to whom the anglo - saxons were closely related – to crown a successor as royal prince and military commander. viking invasion in 868, alfred was recorded as fighting beside æthelred in a failed attempt to keep