the alger republicain on the atrocious living conditions of the inhabitants of the kabylie highlands. he advocated for economic, educational and political reforms as a matter of emergency. in 1945, following the setif and guelma massacre after arab revolts against french mistreatment, camus was one of only a few mainland journalists to visit the colony. he wrote a series of articles reporting on conditions, and advocating for french reforms and concessions to the demands of the algerian people. when the algerian war began in 1954, camus was confronted with a moral dilemma. he identified with the pieds - noirs such as his own parents and defended the french government ' s actions against the revolt. he argued the algerian uprising was an integral part of the " new arab imperialism " led by egypt, and an " anti - western " offensive orchestrated by russia to " encircle europe " and " isolate the united states ". although favoring greater algerian autonomy or even federation, though not full - scale independence, he believed the pieds - noirs and arabs could co - exist. during the war, he advocated a civil truce that would spare the civilians. it was rejected by both sides who regarded it as foolish. behind the scenes, he began working for imprisoned algerians who faced the death penalty. his position drew much criticism from the left and later postcolonial literary critics, such as edward said, who were opposed to european imperialism, and charged that camus ' s novels and short stories are plagued with colonial depictions – or conscious erasures – of algeria ' s arab population. in their eyes, camus was no longer the defender of the oppressed. camus once said that the troubles in algeria " affected him as others feel pain in their lungs. " philosophy existentialism even though camus is mostly connected to absurdism, he is routinely categorized as an existentialist, a term he rejected on several occasions. camus himself said his philosophical origins lay in ancient greek philosophy, nietzsche, and 17th - century moralists whereas existentialism arises from 19th - and early 20th - century philosophy such as kierkegaard, karl jaspers, and heidegger. he also said his work, the myth of sisyphus, was a criticism of various aspects of existentialism. camus was rejecting existentialism as a philosophy, but his critique was mostly focused on sartrean existentialism, and to a lesser extent on religious existentialism. he thought that the importance of history held by