##rchism or that capitalism is compatible with anarchism. the palgrave handbook of anarchism writes that " [ a ] s benjamin franks rightly points out, individualisms that defend or reinforce hierarchical forms such as the economic - power relations of anarcho - capitalism are incompatible with practices of social anarchism based on developing immanent goods which contest such as inequalities ". laurence davis cautiously asks " [ i ] s anarcho - capitalism really a form of anarchism or instead a wholly different ideological paradigm whose adherents have attempted to expropriate the language of anarchism for their own anti - anarchist ends? " davis cites iain mckay, " whom franks cites as an authority to support his contention that ' academic analysis has followed activist currents in rejecting the view that anarcho - capitalism has anything to do with social anarchism, as arguing " quite emphatically on the very pages cited by franks that anarcho - capitalism is by no means a type of anarchism ". mckay writes that " [ i ] t is important to stress that anarchist opposition to the so - called capitalist ' anarchists ' does not reflect some kind of debate within anarchism, as many of these types like to pretend, but a debate between anarchism and its old enemy capitalism.... equally, given that anarchists and ' anarcho ' - capitalists have fundamentally different analyses and goals it is hardly ' sectarian ' to point this out ". davis writes that " franks asserts without supporting evidence that most major forms of individualist anarchism have been largely anarcho - capitalist in content, and concludes from this premise that most forms of individualism are incompatible with anarchism ". davis argues that " the conclusion is unsustainable because the premise is false, depending as it does for any validity it might have on the further assumption that anarcho - capitalism is indeed a form of anarchism. if we reject this view, then we must also reject the individual anarchist versus the communal anarchist ' chasm ' style of argument that follows from it ". davis maintains that " the ideological core of anarchism is the belief that society can and should be organised without hierarchy and domination. historically, anarchists have struggles against a wide range of regimes of domination, from capitalism, the state system, patriarchy, heterosexism, and the domination of nature to colonialism, the war system, slavery, fascism, white supremacy, and certain forms of organised