and sank to the bottom of ancient seas and were covered with sediments in an anoxic environment and converted over many millions of years at high temperatures and high pressure to their current form. natural gas resulted thereby for example from the following reaction : c6h12o6 → 3 ch4 + 3 co2 these hydrocarbon deposits, collected in porous rocks trapped beneath impermeable cap rocks, comprise commercial oil fields. they have formed over millions of years and once exhausted cannot be readily replaced. the depletion of these hydrocarbons reserves is the basis for what is known as the energy crisis. alkanes have a low solubility in water, so the content in the oceans is negligible ; however, at high pressures and low temperatures ( such as at the bottom of the oceans ), methane can co - crystallize with water to form a solid methane clathrate ( methane hydrate ). although this cannot be commercially exploited at the present time, the amount of combustible energy of the known methane clathrate fields exceeds the energy content of all the natural gas and oil deposits put together. methane extracted from methane clathrate is, therefore, a candidate for future fuels. biological occurrence acyclic alkanes occur in nature in various ways. methane is present in what is called biogas, produced by animals and decaying matter, which is a possible renewable energy source. bacteria and archaea certain types of bacteria can metabolize alkanes : they prefer even - numbered carbon chains as they are easier to degrade than odd - numbered chains. on the other hand, certain archaea, the methanogens, produce large quantities of methane by the metabolism of carbon dioxide or other oxidized organic compounds. the energy is released by the oxidation of hydrogen : co2 + 4 h2 → ch4 + 2 h2o methanogens are also the producers of marsh gas in wetlands. the methane output of cattle and other herbivores, which can release 30 to 50 gallons per day, and of termites, is also due to methanogens. they also produce this simplest of all alkanes in the intestines of humans. methanogenic archaea are, hence, at the end of the carbon cycle, with carbon being released back into the atmosphere after having been fixed by photosynthesis. it is probable that our current deposits of natural gas were formed in a similar way. fungi and plants alkanes also play a role, if