##weeds, grew in output volume from 13. 5 million tonnes in 1995 to just over 30 million tonnes in 2016. seaweed farming fish the farming of fish is the most common form of aquaculture. it involves raising fish commercially in tanks, fish ponds, or ocean enclosures, usually for food. a facility that releases juvenile fish into the wild for recreational fishing or to supplement a species ' natural numbers is generally referred to as a fish hatchery. worldwide, the most important fish species used in fish farming are, in order, carp, salmon, tilapia, and catfish. in the mediterranean, young bluefin tuna are netted at sea and towed slowly towards the shore. they are then interned in offshore pens ( sometimes made from floating hdpe pipe ) where they are further grown for the market. in 2009, researchers in australia managed for the first time to coax southern bluefin tuna to breed in landlocked tanks. southern bluefin tuna are also caught in the wild and fattened in grow - out sea cages in southern spencer gulf, south australia. a similar process is used in the salmon - farming section of this industry ; juveniles are taken from hatcheries and a variety of methods are used to aid them in their maturation. for example, as stated above, some of the most important fish species in the industry, salmon, can be grown using a cage system. this is done by having netted cages, preferably in open water that has a strong flow, and feeding the salmon a special food mixture that aids their growth. this process allows for year - round growth of the fish, thus a higher harvest during the correct seasons. an additional method, known sometimes as sea ranching, has also been used within the industry. sea ranching involves raising fish in a hatchery for a brief time and then releasing them into marine waters for further development, whereupon the fish are recaptured when they have matured. crustaceans commercial shrimp farming began in the 1970s, and production grew steeply thereafter. global production reached more than 1. 6 million tonnes in 2003, worth about us $ 9 billion. about 75 % of farmed shrimp is produced in asia, in particular in china and thailand. the other 25 % is produced mainly in latin america, where brazil is the largest producer. thailand is the largest exporter. shrimp farming has changed from its traditional, small - scale form in southeast asia into a global industry. technological advances have led to ever higher densities per unit area, and broodstock is shipped worldwide.