champions, has had to navigate through the hairpin turns of a global pandemic and a persistent chip shortage, each threatening to derail production schedules. at the same time, a new course is being charted towards an electric future, a dramatic change in direction that ' s challenging the old guard of gasoline engines. there is also a growing number of events for electric racing cars, such as the formula e, the eco grand prix or the electric gt championship. categories open - wheel racing in single - seater ( open - wheel ) racing, the wheels are not covered, and the cars often have aerofoil wings front and rear to produce downforce and enhance adhesion to the track. the two most popular varieties of open - wheel road racing are formula one and the indycar series. in europe and asia, open - wheeled racing is commonly referred to as ' formula ', with appropriate hierarchical suffixes. in north america, the ' formula ' terminology is not followed ( with the exception of f1 ). the sport is usually arranged to follow an international format ( such as f1 ), a regional format ( such as the formula 3 euro series ), and / or a domestic, or country - specific, format ( such as the german formula 3 championship, or the british formula ford ). f1 is a worldwide series that runs only street circuit and race tracks. these cars are heavily based on technology and their aerodynamics. the speed record was set in 2005 by juan pablo montoya hitting 373 km / h ( 232 mph ). some of the most prominent races are the monaco grand prix, the italian grand prix, and the british grand prix. the season ends with the crowning of the world championship for drivers and constructors. in the united states, the most popular series is the indycar series. the cars have traditionally been similar to, though less technologically sophisticated than, f1 cars, with more restrictions on technology aimed at controlling costs. while these cars are not as technologically advanced, they are faster, mainly because they compete on oval race tracks, being able to average a lap at 388 km / h ( 241 mph ). the series ' biggest race is the indianapolis 500, which is commonly referred to as " the greatest spectacle in racing " due to being the longest continuously run race and having the largest crowd for a single - day sporting event ( 350, 000 + ). the other major international single - seater racing series is formula 2 ( formerly known as formula 3000 and gp2 series ). regional series include super formula and formula v6