art as " not an essence or a fate but something we have made. art as we have generally understood it is a european invention barely two hundred years old. " art may be characterized in terms of mimesis ( its representation of reality ), narrative ( storytelling ), expression, communication of emotion, or other qualities. during the romantic period, art came to be seen as " a special faculty of the human mind to be classified with religion and science ". history a shell engraved by homo erectus was determined to be between 430, 000 and 540, 000 years old. a set of eight 130, 000 years old white - tailed eagle talons bear cut marks and abrasion that indicate manipulation by neanderthals, possibly for using it as jewelry. a series of tiny, drilled snail shells about 75, 000 years old — were discovered in a south african cave. containers that may have been used to hold paints have been found dating as far back as 100, 000 years. the oldest piece of art found in europe is the riesenhirschknochen der einhornhohle, dating back 51, 000 years and made by neanderthals. sculptures, cave paintings, rock paintings and petroglyphs from the upper paleolithic dating to roughly 40, 000 years ago have been found, but the precise meaning of such art is often disputed because so little is known about the cultures that produced them. the first undisputed sculptures and similar art pieces, like the venus of hohle fels, are the numerous objects found at the caves and ice age art in the swabian jura unesco world heritage site, where the oldest non - stationary works of human art yet discovered were found, in the form of carved animal and humanoid figurines, in addition to the oldest musical instruments unearthed so far, with the artifacts dating between 43. 000 and 35. 000 bc, so being the first centre of human art. many great traditions in art have a foundation in the art of one of the great ancient civilizations : ancient egypt, mesopotamia, persia, india, china, ancient greece, rome, as well as inca, maya, and olmec. each of these centers of early civilization developed a unique and characteristic style in its art. because of the size and duration of these civilizations, more of their art works have survived and more of their influence has been transmitted to other cultures and later times. some also have provided the first records of how artists worked. for example, this period of greek art