##semitic prejudices and the irregular distribution of such prejudices over different segments of the population create " serious difficulties in the definition of the different kinds of anti - semitism. " these difficulties may contribute to the existence of different taxonomies that have been developed to categorize the forms of antisemitism. the forms identified are substantially the same ; it is primarily the number of forms and their definitions that differ. bernard lazare identifies three forms of antisemitism : christian antisemitism, economic antisemitism, and ethnologic antisemitism. william brustein names four categories : religious, racial, economic, and political. the roman catholic historian edward flannery distinguished four varieties of antisemitism : political and economic antisemitism, giving as examples cicero and charles lindbergh ; theological or religious antisemitism, also called " traditional antisemitism " and sometimes known as anti - judaism ; nationalistic antisemitism, citing voltaire and other enlightenment thinkers, who attacked jews for supposedly having certain characteristics, such as greed and arrogance, and for observing customs such as kashrut and shabbat ; racial antisemitism, with its extreme form resulting in the holocaust by the nazis. louis harap separates " economic antisemitism " and merges " political " and " nationalistic " antisemitism into " ideological antisemitism ". harap also adds a category of " social antisemitism ". religious ( jew as christ - killer ), economic ( jew as banker, usurer, money - obsessed ), social ( jew as social inferior, " pushy ", vulgar, therefore excluded from personal contact ), racist ( jews as an inferior " race " ), ideological ( jews regarded as subversive or revolutionary ), cultural ( jews regarded as undermining the moral and structural fiber of civilization ). cultural antisemitism louis harap defines cultural antisemitism as " that species of anti - semitism that charges the jews with corrupting a given culture and attempting to supplant or succeeding in supplanting the preferred culture with a uniform, crude, " jewish " culture. " similarly, eric kandel characterizes cultural antisemitism as being based on the idea of " jewishness " as a " religious or cultural tradition that is acquired through learning, through distinctive traditions and education. " according to kandel, this form of antisemitism views