minority moving them about two years later than the majority. agesilaus also had a sister named kyniska ( the first woman in ancient history to achieve an olympic victory ). the name agesilaus was rare and harks back to agesilaus i, one of the earliest kings of sparta. agesilaus was born lame, a fact that should have cost him his life, since in sparta deformed babies were thrown into a chasm. as he was not heir - apparent, he might have received some leniency from the tribal elders who examined male infants, or perhaps the first effects of the demographic decline of sparta were already felt at the time, and only the most severely impaired babies were killed. at the age of 7, agesilaus had to go through the rigorous education system of sparta, called the agoge. despite his disability, he brilliantly completed the training, which massively enhanced his prestige, especially after he became king. indeed, as heirs - apparent were exempted of the agoge, few spartan kings had gone through the same training as the citizens ; another notable exception was leonidas, the embodiment of the " hero - king ". between 433 and 428, agesilaus also became the younger lover of lysander, an aristocrat from the circle of archidamos, whose family had some influence in libya. spartan prince little is known of agesilaus ' adult life before his reign, principally because xenophon — his friend and main biographer — only wrote about his reign. due to his special status, agesilaus likely became a member of the krypteia, an elite corps of young spartans going undercover in spartan territory to kill some helots deemed dangerous. once he turned 20 and became a full citizen, agesilaus was elected to a common mess, presumably that of his elder half - brother agis ii, who had become king in 427, of which lysander was perhaps a member. agesilaus probably served during the peloponnesian war ( 431 – 404 ) against athens, likely at the battle of mantinea in 418. agesilaus married kleora at some point between 408 and 400. despite the influence she apparently had on her husband, she is mostly unknown. her father was aristomenidas, an influential noble with connections in thebes. thanks to three treaties signed with persia in 412 – 411, sparta received funding from the persians, which it used to build a fleet