a coulba by the turks and a choreb by the armenians. school abacus around the world, abacuses have been used in pre - schools and elementary schools as an aid in teaching the numeral system and arithmetic. in western countries, a bead frame similar to the russian abacus but with straight wires and a vertical frame is common ( see image ). the wireframe may be used either with positional notation like other abacuses ( thus the 10 - wire version may represent numbers up to 9, 999, 999, 999 ), or each bead may represent one unit ( e. g. 74 can be represented by shifting all beads on 7 wires and 4 beads on the 8th wire, so numbers up to 100 may be represented ). in the bead frame shown, the gap between the 5th and 6th wire, corresponding to the color change between the 5th and the 6th bead on each wire, suggests the latter use. teaching multiplication, e. g. 6 times 7, may be represented by shifting 7 beads on 6 wires. the red - and - white abacus is used in contemporary primary schools for a wide range of number - related lessons. the twenty bead version, referred to by its dutch name rekenrek ( " calculating frame " ), is often used, either on a string of beads or on a rigid framework. feynman vs the abacus physicist richard feynman was noted for facility in mathematical calculations. he wrote about an encounter in brazil with a japanese abacus expert, who challenged him to speed contests between feynman ' s pen and paper, and the abacus. the abacus was much faster for addition, somewhat faster for multiplication, but feynman was faster at division. when the abacus was used for a really difficult challenge, i. e. cube roots, feynman won easily. however, the number chosen at random was close to a number feynman happened to know was an exact cube, allowing him to use approximate methods. neurological analysis learning how to calculate with the abacus may improve capacity for mental calculation. abacus - based mental calculation ( amc ), which was derived from the abacus, is the act of performing calculations, including addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division, in the mind by manipulating an imagined abacus. it is a high - level cognitive skill that runs calculations with an effective algorithm. people doing long - term amc training show higher numerical memory capacity and experience more effectively connected neural pathways. they