during the snowmelt season when rapid runoff causes debris torrents and swollen rivers. the rivers form lakes, such as lake geneva, a crescent - shaped lake crossing the swiss border with lausanne on the swiss side and the town of evian - les - bains on the french side. in germany, the medieval st. bartholomew ' s chapel was built on the south side of the konigssee, accessible only by boat or by climbing over the abutting peaks. additionally, the alps have led to the creation of large lakes in italy. for instance, the sarca, the primary inflow of lake garda, originates in the italian alps. the italian lakes are a popular tourist destination since the roman era for their mild climate. scientists have been studying the impact of climate change and water use. for example, each year more water is diverted from rivers for snowmaking in the ski resorts, the effect of which is yet unknown. furthermore, the decrease of glaciated areas combined with a succession of winters with lower - than - expected precipitation may have a future impact on the rivers in the alps as well as an effect on the water availability to the lowlands. climate the alps are a classic example of what happens when a temperate area at lower altitude gives way to higher - elevation terrain. elevations around the world that have cold climates similar to those of the polar regions have been called alpine. a rise from sea level into the upper regions of the atmosphere causes the temperature to decrease ( see adiabatic lapse rate ). the effect of mountain chains on prevailing winds is to carry warm air belonging to the lower region into an upper zone, where it expands in volume at the cost of a proportionate loss of temperature, often accompanied by precipitation in the form of snow or rain. the height of the alps is sufficient to divide the weather patterns in europe into a wet north and dry south because moisture is sucked from the air as it flows over the high peaks. the severe weather in the alps has been studied since the 18th century ; particularly the weather patterns such as the seasonal foehn wind. numerous weather stations were placed in the mountains early in the early 20th century, providing continuous data for climatologists. some of the valleys are quite arid such as the aosta valley in italy, the maurienne in france, the valais in switzerland, and northern tyrol. the areas that are not arid and receive high precipitation experience periodic flooding from rapid snowmelt and runoff. the mean precipitation in the alps ranges from a low of per year to