l. by then setting l to greater than the length of this procedure p, we have that the required length of a program to print x as stated in k ( x ) ≥ l as being at least l is then less than the amount l since the string x was printed by the procedure p. this is a contradiction. so it is not possible for the proof system s to prove k ( x ) ≥ l for l arbitrarily large, in particular, for l larger than the length of the procedure p, ( which is finite ). proof : we can find an effective enumeration of all the formal proofs in s by some procedure function nthproof ( int n ) which takes as input n and outputs some proof. this function enumerates all proofs. some of these are proofs for formulas we do not care about here, since every possible proof in the language of s is produced for some n. some of these are complexity formulas of the form k ( s ) ≥ n where s and n are constants in the language of s. there is a procedure function nthproofprovescomplexityformula ( int n ) which determines whether the nth proof actually proves a complexity formula k ( s ) ≥ l. the strings s, and the integer l in turn, are computable by procedure : function stringnthproof ( int n ) function complexitylowerboundnthproof ( int n ) consider the following procedure : function generateprovablycomplexstring ( int n ) for i = 1 to infinity : if nthproofprovescomplexityformula ( i ) and complexitylowerboundnthproof ( i ) ≥ n return stringnthproof ( i ) given an n, this procedure tries every proof until it finds a string and a proof in the formal system s of the formula k ( s ) ≥ l for some l ≥ n ; if no such proof exists, it loops forever. finally, consider the program consisting of all these procedure definitions, and a main call : generateprovablycomplexstring ( n0 ) where the constant n0 will be determined later on. the overall program length can be expressed as u + log2 ( n0 ), where u is some constant and log2 ( n0 ) represents the length of the integer value n0, under the reasonable assumption that it is encoded in binary digits. we will choose n0 to be greater than the program length,