called colorless or apochlorotic algae ), sometimes parasitic, relying entirely on external energy sources and have limited or no photosynthetic apparatus. some other heterotrophic organisms, such as the apicomplexans, are also derived from cells whose ancestors possessed plastids, but are not traditionally considered as algae. algae have photosynthetic machinery ultimately derived from cyanobacteria that produce oxygen as a by - product of photosynthesis, unlike other photosynthetic bacteria such as purple and green sulfur bacteria. fossilized filamentous algae from the vindhya basin have been dated back to 1. 6 to 1. 7 billion years ago. because of the wide range of types of algae, they have increasing different industrial and traditional applications in human society. traditional seaweed farming practices have existed for thousands of years and have strong traditions in east asia food cultures. more modern algaculture applications extend the food traditions for other applications include cattle feed, using algae for bioremediation or pollution control, transforming sunlight into algae fuels or other chemicals used in industrial processes, and in medical and scientific applications. a 2020 review found that these applications of algae could play an important role in carbon sequestration in order to mitigate climate change while providing lucrative value - added products for global economies. etymology and study the singular is the latin word for ' seaweed ' and retains that meaning in english. the etymology is obscure. although some speculate that it is related to latin, ' be cold ', no reason is known to associate seaweed with temperature. a more likely source is, ' binding, entwining '. the ancient greek word for ' seaweed ' was ( ), which could mean either the seaweed ( probably red algae ) or a red dye derived from it. the latinization,, meant primarily the cosmetic rouge. the etymology is uncertain, but a strong candidate has long been some word related to the biblical ( ), ' paint ' ( if not that word itself ), a cosmetic eye - shadow used by the ancient egyptians and other inhabitants of the eastern mediterranean. it could be any color : black, red, green, or blue. the study of algae is most commonly called phycology ( ) ; the term algology is falling out of use. classifications one definition of algae is that they " have chlorophyll as their primary photosynthetic pigment and lack a sterile covering of cells around their reproductive cells ". on the other hand, the color