in boorish consumerism. the american people, he said, speaking in russian through a translator, were also suffering from a " decline in courage " and a " lack of manliness. " few were willing to die for their ideals, he said. he also condemned the 1960s counterculture for forcing the united states federal government to accept a " hasty " capitulation in the vietnam war. in a reference to the communist governments in southeast asia ' s use of re - education camps, politicide, human rights abuses, and genocide following the fall of saigon, solzhenitsyn said : " but members of the u. s. antiwar movement wound up being involved in the betrayal of far eastern nations, in a genocide and in the suffering today imposed on 30 million people there. do those convinced pacifists hear the moans coming from there? " he also accused the western news media of left - wing bias, of violating the privacy of celebrities, and of filling up the " immortal souls " of their readers with celebrity gossip and other " vain talk ". he also said that the west erred in thinking that the whole world should embrace this as model. while faulting soviet society for rejecting basic human rights and the rule of law, he also critiqued the west for being too legalistic : " a society which is based on the letter of the law and never reaches any higher is taking very scarce advantage of the high level of human possibilities. " solzhenitsyn also argued that the west erred in " denying [ russian culture ' s ] autonomous character and therefore never understood it ". solzhenitsyn criticized the 2003 invasion of iraq and accused the united states of the " occupation " of kosovo, afghanistan and iraq. solzhenitsyn was critical of nato ' s eastward expansion towards russia ' s borders. in 2006, solzhenitsyn accused nato of trying to bring russia under its control ; he claimed this was visible because of its " ideological support for the ' colour revolutions ' and the paradoxical forcing of north atlantic interests on central asia ". in a 2006 interview with der spiegel he stated " this was especially painful in the case of ukraine, a country whose closeness to russia is defined by literally millions of family ties among our peoples, relatives living on different sides of the national border. at one fell stroke, these families could be torn apart by a new dividing line, the border of a military bloc. " on the holodomor solzhenitsyn gave a speech to