, including early english common law dating back to edward coke in 1648, abortion was generally permitted before quickening ( 14 – 26 weeks after conception, or between the fourth and sixth month ), and at women ' s discretion ; it was whether abortion was performed after quickening that determined if it was a crime. in europe and north america, abortion techniques advanced starting in the 17th century ; the conservatism of most in the medical profession with regards to sexual matters prevented the wide expansion of abortion techniques. other medical practitioners in addition to some physicians advertised their services, and they were not widely regulated until the 19th century when the practice, sometimes called restellism, was banned in both the united states and the united kingdom. some 19th - century physicians, one of the most famous and consequential being american horatio storer, argued for anti - abortion laws on racist and misogynist as well as moral grounds. church groups were also highly influential in anti - abortion movements, and religious groups more so since the 20th century. some of the early anti - abortion laws punished only the doctor or abortionist, and while women could be criminally tried for a self - induced abortion, they were rarely prosecuted in general. in the united states, some argued that abortion was more dangerous than childbirth until about 1930 when incremental improvements in abortion procedures relative to childbirth made abortion safer. others maintain that in the 19th century early abortions under the hygienic conditions in which midwives usually worked were relatively safe. several scholars argue that, despite improved medical procedures, the period from the 1930s until the 1970s saw more zealous enforcement of anti - abortion laws, alongside an increasing control of abortion providers by organized crime. in 1920, soviet russia became the first country to legalize abortion after lenin insisted that no woman be forced to give birth. iceland ( 1935 ) and sweden ( 1938 ) would follow suit to legalize certain or all forms of abortion. in nazi germany ( 1935 ), a law permitted abortions for those deemed " hereditarily ill ", while women considered of german stock were specifically prohibited from having abortions. beginning in the second half of the 20th century, abortion was legalized in a greater number of countries. in japan, abortion was first legalized by the 1948 " eugenics protection law " meant to prevent the births of " inferior " humans., due to japan ' s continuing strongly patriarchal culture and traditional views on women ' s societal roles, women who want an abortion must normally get written permission from their partner