few people in the army who believed that aviation was the future ; frederick w. baldwin, the first canadian and first british subject to pilot a public flight in hammondsport, new york ; and j. a. d. mccurdy – baldwin and mccurdy being new engineering graduates from the university of toronto. the aea ' s work progressed to heavier - than - air machines, applying their knowledge of kites to gliders. moving to hammondsport, the group then designed and built the red wing, framed in bamboo and covered in red silk and powered by a small air - cooled engine. on march 12, 1908, over keuka lake, the biplane lifted off on the first public flight in north america. the innovations that were incorporated into this design included a cockpit enclosure and tail rudder ( later variations on the original design would add ailerons as a means of control ). one of the aea ' s inventions, a practical wingtip form of the aileron, was to become a standard component on all aircraft. the white wing and june bug were to follow and by the end of 1908, over 150 flights without mishap had been accomplished. however, the aea had depleted its initial reserves and only a $ 15, 000 grant from mrs. bell allowed it to continue with experiments. lt. selfridge had also become the first person killed in a powered heavier - than - air flight in a crash of the wright flyer at fort myer, virginia, on september 17, 1908. their final aircraft design, the silver dart, embodied all of the advancements found in the earlier machines. on february 23, 1909, bell was present as the silver dart flown by j. a. d. mccurdy from the frozen ice of bras d ' or made the first aircraft flight in canada. bell had worried that the flight was too dangerous and had arranged for a doctor to be on hand. with the successful flight, the aea disbanded and the silver dart would revert to baldwin and mccurdy, who began the canadian aerodrome company and would later demonstrate the aircraft to the canadian army. heredity and genetics bell, along with many members of the scientific community at the time, took an interest in the popular science of heredity which grew out of the publication of charles darwin ' s book on the origin of species in 1859. on his estate in nova scotia, bell conducted meticulously recorded breeding experiments with rams and ewes. over the course of more than 30 years, bell sought to produce a breed