aleister crowley ( ; born edward alexander crowley ; 12 october 1875 – 1 december 1947 ) was an english occultist, philosopher, ceremonial magician, poet, painter, novelist and mountaineer. he founded the religion of thelema, identifying himself as the prophet entrusted with guiding humanity into the æon of horus in the early 20th century. a prolific writer, he published widely over the course of his life. born to a wealthy family in royal leamington spa, warwickshire, crowley rejected his parents ' fundamentalist christian plymouth brethren faith to pursue an interest in western esotericism. he was educated at trinity college at the university of cambridge, where he focused his attentions on mountaineering and poetry, resulting in several publications. some biographers allege that here he was recruited into a british intelligence agency, further suggesting that he remained a spy throughout his life. in 1898, he joined the esoteric hermetic order of the golden dawn, where he was trained in ceremonial magic by samuel liddell macgregor mathers and allan bennett. he went mountaineering in mexico with oscar eckenstein, before studying hindu and buddhist practices in india. in 1904, he married rose edith kelly and they honeymooned in cairo, egypt, where crowley claimed to have been contacted by a supernatural entity named aiwass, who provided him with the book of the law, a sacred text that served as the basis for thelema. announcing the start of the æon of horus, the book declared that its followers should " do what thou wilt " and seek to align themselves with their true will through the practice of ceremonial magic. after the unsuccessful 1905 kanchenjunga expedition and a visit to india and china, crowley returned to britain, where he attracted attention as a prolific author of poetry, novels and occult literature. in 1907, he and george cecil jones co - founded an esoteric order, the, through which they propagated thelema. after spending time in algeria, in 1912 he was initiated into another esoteric order, the german - based ordo templi orientis ( o. t. o. ), rising to become the leader of its british branch, which he reformulated in accordance with his thelemite beliefs. through the o. t. o., thelemite groups were established in britain, australia and north america. crowley spent the first world war in the united states, where he took up painting and campaigned for the german war effort against britain, later revealing that he had infiltrated