white metallic lustre, but then slowly tarnishes in air. with a density of 12 g / cm3, americium is less dense than both curium ( 13. 52 g / cm3 ) and plutonium ( 19. 8 g / cm3 ) ; but has a higher density than europium ( 5. 264 g / cm3 ) — mostly because of its higher atomic mass. americium is relatively soft and easily deformable and has a significantly lower bulk modulus than the actinides before it : th, pa, u, np and pu. its melting point of 1173 °c is significantly higher than that of plutonium ( 639 °c ) and europium ( 826 °c ), but lower than for curium ( 1340 °c ). at ambient conditions, americium is present in its most stable α form which has a hexagonal crystal symmetry, and a space group p63 / mmc with cell parameters a = 346. 8 pm and c = 1124 pm, and four atoms per unit cell. the crystal consists of a double - hexagonal close packing with the layer sequence abac and so is isotypic with α - lanthanum and several actinides such as α - curium. the crystal structure of americium changes with pressure and temperature. when compressed at room temperature to 5 gpa, α - am transforms to the β modification, which has a face - centered cubic ( fcc ) symmetry, space group fmm and lattice constant a = 489 pm. this fcc structure is equivalent to the closest packing with the sequence abc. upon further compression to 23 gpa, americium transforms to an orthorhombic γ - am structure similar to that of α - uranium. there are no further transitions observed up to 52 gpa, except for an appearance of a monoclinic phase at pressures between 10 and 15 gpa. there is no consistency on the status of this phase in the literature, which also sometimes lists the α, β and γ phases as i, ii and iii. the β - γ transition is accompanied by a 6 % decrease in the crystal volume ; although theory also predicts a significant volume change for the α - β transition, it is not observed experimentally. the pressure of the α - β transition decreases with increasing temperature, and when α - americium is heated at ambient pressure, at 770 °c it changes into an fcc phase which is different from β - am, and at 107