the last major city on the african side of the strait of gibraltar that still held out against him. in return for a promise to help him against the encroaching christian kingdoms, ibn tashfin demanded that al - mu ' tamid ibn abbad, the ruler of seville, provide assistance in besieging the city. al - mu ' tamid obliged and sent a fleet to blockade the city by sea, while ibn tashfin ' s son tamim led the siege by land. the city finally surrendered in june – july 1083 or in august 1084. under ibn tashfin, the western maghreb was divided into well - defined administrative provinces for the first time – prior to this, it had been mostly tribal territory. a developing central government was established in marrakesh, while ibn tashfin entrusted key provinces to important allies and relatives. the nascent almoravid state was funded in part by the taxes allowed under islamic law and by the gold that came from ghana in the south, but in practice it remained dependent on the spoils of new conquests. the majority of the almoravid army continued to be composed of sanhaja recruits, but ibn tashfin also began recruiting slaves to form a personal guard ( hashm ), including 5000 black soldiers ( ' abid ) and 500 white soldiers ( uluj, likely of european origin ). southern almoravids and the ghana empire after leaving yusuf ibn tashfin in the north and returning south, abu bakr ibn umar reportedly made azuggi his base. the town acted as the capital of the southern almoravids under him and his successors. despite the importance of the saharan trade routes to the almoravids, the history of the southern wing of the empire is not well documented in arabic historical sources and is often neglected in histories of the maghreb and al - andalus. this has also encouraged a division in modern studies about the almoravids, with archeology playing a greater role in the study of the southern wing, in the absence of more textual sources. the exact nature and impact of the almoravid presence in the sahel is a strongly debated topic among africanists. according to arab tradition, the almoravids under abu bakr ' s leadership conquered the ghana empire, founded by the soninke, sometime around 1076 – 77. an example of this tradition is the record of historian ibn khaldun, who cited shaykh uthman, the faqi