which is still authorized, it is transferred to monday, 3 november. all souls ' indulgence according to the enchiridion of indulgences, an indulgence applicable only to the souls in purgatory ( commonly called the poor souls ) is granted to the faithful who devoutly visit on all souls day a church or chapel and pray the our father and the credo or the lauds or vespers of the office of the dead and the eternal rest prayer for the dead. the indulgence can be gained from noon of all saints ' day on as well as a plenary indulgence is each day from the first to the eighth of november ; a partial indulgence is granted on other days of the year. lutheran churches among continental protestants its tradition has been more tenaciously maintained. during luther ' s lifetime, all souls ' day was widely observed in saxony although the roman catholic meaning of the day was discarded ; ecclesiastically in the lutheran church, the day was merged with, and is often seen as an extension of all saints ' day, with many lutherans still visiting and decorating graves on all the days of allhallowtide, including all souls ' day. just as it is the custom of french people, of all ranks and creeds, to decorate the graves of their dead on the jour des morts, germans stream to the graveyards once a year with offerings of flowers and special grave lights. in 1816, prussia introduced a new date for the remembrance of the dead among its lutheran citizens : totensonntag, the last sunday before advent. anglican communion in the church of england it is called the commemoration of the faithful departed and is an optional celebration ; anglicans view all souls ' day as an extension of the observance of all saints ' day and it serves to " remember those who have died ", in connection with the theological doctrines of the resurrection of the body and the communion of saints. in the anglican communion, all souls ' day is known liturgically as the commemoration of all faithful departed, and is an optional observance seen as " an extension of all saints ' day ", the latter of which marks the second day of allhallowtide. historically and at present, several anglican churches are dedicated to all souls. during the english reformation, the observance of all souls ' day lapsed, although a new anglican theological understanding of the day has " led to a widespread acceptance of this commemoration among anglicans ". patricia bays,