in the allied war effort against the axis powers ( nazi germany, fascist italy, and imperial japan ). many served in the armed forces, while others worked in intelligence ( for example, office of strategic services and the office of war information ). at the same time, david h. price ' s work on american anthropology during the cold war provides detailed accounts of the pursuit and dismissal of several anthropologists from their jobs for communist sympathies. attempts to accuse anthropologists of complicity with the cia and government intelligence activities during the vietnam war years have turned up little. many anthropologists ( students and teachers ) were active in the antiwar movement. numerous resolutions condemning the war in all its aspects were passed overwhelmingly at the annual meetings of the american anthropological association ( aaa ). professional anthropological bodies often object to the use of anthropology for the benefit of the state. their codes of ethics or statements may proscribe anthropologists from giving secret briefings. the association of social anthropologists of the uk and commonwealth ( asa ) has called certain scholarship ethically dangerous. the " principles of professional responsibility " issued by the american anthropological association and amended through november 1986 stated that " in relation with their own government and with host governments... no secret research, no secret reports or debriefings of any kind should be agreed to or given. " the current " principles of professional responsibility " does not make explicit mention of ethics surrounding state interactions. anthropologists, along with other social scientists, are working with the us military as part of the us army ' s strategy in afghanistan. the christian science monitor reports that " counterinsurgency efforts focus on better grasping and meeting local needs " in afghanistan, under the human terrain system ( hts ) program ; in addition, hts teams are working with the us military in iraq. in 2009, the american anthropological association ' s commission on the engagement of anthropology with the us security and intelligence communities ( ceaussic ) released its final report concluding, in part, that, post - world war ii developments before wwii british ' social anthropology ' and american ' cultural anthropology ' were still distinct traditions. after the war, enough british and american anthropologists borrowed ideas and methodological approaches from one another that some began to speak of them collectively as ' sociocultural ' anthropology. basic trends there are several characteristics that tend to unite anthropological work. one of the central characteristics is that anthropology tends to provide a comparatively more holistic account of phenomena and tends to be highly empirical. the quest for holism leads most anthropologists to study a