. the tv camera cable remained partly coiled and presented a tripping hazard throughout the eva. still photography was accomplished with a hasselblad camera that could be operated hand - held or mounted on armstrong ' s apollo space suit. aldrin joined armstrong on the surface. he described the view with the simple phrase : " magnificent desolation. " armstrong said moving in the lunar gravity, one - sixth of earth ' s, was " even perhaps easier than the simulations... it ' s absolutely no trouble to walk around. " aldrin joined him on the surface and tested methods for moving around, including two - footed kangaroo hops. the plss backpack created a tendency to tip backward, but neither astronaut had serious problems maintaining balance. loping became the preferred method of movement. the astronauts reported that they needed to plan their movements six or seven steps ahead. the fine soil was quite slippery. aldrin remarked that moving from sunlight into eagle shadow produced no temperature change inside the suit, but the helmet was warmer in sunlight, so he felt cooler in shadow. the mesa failed to provide a stable work platform and was in shadow, slowing work somewhat. as they worked, the moonwalkers kicked up gray dust, which soiled the outer part of their suits. the astronauts planted the lunar flag assembly containing a flag of the united states on the lunar surface, in clear view of the tv camera. aldrin remembered, " of all the jobs i had to do on the moon the one i wanted to go the smoothest was the flag raising. " but the astronauts struggled with the telescoping rod and could only insert the pole about into the hard lunar surface. aldrin was afraid it might topple in front of tv viewers, but gave " a crisp west point salute ". before aldrin could take a photo of armstrong with the flag, president richard nixon spoke to them through a telephone - radio transmission, which nixon called " the most historic phone call ever made from the white house. " nixon originally had a long speech prepared to read during the phone call, but frank borman, who was at the white house as a nasa liaison during apollo 11, convinced nixon to keep his words brief. they deployed the easep, which included a passive seismic experiment package used to measure moonquakes and a retroreflector array used for the lunar laser ranging experiment. then armstrong walked from the lm to take photographs at the rim of little west crater while aldrin collected two core samples.