others of the early church. the epistles of paul and the gospels also show influences from the book of jubilees, which is part of the ethiopian canon, as well as the assumption of moses and the testaments of the twelve patriarchs, which are included in no biblical canon. canonicity the establishment of a largely settled uniform canon was a process of centuries, and what the term canon ( as well as apocrypha ) precisely meant also saw development. the canonical process took place with believers recognizing writings as being inspired by god from known or accepted origins, subsequently being followed by official affirmation of what had become largely established through the study and debate of the writings. the first ecclesiastical decree on the catholic church ' s canonical books of the sacred scriptures is attributed to the council of rome ( 382 ), and is correspondent to that of trent. martin luther, like jerome, favored the masoretic canon for the old testament, excluding apocryphal books in the luther bible as unworthy to be properly called scripture, but included most of them in a separate section. luther did not include the deuterocanonical books in his old testament, terming them " apocrypha, that are books which are not considered equal to the holy scriptures, but are useful and good to read. " the eastern orthodox church accepts four other books into its canon than what are contained in the catholic canon : psalm 151, the prayer of manasseh, 3 maccabees, and 1 esdras. disputes the status of the books which the catholic church terms deuterocanonicals ( second canon ) and protestantism refers to as apocrypha has been an issue of disagreement which preceded the reformation. many believe that the pre - christian - era jewish translation ( into greek ) of holy scriptures known as the septuagint, a greek translation of the hebrew scriptures originally compiled around 280 bc, originally included the apocryphal writings in dispute, with little distinction made between them and the rest of the old testament. others argue that the septuagint of the first century did not contain these books but they were added later by christians. the earliest extant manuscripts of the septuagint are from the fourth century, and suffer greatly from a lack of uniformity as regards containing apocryphal books, and some also contain books classed as pseudepigrapha, from which texts were cited by some early writers in the second and later centuries as being scripture. while a few