help the understanding of the oxidation and / or reduction of arsenic. treatment treatment of chronic arsenic poisoning is possible. british anti - lewisite ( dimercaprol ) is prescribed in doses of 5 mg / kg up to 300 mg every 4 hours for the first day, then every 6 hours for the second day, and finally every 8 hours for 8 additional days. however the usa ' s agency for toxic substances and disease registry ( atsdr ) states that the long - term effects of arsenic exposure cannot be predicted. blood, urine, hair, and nails may be tested for arsenic ; however, these tests cannot foresee possible health outcomes from the exposure. long - term exposure and consequent excretion through urine has been linked to bladder and kidney cancer in addition to cancer of the liver, prostate, skin, lungs, and nasal cavity. see also aqua tofana arsenic and old lace arsenic biochemistry arsenic compounds arsenic poisoning arsenic toxicity arsenic trioxide fowler ' s solution gfaj - 1 grainger challenge hypothetical types of biochemistry organoarsenic chemistry toxic heavy metal white arsenic references bibliography further reading external links arsenic cancer causing substances, u. s. national cancer institute. ctd ' s arsenic page and ctd ' s arsenicals page from the comparative toxicogenomics database arsenic intoxication : general aspects and chelating agents, by geir bjørklund, massimiliano peana et al. archives of toxicology ( 2020 ) 94 : 1879 – 1897. a small dose of toxicology arsenic in groundwater book on arsenic in groundwater by iah ' s netherlands chapter and the netherlands hydrological society contaminant focus : arsenic by the epa. environmental health criteria for arsenic and arsenic compounds, 2001 by the who. national institute for occupational safety and health – arsenic page arsenic at the periodic table of videos ( university of nottingham ) chemical elements metalloids hepatotoxins pnictogens endocrine disruptors iarc group 1 carcinogens trigonal minerals minerals in space group 166 teratogens fetotoxicants suspected testicular toxicants native element minerals chemical elements with rhombohedral structure