essex, surrey and sussex had submitted to ecgberht, and he had appointed æthelwulf to rule the south - eastern territories as king of kent. the vikings ravaged the isle of sheppey in 835, and the following year they defeated ecgberht at carhampton in somerset, but in 838 he was victorious over an alliance of cornishmen and vikings at the battle of hingston down, reducing cornwall to the status of a client kingdom. when æthelwulf succeeded, he appointed his eldest son æthelstan as sub - king of kent. ecgberht and æthelwulf may not have intended a permanent union between wessex and kent because they both appointed sons as sub - kings, and charters in wessex were attested ( witnessed ) by west saxon magnates, while kentish charters were witnessed by the kentish elite ; both kings kept overall control, and the sub - kings were not allowed to issue their own coinage. viking raids increased in the early 840s on both sides of the english channel, and in 843 æthelwulf was defeated at carhampton. in 850, æthelstan defeated a danish fleet off sandwich in the first recorded naval battle in english history. in 851 æthelwulf and his second son, æthelbald, defeated the vikings at the battle of aclea and, according to the anglo - saxon chronicle, " there made the greatest slaughter of a heathen raiding - army that we have heard tell of up to this present day, and there took the victory ". æthelwulf died in 858 and was succeeded by his oldest surviving son, æthelbald, as king of wessex and by his next oldest son, æthelberht, as king of kent. æthelbald only survived his father by two years, and æthelberht then for the first time united wessex and kent into a single kingdom. childhood according to asser, in his childhood alfred won a beautifully decorated book of english poetry, offered as a prize by his mother to the first of her sons able to memorise it. he must have had it read to him because his mother died when he was about six and he did not learn to read until he was 12. in 853, alfred is reported by the anglo - saxon chronicle to have been sent to rome where he was confirmed by pope leo iv, who " anointed him as king ". victorian writers later interpreted this as an anti