rumours that he had been murdered by gnaeus calpurnius piso and munatia plancina on the orders of tiberius, as his widow agrippina the elder returned to rome with his ashes. agrippina the younger was thereafter supervised by her mother, her paternal grandmother antonia minor, and her great - grandmother, livia, all of them notable, influential, and powerful figures from whom she learnt how to survive. she lived on the palatine hill in rome. her great - uncle tiberius had already become emperor and the head of the family after the death of augustus in 14. marriage to gnaeus domitius ahenobarbus after her thirteenth birthday in 28, tiberius arranged for agrippina to marry her paternal first cousin once removed gnaeus domitius ahenobarbus and ordered the marriage to be celebrated in rome. domitius came from a distinguished family of consular rank. through his mother antonia major, domitius was a great nephew of augustus, first cousin to claudius, and first cousin once removed to agrippina and caligula. he had two sisters ; domitia lepida the elder and domitia lepida the younger. domitia lepida the younger was the mother of the empress valeria messalina. antonia major was the elder sister to antonia minor, and the first daughter of octavia minor and mark antony. according to suetonius, domitius was a wealthy man with a despicable and dishonest character, who, according to suetonius, was " a man who was in every aspect of his life detestable " and served as consul in 32. agrippina and domitius lived between antium and rome. not much is known about the relationship between them. reign of caligula public role and political intrigues tiberius died on march 16, ad 37, and agrippina ' s only surviving brother, caligula, became the new emperor. being the emperor ' s sister gave agrippina some influence. agrippina and her younger sisters julia drusilla and julia livilla received various honours from their brother, which included but were not limited to receiving the rights of the vestal virgins, such as the freedom to view public games from the upper seats in the stadium ; being honoured with a new type of coinage, depicting images of caligula and his sisters on opposite faces ; having their names added to motions, including loyalty oaths ( e. g., " i will not value my