was a fan of filmmaker radley metzger film work and commented that metzger ' s film, the lickerish quartet, was " an outrageously kinky masterpiece ". blue movie — a film in which warhol superstar viva makes love in bed with louis waldon, another warhol superstar — was warhol ' s last film as director. the film, a seminal film in the golden age of porn, was, at the time, controversial for its frank approach to a sexual encounter. blue movie was publicly screened in new york city in 2005, for the first time in more than 30 years. in the wake of the 1968 shooting, a reclusive warhol relinquished his personal involvement in film making. his acolyte and assistant director, paul morrissey, took over the film - making chores for the factory collective, steering warhol - branded cinema towards more mainstream, narrative - based, b - movie exploitation fare with flesh, trash, and heat. all of these films, including the later andy warhol ' s dracula and andy warhol ' s frankenstein, were far more mainstream than anything warhol as a director had attempted. these latter " warhol " films starred joe dallesandro — more of a morrissey star than a true warhol superstar. in the early 1970s, most of the films directed by warhol were pulled out of circulation by warhol and the people around him who ran his business. after warhol ' s death, the films were slowly restored by the whitney museum and are occasionally projected at museums and film festivals. few of the warhol - directed films are available on video or dvd. music in the mid - 1960s, warhol adopted the band the velvet underground, making them a crucial element of the exploding plastic inevitable multimedia performance art show. warhol, with paul morrissey, acted as the band ' s manager, introducing them to nico ( who would perform with the band at warhol ' s request ). while managing the velvet underground, andy would have them dressed in all black to perform in front of movies that he was also presenting. in 1966, he " produced " their first album the velvet underground & nico, as well as providing its album art. his actual participation in the album ' s production amounted to simply paying for the studio time. after the band ' s first album, warhol and band leader lou reed started to disagree more about the direction the band should take, and their artistic friendship ended. in 1989, after warhol ' s death, reed and john cale re