life. the latter comprised offices, libraries ( called house of books ), laboratories and observatories. some of the best - known pieces of ancient egyptian literature, such as the pyramid and coffin texts, were written in classical egyptian, which continued to be the language of writing until about 1300bc. late egyptian was spoken from the new kingdom onward and is represented in ramesside administrative documents, love poetry and tales, as well as in demotic and coptic texts. during this period, the tradition of writing had evolved into the tomb autobiography, such as those of harkhuf and weni. the genre known as sebayt ( " instructions " ) was developed to communicate teachings and guidance from famous nobles ; the ipuwer papyrus, a poem of lamentations describing natural disasters and social upheaval, is a famous example. the story of sinuhe, written in middle egyptian, might be the classic of egyptian literature. also written at this time was the westcar papyrus, a set of stories told to khufu by his sons relating the marvels performed by priests. the instruction of amenemope is considered a masterpiece of near eastern literature. towards the end of the new kingdom, the vernacular language was more often employed to write popular pieces like the story of wenamun and the instruction of any. the former tells the story of a noble who is robbed on his way to buy cedar from lebanon and of his struggle to return to egypt. from about 700bc, narrative stories and instructions, such as the popular instructions of onchsheshonqy, as well as personal and business documents were written in the demotic script and phase of egyptian. many stories written in demotic during the greco - roman period were set in previous historical eras, when egypt was an independent nation ruled by great pharaohs such as ramesses ii. culture daily life most ancient egyptians were farmers tied to the land. their dwellings were restricted to immediate family members, and were constructed of mudbrick designed to remain cool in the heat of the day. each home had a kitchen with an open roof, which contained a grindstone for milling grain and a small oven for baking the bread. ceramics served as household wares for the storage, preparation, transport, and consumption of food, drink, and raw materials. walls were painted white and could be covered with dyed linen wall hangings. floors were covered with reed mats, while wooden stools, beds raised from the floor and individual tables comprised the furniture. the ancient egyptians placed a great