unit ball of the dual of a normed vector space over the reals has an extreme point. point - set topology the cartesian product of any family of connected topological spaces is connected. tychonoff ' s theorem : the cartesian product of any family of compact topological spaces is compact. in the product topology, the closure of a product of subsets is equal to the product of the closures. mathematical logic if s is a set of sentences of first - order logic and b is a consistent subset of s, then b is included in a set that is maximal among consistent subsets of s. the special case where s is the set of all first - order sentences in a given signature is weaker, equivalent to the boolean prime ideal theorem ; see the section " weaker forms " below. algebraic topology every connected graph has a spanning tree. equivalently, every nonempty graph has a spanning forest. category theory there are several results in category theory which invoke the axiom of choice for their proof. these results might be weaker than, equivalent to, or stronger than the axiom of choice, depending on the strength of the technical foundations. for example, if one defines categories in terms of sets, that is, as sets of objects and morphisms ( usually called a small category ), or even locally small categories, whose hom - objects are sets, then there is no category of all sets, and so it is difficult for a category - theoretic formulation to apply to all sets. on the other hand, other foundational descriptions of category theory are considerably stronger, and an identical category - theoretic statement of choice may be stronger than the standard formulation, a la class theory, mentioned above. examples of category - theoretic statements which require choice include : every small category has a skeleton. if two small categories are weakly equivalent, then they are equivalent. every continuous functor on a small - complete category which satisfies the appropriate solution set condition has a left - adjoint ( the freyd adjoint functor theorem ). weaker forms there are several weaker statements that are not equivalent to the axiom of choice, but are closely related. one example is the axiom of dependent choice ( dc ). a still weaker example is the axiom of countable choice ( acω or cc ), which states that a choice function exists for any countable set of nonempty sets. these axioms are sufficient for many proofs in elementary mathematical analysis, and are consistent with