order to prevent the other gods from fighting over her. in another version of the myth, hephaestus gave his mother hera a golden throne, but when she sat on it, she became trapped and he refused to let her go until she agreed to give him aphrodite ' s hand in marriage. hephaestus was overjoyed to be married to the goddess of beauty, and forged her beautiful jewelry, including a strophion ( ) known as the ( ), a saltire - shaped undergarment ( usually translated as " girdle " ), which accentuated her breasts and made her even more irresistible to men. such strophia were commonly used in depictions of the near eastern goddesses ishtar and atargatis. attendants aphrodite is almost always accompanied by eros, the god of lust and sexual desire. in his theogony, hesiod describes eros as one of the four original primeval forces born at the beginning of time, but, after the birth of aphrodite from the sea foam, he is joined by himeros and, together, they become aphrodite ' s constant companions. in early greek art, eros and himeros are both shown as idealized handsome youths with wings. the greek lyric poets regarded the power of eros and himeros as dangerous, compulsive, and impossible for anyone to resist. in modern times, eros is often seen as aphrodite ' s son, but this is actually a comparatively late innovation. a scholion on theocritus ' s idylls remarks that the sixth - century bc poet sappho had described eros as the son of aphrodite and uranus, but the first surviving reference to eros as aphrodite ' s son comes from apollonius of rhodes ' s argonautica, written in the third century bc, which makes him the son of aphrodite and ares. later, the romans, who saw venus as a mother goddess, seized on this idea of eros as aphrodite ' s son and popularized it, making it the predominant portrayal in works on mythology until the present day. aphrodite ' s main attendants were the three charites, whom hesiod identifies as the daughters of zeus and eurynome and names as aglaea ( " splendor " ), euphrosyne ( " good cheer " ), and thalia ( "