final was at wimbledon in 1999, where sampras won in straight sets. for both, it was considered a career rejuvenation, as sampras had suffered a string of disappointments in the previous year while agassi was regaining his status as a top - ranked player after winning the french open. sampras forfeited the no. 1 ranking to agassi when injury forced him to withdraw from that year ' s us open, which agassi went on to win. they faced each other twice in the season - ending atp tour world championships, with sampras losing the round - robin match, but winning the final. in the 2000s, they met three more times on the grand slam level offering three memorable contests. in 2000, the top - ranked agassi defeated no. 3 sampras in the semi - finals of the australian open in five sets, which was an important win for agassi who had lost 4 of the previous five matches against sampras. in arguably their most memorable match ever, sampras defeated agassi in the 2001 us open quarterfinals in four sets. there were no breaks of serve during the entire match. reruns of the match are frequently featured on television, especially during us open rain delays, and the match is considered one of the best in history because of the level of play presented by both players. their last meeting was the final of the 2002 us open, which was their third meeting in a us open final, but the first since 1995. the match was also notable because they had defeated several up - and - coming players en route to the final. sampras had defeated no. 3 tommy haas in the fourth round and future no. 1 andy roddick in the quarterfinals, while agassi had defeated no. 1 and defending champion lleyton hewitt in the semi - finals. sampras defeated agassi in four sets. this was the final atp tour singles match of sampras ' s career. agassi vs. chang michael chang was the opponent agassi faced most frequently from all the players other than sampras. they met 22 times on the tour level with agassi leading 15 – 7. chang, unlike most of agassi ' s big rivals, had a playing style similar to his. both players preferred to stay at the baseline with chang being more defensive - minded. the outcome was that most of their meetings were built on long and entertaining rallies. the rivalry began late in the 1980s