. doubleday spent much of his time writing. he published two important works on the civil war : reminiscences of forts sumter and moultrie ( 1876 ), and chancellorsville and gettysburg ( 1882 ), the latter being a volume of the series campaigns of the civil war. theosophy in the summer of 1878, doubleday lived in mendham township, new jersey, and became a prominent member of the theosophical society. when two of the founders of that society, helena blavatsky and henry steel olcott, moved to india at the end of that year, he was constituted as the president of the american body. death doubleday died of heart disease in mendham township on january 26, 1893. doubleday ' s body was laid in state in new york ' s city hall and then was taken to washington by train from mendham, and was buried in arlington national cemetery in arlington county, virginia. he was survived by his wife. baseball although doubleday achieved minor fame as a competent combat general with experience in many important civil war battles, he is more widely known as the supposed inventor of the game of baseball, in elihu phinney ' s cow pasture in cooperstown, new york, in 1839. the mills commission, chaired by abraham g. mills, the fourth president of the national league, was appointed in 1905 to determine the origin of baseball. the committee ' s final report, on december 30, 1907, stated, in part, that " the first scheme for playing baseball, according to the best evidence obtainable to date, was devised by abner doubleday at cooperstown, new york, in 1839. " it concluded by saying, " in the years to come, in the view of the hundreds of thousands of people who are devoted to baseball, and the millions who will be, abner doubleday ' s fame will rest evenly, if not quite as much, upon the fact that he was its inventor... as upon his brilliant and distinguished career as an officer in the federal army. " however, there is considerable evidence to dispute this claim. baseball historian george b. kirsch has described the results of the mills commission as a " myth ". he wrote, " robert henderson, harold seymour, and other scholars have since debunked the doubleday - cooperstown myth, which nonetheless remains powerful in the american imagination because of the efforts of major league baseball and the hall of fame in cooperstown. " at his death, doubleday left