industry abroad, primarily anime, manga and video games, for measures to invite industry experts from abroad to come to japan to work, and to link with the tourism sector to help foreign fans of manga and anime visit sites across the country associated with particular manga stories. the federation seeks on quadrupling the sales of japanese content in overseas markets within the upcoming 10 years. a 2018 survey conducted in 20 countries and territories using a sample consisting of 6, 600 respondents held by dentsu revealed that 34 % of all surveyed people found excellency in anime and manga more than other japanese cultural or technological aspects which makes this mass japanese media the 3rd most liked " japanese thing ", below japanese cuisine ( 34. 6 % ) and japanese robotics ( 35. 1 % ). the advertisement company views anime as a profitable tool for marketing campaigns in foreign countries due to its popularity and high reception. anime plays a role in driving tourism to japan. in surveys held by statista between 2019 and 2020, 24. 2 % of tourists from the united states, 7. 7 % of tourists from china and 6. 1 % of tourists from south korea said they were motivated to visit japan because of japanese popular culture. in a 2021 survey held by crunchyroll market research, 94 % of gen - z ' s and 73 % of the general population said that they are familiar with anime. fan response anime clubs gave rise to anime conventions in the 1990s with the " anime boom ", a period marked by anime ' s increased global popularity. these conventions are dedicated to anime and manga and include elements like cosplay contests and industry talk panels. cosplay, a portmanteau of " costume play ", is not unique to anime and has become popular in contests and masquerades at anime conventions. japanese culture and words have entered english usage through the popularity of the medium, including otaku, an unflattering japanese term commonly used in english to denote an obsessive fan of anime and / or manga. another word that has arisen describing obsessive fans in the united states is wapanese meaning ' white individuals who want to be japanese ', or later known as weeaboo or weeb, individuals who demonstrate an obsession with japanese anime subculture, a term that originated from abusive content posted on the website 4chan. org. while originally derogatory, the terms " otaku " and " weeb " have been reappropriated by the anime fandom overtime and today are used by some fans to refer