one of the few animals on the farm who is not a pig but can read. she survives, as does benjamin, by eschewing politics. the puppies – offspring of jessie and bluebell, the puppies were taken away at birth by napoleon and raised by him to serve as his powerful security force. moses – the raven, " mr. jones ' s especial pet, was a spy and a tale - bearer, but he was also a clever talker ". initially following mrs. jones into exile, he reappears several years later and resumes his role of talking but not working. he regales animal farm ' s denizens with tales of a wondrous place beyond the clouds called " sugarcandy mountain, that happy country where we poor animals shall rest forever from our labours! " orwell portrays established religion as " the black raven of priestcraft – promising pie in the sky when you die, and faithfully serving whoever happens to be in power ". his preaching to the animals heartens them, and napoleon allows moses to reside at the farm " with an allowance of a gill of beer daily ", akin to how stalin brought back the russian orthodox church during the second world war. the sheep – they are not given individual names or personalities. they show limited understanding of animalism and the political atmosphere of the farm, yet nonetheless, they are the voice of blind conformity as they bleat their support of napoleon ' s ideals with jingles during his speeches and meetings with snowball. their constant bleating of " four legs good, two legs bad " was used as a device to drown out any opposition or alternative views from snowball, much as stalin used hysterical crowds to drown out trotsky. towards the end of the book, squealer ( the propagandist ) trains the sheep to alter their slogan to " four legs good, two legs better ", which they dutifully do. the hens – unnamed. the hens are promised at the start of the revolution that they will get to keep their eggs, which are stolen from them under mr. jones. however, their eggs are soon taken from them under the premise of buying goods from outside animal farm. the hens are among the first to rebel, albeit unsuccessfully, against napoleon. they are brutally suppressed through starvation. the cows – unnamed. the cows are enticed into the revolution by promises that their milk will not be stolen but can be used to raise their calves. their milk