exactly the same effect on every experiment unit. the assumption of unit treatment additivity usually cannot be directly falsified, according to cox and kempthorne. however, many consequences of treatment - unit additivity can be falsified. for a randomized experiment, the assumption of unit - treatment additivity implies that the variance is constant for all treatments. therefore, by contraposition, a necessary condition for unit - treatment additivity is that the variance is constant. the use of unit treatment additivity and randomization is similar to the design - based inference that is standard in finite - population survey sampling. derived linear model kempthorne uses the randomization - distribution and the assumption of unit treatment additivity to produce a derived linear model, very similar to the textbook model discussed previously. the test statistics of this derived linear model are closely approximated by the test statistics of an appropriate normal linear model, according to approximation theorems and simulation studies. however, there are differences. for example, the randomization - based analysis results in a small but ( strictly ) negative correlation between the observations. in the randomization - based analysis, there is no assumption of a normal distribution and certainly no assumption of independence. on the contrary, the observations are dependent! the randomization - based analysis has the disadvantage that its exposition involves tedious algebra and extensive time. since the randomization - based analysis is complicated and is closely approximated by the approach using a normal linear model, most teachers emphasize the normal linear model approach. few statisticians object to model - based analysis of balanced randomized experiments. statistical models for observational data however, when applied to data from non - randomized experiments or observational studies, model - based analysis lacks the warrant of randomization. for observational data, the derivation of confidence intervals must use subjective models, as emphasized by ronald fisher and his followers. in practice, the estimates of treatment - effects from observational studies generally are often inconsistent. in practice, " statistical models " and observational data are useful for suggesting hypotheses that should be treated very cautiously by the public. summary of assumptions the normal - model based anova analysis assumes the independence, normality, and homogeneity of variances of the residuals. the randomization - based analysis assumes only the homogeneity of the variances of the residuals ( as a consequence of unit - treatment additivity ) and uses the randomization procedure of the experiment. both these analyses require homoscedastic