one also have an even number of neutrons. beryllium is the single exception to both rules, due to its low atomic number. all of the alkali metals except lithium and caesium have at least one naturally occurring radioisotope : sodium - 22 and sodium - 24 are trace radioisotopes produced cosmogenically, potassium - 40 and rubidium - 87 have very long half - lives and thus occur naturally, and all isotopes of francium are radioactive. caesium was also thought to be radioactive in the early 20th century, although it has no naturally occurring radioisotopes. ( francium had not been discovered yet at that time. ) the natural long - lived radioisotope of potassium, potassium - 40, makes up about 0. 012 % of natural potassium, and thus natural potassium is weakly radioactive. this natural radioactivity became a basis for a mistaken claim of the discovery for element 87 ( the next alkali metal after caesium ) in 1925. natural rubidium is similarly slightly radioactive, with 27. 83 % being the long - lived radioisotope rubidium - 87. caesium - 137, with a half - life of 30. 17 years, is one of the two principal medium - lived fission products, along with strontium - 90, which are responsible for most of the radioactivity of spent nuclear fuel after several years of cooling, up to several hundred years after use. it constitutes most of the radioactivity still left from the chernobyl accident. caesium - 137 undergoes high - energy beta decay and eventually becomes stable barium - 137. it is a strong emitter of gamma radiation. caesium - 137 has a very low rate of neutron capture and cannot be feasibly disposed of in this way, but must be allowed to decay. caesium - 137 has been used as a tracer in hydrologic studies, analogous to the use of tritium. small amounts of caesium - 134 and caesium - 137 were released into the environment during nearly all nuclear weapon tests and some nuclear accidents, most notably the goiania accident and the chernobyl disaster. as of 2005, caesium - 137 is the principal source of radiation in the zone of alienation around the chernobyl nuclear power plant. its chemical properties as one of the alkali metals make it one of the most problematic of the short - to - medium - lifetime fission products because it easily moves and spreads