characteristics in their adult state ; gills slits are present and the eyes are unlidded. a unique feature is their ability to feed by suction, depressing either the left side of their lower jaw or the right. the males excavate nests, persuade females to lay their egg strings inside them, and guard them. as well as breathing with lungs, they respire through the many folds in their thin skin, which has capillaries close to the surface. the suborder salamandroidea contains the advanced salamanders. they differ from the cryptobranchids by having fused prearticular bones in the lower jaw, and by using internal fertilisation. in salamandrids, the male deposits a bundle of sperm, the spermatophore, and the female picks it up and inserts it into her cloaca where the sperm is stored until the eggs are laid. the largest family in this group is plethodontidae, the lungless salamanders, which includes 60 % of all salamander species. the family salamandridae includes the true salamanders and the name " newt " is given to members of its subfamily pleurodelinae. the third suborder, sirenoidea, contains the four species of sirens, which are in a single family, sirenidae. members of this order are eel - like aquatic salamanders with much reduced forelimbs and no hind limbs. some of their features are primitive while others are derived. fertilisation is likely to be external as sirenids lack the cloacal glands used by male salamandrids to produce spermatophores and the females lack spermathecae for sperm storage. despite this, the eggs are laid singly, a behaviour not conducive for external fertilisation. gymnophiona the order gymnophiona ( from the greek gymnos meaning " naked " and ophis meaning " serpent " ) or apoda comprises the caecilians. these are long, cylindrical, limbless animals with a snake - or worm - like form. the adults vary in length from 8 to 75 centimetres ( 3 to 30 inches ) with the exception of thomson ' s caecilian ( caecilia thompsoni ), which can reach. a caecilian ' s skin has a large number of transverse folds and in some species contains tiny embedded dermal scales. it has rudimentary eyes covered in skin, which are probably limited to