##lthy extreme, such that it either harms the altruistic person or the person ' s well - intentioned actions cause more harm than good. the term " pathological altruism " was popularised by the book pathological altruism. examples include depression and burnout seen in healthcare professionals, an unhealthy focus on others to the detriment of one ' s own needs, hoarding of animals, and ineffective philanthropic and social programs that ultimately worsen the situations they are meant to aid. sociology " sociologists have long been concerned with how to build the good society ". the structure of our societies and how individuals come to exhibit charitable, philanthropic, and other pro - social, altruistic actions for the common good is a commonly researched topic within the field. the american sociology association ( asa ) acknowledges public sociology saying, " the intrinsic scientific, policy, and public relevance of this field of investigation in helping to construct ' good societies ' is unquestionable ". this type of sociology seeks contributions that aid popular and theoretical understandings of what motivates altruism and how it is organized, and promotes an altruistic focus in order to benefit the world and people it studies. how altruism is framed, organized, carried out, and what motivates it at the group level is an area of focus that sociologists investigate in order to contribute back to the groups it studies and " build the good society ". the motivation of altruism is also the focus of study ; for example, one study links the occurrence of moral outrage to altruistic compensation of victims. studies show that generosity in laboratory and in online experiments is contagious – people imitate the generosity they observe in others. religious viewpoints most, if not all, of the world ' s religions promote altruism as a very important moral value. buddhism, christianity, hinduism, islam, jainism, judaism, and sikhism, etc., place particular emphasis on altruistic morality. buddhism altruism figures prominently in buddhism. love and compassion are components of all forms of buddhism, and are focused on all beings equally : love is the wish that all beings be happy, and compassion is the wish that all beings be free from suffering. " many illnesses can be cured by the one medicine of love and compassion. these qualities are the ultimate source of human happiness, and the need for them lies at the very core of our being " ( dalai lama ). the notion of altruism is modified