scheduling software, and software to perform various calculations pertaining to astronomical phenomena. amateur astronomers often like to keep records of their observations, which usually takes the form of an observing log. observing logs typically record details about which objects were observed and when, as well as describing the details that were seen. sketching is sometimes used within logs, and photographic records of observations have also been used in recent times. the information gathered is used to help studies and interactions between amateur astronomers in yearly gatherings. although not professional information or credible, it is a way for the hobby lovers to share their new sightings and experiences. the popularity of imaging among amateurs has led to large numbers of web sites being written by individuals about their images and equipment. much of the social interaction of amateur astronomy occurs on mailing lists or discussion groups. discussion group servers host numerous astronomy lists. a great deal of the commerce of amateur astronomy, the buying and selling of equipment, occurs online. many amateurs use online tools to plan their nightly observing sessions, using tools such as the clear sky chart. common techniques while a number of interesting celestial objects are readily identified by the naked eye, sometimes with the aid of a star chart, many others are so faint or inconspicuous that technical means are necessary to locate them. although many methods are used in amateur astronomy, most are variations of a few specific techniques. star hopping star hopping is a method often used by amateur astronomers with low - tech equipment such as binoculars or a manually driven telescope. it involves the use of maps ( or memory ) to locate known landmark stars, and " hopping " between them, often with the aid of a finderscope. because of its simplicity, star hopping is a very common method for finding objects that are close to naked - eye stars. more advanced methods of locating objects in the sky include telescope mounts with setting circles, which assist with pointing telescopes to positions in the sky that are known to contain objects of interest, and goto telescopes, which are fully automated telescopes that are capable of locating objects on demand ( having first been calibrated ). mobile apps the advent of mobile applications for use in smartphones has led to the creation of many dedicated apps. these apps allow any user to easily locate celestial objects of interest by simply pointing the smartphone device in that direction in the sky. these apps make use of the inbuilt hardware in the phone, such as gps location and gyroscope. useful information about the pointed object like celestial coordinates, the name of the object, its constellation, etc. are