794, he rebuilt the monastery and endowed it with a library of 200 volumes. it was not uncommon for the merovingian, carolingian, or later kings to make laymen abbots of monasteries ; the layman would often use the income of the monastery as his own and leave the monks a bare minimum for the necessary expenses of the foundation. angilbert, in contrast, spent a great deal rebuilding saint - riquier ; when he completed it, charlemagne spent easter of the year 800 there. in keeping with carolingian policies, angilbert established a school at saint - riquier to educate the local boys. poetry angilbert ' s latin poems reveal the culture and tastes of a man of the world, enjoying the closest intimacy with the imperial family. charlemagne and the other men at court were known by affectionate and jesting nicknames. charlemagne was referred to as " david ", a reference to the biblical king david. angilbert was nicknamed " homer " because he wrote poetry, and was the probable author of an epic, of which the fragment which has been preserved describes the life at the palace and the meeting between charlemagne and leo iii. it is a mosaic from virgil, ovid, lucan and venantius fortunatus, composed in the manner of einhard ' s use of suetonius. of the shorter poems, besides the greeting to pippin on his return from the campaign against the avars ( 796 ), an epistle to david ( i. e., charlemagne ) incidentally reveals a delightful picture of the poet living with his children in a house surrounded by pleasant gardens near the emperor ' s palace. the reference to bertha, however, is distant and respectful, her name occurring merely on the list of princesses to whom he sends his salutation. the poem de conversione saxonum has been attributed to angilbert. angilbert ' s poems were published by ernst dummler in the monumenta germaniae historica. for criticisms of this edition, see ludwig traube in max roediger ' s schriften fur germanische philologie ( 1888 ). notes references.. attribution further reading a. molinier, les sources de l ' histoire de france. 8th - century births year of birth unknown 814 deaths medieval latin poets saints from the carolingian empire 8th - century writers in latin 8th - century frankish writers