zero or near to it. peter marshall states that " anarcho - capitalism overlooks the egalitarian implications of traditional individualist anarchists like spooner and tucker ". stephanie silberstein states that " while spooner was no free - market capitalist, nor an anarcho - capitalist, he was not as opposed to capitalism as most socialists were. " in " the spooner - tucker doctrine : an economist ' s view ", rothbard explained his disagreements. rothbard disagreed with tucker that it would cause the money supply to increase because he believed that the money supply in a free market would be self - regulating. if it were not, then rothbard argued inflation would occur so it is not necessarily desirable to increase the money supply in the first place. rothbard claimed that tucker was wrong to think that interest would disappear regardless because he believed people, in general, do not wish to lend their money to others without compensation, so there is no reason why this would change just because banking was unregulated. tucker held a labor theory of value and thought that in a free market people would be paid in proportion to how much labor they exerted and that exploitation or usury was taking place if they were not. as tucker explained in state socialism and anarchism, his theory was that unregulated banking would cause more money to be available and that this would allow the proliferation of new businesses which would, in turn, raise demand for labor. this led tucker to believe that the labor theory of value would be vindicated and equal amounts of labor would receive equal pay. as an austrian school economist, rothbard did not agree with the labor theory and believed that prices of goods and services are proportional to marginal utility rather than to labor amounts in the free market. as opposed to tucker he did not think that there was anything exploitative about people receiving an income according to how much " buyers of their services value their labor " or what that labor produces. without the labor theory of value, some argue that 19th - century individualist anarchists approximate the modern movement of anarcho - capitalism, although this has been contested or rejected. as economic theory changed, the popularity of the labor theory of classical economics was superseded by the subjective theory of value of neoclassical economics and rothbard combined mises ' austrian school of economics with the absolutist views of human rights and rejection of the state he had absorbed from studying the individualist american anarchists of the 19th century such as tucker and spooner. in the mid - 1950s