the aldine press was the printing office started by aldus manutius in 1494 in venice, from which were issued the celebrated aldine editions of the classics ( latin and greek masterpieces, plus a few more modern works ). the first book that was dated and printed under his name appeared in 1495. the aldine press is famous in the history of typography, among other things, for the introduction of italics. the press was the first to issue printed books in the small octavo size, similar to that of a modern paperback, and like that intended for portability and ease of reading. according to curt f. buhler, the press issued 132 books during twenty years of activity under aldus manutius. after aldus ’ s death in 1515, the press was continued by his wife maria and her father, andrea torresani ( ), until his son, paulus manutius ( 1512 – 1574 ) took over. his grandson aldus manutius the younger then ran the firm until his death in 1597. today, the antique books printed by the aldine press in venice are referred to as aldines, as are the letterforms and typefaces pioneered by the aldine press. the press enjoyed a monopoly of works printed in greek in the republic of venice, effectively giving it copyright protection. protection outside the republic was more problematic, however. the firm maintained an agency in paris, but its commercial success was affected by many counterfeit editions, produced in lyons and elsewhere. beginnings aldus manutius, the founder of the aldine press, was originally a humanist scholar and a teacher. manutius met andrea torresani, who had acquired publishing equipment from the widow of nicholas jenson. the ownership of the press was originally split in two, with one half belonging to pier francesco barbarigo, the nephew of agostino barbarigo, who was the doge at the time, and the other half belonging to andrea torresani. manutius owned one fifth of torresani ' s share of the press. manutius was mainly in charge of the scholarship and editing, leaving financial and operating concerns to barbarigo and torresani. in 1496, aldus established his own location of the press in a building called the thermae in the sestiere di san polo on the campo sant ' agostin, today numero civico ( house number ) 2343 san polo on the calle della chiesa ( alley of