an acropolis was the settlement of an upper part of an ancient greek city, especially a citadel, and frequently a hill with precipitous sides, mainly chosen for purposes of defense. the term is typically used to refer to the acropolis of athens, yet every greek city had an acropolis of its own. acropolises were used as religious centers and places of worship, forts, and places in which the royal and high - status resided. acropolises became the nuclei of large cities of classical ancient times, and served as important centers of a community. some well - known acropolises have become the centers of tourism in present - day, and, especially, the acropolis of athens has been a revolutionary center for the studies of ancient greece since the mycenaean period. many of them have become a source of revenue for greece, and represent some great technology during the period. origin an acropolis is defined by the greek definition of, ; from ( ) or ( ) meaning “ highest ; edge ; extremity ”, and ( ) meaning “ city. ” the plural of ( ) is, also commonly as and, and in greek. this word was first used in the 14th century bce, in the context of mycenaean kings and community. the term acropolis is also used to describe the central complex of overlapping structures, such as plazas and pyramids, in many maya cities, including tikal and copan. acropolis is also the term used by archaeologists and historians for the urban castro culture settlements located in northwestern iberian hilltops. it is primarily associated with the greek cities of athens, argos ( with larisa ), thebes ( with cadmea ), corinth ( with its acrocorinth ), and rhodes ( with its acropolis of lindos ). it may also be applied generically to all such citadels including rome, carthage, jerusalem, celtic bratislava, asia minor, or castle rock in edinburgh. an example in ireland is the rock of cashel. in central italy, many small rural communes still cluster at the base of a fortified habitation known as of the commune. other parts of the world have developed other names for the high citadel, or, which often have reinforced a naturally strong site. because of this, many cultures have included acropolises in their societies, however, do not use the same name for them. differing acropoleis the acropolis of a city was used in many ways, with regards to ancient time and