, convened by emperor constantine to ensure church unity, declared arianism to be a heresy. according to everett ferguson, " the great majority of christians had no clear views about the nature of the trinity and they did not understand what was at stake in the issues that surrounded it. " arianism is also used to refer to other nontrinitarian theological systems of the 4th century, which regarded jesus christ — the son of god, the logos — as either a begotten creature of a similar or different substance to that of the father, but not identical ( as homoiousian and anomoeanism ) or as neither uncreated nor created in the sense other beings are created ( as in semi - arianism ). origin some early christians that were counted among orthodoxy denied the eternal generation of the son, seeing the son as being begotten in time. these include tertullian and justin martyr. tertullian is considered a pre - arian. among the other church fathers, origen was accused of arianism for using terms like " second god ", and patriarch dionysius of alexandria was denounced at rome for saying that son is a work and creature of god. however, the subordinationism of origen is not identical to arianism, and it has been generally viewed as closer to the nicene - constantinopolitan view. controversy over arianism arose in the late 3rd century and persisted throughout most of the 4th century. it involved most church members — from simple believers, priests, and monks to bishops, emperors, and members of rome ' s imperial family. two roman emperors, constantius ii and valens, became arians or semi - arians, as did prominent gothic, vandal, and lombard warlords both before and after the fall of the western roman empire. the antipopes felix ii and ursinus were arian, and pope liberius was forced to sign the arian creed of sirmium of 357 although the letter says he willingly agreed with arianism. such a deep controversy within the early church during this period of its development could not have materialized without significant historical influences providing a basis for the arian doctrines. arius had been a pupil of lucian of antioch at lucian ' s private academy in antioch and inherited from him a modified form of the teachings of paul of samosata. arius taught that god the father and the son of god did not always exist together eternally. condemnation by the council of nicaea emperor constantine the great summoned the first council