co - catalysts. methylaluminoxane is a co - catalyst for ziegler – natta olefin polymerization to produce vinyl polymers such as polyethene. aqueous aluminium ions ( such as aqueous aluminium sulfate ) are used to treat against fish parasites such as gyrodactylus salaris. in many vaccines, certain aluminium salts serve as an immune adjuvant ( immune response booster ) to allow the protein in the vaccine to achieve sufficient potency as an immune stimulant. until 2004, most of the adjuvants used in vaccines were aluminium - adjuvanted. biology despite its widespread occurrence in the earth ' s crust, aluminium has no known function in biology. at ph 6 – 9 ( relevant for most natural waters ), aluminium precipitates out of water as the hydroxide and is hence not available ; most elements behaving this way have no biological role or are toxic. aluminium sulfate has an ld50 of 6207 mg / kg ( oral, mouse ), which corresponds to 435 grams ( about one pound ) for a person. toxicity aluminium is classified as a non - carcinogen by the united states department of health and human services. a review published in 1988 said that there was little evidence that normal exposure to aluminium presents a risk to healthy adult, and a 2014 multi - element toxicology review was unable to find deleterious effects of aluminium consumed in amounts not greater than 40 mg / day per kg of body mass. most aluminium consumed will leave the body in feces ; most of the small part of it that enters the bloodstream, will be excreted via urine ; nevertheless some aluminium does pass the blood - brain barrier and is lodged preferentially in the brains of alzheimer ' s patients. evidence published in 1989 indicates that, for alzheimer ' s patients, aluminium may act by electrostatically crosslinking proteins, thus down - regulating genes in the superior temporal gyrus. effects aluminium, although rarely, can cause vitamin d - resistant osteomalacia, erythropoietin - resistant microcytic anemia, and central nervous system alterations. people with kidney insufficiency are especially at a risk. chronic ingestion of hydrated aluminium silicates ( for excess gastric acidity control ) may result in aluminium binding to intestinal contents and increased elimination of other metals, such as iron or zinc ; sufficiently high doses ( > 50 g / day ) can cause anemia. during the