century on arabic morphology and phonology in works such as kitab al - munsif, kitab al - muhtasab, and. ibn mada ' of cordoba ( 1116 – 1196 ) realized the overhaul of arabic grammar first proposed by al - jahiz 200 years prior. the maghrebi lexicographer ibn manzur compiled lisan al - ʿarab (, " tongue of arabs " ), a major reference dictionary of arabic, in 1290. neo - arabic charles ferguson ' s koine theory claims that the modern arabic dialects collectively descend from a single military koine that sprang up during the islamic conquests ; this view has been challenged in recent times. ahmad al - jallad proposes that there were at least two considerably distinct types of arabic on the eve of the conquests : northern and central ( al - jallad 2009 ). the modern dialects emerged from a new contact situation produced following the conquests. instead of the emergence of a single or multiple koines, the dialects contain several sedimentary layers of borrowed and areal features, which they absorbed at different points in their linguistic histories. according to veersteegh and bickerton, colloquial arabic dialects arose from pidginized arabic formed from contact between arabs and conquered peoples. pidginization and subsequent creolization among arabs and arabized peoples could explain relative morphological and phonological simplicity of vernacular arabic compared to classical and msa. in around the 11th and 12th centuries in al - andalus, the zajal and muwashah poetry forms developed in the dialectical arabic of cordoba and the maghreb. nahda the nahda was a cultural and especially literary renaissance of the 19th century in which writers sought " to fuse arabic and european forms of expression. " according to james l. gelvin, " nahda writers attempted to simplify the arabic language and script so that it might be accessible to a wider audience. " in the wake of the industrial revolution and european hegemony and colonialism, pioneering arabic presses, such as the amiri press established by muhammad ali ( 1819 ), dramatically changed the diffusion and consumption of arabic literature and publications. rifa ' a al - tahtawi proposed the establishment of madrasat al - alsun in 1836 and led a translation campaign that highlighted the need for a lexical injection in arabic, to suit concepts of the industrial and post - industrial age ( such as sayara ' automobile ' or bakhira ' steamship ' ).