banat, and wallachia were ceded to austria. this failure was a disappointment for ahmed as the treaty led to istanbul ' s economy suffering from increased inflation. nevsehirli damat ibrahim pasha who was the second leading figure of the empire after ahmed had joined the morea campaign in 1715, and was appointed as the city of nish ' s minister of finance the following year. this post helped him realize the downturn of the state ' s finances, which led him to avoid war as much as possible during his vizierate. ibrahim pasha ' s policy of peace suited ahmed well since he had no wish to lead any military campaigns, in addition to the fact that his interest in art and culture made him reluctant to leave his istanbul. character of ahmed ' s rule while shooting competitions were held in okmeydanı, istanbul with the idea of increasing the morale of the soldiers and the people, a new warship was launched in tersane - i amir. he tried three grand viziers at short intervals. instead of hasan pasha, he appointed kalaylikoz ahmed pasha on 24 september 1704, and baltacı mehmed pasha on 25 december 1704. in 1707, a conspiracy led by eyuplu ali aga was unearthed to bring the sultan off the throne. what resulted were that necks were ordered to be cut in front of the bab - i - humayun. ahmed iii left the finances of the ottoman empire in a flourishing condition, which had remarkably been obtained without excessive taxation or extortionate procedures. he was a cultivated patron of literature and art, and it was in his time that the first printing press was authorized to use either the arabic or turkish languages ; it was set up in istanbul, and operated by ibrahim muteferrika ( while the printing press had been introduced to constantinople in 1480, all published works before 1729 were in greek, armenian, or hebrew ). it was in his reign that an important change in the government of the danubian principalities was introduced : previously, the porte had appointed hospodars, usually native moldavian and wallachian boyars, to administer those provinces ; after the russian campaign of 1711, during which peter the great found an ally in moldavia prince dimitrie cantemir, the porte began overtly deputizing phanariote greeks in that region, and extended the system to wallachia after prince stefan cantacuzino established links with prince eugene of savoy. the phanariotes constituted