##est. the identity of ambrosius ' s last mentioned enemy, vitalinus, is somewhat obscure. various manuscripts of the historia and translations also render his name as " guitolin, " " guitolini, " and " guitholini. " he is mentioned in chapter 49 as one of four sons of gloiu and co - founder of the city of gloucester. no other background information is given. there are theories that gloiu is also the father of vortigern, but the genealogy is obscure and no supporting primary text can be found. there have been further attempts to identify vitalinus with a pro - vortigern or anti - roman faction in britain, opposed to the rise of the romano - british ambrosius. however, this is rendered problematic since vitalinus seems to also have a romano - british name. the traditional view of pro - roman and pro - briton factions active in this period might oversimplify a more complex situation. according to william of malmesbury ambrosius appears briefly in the gesta regum anglorum ( " deeds of the kings of the english " ) by william of malmesbury. despite its name, the work attempted to reconstruct british history in general by drawing together the varying accounts of gildas, bede, nennius, and various chroniclers. the work features ambrosius as the apparent employer of arthur. the relevant passage has been translated as follows : william swiftly shifts attention from ambrosius to arthur, and proceeds to narrate arthur ' s supposed victory in the battle of badon. the narrative is probably the first to connect ambrosius and arthur. william had to reconcile the accounts of gildas and bede who implied that ambrosius was connected to the battle, and that of nennius which clearly stated that it was arthur who was connected to the battle. he solved the apparent discrepancy by connecting both of them to it. ambrosius as the king of the britons and arthur as his most prominent general and true victor of the battle. according to geoffrey of monmouth ambrosius aurelianus appears in later pseudo - chronicle tradition beginning with geoffrey of monmouth ' s historia regum britanniae with the slightly garbled name aurelius ambrosius, now presented as son of a king constantine. king constantine ' s eldest son constans is murdered at vortigern ' s instigation, and the two remaining sons ( ambrosius and uther,