policy. finally, the confederation ' s lack of coercive power reduced the likelihood for profit to be made by political means, thus potential rulers were uninspired to seek power. when the war ended in 1783, certain special interests had incentives to create a new " merchant state, " much like the british state people had rebelled against. in particular, holders of war scrip and land speculators wanted a central government to pay off scrip at face value and to legalize western land holdings with disputed claims. also, manufacturers wanted a high tariff as a barrier to foreign goods, but competition among states made this impossible without a central government. legitimacy of closing down two prominent political leaders in the confederation, john jay of new york and thomas burke of north carolina believed that " the authority of the congress rested on the prior acts of the several states, to which the states gave their voluntary consent, and until those obligations were fulfilled, neither nullification of the authority of congress, exercising its due powers, nor secession from the compact itself was consistent with the terms of their original pledges. " according to article xiii of the confederation, any alteration had to be approved unanimously : [ t ] he articles of this confederation shall be inviolably observed by every state, and the union shall be perpetual ; nor shall any alteration at any time hereafter be made in any of them ; unless such alteration be agreed to in a congress of the united states, and be afterwards confirmed by the legislatures of every state. on the other hand, article vii of the proposed constitution stated that it would become effective after ratification by a mere nine states, without unanimity : the ratification of the conventions of nine states, shall be sufficient for the establishment of this constitution between the states so ratifying the same. the apparent tension between these two provisions was addressed at the time, and remains a topic of scholarly discussion. in 1788, james madison remarked ( in federalist no. 40 ) that the issue had become moot : " as this objection … has been in a manner waived by those who have criticised the powers of the convention, i dismiss it without further observation. " nevertheless, it is a historical and legal question whether opponents of the constitution could have plausibly attacked the constitution on that ground. at the time, there were state legislators who argued that the constitution was not an alteration of the articles of confederation, but rather would be a complete replacement so the unanimity rule did not apply. moreover, the confederation had proven woefully inadequate and therefore