##ment ( constitution ) for aruba ' s status aparte as an autonomous state within the kingdom of the netherlands, prompted by the efforts of henny eman, a noted aruban politician. by 1954, the charter of the kingdom of the netherlands was established, providing a framework for relations between aruba and the rest of the kingdom. that created the netherlands antilles, which united all of the dutch colonies in the caribbean into one administrative structure. many arubans were unhappy with the arrangement, however, as the new policy was perceived as being dominated by curacao. in 1972, at a conference in suriname, betico croes, a politician from aruba, proposed the creation of a dutch commonwealth of four states : aruba, the netherlands, suriname, and the netherlands antilles, each to have its own nationality. backed by his newly created party, the movimiento electoral di pueblo, croes sought greater autonomy for aruba, with the long - term goal of independence, adopting the trappings of an independent state in 1976 with the creation of a flag and national anthem. in march 1977, a referendum was held with the support of the united nations. 82 % of the participants voted for complete independence from the netherlands. tensions mounted as croes stepped up the pressure on the dutch government by organising a general strike in 1977. croes later met with dutch prime minister joop den uyl, with the two sides agreeing to assign the institute of social studies in the hague to prepare a study for independence, entitled aruba en onafhankelijkheid, achtergronden, modaliteiten, en mogelijkheden ; een rapport in eerste aanleg ( aruba and independence, backgrounds, modalities, and opportunities ; a preliminary report ) ( 1978 ). autonomy in march 1983, aruba reached an official agreement within the kingdom for its independence, to be developed in a series of steps as the crown granted increasing autonomy. in august 1985, aruba drafted a constitution that was unanimously approved. on 1 january 1986, after elections were held for its first parliament, aruba seceded from the netherlands antilles, officially becoming a country of the kingdom of the netherlands, with full independence planned for 1996. however, croes was seriously injured in a traffic accident in 1985, slipping into a coma. he died in 1986, never seeing the enacting of status aparte for aruba for which he had worked over many years. after his death,