is defined within a territorial area of in the balkan peninsula. it is informally divided into three regions, the northern, central and southern regions. since its declaration of independence in 1912, albania has reformed its internal organization 21 times. presently, the primary administrative units are the twelve constituent counties ( ), which hold equal status under the law. counties had previously been used in the 1950s and were recreated on 31 july 2000 to unify the 36 districts ( ) of that time. the largest county in albania by population is tirana county with over 800, 000 people. the smallest county, by population, is gjirokaster county with over 70, 000 people. the largest in the county, by area, is korce county encompassing of the southeast of albania. the smallest county, by area, is durres county with an area of in the west of albania. the counties are made up of 61 second - level divisions known as municipalities ( ). the municipalities are the first level of local governance, responsible for local needs and law enforcement. they unified and simplified the previous system of urban and rural municipalities or communes ( ) in 2015. for smaller issues of local government, the municipalities are organized into 373 administrative units ( / ). there are also 2980 villages ( ), neighborhoods or wards ( ), and localities ( ) previously used as administrative units. economy the transition from a socialist planned economy to a capitalist mixed economy in albania has been largely successful. the country has a developing mixed economy classified by the world bank as an upper - middle income economy. in 2016, it had the fourth lowest unemployment rate in the balkans with an estimated value of 14. 7 %. its largest trading partners are italy, greece, china, spain, kosovo and the united states. the lek ( all ) is the country ' s currency and is pegged at approximately 132. 51 lek per euro. the cities of tirana and durres constitute the economic and financial heart of albania due to their high population, modern infrastructure and strategic geographical location. the country ' s most important infrastructure facilities take course through both of the cities, connecting the north to the south as well as the west to the east. among the largest companies are the petroleum taci oil, albpetrol, armo and kastrati, the mineral albchrome, the cement antea, the investment balfin group and the technology albtelecom, vodafone, telekom albania and others. in 2012, albania ' s gdp per capita stood at 30