of vultures. to thank him, the shepherd built apollo a temple under the name vulturius. god of music immediately after his birth, apollo demanded a lyre and invented the paean, thus becoming the god of music. as the divine singer, he is the patron of poets, singers and musicians. the invention of string music is attributed to him. plato said that the innate ability of humans to take delight in music, rhythm and harmony is the gift of apollo and the muses. according to socrates, ancient greeks believed that apollo is the god who directs the harmony and makes all things move together, both for the gods and the humans. for this reason, he was called homopolon before the homo was replaced by a. apollo ' s harmonious music delivered people from their pain, and hence, like dionysus, he is also called the liberator. the swans, which were considered to be the most musical among the birds, were believed to be the " singers of apollo ". they are apollo ' s sacred birds and acted as his vehicle during his travel to hyperborea. aelian says that when the singers would sing hymns to apollo, the swans would join the chant in unison. among the pythagoreans, the study of mathematics and music were connected to the worship of apollo, their principal deity. their belief was that music purifies the soul, just as medicine purifies the body. they also believed that music was delegated to the same mathematical laws of harmony as the mechanics of the cosmos, evolving into an idea known as the music of the spheres. apollo appears as the companion of the muses, and as musagetes ( " leader of muses " ) he leads them in dance. they spend their time on parnassus, which is one of their sacred places. apollo is also the lover of the muses and by them he became the father of famous musicians like orpheus and linus. apollo is often found delighting the immortal gods with his songs and music on the lyre. in his role as the god of banquets, he was always present to play music at weddings of the gods, like the marriage of eros and psyche, peleus and thetis. he is a frequent guest of the bacchanalia, and many ancient ceramics depict him being at ease amidst the maenads and satyrs. apollo also participated in musical contests when challenged by others. he was the victor in all those contests, but he tended