c2 ). observations by the european space agency ' s integral satellite may explain the origin of a giant antimatter cloud surrounding the galactic center. the observations show that the cloud is asymmetrical and matches the pattern of x - ray binaries ( binary star systems containing black holes or neutron stars ), mostly on one side of the galactic center. while the mechanism is not fully understood, it is likely to involve the production of electron – positron pairs, as ordinary matter gains kinetic energy while falling into a stellar remnant. antimatter may exist in relatively large amounts in far - away galaxies due to cosmic inflation in the primordial time of the universe. antimatter galaxies, if they exist, are expected to have the same chemistry and absorption and emission spectra as normal - matter galaxies, and their astronomical objects would be observationally identical, making them difficult to distinguish. nasa is trying to determine if such galaxies exist by looking for x - ray and gamma ray signatures of annihilation events in colliding superclusters. in october 2017, scientists working on the base experiment at cern reported a measurement of the antiproton magnetic moment to a precision of 1. 5 parts per billion. it is consistent with the most precise measurement of the proton magnetic moment ( also made by base in 2014 ), which supports the hypothesis of cpt symmetry. this measurement represents the first time that a property of antimatter is known more precisely than the equivalent property in matter. antimatter quantum interferometry has been first demonstrated in 2018 in the positron laboratory ( l - ness ) of rafael ferragut in como ( italy ), by a group led by marco giammarchi. natural production positrons are produced naturally in β + decays of naturally occurring radioactive isotopes ( for example, potassium - 40 ) and in interactions of gamma quanta ( emitted by radioactive nuclei ) with matter. antineutrinos are another kind of antiparticle created by natural radioactivity ( β− decay ). many different kinds of antiparticles are also produced by ( and contained in ) cosmic rays. in january 2011, research by the american astronomical society discovered antimatter ( positrons ) originating above thunderstorm clouds ; positrons are produced in terrestrial gamma ray flashes created by electrons accelerated by strong electric fields in the clouds. antiprotons have also been found to exist in the van allen belts around the earth by the pamela module. antiparticles are also produced