obtained a large majority at the general elections, king alexander would not hesitate any longer to proclaim queen draga ' s brother as the heir presumptive to the throne. in spite of this, it had been agreed with the serbian government that prince mirko of montenegro, who was married to natalija konstantinovic, the granddaughter of princess anka obrenovic, an aunt of king milan, would be proclaimed heir presumptive in the event that the marriage of king alexander and queen draga was childless. apparently to prevent queen draga ' s brother being named heir presumptive, but in reality, to replace alexander obrenovic with peter karađorđevic, a conspiracy was organized by a group of army officers headed by captain dragutin dimitrijevic, also known as " apis ", and novak perisic, a young serbian orthodox militant who was in the pay of the russian empire, as well as the leader of the black hand secret society which would assassinate archduke franz ferdinand in 1914. several politicians were also members of the conspiracy and allegedly included former prime minister nikola pasic. the royal couple ' s palace was invaded and they hid in a wardrobe in the queen ' s bedroom. ( there is another possibility, used in a serbian tv history series the end of the obrenovic dynasty in which the royal couple was in a secret safe room hidden behind the mirror in a common bedroom. the room contained an entrance to a secret passage leading out of the palace, but the entrance was inaccessible due to the placement of the queen ' s wardrobe over it after the wedding. ) the conspirators searched the palace and eventually discovered the royal couple and murdered them in the early morning of june 11, 1903. they were shot and their bodies mutilated and disembowelled, after which, according to eyewitness accounts, they were thrown from a second - floor window of the palace onto piles of garden manure. the king was only 26 years old. king alexander and queen draga were buried in the crypt of st. mark ' s church, belgrade. honours : founder of the order of st. prince lazar, 28 june 1889 founder of the order of milos the great, 1898 : grand cross of the order of st. stephen, 1891 : knight of the house order of fidelity, 1894 knight of the order of berthold the first, 1894 : knight of the order of the annunciation, 25 november 1896 : grand cross of the sash of the three orders, 5 august 1893 : knight of