memory " from the five other awards. this request added to the controversy over whether the bank of sweden prize in economic sciences in memory of alfred nobel is actually a legitimate " nobel prize ". death nobel was accused of high treason against france for selling ballistite to italy, so he moved from paris to sanremo, italy, in 1891. on 10 december 1896, he suffered a stroke and was partially paralyzed to where he could speak only his native tongue. nobel was surrounded by his paid servants at the time of his death who didn ' t speak his native tongue so he wrote, " how sad it is to be without a friend who could whisper a consoling word and would one day gently close one ' s eyes. " he had left most of his wealth in trust, unbeknownst to his family, in order to fund the nobel prize awards. he is buried in norra begravningsplatsen in stockholm. monuments and legacy the monument to alfred nobel (, ) in saint petersburg is located along the bolshaya nevka river on petrogradskaya embankment. it was dedicated in 1991 to mark the 90th anniversary of the first nobel prize presentation. diplomat thomas bertelman and professor arkady melua were initiators of the creation of the monument ( 1989 ). professor a. melua has provided funds for the establishment of the monument ( j. s. co. " humanistica ", 1990 – 1991 ). the abstract metal sculpture was designed by local artists sergey alipov and pavel shevchenko, and appears to be an explosion or branches of a tree. petrogradskaya embankment is the street where nobel ' s family lived until 1859. criticism of nobel focuses on his leading role in weapons manufacturing and sales, and some question his motives in creating his prizes, suggesting they are intended to improve his reputation. references further reading schuck, h, and sohlman, r., ( 1929 ). the life of alfred nobel, transl. brian lunn, london : william heineman ltd. alfred nobel us patent no 78, 317, dated 26 may 1868 evlanoff, m. and fluor, m. alfred nobel – the loneliest millionaire. los angeles, ward ritchie press, 1969. sohlman, r. the legacy of alfred nobel, transl. schubert e. london : the bodley head, 1983 ( swedish original, ett testamente, published in 1950 ). external links alfred nobel – man behind the prizes biography at