computer system. one of the motivations for this focus of implementation was the interest of john l. lawrence who had new duties with science research associates, an educational company bought by ibm in 1964. lawrence asked iverson and his group to help use the language as a tool to develop and use computers in education. after lawrence m. breed and philip s. abrams of stanford university joined the team at ibm research, they continued their prior work on an implementation programmed in fortran iv for a part of the notation which had been done for the ibm 7090 computer running on the ibsys operating system. this work was finished in late 1965 and later named ivsys ( for iverson system ). the basis of this implementation was described in detail by abrams in a stanford university technical report, " an interpreter for iverson notation " in 1966. the academic aspect of this was formally supervised by niklaus wirth. like hellerman ' s pat system earlier, this implementation did not include the apl character set but used special english reserved words for functions and operators. the system was later adapted for a time - sharing system and, by november 1966, it had been reprogrammed for the ibm system / 360 model 50 computer running in a time - sharing mode and was used internally at ibm. hardware a key development in the ability to use apl effectively, before the wide use of cathode ray tube ( crt ) terminals, was the development of a special ibm selectric typewriter interchangeable typing element with all the special apl characters on it. this was used on paper printing terminal workstations using the selectric typewriter and typing element mechanism, such as the ibm 1050 and ibm 2741 terminal. keycaps could be placed over the normal keys to show which apl characters would be entered and typed when that key was struck. for the first time, a programmer could type in and see proper apl characters as used in iverson ' s notation and not be forced to use awkward english keyword representations of them. falkoff and iverson had the special apl selectric typing elements, 987 and 988, designed in late 1964, although no apl computer system was available to use them. iverson cited falkoff as the inspiration for the idea of using an ibm selectric typing element for the apl character set. many apl symbols, even with the apl characters on the selectric typing element, still had to be typed in by over - striking two extant element characters. an