ignoring a ruling on june 1, 1861, by u. s. supreme court chief justice roger taney, not speaking for the court, that only congress ( and not the president ) could suspend habeas corpus ( ex parte merryman ). federal troops imprisoned a prominent baltimore newspaper editor, frank key howard, francis scott key ' s grandson, after he criticized lincoln in an editorial for ignoring taney ' s ruling. in missouri, an elected convention on secession voted decisively to remain within the union. when pro - confederate governor claiborne f. jackson called out the state militia, it was attacked by federal forces under general nathaniel lyon, who chased the governor and the rest of the state guard to the southwestern corner of the state ( see also : missouri secession ). early in the war the confederacy controlled the southern portion of missouri through the confederate government of missouri but was largely driven out of the state after 1862. in the resulting vacuum, the convention on secession reconvened and took power as the unionist provisional government of missouri. kentucky did not secede ; for a time, it declared itself neutral. when confederate forces entered the state in september 1861, neutrality ended and the state reaffirmed its union status while maintaining slavery. during a brief invasion by confederate forces in 1861, confederate sympathizers and delegates from 68 kentucky counties organized a secession convention at the russellville convention, formed the shadow confederate government of kentucky, inaugurated a governor, and gained recognition from the confederacy and kentucky was formally admitted into the confederacy on december 10, 1861. its jurisdiction extended only as far as confederate battle lines in the commonwealth which at its greatest extent was over half the state, and it went into exile after october 1862. after virginia ' s secession, a unionist government in wheeling asked 48 counties to vote on an ordinance to create a new state on october 24, 1861. a voter turnout of 34 percent approved the statehood bill ( 96 percent approving ). twenty - four secessionist counties were included in the new state, and the ensuing guerrilla war engaged about 40, 000 federal troops for much of the war. congress admitted west virginia to the union on june 20, 1863. west virginia provided about 20, 000 – 22, 000 soldiers to both the confederacy and the union. a unionist secession attempt occurred in east tennessee, but was suppressed by the confederacy, which arrested over 3, 000 men suspected of being loyal to the union. they were held without trial. war the civil war was a contest marked by the ferocity and frequency of battle. over