##bility even surpassed audi ' s own expectations, causing the manufacturer to extend its original 10 - year warranty against corrosion perforation to currently 12 years ( except for aluminium bodies which do not rust ). space frame audi introduced a new series of vehicles in the mid - 1990s and continues to pursue new technology and high performance. an all - aluminium car was brought forward by audi, and in 1994 the audi a8 was launched, which introduced aluminium space frame technology ( called audi space frame or asf ) which saves weight and improves torsion rigidity compared to a conventional steel frame. prior to that effort, audi used examples of the type 44 chassis fabricated out of aluminium as test - beds for the technique. the disadvantage of the aluminium frame is that it is very expensive to repair and requires a specialized aluminium bodyshop. the weight reduction is somewhat offset by the quattro four - wheel drive system which is standard in most markets. nonetheless, the a8 is usually the lightest all - wheel drive car in the full - size luxury segment, also having best - in - class fuel economy. the audi a2, audi tt and audi r8 also use audi space frame designs. drivetrains layout for most of its lineup ( excluding the a3, a1, and tt models ), audi has not adopted the transverse engine layout which is typically found in economy cars ( such as peugeot and citroen ), since that would limit the type and power of engines that can be installed. to be able to mount powerful engines ( such as a v8 engine in the audi s4 and audi rs4, as well as the w12 engine in the audi a8l w12 ), audi has usually engineered its more expensive cars with a longitudinally front - mounted engine, in an " overhung " position, over the front wheels in front of the axle line - this layout dates back to the dkw and auto union saloons from the 1950s. but while this allows for the easy adoption of all - wheel drive, it goes against the ideal 50 : 50 weight distribution. in all its post volkswagen - era models, audi has firmly refused to adopt the traditional rear - wheel drive layout favored by its two archrivals mercedes - benz and bmw, favoring either front - wheel drive or all - wheel drive. the majority of audi ' s lineup in the united states features all - wheel drive standard on most of its expensive vehicles ( only the entry - level trims of the a4 and a6 are available with front -