, germany, romania and norway being the largest contributors. many immigrants have established themselves in the suburbs of brabrand, hasle and viby, where the percentage of inhabitants with foreign origins has risen by 66 % since 2000. this has resulted in a few so - called ghettos, defined as residential areas with more than half of inhabitants from non - western countries and with relatively high levels of poverty and / or crime. gellerup is the most notable neighbourhood in that respect. the ghetto - labelling has been criticized as unnecessarily stigmatising and counterproductive for social and economical development of the related areas. economy the economy of aarhus is predominantly knowledge - and service - based, strongly influenced by the university of aarhus and the large healthcare industry. the service sector dominates the economy and is growing as the city transitions away from manufacturing. trade and transportation remain important sectors, benefiting from the large port and central position on the rail network. manufacturing has been in slow but steady decline since the 1960s while agriculture has long been a marginal sector within the municipality. the municipality is home to 175, 000 jobs with some 100, 000 in the private sector and the rest split between state, region and municipality. the region is a major agricultural producer, with many large farms in the outlying districts. people commute to aarhus from as far away as randers, silkeborg and skanderborg and almost a third of those employed within the aarhus municipality commute from neighbouring communities. aarhus is a centre for retail in the nordic and baltic countries, with expansive shopping centres, the busiest commercial street in the country and a dense urban core with many speciality shops. the job market is knowledge - and service - based, and the largest employment sectors are healthcare and social services, trade, education, consulting, research, industry and telecommunications. the municipality has more high - and middle - income jobs, and fewer low - income jobs, than the national average. today, te majority of the largest companies in the municipality are in the sectors of trade, transport and media. the wind power industry has strong roots in aarhus and the larger region of central jutland, and nationally, most of the revenue in the industry is generated by companies in the greater aarhus area. the wind industry employs about a thousand people within the municipality, making it a central component in the local economy. the biotech industry is well - established in the city, with many small - and medium - sized companies mainly focused on research and development. there are multiple big tech companies with offices in the city