, there were state legislators who argued that the constitution was not an alteration of the articles of confederation, but rather would be a complete replacement so the unanimity rule did not apply. moreover, the confederation had proven woefully inadequate and therefore was supposedly no longer binding. modern scholars such as francisco forrest martin agree that the articles of confederation had lost its binding force because many states had violated it, and thus " other states - parties did not have to comply with the articles ' unanimous consent rule ". in contrast, law professor akhil amar suggests that there may not have really been any conflict between the articles of confederation and the constitution on this point ; article vi of the confederation specifically allowed side deals among states, and the constitution could be viewed as a side deal until all states ratified it. final months on july 3, 1788, the congress received new hampshire ' s all - important ninth ratification of the proposed constitution, thus, according to its terms, establishing it as the new framework of governance for the ratifying states. the following day delegates considered a bill to admit kentucky into the union as a sovereign state. the discussion ended with congress making the determination that, in light of this development, it would be " unadvisable " to admit kentucky into the union, as it could do so " under the articles of confederation " only, but not " under the constitution ". by the end of july 1788, 11 of the 13 states had ratified the new constitution. congress continued to convene under the articles with a quorum until october. on saturday, september 13, 1788, the confederation congress voted the resolve to implement the new constitution, and on monday, september 15 published an announcement that the new constitution had been ratified by the necessary nine states, set the first wednesday in january 1789 for appointing electors, set the first wednesday in february 1789 for the presidential electors to meet and vote for a new president, and set the first wednesday of march 1789 as the day " for commencing proceedings " under the new constitution. on that same september 13, it determined that new york would remain the national capital. see also court of appeals in cases of capture founding fathers of the united states journals of the continental congress history of the united states ( 1776 – 1789 ) libertarianism perpetual union vetocracy citations general and cited references ( collection published 1995. ) external links text version of the articles of confederation articles of confederation and perpetual union articles of confederation and related resources, library of congress today in history : november 15, library of congress united states constitution online — the