advice of xenophon, who had commanded the cavalry of the ten thousand. in 395, the spartan king managed to trick tissaphernes into thinking that he would attack caria, in the south of asia minor, forcing the satrap to hold a defence line on the meander river. instead, agesilaus moved north to the important city of sardis. tissaphernes hastened to meet the king there, but his cavalry sent in advance was defeated by agesilaus ' army. after his victory at the battle of sardis, agesilaus became the first king to be given the command of both land and sea. he delegated the naval command to his brother - in - law peisander, whom he appointed navarch despite his inexperience ; perhaps agesilaus wanted to avoid the rise of a new lysander, who owed his prominence to his time as navarch. after his defeat, tissaphernes was executed and replaced as satrap by tithraustes, who gave agesilaus 30 talents to move north to the satrapy of pharnabazus ( persian satraps were often bitter rivals ). augesilaus ' phrygian campaign of 394 was fruitless, as he lacked the siege equipment required to take the fortresses of leonton kephalai, gordion, and miletou teichos. xenophon tells that agesilaus then wanted to campaign further east in asia and sow discontent among the subjects of the achaemenid empire, or even to conquer asia. plutarch went further and wrote that agesilaus had prepared an expedition to the heart of persia, up to her capital of susa, thus making him a forerunner of alexander the great. it is very unlikely that agesilaus really had such a grand campaign in mind ; regardless, he was soon forced to return to europe in 394. corinthian war ( 395 – 387 bc ) although thebes and corinth had been allies of sparta throughout the peloponnesian war, they were dissatisfied by the settlement of the war in 404, with sparta as leader of the greek world. sparta ' s imperialist expansion in the aegean greatly upset its former allies, notably by establishing friendly regimes and garrisons in smaller cities. through large gifts, tithraustes also encouraged sparta ' s former allies to start a war in order to force the recall of agesilaus from asia — even though