routinely a matter of debate both within specific anglican churches and throughout the anglican communion. unique to anglicanism is the book of common prayer, the collection of services in one prayer book used for centuries. the book is acknowledged as a principal tie which binds the anglican communion together as a liturgical rather than a confessional tradition, or one which claims to possess a formal magisterium, as in the roman catholic church. after the american revolution, anglican congregations in the united states and british north america ( which would later form the basis for the modern country of canada ) were each reconstituted into autonomous churches with their own bishops and self - governing structures ; these were known as the american episcopal church and the church of england in the dominion of canada. through the expansion of the british empire and the activity of christian missions, this model was adopted as the model for many newly formed churches, especially in africa, australasia, and the asia - pacific. in the 19th century, the term anglicanism was coined to describe the common religious tradition of these churches and also that of the scottish episcopal church, which, though originating earlier within the church of scotland, had come to be recognised as sharing this common identity. terminology the word anglican originates in, a phrase from magna carta dated 15 june 1215, meaning ' the anglican church shall be free '. adherents of anglicanism are called anglicans. as an adjective, anglican is used to describe the people, institutions, and churches, as well as the liturgical traditions and theological concepts developed by the church of england. as a noun, an anglican is a member of a church in the anglican communion. the word is also used by followers of separated groups that have left the communion or have been founded separately from it, although this is considered a misuse by the anglican communion. the word anglicanism came into being in the 19th century. the word originally referred only to the teachings and rites of christians throughout the world in communion with the see of canterbury but has come to sometimes be extended to any church following those traditions rather than actual membership in the modern anglican communion. although the term anglican is found referring to the church of england as far back as the 16th century, its use did not become general until the latter half of the 19th century. in british parliamentary legislation referring to the english established church, there is no need for a description ; it is simply the church of england, though the word protestant is used in many legal acts specifying the succession to the crown and qualifications for office. when the union with ireland act created the