that tries to sell a product also influences mood and emotion. in both cases, the purpose of art here is to subtly manipulate the viewer into a particular emotional or psychological response toward a particular idea or object. art as a fitness indicator. it has been argued that the ability of the human brain by far exceeds what was needed for survival in the ancestral environment. one evolutionary psychology explanation for this is that the human brain and associated traits ( such as artistic ability and creativity ) are the human equivalent of the peacock ' s tail. the purpose of the male peacock ' s extravagant tail has been argued to be to attract females ( see also fisherian runaway and handicap principle ). according to this theory superior execution of art was evolutionarily important because it attracted mates. the functions of art described above are not mutually exclusive, as many of them may overlap. for example, art for the purpose of entertainment may also seek to sell a product, i. e. the movie or video game. steps art can be divided into any number of steps one can make an argument for. this section divides the creative process into broad three steps, but there is no consensus on an exact number. preparation in the first step, the artist envisions the art in their mind. by imagining what their art would look like, the artist begins the process of bringing the art into existence. preparation of art may involve approaching and researching the subject matter. artistic inspiration is one of the main drivers of art, and may be considered to stem from instinct, impressions, and feelings. creation in the second step, the artist executes the creation of their work. the creation of a piece can be affected by factors such as the artist ' s mood, surroundings, and mental state. for example, the black paintings by francisco de goya, created in the elder years of his life, are thought to be so bleak because he was in isolation and because of his experience with war. he painted them directly on the walls of his apartment in spain, and most likely never discussed them with anyone. the beatles stated drugs such as lsd and cannabis influenced some of their greatest hits, such as revolver. trial and error are considered an integral part of the creation process. appreciation the last step is art appreciation, which has the sub - topic of critique. in one study, over half of visual arts students agreed that reflection is an essential step of the art process. according to education journals, the reflection of art is considered an essential part of the experience. however an important aspect of art is that others may