. sustainability current farming methods have resulted in over - stretched water resources, high levels of erosion and reduced soil fertility. there is not enough water to continue farming using current practices ; therefore how water, land, and ecosystem resources are used to boost crop yields must be reconsidered. a solution would be to give value to ecosystems, recognizing environmental and livelihood tradeoffs, and balancing the rights of a variety of users and interests. inequities that result when such measures are adopted would need to be addressed, such as the reallocation of water from poor to rich, the clearing of land to make way for more productive farmland, or the preservation of a wetland system that limits fishing rights. technological advancements help provide farmers with tools and resources to make farming more sustainable. technology permits innovations like conservation tillage, a farming process which helps prevent land loss to erosion, reduces water pollution, and enhances carbon sequestration. agricultural automation can help address some of the challenges associated with climate change and thus facilitate adaptation efforts. for example, the application of digital automation technologies ( e. g. in precision agriculture ) can improve resource - use efficiency in conditions which are increasingly constrained for agricultural producers. moreover, when applied to sensing and early warning, they can help address the uncertainty and unpredictability of weather conditions associated with accelerating climate change. other potential sustainable practices include conservation agriculture, agroforestry, improved grazing, avoided grassland conversion, and biochar. current mono - crop farming practices in the united states preclude widespread adoption of sustainable practices, such as 2 – 3 crop rotations that incorporate grass or hay with annual crops, unless negative emission goals such as soil carbon sequestration become policy. the food demand of earth ' s projected population, with current climate change predictions, could be satisfied by improvement of agricultural methods, expansion of agricultural areas, and a sustainability - oriented consumer mindset. energy dependence since the 1940s, agricultural productivity has increased dramatically, due largely to the increased use of energy - intensive mechanization, fertilizers and pesticides. the vast majority of this energy input comes from fossil fuel sources. between the 1960s and the 1980s, the green revolution transformed agriculture around the globe, with world grain production increasing significantly ( between 70 % and 390 % for wheat and 60 % to 150 % for rice, depending on geographic area ) as world population doubled. heavy reliance on petrochemicals has raised concerns that oil shortages could increase costs and reduce agricultural output. industrialized agriculture depends on fossil fuels in two