hand, the classification also relied on non - linguistic anthropological and culturally contingent features, such as skin color, hair type, and lifestyle. ultimately, meinhof ' s classification of hamitic proved to include languages from every presently - recognized language family within africa. the first scholar to question the existence of " hamitic languages " was marcel cohen in 1924, with skepticism also expressed by a. klingenheben and dietrich westermann during the 1920s and ' 30s. however, meinhof ' s " hamitic " classification remained prevalent throughout the early 20th century until it was definitively disproven by joseph greenberg in the 1940s, based on racial and anthropological data. instead, greenberg proposed an afroasiatic family consisting of five branches : berber, chadic, cushitic, egyptian, and semitic. reluctance among some scholars to recognize chadic as a branch of afroasiatic persisted as late as the 1980s. in 1969, harold fleming proposed that a group of languages classified by greenberg as cushitic were in fact their own independent " omotic " branch — a proposal that has been widely, if not universally, accepted. these six branches now constitute an academic consensus on the genetic structure of the family. greenberg relied on his own method of mass comparison of vocabulary items rather than the comparative method of demonstrating regular sound correspondences to establish the family. an alternative classification, based on the pronominal and conjugation systems, was proposed by a. n. tucker in 1967. as of 2023, widely accepted sound correspondences between the different branches have not yet been firmly established. nevertheless, morphological traits attributable to the proto - language and the establishment of cognates throughout the family have confirmed its genetic validity. origin timeline there is no consensus as to when proto - afroasiatic was spoken. the absolute latest date for when proto - afroasiatic could have been extant is, after which egyptian and the semitic languages are firmly attested. however, in all likelihood these languages began to diverge well before this hard boundary. the estimations offered by scholars as to when proto - afroasiatic was spoken vary widely, ranging from 18, 000bce to 8, 000bce. an estimate at the youngest end of this range still makes afroasiatic the oldest proven language family. contrasting proposals of an early emergence, tom guldemann has argued that less time may have been required for the divergence than is usually assumed, as it is possible for a language to rapidly restructure due to areal contact