centre in the avanti province of central india. this tradition is corroborated by the saru maru inscription discovered in central india ; this inscription states that he visited the place as a prince. ashoka ' s own rock edict mentions the presence of a prince viceroy at ujjain during his reign, which further supports the tradition that he himself served as a viceroy at ujjain. pataliputra was connected to ujjain by multiple routes in ashoka ' s time, and on the way, ashoka entourage may have encamped at rupnath, where his inscription has been found. according to the sri lankan tradition, ashoka visited vidisha, where he fell in love with a beautiful woman on his way to ujjain. according to the dipamvamsa and mahamvamsa, the woman was devi – the daughter of a merchant. according to the mahabodhi - vamsa, she was vidisha - mahadevi and belonged to the shakya clan of gautama buddha. the buddhist chroniclers may have fabricated the shakya connection to connect ashoka ' s family to buddha. the buddhist texts allude to her being a buddhist in her later years but do not describe her conversion to buddhism. therefore, it is likely that she was already a buddhist when she met ashoka. the mahavamsa states that devi gave birth to ashoka ' s son mahinda in ujjain, and two years later, to a daughter named sanghamitta. according to the mahavamsa, ashoka ' s son mahinda was ordained at the age of 20 years, during the sixth year of ashoka ' s reign. that means mahinda must have been 14 years old when ashoka ascended the throne. even if mahinda was born when ashoka was as young as 20 years old, ashoka must have ascended the throne at 34 years, which means he must have served as a viceroy for several years. ascension to the throne legends suggest that ashoka was not the crown prince, and his ascension on the throne was disputed. ashokavadana states that bindusara ' s eldest son susima once slapped a bald minister on his head in jest. the minister worried that after ascending the throne, susima may jokingly hurt him with a sword. therefore, he instigated five hundred ministers to support ashoka ' s claim to the throne when the time came, noting that