nobel prize in 1912. wound antisepsis during world war i ( 1914 – 1918 ), carrel and the english chemist henry drysdale dakin developed the carrel – dakin method of treating wounds with an antiseptic solution based on chlorine, known as dakin ' s solution. this method, which involved wound debridement and irrigation with a high volume of antiseptic fluid, was a significant medical advancement in the absence of antibiotics. for his contributions, carrel was awarded the legion d ' honneur. the carrel – dakin method became widely used in hospitals. the mechanical irrigation technique developed by carrel is still used today. < ref name = dakin3 > h. d. dakin ( 1915 ) : comptes rendues de la academie des sciences, clxi, p. 150. cited by marcel dufresne, presse medicale ' ( 1916 ) < / ref > organ transplants carrel co - authored a book with pilot charles lindbergh, the culture of organs. together, they developed the perfusion pump in the mid - 1930s, which made it possible for organs to remain viable outside of the body during surgical procedures. this innovation is considered to be a significant advancement in the fields of open - heart surgery and organ transplantation, and it paved the way for the development of the artificial heart, which became a reality many years later. although some critics accused carrel of exaggerating lindbergh ' s contributions to gain publicity, other sources indicate that lindbergh played a significant role in the device ' s development. in recognition of their groundbreaking work, both carrel and lindbergh appeared on the cover of time magazine on june 13, 1938. cellular senescence carrel was interested in the phenomenon of senescence or aging. he believed that all cells continued to grow indefinitely, which became a widely accepted view in the early 20th century. in 1912, carrel began an experiment at the rockefeller institute for medical research, where he cultured tissue from an embryonic chicken heart in a stoppered pyrex flask of his own design. he supplied the culture with nutrients regularly and maintained it for over 20 years, longer than a chicken ' s normal lifespan. this experiment received significant popular and scientific attention, but it was never successfully replicated. in the 1960s, leonard hayflick and paul moorhead proposed the concept of the hayflick limit, which states that differentiated cells undergo only a limited number of divisions before dying. hayfl