1527, although completely rebuilt in the 1860s ), now a shopping mall ; the former office of the northern assurance company, and the national bank of scotland. in castle street, a continuation eastwards of union street, is the new aberdeen town house, a very prominent landmark in aberdeen, built between 1868 and 1873 to a design by peddie and kinnear. alexander marshall mackenzie ' s extension to marischal college on broad street, opened by king edward vii in 1906, created the second largest granite building in the world ( after the escorial, madrid ). in addition to the many fine landmark buildings, aberdeen has many prominent public statues, three of the most notable being william wallace at the junction between union terrace and rosemount viaduct, robert burns on union terrace above union terrace gardens, and robert the bruce holding aloft the charter he issued to the city in 1319 on broad street, outside marischal college. parks, gardens and open spaces aberdeen has long been famous for its 45 parks and gardens, and citywide floral displays which include two million roses, eleven million daffodils and three million crocuses. the city has won the royal horticultural society ' s britain in bloom ' best city ' award ten times, the overall scotland in bloom competition twenty times and the large city category every year since 1968. however, despite recent spurious reports, aberdeen has never been banned from the britain in bloom competition. the city won the 2006 scotland in bloom " best city " award along with the international cities in bloom award. the suburb of dyce also won the small towns award. duthie park opened in 1899 on the north bank of the river dee. it was named after and given to the city by miss elizabeth crombie duthie of ruthrieston in 1881. hazlehead park, is large and forested, and located on the outskirts of the city. johnston gardens is a small park of one hectare in the west end of the city. in 2002, the garden was named the best garden in the british islands. seaton park, formerly the grounds of a private house, is on the edge of the grounds of st machar ' s cathedral and was acquired for the city in 1947. theatres and concert halls aberdeen has hosted several theatres throughout its history, some of which have subsequently been converted or destroyed. the most famous include : his majesty ' s theatre ( hmt ), on rosemount viaduct the tivoli, on guild street capitol theatre, on union street aberdeen arts centre, on king street