to uphold the distinctly reformed identity of the church of england. he was not a servant of the status quo, but argued for a lively religion which emphasised grace, holy and charitable living, and the plain use of the 1662 book of common prayer ( interpreted in a partisan evangelical way ) without additional rituals. frederick denison maurice, through such works as the kingdom of christ, played a pivotal role in inaugurating another movement, christian socialism. in this, maurice transformed hooker ' s emphasis on the incarnational nature of anglican spirituality to an imperative for social justice. in the 19th century, anglican biblical scholarship began to assume a distinct character, represented by the so - called " cambridge triumvirate " of joseph lightfoot, f. j. a. hort, and brooke foss westcott. their orientation is best summed up by westcott ' s observation that " life which christ is and which christ communicates, the life which fills our whole beings as we realise its capacities, is active fellowship with god. " the earlier part of the 20th century is marked by charles gore, with his emphasis on natural revelation, and william temple ' s focus on christianity and society, while, from outside england, robert leighton, archbishop of glasgow, and several clergy from the united states have been suggested, such as william porcher dubose, john henry hobart ( 1775 – 1830, bishop of new york 1816 – 30 ), william meade, phillips brooks, and charles brent. churchmanship churchmanship can be defined as the manifestation of theology in the realms of liturgy, piety and, to some extent, spirituality. anglican diversity in this respect has tended to reflect the diversity in the tradition ' s reformed and catholic identity. different individuals, groups, parishes, dioceses and provinces may identify more closely with one or the other, or some mixture of the two. the range of anglican belief and practice became particularly divisive during the 19th century, when some clergy were disciplined and even imprisoned on charges of introducing illegal ritual while, at the same time, others were criticised for engaging in public worship services with ministers of reformed churches. resistance to the growing acceptance and restoration of traditional catholic ceremonial by the mainstream of anglicanism ultimately led to the formation of small breakaway churches such as the free church of england in england ( 1844 ) and the reformed episcopal church in north america ( 1873 ). anglo - catholic ( and some broad - church ) anglicans celebrate public liturgy in ways that understand worship to be something very special and of utmost importance. vestments are worn by