) in asserting that " from each point of every colored body, illuminated by any light, issue light and color along every straight line that can be drawn from that point ". this left him with the problem of explaining how a coherent image was formed from many independent sources of radiation ; in particular, every point of an object would send rays to every point on the eye. what alhazen needed was for each point on an object to correspond to one point only on the eye. he attempted to resolve this by asserting that the eye would only perceive perpendicular rays from the object — for any one point on the eye, only the ray that reached it directly, without being refracted by any other part of the eye, would be perceived. he argued, using a physical analogy, that perpendicular rays were stronger than oblique rays : in the same way that a ball thrown directly at a board might break the board, whereas a ball thrown obliquely at the board would glance off, perpendicular rays were stronger than refracted rays, and it was only perpendicular rays which were perceived by the eye. as there was only one perpendicular ray that would enter the eye at any one point, and all these rays would converge on the centre of the eye in a cone, this allowed him to resolve the problem of each point on an object sending many rays to the eye ; if only the perpendicular ray mattered, then he had a one - to - one correspondence and the confusion could be resolved. he later asserted ( in book seven of the optics ) that other rays would be refracted through the eye and perceived as if perpendicular. his arguments regarding perpendicular rays do not clearly explain why only perpendicular rays were perceived ; why would the weaker oblique rays not be perceived more weakly? his later argument that refracted rays would be perceived as if perpendicular does not seem persuasive. however, despite its weaknesses, no other theory of the time was so comprehensive, and it was enormously influential, particularly in western europe. directly or indirectly, his de aspectibus ( book of optics ) inspired much activity in optics between the 13th and 17th centuries. kepler ' s later theory of the retinal image ( which resolved the problem of the correspondence of points on an object and points in the eye ) built directly on the conceptual framework of alhazen. alhazen showed through experiment that light travels in straight lines, and carried out various experiments with lenses, mirrors, refraction, and reflection. his analyses of reflection and refraction considered the vertical and horizontal components of light