##talghia, but mosfilm then withdrew from the project, so he sought and received financial backing from the italian rai. tarkovsky completed the film in 1983, and it was presented at the cannes film festival where it won the fipresci prize and the prize of the ecumenical jury. tarkovsky also shared a special prize called grand prix du cinema de creation with robert bresson. soviet authorities lobbied to prevent the film from winning the palme d ' or, a fact that hardened tarkovsky ' s resolve to never work in the soviet union again. after cannes he went to london to stage and choreograph the opera boris godunov at the royal opera house under the musical direction of claudio abbado. at a press conference in milan on 10 july 1984, he announced that he would never return to the soviet union and would remain in western europe. he stated, " i am not a soviet dissident, i have no conflict with the soviet government, " but if he returned home, he added, " i would be unemployed. " at that time, his son andriosha was still in the soviet union and not allowed to leave the country. on 28 august 1985, tarkovsky was processed as a soviet defector at a refugee camp in latina, italy, registered with the serial number 13225 / 379, and officially welcomed to the west. tarkovsky spent most of 1984 preparing the film the sacrifice. it was finally shot in 1985 in sweden, with many of the crew being alumni from ingmar bergman ' s films, including cinematographer sven nykvist. tarkovsky ' s vision of his film was greatly influenced by bergman ' s style. while the sacrifice is about an apocalypse and impending death, faith, and possible redemption, in the making - of documentary directed by andrei tarkovsky, in a particularly poignant scene, writer / director michal leszczylowski follows tarkovsky on a walk as he expresses his sentiments on death — he claims himself to be immortal and has no fear of dying. ironically, at the end of the year tarkovsky was diagnosed with terminal lung cancer. in january 1986, he began treatment in paris and was joined there by his son, andre jr, who was finally allowed to leave the soviet union. what would be tarkovsky ' s final film was dedicated to him. the sacrifice was presented at the cannes film festival and received the grand prix special du jury, the fipresci prize and the prize of the ecumenical jury. as tarkovsky was unable to