octaves are combined. see the accordion reed ranks and switches article for further explanation and audio samples. all but the smaller accordions usually have treble switches. the larger and more expensive accordions often also have bass switches to give options for the reed bank on the bass side. classification of chromatic and piano type accordions in describing or pricing an accordion, the first factor is size, expressed in number of keys on either side. for a piano type, this could for one example be 37 / 96, meaning 37 treble keys ( three octaves plus one note ) on the treble side and 96 bass keys. a second aspect of size is the width of the white keys, which means that even accordions with the same number of keys have keyboards of different lengths, ranging from for a child ' s accordion to for an adult - sized instrument. after size, the price and weight of an accordion is largely dependent on the number of reed ranks on either side, either on a cassotto or not, and to a lesser degree on the number of combinations available through register switches. the next, but important, factor is the quality of the reeds, the highest grade called " a mano " ( meaning " hand - made " ), the next " tipo a mano " ( " like hand - made " ), lower grades including " export " and several more. price is also affected by the use of costly woods, luxury decorations, and features such as a palm switch, grille mute, and so on. some accordion makers sell a range of different models, from a less - expensive base model to a more costly luxury model. typically, the register switches are described as reeds : 5 + 3, meaning five reeds on the treble side and three on the bass, and registers : 13 + m, 7, meaning 13 register buttons on the treble side plus a special " master " that activates all ranks, like the " tutti " or " full organ " switch on an organ, and seven register switches on the bass side. another factor affecting the price is the presence of electronics, such as condenser microphones, volume and tone controls, or midi sensors and connections. straps the larger piano and chromatic button accordions are usually heavier than other smaller squeezeboxes, and are equipped with two shoulder straps to make it easier to balance the weight and increase bellows control while sitting, and avoid dropping the instrument while standing. other accordions, such as the diatonic button accordion, have only