##tsyn discussed his writing, the evolution of his language and style, his family and his outlook on the future — and stated his wish to return to russia in his lifetime, not just to see his books eventually printed there. apostrophes : alexandre soljenitsyne repond a bernard pivot | archive ina ina talk shows earlier the same year, solzhenitsyn was interviewed on separate occasions by two british journalists, bernard levin and malcolm muggeridge. in 1998, russian filmmaker alexander sokurov made a four - part television documentary, besedy s solzhenitsynym ( the dialogues with solzhenitsyn ). the documentary was shot in solzhenitsyn ' s home depicting his everyday life and his reflections on russian history and literature. in december 2009, the russian channel rossiya k broadcast the french television documentary l ' histoire secrete de l ' archipel du goulag ( the secret history of the gulag archipelago ) made by jean crepu and nicolas miletitch and translated into russian under the title taynaya istoriya " arkhipelaga gulag " ( таиная история " архипелага гулаг " ). the documentary covers events related to creation and publication of the gulag archipelago. published works and speeches also known as the prisoner and the camp hooker or the tenderfoot and the tart. the beginning of a history of the birth of the ussr. centers on the disastrous loss in the battle of tannenberg in august 1914, and the ineptitude of the military leadership. other works, similarly titled, follow the story : see the red wheel ( overall title ). ( 3 vols. ), not a memoir, but a history of the entire process of developing and administering a police state in the soviet union... ; separate publication of chapters on vladimir lenin, none of them published before this point, from the red wheel. the first of them was later incorporated into the 1984 edition of the expanded august 1914 ( though it had been written at the same time as the original version of the novel ) and the rest in november 1916 and march 1917. on russian - jewish relations since 1772, aroused ambiguous public response. see also literature covering the gulag system list of refugees ivan bunin czesław miłosz đoan van toai wei jingsheng yevgeny zamyatin notes references sources kriza, elisa