b — f bond are located in the region of space between the two atomic nuclei and are therefore more distant from the fluoride nucleus than they are in the lone fluoride ion. bf3 is a lewis acid because it accepts the electron pair from fluoride. this reaction cannot be described in terms of brønsted theory because there is no proton transfer. the second reaction can be described using either theory. a proton is transferred from an unspecified brønsted acid to ammonia, a brønsted base ; alternatively, ammonia acts as a lewis base and transfers a lone pair of electrons to form a bond with a hydrogen ion. the species that gains the electron pair is the lewis acid ; for example, the oxygen atom in h3o + gains a pair of electrons when one of the h — o bonds is broken and the electrons shared in the bond become localized on oxygen. depending on the context, a lewis acid may also be described as an oxidizer or an electrophile. organic brønsted acids, such as acetic, citric, or oxalic acid, are not lewis acids. they dissociate in water to produce a lewis acid, h +, but at the same time also yield an equal amount of a lewis base ( acetate, citrate, or oxalate, respectively, for the acids mentioned ). this article deals mostly with brønsted acids rather than lewis acids. dissociation and equilibrium reactions of acids are often generalized in the form, where ha represents the acid and a− is the conjugate base. this reaction is referred to as protolysis. the protonated form ( ha ) of an acid is also sometimes referred to as the free acid. acid – base conjugate pairs differ by one proton, and can be interconverted by the addition or removal of a proton ( protonation and deprotonation, respectively ). note that the acid can be the charged species and the conjugate base can be neutral in which case the generalized reaction scheme could be written as. in solution there exists an equilibrium between the acid and its conjugate base. the equilibrium constant k is an expression of the equilibrium concentrations of the molecules or the ions in solution. brackets indicate concentration, such that [ h2o ] means the concentration of h2o. the acid dissociation constant ka is generally used in the context of acid – base reactions. the numerical value of ka is equal to the product ( multiplication ) of the concentrations of