, the episcopal see of the city was placed in the provincial town of haarlem. historically, amsterdam has been predominantly christian, in 1900 christians formed the largest religious group in the city ( 70 % of the population ), dutch reformed church formed 45 % of the city population, while the catholic church formed 25 % of the city population. in recent times, religious demographics in amsterdam have been changed by immigration from former colonies. hinduism has been introduced from the hindu diaspora from suriname and several distinct branches of islam have been brought from various parts of the world. islam is now the largest non - christian religion in amsterdam. the large community of ghanaian immigrants have established african churches, often in parking garages in the bijlmer area. diversity and immigration amsterdam experienced an influx of religions and cultures after the second world war. with 180 different nationalities, amsterdam is home to one of the widest varieties of nationalities of any city in the world. the proportion of the population of immigrant origin in the city proper is about 50 % and 88 % of the population are dutch citizens. amsterdam has been one of the municipalities in the netherlands which provided immigrants with extensive and free dutch - language courses, which have benefited many immigrants. inhabitants by origin cityscape and architecture amsterdam fans out south from the amsterdam centraal station and damrak, the main street off the station. the oldest area of the town is known as de wallen ( english : " the quays " ). it lies to the east of damrak and contains the city ' s famous red - light district. to the south of de wallen is the old jewish quarter of waterlooplein. the medieval and colonial age canals of amsterdam, known as grachten, embraces the heart of the city where homes have interesting gables. beyond the grachtengordel are the former working - class areas of jordaan and de pijp. the museumplein with the city ' s major museums, the vondelpark, a 19th - century park named after the dutch writer joost van den vondel, as well as the plantage neighbourhood, with the zoo, are also located outside the grachtengordel. several parts of the city and the surrounding urban area are polders. this can be recognised by the suffix - meer which means lake, as in aalsmeer, bijlmermeer, haarlemmermeer and watergraafsmeer. canals the amsterdam canal system is the result of conscious city planning. in the early 17th century,