disturbance or alteration. chlorhexidine is rarely associated with other issues like overgrowth of enterobacteria in persons with leukemia, desquamation, irritation, and stomatitis of oral mucosa, salivary gland pain and swelling, and hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis. hexetidine also has anti - plaque, analgesic, astringent and anti - malodor properties, but is considered an inferior alternative to chlorhexidine. edible oils in traditional ayurvedic medicine, the use of oil mouthwashes is called " kavala " ( " oil swishing " ) or " gandusha ", and this practice has more recently been re - marketed by the complementary and alternative medicine industry as " oil pulling ". its promoters claim it works by " pulling out " " toxins ", which are known as ama in ayurvedic medicine, and thereby reducing inflammation. ayurvedic literature claims that oil pulling is capable of improving oral and systemic health, including a benefit in conditions such as headaches, migraines, diabetes mellitus, asthma, and acne, as well as whitening teeth. oil pulling has received little study and there is little evidence to support claims made by the technique ' s advocates. when compared with chlorhexidine in one small study, it was found to be less effective at reducing oral bacterial load, and the other health claims of oil pulling have failed scientific verification or have not been investigated. there is a report of lipid pneumonia caused by accidental inhalation of the oil during oil pulling. the mouth is rinsed with approximately one tablespoon of oil for 10 – 20 minutes then spat out. sesame oil, coconut oil and ghee are traditionally used, but newer oils such as sunflower oil are also used. essential oils phenolic compounds and monoterpenes include essential oil constituents that have some antibacterial properties, such as eucalyptol, eugenol, hinokitiol, menthol, phenol, or thymol. essential oils are oils which have been extracted from plants. mouthwashes based on essential oils could be more effective than traditional mouthcare as anti - gingival treatments. they have been found effective in reducing halitosis, and are being used in several commercial mouthwashes. fluoride ( anticavity ) anti - cavity mouthwashes use sodium fluoride to