an amateur ( ) is generally considered a person who pursues an avocation independent from their source of income. amateurs and their pursuits are also described as popular, informal, self - taught, user - generated, diy, and hobbyist. history historically, the amateur was considered to be the ideal balance between pure intent, open mind, and the interest or passion for a subject. that ideology spanned many different fields of interest. it may have its roots in the ancient greek philosophy of amateur athletes competing in the olympics. the ancient greek citizens spent most of their time in other pursuits, but competed according to their natural talents and abilities. the " gentleman amateur " was a phenomenon among the gentry of great britain from the 17th century until the 20th century. with the start of the age of reason, with people thinking more about how the world works around them, ( see science in the age of enlightenment ), things like the cabinets of curiosities, and the writing of the book the christian virtuoso, started to shape the idea of the gentleman amateur. he was vastly interested in a particular topic, and studied, observed, and collected things and information on his topic of choice. the royal society in great britain was generally composed of these " gentleman amateurs ", and is one of the reasons science today exists the way it does. a few examples of these gentleman amateurs are francis bacon, isaac newton, and sir robert cotton, 1st baronet, of connington. amateurism can be seen in both a negative and positive light. since amateurs often lack formal training and are self - taught, some amateur work may be considered sub - par. for example, amateur athletes in sports such as basketball, baseball, or football are regarded as possessing a lower level of ability than professional athletes. on the other hand, an amateur may be in a position to approach a subject with an open mind ( as a result of the lack of formal training ) and in a financially disinterested manner. an amateur who dabbles in a field out of interest rather than as a profession, or possesses a general but superficial interest in any art or a branch of knowledge, is often referred to as a dilettante. amateur athletics olympics through most of the 20th century the olympics allowed only amateur athletes to participate and this amateur code was strictly enforced, jim thorpe was stripped of track and field medals for having taken expense money for playing baseball in 1912. later on, the nations of the communist bloc entered teams of olympians who were all nominally students, soldiers, or working in