of amber was glæsum, " for which reason the romans, when germanicus commanded the fleet in those parts, gave to one of these islands the name of glæsaria, which by the barbarians was known as austeravia ". this is confirmed by the recorded old high german word glas and by the old english word glær for " amber " ( compare glass ). in middle low german, amber was known as berne -, barn -, bornsten ( with etymological roots related to " burn " and to " stone " ). the low german term became dominant also in high german by the 18th century, thus modern german bernstein besides dutch barnsteen. in the baltic languages, the lithuanian term for amber is gintaras and the latvian dzintars. these words, and the slavic jantar and hungarian gyanta ( ' resin ' ), are thought to originate from phoenician jainitar ( " sea - resin " ). history theophrastus discussed amber in the 4th century bce, as did pytheas ( ), whose work " on the ocean " is lost, but was referenced by pliny, according to whose natural history : earlier pliny says that pytheas refers to a large island — three days ' sail from the scythian coast and called balcia by xenophon of lampsacus ( author of a fanciful travel book in greek ) — as basilia — a name generally equated with abalus. given the presence of amber, the island could have been heligoland, zealand, the shores of gdansk bay, the sambia peninsula or the curonian lagoon, which were historically the richest sources of amber in northern europe. it is assumed that there were well - established trade routes for amber connecting the baltic with the mediterranean ( known as the " amber road " ). pliny states explicitly that the germans exported amber to pannonia, from where the veneti distributed it onwards. the ancient italic peoples of southern italy used to work amber ; the national archaeological museum of siritide ( museo archeologico nazionale della siritide ) at policoro in the province of matera ( basilicata ) displays important surviving examples. it has been suggested that amber used in antiquity, as at mycenae and in the prehistory of the mediterranean, came from deposits in sicily. pliny also cites the opinion of nicias ( 470 – 413 bce ),