whether stibitz knew of the work of turing. turing ' s biographer believed that turing ' s use of a typewriter - like model derived from a youthful interest : " alan had dreamt of inventing typewriters as a boy ; mrs. turing had a typewriter, and he could well have begun by asking himself what was meant by calling a typewriter ' mechanical. given the prevalence at the time of morse code, telegraphy, ticker tape machines, and teletypewriters, it is quite possible that all were influences on turing during his youth. turing — his model of computation is now called a turing machine — begins, as did post, with an analysis of a human computer that he whittles down to a simple set of basic motions and " states of mind ". but he continues a step further and creates a machine as a model of computation of numbers. " computing is normally done by writing certain symbols on paper. we may suppose this paper is divided into squares like a child ' s arithmetic book... i assume then that the computation is carried out on one - dimensional paper, i. e., on a tape divided into squares. i shall also suppose that the number of symbols which may be printed is finite... " the behavior of the computer at any moment is determined by the symbols which he is observing, and his " state of mind " at that moment. we may suppose that there is a bound b to the number of symbols or squares that the computer can observe at one moment. if he wishes to observe more, he must use successive observations. we will also suppose that the number of states of mind which need be taken into account is finite... " let us imagine that the operations performed by the computer to be split up into ' simple operations ' which are so elementary that it is not easy to imagine them further divided. " turing ' s reduction yields the following : " the simple operations must therefore include : " ( a ) changes of the symbol on one of the observed squares " ( b ) changes of one of the squares observed to another square within l squares of one of the previously observed squares. " it may be that some of these change necessarily invoke a change of state of mind. the most general single operation must, therefore, be taken to be one of the following : " ( a ) a possible change ( a ) of symbol together with a possible change of state of mind. " ( b ) a possible change ( b ) of observed squares,