biographer believed arose from crowley ' s bad relationship with his mother. sutin noted that crowley " largely accepted the notion, implicitly embodied in victorian sexology, of women as secondary social beings in terms of intellect and sensibility ". the scholar of religion manon hedenborg white noted that some of crowley ' s statements are " undoubtedly misogynist by contemporary standards ", but characterized crowley ' s attitude toward women as complex and multi - faceted. crowley ' s comments on women ' s role varied dramatically within his written work, even that produced in similar periods. crowley described women as " moral inferiors " who had to be treated with " firmness, kindness and justice ", while also arguing that thelema was essential to women ' s emancipation. intelligence work biographers richard b. spence and tobias churton have suggested that crowley was a spy for the british secret services and that among other things he joined the golden dawn under their command to monitor the activities of mathers, who was known to be a carlist. spence suggested that the conflict between mathers and the london lodge for the temple was part of an intelligence operation to undermine mathers ' authority. spence has suggested that the purpose of crowley ' s trip to mexico might have been to explore mexican oil prospects for british intelligence. spence has suggested that his trip to china was orchestrated as part of a british intelligence scheme to monitor the region ' s opium trade. churton suggested that crowley had travelled to moscow on the orders of british intelligence to spy on revolutionary elements in the city. spence and sutin both claim that crowley ' s pro - german work in the united states was actually a cover for him being a double agent for britain, citing his hyperbolic articles in the fatherland to make the german lobby appear ridiculous in the eyes of the american public. spence also claims that crowley encouraged the german navy to destroy the lusitania, informing them that it would ensure the us stayed out of the war, while in reality hoping that it would bring the us into the war on britain ' s side. legacy and influence crowley has remained an influential figure, both amongst occultists and in popular culture, particularly that of britain, but also of other parts of the world. in 2002, a bbc poll placed crowley seventy - third in a list of the 100 greatest britons. richard cavendish has written of him that " in native talent, penetrating intelligence and determination, aleister crowley was the best - equipped magician to emerge since the seventeenth century. " the scholar of esotericism egil as