andorra francois hollande. hollande welcomed the move as part of a process of andorra " bringing its taxation in line with international standards ". by the mid - 2010s, the financial system comprised five banking groups, one specialised credit entity, eight investment undertaking management entities, three asset management companies, and 29 insurance companies, 14 of which are branches of foreign insurance companies authorised to operate in the principality. the last mergers between banks took place in 2022, bringing the andorran financial sector to currently have 3 active banking groups. demographics population the population of andorra is estimated at ( ). the andorrans are a romance ethnic group of originally catalan descent. the population has grown from 5, 000 in 1900. two - thirds of residents lack andorran nationality and do not have the right to vote in communal elections. moreover, they are not allowed to be elected as prime minister or to own more than 33 % of the capital stock of a privately held company. languages according to mother tongue percentage statistics by the andorran government released in 2018 : the historic and official language is catalan, a romance language. the andorran government encourages the use of catalan. it funds a commission for catalan toponymy in andorra ( catalan : ), and provides free catalan classes to assist immigrants. andorran television and radio stations use catalan. because of immigration, historical links, and close geographic proximity, spanish, portuguese and french are commonly spoken. most andorran residents can speak one or more of these, in addition to catalan. english is less commonly spoken among the general population, though it is understood to varying degrees in the major tourist resorts. andorra is one of only four european countries ( together with france, monaco, and turkey ) that have never signed the council of europe framework convention on national minorities. religion few official statistics are available on religion ; estimates of the catholic population in 2020 range from 89. 5 % and 99. 21 %. the patron saint is our lady of meritxell. there are also members of various protestant denominations and small numbers of hindus, and baha ' is, in 2022 there were approximately 2000 muslims and roughly 100 jews. largest cities education schools children between the ages of 6 and 16 are required by law to have full - time education. education up to secondary level is provided free of charge by the government. there are three systems of school, andorran, french and spanish, which use catalan, french and spanish languages respectively, as the main language of instruction. parents may choose which system