amethyst is a violet variety of quartz. the name comes from the koine greek αμεθυστος amethystos from α - a -, " not " and μεθυσκω ( ancient greek ) / μεθω ( modern greek ), " intoxicate ", a reference to the belief that the stone protected its owner from drunkenness. ancient greeks wore amethyst and carved drinking vessels from it in the belief that it would prevent intoxication. amethyst, a semiprecious stone, is often used in jewelry. structure amethyst is a purple variety of quartz ( sio2 ) and owes its violet color to irradiation, impurities of iron ( fe3 + ) and in some cases other transition metals, and the presence of other trace elements, which result in complex crystal lattice substitutions. the irradiation causes the iron fe3 + ions that replace si in the lattice to lose an electron and form a [ feo4 ] 0 color center. amethyst is a three - dimensional network of tetrahedra where the silicon atoms are in the center and are surrounded by four oxygen atoms located at the vertices of a tetrahedron. this structure is quite rigid and results in quartz ' s hardness and resistance to weathering. the hardness of the mineral is the same as quartz, thus making it suitable for use in jewelry. hue and tone amethyst occurs in primary hues from a light lavender or pale violet to a deep purple. amethyst may exhibit one or both secondary hues, red and blue. high - quality amethyst can be found in siberia, sri lanka, brazil, uruguay, and the far east. the ideal grade, called " deep siberian ", has a primary purple hue of around 75 – 80 %, with 15 – 20 % blue and ( depending on the light source ) red secondary hues. " rose de france " is defined by its markedly light shade of the purple, reminiscent of a lavender / lilac shade. these pale colors were once considered undesirable, but have recently become popular due to intensive marketing. green quartz is sometimes incorrectly called green amethyst ; this is a misnomer and not an appropriate name for the material, as the proper terminology is prasiolite. other names for green quartz are vermarine or lime citrine. amethyst frequently shows color zoning, with the most intense color typically found at the crystal terminations.