the acquisition was confirmed a few days later, reportedly costing apple $ 400 million, with media reports noting that the purchase looked like a move to acquire data and tools bolstering the apple music streaming service. the purchase was approved by the european union in september 2018. also in june 2017, apple appointed jamie erlicht and zack van amburg to head the newly formed worldwide video unit. in november 2017, apple announced it was branching out into original scripted programming : a drama series starring jennifer aniston and reese witherspoon, and a reboot of the anthology series amazing stories with steven spielberg. in june 2018, apple signed the writers guild of america ' s minimum basic agreement and oprah winfrey to a multi - year content partnership. additional partnerships for original series include sesame workshop and dhx media and its subsidiary peanuts worldwide, as well as a partnership with a24 to create original films. during the apple special event in september 2017, the airpower wireless charger was announced alongside the iphone x, 8 and watch series 3. the airpower was intended to wirelessly charge multiple devices, simultaneously. though initially set to release in early 2018, the airpower would be canceled in march 2019, marking the first cancellation of a device under cook ' s leadership. on august 19, 2020, apple ' s share price briefly topped $ 467. 77, making apple the first us company with a market capitalization of $ 2 trillion. during its annual wwdc keynote speech on june 22, 2020, apple announced it would move away from intel processors, and the mac would transition to processors developed in - house. the announcement was expected by industry analysts, and it has been noted that macs featuring apple ' s processors would allow for big increases in performance over current intel - based models. on november 10, 2020, the macbook air, macbook pro, and the mac mini became the first mac devices powered by an apple - designed processor, the apple m1. in april 2022, it was reported that samsung electro - mechanics would be collaborating with apple on its m2 chip instead of lg innotek. developer logs showed that at least nine mac models with four different m2 chips were being tested. the wall street journal reported that an effort to develop its own chips left apple better prepared to deal with the semiconductor shortage that emerged during the pandemic era and led to increased profitability, with sales of mac computers that included m1 chips rising sharply in 2020 and 2021. it also inspired other companies like tesla, amazon, and meta