" big al " ( mor 693 ), a 95 % complete, partially articulated specimen of allosaurus was discovered, measuring about 8 meters ( about 26 ft ) long. mor 693 was excavated near shell, wyoming, by a joint museum of the rockies and university of wyoming geological museum team. this skeleton was discovered by a swiss team, led by kirby siber. chure and loewen in 2020 identified the individual as a representative of the species allosaurus jimmadseni. in 1996, the same team discovered a second allosaurus, " big al ii ". this specimen, the best preserved skeleton of its kind to date, is also referred to allosaurus jimmadseni. the completeness, preservation, and scientific importance of this skeleton gave " big al " its name. the individual itself was below the average size for allosaurus fragilis, as it was a subadult estimated at only 87 % grown. the specimen was described by breithaupt in 1996. nineteen of its bones were broken or showed signs of serious infection, which may have contributed to " big al ' s " death. pathologic bones included five ribs, five vertebrae, and four bones of the feet. several of its damaged bones showed signs of osteomyelitis, a severe bone infection. a particular problem for the living animal was infection and trauma to the right foot that probably affected movement and may have also predisposed the other foot to injury because of a change in gait. " big al " had an infection on the first phalanx on the third toe that was afflicted by an involucrum. the infection was long - lived, perhaps up to six months. “ big al ii ” is also known to have multiple injuries. species six species of allosaurus have been named : a. amplus, a. atrox, a. europaeus, the type species a. fragilis, a. jimmadseni and a. lucasi. among these, daniel chure and mark loewen in 2020 only recognized the species a. fragilis, a. europaeus, and the newly - named a. jimmadseni as being valid species. however, a. europaeus does not show any unique characters compared to the north american species, so a reevaluation of its validity is required. a. fragilis is the type species and was named by marsh in 1877. it is known from the remains of at least 60 individuals, all