algol, designated beta persei ( β persei, abbreviated beta per, β per ), known colloquially as the demon star, is a bright multiple star in the constellation of perseus and one of the first non - nova variable stars to be discovered. algol is a three - star system, consisting of beta persei aa1, aa2, and ab – in which the hot luminous primary β persei aa1 and the larger, but cooler and fainter, β persei aa2 regularly pass in front of each other, causing eclipses. thus algol ' s magnitude is usually near - constant at 2. 1, but regularly dips to 3. 4 every 2. 86 days during the roughly 10 - hour - long partial eclipses. the secondary eclipse when the brighter primary star occults the fainter secondary is very shallow and can only be detected photoelectrically. algol gives its name to its class of eclipsing variable, known as algol variables. observation history an ancient egyptian calendar of lucky and unlucky days composed some 3, 200 years ago is said to be the oldest historical documentation of the discovery of algol. the association of algol with a demon - like creature ( gorgon in the greek tradition, ghoul in the arabic tradition ) suggests that its variability was known long before the 17th century, but there is still no indisputable evidence for this. the arabic astronomer al - sufi said nothing about any variability of the star in his book of fixed stars published c. 964. the variability of algol was noted in 1667 by italian astronomer geminiano montanari, but the periodic nature of its variations in brightness was not recognized until more than a century later, when the british amateur astronomer john goodricke also proposed a mechanism for the star ' s variability. in may 1783, he presented his findings to the royal society, suggesting that the periodic variability was caused by a dark body passing in front of the star ( or else that the star itself has a darker region that is periodically turned toward the earth ). for his report he was awarded the copley medal. in 1881, the harvard astronomer edward charles pickering presented evidence that algol was actually an eclipsing binary. this was confirmed a few years later, in 1889, when the potsdam astronomer hermann carl vogel found periodic doppler shifts in the spectrum of algol, inferring variations in the radial velocity of this binary system. thus algol became one of the first known spectroscopic bin