latif, a supporter of aristotle ' s philosophical view of place, later criticized the work in fi al - radd ' ala ibn al - haytham fi al - makan ( a refutation of ibn al - haytham ' s place ) for its geometrization of place. alhazen also discussed space perception and its epistemological implications in his book of optics. in " tying the visual perception of space to prior bodily experience, alhazen unequivocally rejected the intuitiveness of spatial perception and, therefore, the autonomy of vision. without tangible notions of distance and size for correlation, sight can tell us next to nothing about such things. " alhazen came up with many theories that shattered what was known of reality at the time. these ideas of optics and perspective did not just tie into physical science, rather existential philosophy. this led to religious viewpoints being upheld to the point that there is an observer and their perspective, which in this case is reality. theology alhazen was a muslim and most sources report that he was a sunni and a follower of the ash ' ari school. kaminski, joseph j. " the trajectory of the development of islamic thoughta comparison between two earlier and two later scholars. " the contemporary islamic governed state. palgrave macmillan, cham, 2017. 31 – 70. " for example, ibn al - haytham and abu rayhan al - biruni were among the most important medieval scholars who used the scientific method in their approach to natural science, and they were both ash ' arites " ziauddin sardar says that some of the greatest muslim scientists, such as ibn al - haytham and abu rayhan al - biruni, who were pioneers of the scientific method, were themselves followers of the ashʿari school of islamic theology. like other ashʿarites who believed that faith or taqlid should apply only to islam and not to any ancient hellenistic authorities, ibn al - haytham ' s view that taqlid should apply only to prophets of islam and not to any other authorities formed the basis for much of his scientific skepticism and criticism against ptolemy and other ancient authorities in his doubts concerning ptolemy and book of optics. alhazen wrote a work on islamic theology in which he discussed prophethood and developed a system of philosophical criteria to discern its false claimants in his time. he also wrote a treatise entitled finding the direction of qibla by calculation in which he discussed finding the qibla, where prayers ( salat