options by coding a series of assembler macros. assembling these macros generates a job stream to build the system, including job control language and utility control statements. this is because, as was realized in the 1960s, the concept of " macro processing " is independent of the concept of " assembly ", the former being in modern terms more word processing, text processing, than generating object code. the concept of macro processing appeared, and appears, in the c programming language, which supports " preprocessor instructions " to set variables, and make conditional tests on their values. unlike certain previous macro processors inside assemblers, the c preprocessor is not turing - complete because it lacks the ability to either loop or " go to ", the latter allowing programs to loop. despite the power of macro processing, it fell into disuse in many high level languages ( major exceptions being c, c + + and pl / i ) while remaining a perennial for assemblers. macro parameter substitution is strictly by name : at macro processing time, the value of a parameter is textually substituted for its name. the most famous class of bugs resulting was the use of a parameter that itself was an expression and not a simple name when the macro writer expected a name. in the macro : foo : macro a load a * b the intention was that the caller would provide the name of a variable, and the " global " variable or constant b would be used to multiply " a ". if foo is called with the parameter a - c, the macro expansion of load a - c * b occurs. to avoid any possible ambiguity, users of macro processors can parenthesize formal parameters inside macro definitions, or callers can parenthesize the input parameters. support for structured programming packages of macros have been written providing structured programming elements to encode execution flow. the earliest example of this approach was in the concept - 14 macro set, originally proposed by harlan mills ( march 1970 ), and implemented by marvin kessler at ibm ' s federal systems division, which provided if / else / endif and similar control flow blocks for os / 360 assembler programs. this was a way to reduce or eliminate the use of goto operations in assembly code, one of the main factors causing spaghetti code in assembly language. this approach was widely accepted in the early 1980s ( the latter days of large - scale assembly language use ). ibm ' s high level assembler toolkit includes such a macro package. a curious design was a - natural, a