##ashito burial ground and are dated between 100 bc to 100 ad. interestingly, isotopic research revealed that one of the individuals buried there was not from aruba and had a different diet compared to the other four individuals of aruban origin. this finding suggests that early human migration and cultural exchange were already part of the cultural pattern of these archaic indians at an early stage. moving forward to a later period, the burial site in malmok, dates back to the period between 450 and 1000 ad. the arubans of that time had a short and stocky physique, with adult men averaging in height and women averaging. the burial customs offer insight into the social dynamics of the archaic island inhabitants. based on the burial patterns, it was deduced that they traveled in clans of fifteen to thirty people. these groups were led by an adult man, who was buried at the center of the cluster. his elevated status was emphasized by the presence of several stones marking his grave. the rest of the family group was buried around him. neo - indian period : the caquetio the archaic population disappeared from aruba from the archeological record around 950 ad, shortly after the arrival of the neo - indian — caquetio. it is clear that the caquetios had a superior culture in socio - economic and technological terms. it is possible that the new caquetio indians lived alongside the archaic indians on aruba for a time and that they were ultimately displaced or assimilated. arrival of the caquetio in the year 1500, the caquetio people lived on aruba. they belonged to the arawak people. the origin of arawak civilization ( a name based on a linguistic classification ) is located in the central amazon region. between 1500 and 500 bc, the influence of the arawaks had expanded to the caribbean basin and the guianas. between 850 and 1000 ad, caquetio indians migrated from western venezuela, probably from the paraguana and guajire peninsulas, to the leeward antilles. they belonged to the arawak - maipure language family. the name caquetio refers to how this group referred to themselves during their first contact with europeans. they had longer and narrower skulls than the archaic population, and their height was up to. the newcomers brought pottery and agriculture to the islands and are therefore classified as part of the neo - indian period. caquetio chiefdom the area over which the legendary cacique manaure exercised his authority was the coastal region of the current