poem by john dryden, uses the biblical story as an allegory for contemporary politics. " absalom " by nathaniel parker willis ( 1806 – 1867 ). " absaloms abfall " by rainer maria rilke ( " the fall of absalom ", trans. stephen cohn ). " absalom " is a section in muriel rukeyser ' s long poem the book of the dead ( 1938 ), inspired by the biblical text, spoken by a mother who lost three sons to silicosis. " avshalom " by yona wallach, published in her first poetry collection devarim ( 1966 ), alludes to the biblical character. fiction in the 1946 short story " absalom " by c. l. moore and henry kuttner, the character absalom is a child prodigy, who does non - consensual brain surgery on his father ( a former child prodigy, though not as intelligent as his son ) to make the father totally focused on absalom ' s success. this relates to the biblical story of the son usurping his father. georg christian lehms, des israelitischen printzens absolons und seiner prinzcessin schwester thamar staats - lebens - und helden - geschichte ( the heroic life and history of the israelite prince absolom and his princess sister tamar ), novel in german published in nuremberg, 1710. absalom, absalom! is a novel by william faulkner, and refers to the return of the main character thomas sutpen ' s son. oh absalom! was the original title of howard spring ' s novel my son, my son!, later adapted for the film of the latter name. cry, the beloved country by alan paton. absalom was the name of stephen kumalo ' s son in the novel. like the biblical absalom, absalom kumalo was at odds with his father, the two fighting a moral and ethical battle of sorts over the course of some of the novel ' s most important events. absalom kills and murders a man, and also meets an untimely death. throughout robertson davies ' s the manticore a comparison is repeatedly made between the protagonist ' s problematic relations with his father and those of the biblical absalom and king david. paradoxically, in the modern version, it is the rebellious son who has the first name " david "