southern legislatures, congress passed a bill, again over his veto, requiring him to do so within ten days of receipt. he still delayed as much as he could, but was required, in july 1868, to report the ratifications making the amendment part of the constitution. seymour ' s operatives sought johnson ' s support, but he long remained silent on the presidential campaign. it was not until october, with the vote already having taken place in some states, that he mentioned seymour at all, and he never endorsed him. nevertheless, johnson regretted grant ' s victory, in part because of their animus from the stanton affair. in his annual message to congress in december, johnson urged the repeal of the tenure of office act and told legislators that had they admitted their southern colleagues in 1865, all would have been well. he celebrated his 60th birthday in late december with a party for several hundred children, though not including those of president - elect grant, who did not allow his to go. on christmas day 1868, johnson issued a final amnesty, this one covering everyone, including davis. he also issued, in his final months in office, pardons for crimes, including one for dr. samuel mudd, controversially convicted of involvement in the lincoln assassination ( he had set booth ' s broken leg ) and imprisoned in fort jefferson on florida ' s dry tortugas. on march 3, the president hosted a large public reception at the white house on his final full day in office. grant had made it known that he was unwilling to ride in the same carriage as johnson, as was customary, and johnson refused to go to the inauguration at all. despite an effort by seward to prompt a change of mind, he spent the morning of march 4 finishing last - minute business, and then shortly after noon rode from the white house to the home of a friend. post - presidency ( 1869 – 1875 ) after leaving the presidency, johnson remained for some weeks in washington, then returned to greeneville for the first time in eight years. he was honored with large public celebrations along the way, especially in tennessee, where cities hostile to him during the war hung out welcome banners. he had arranged to purchase a large farm near greeneville to live on after his presidency. some expected johnson to run for governor of tennessee or for the senate again, while others thought that he would become a railroad executive. johnson found greeneville boring, and his private life was embittered by the suicide of his son robert in 1869. seeking vindication for himself, and revenge against