, after the arrival of a relief force sent by demetrius, son of king antigonus i. according to polybius, by the third century bc, the neighbouring city of arisbe had become subordinate to abydos. the city of dardanus also came under the control of abydos at some point in the hellenistic period. abydos became part of the seleucid empire after 281 bc. the city was conquered by ptolemy iii euergetes, king of egypt, in 245 bc, and remained under ptolemaic control until at least 241, as abydos had become part of the kingdom of pergamon by c. 200 bc. during the second macedonian war, abydos was besieged by philip v, king of macedonia, in 200 bc, during which many of its citizens chose to commit suicide rather than surrender. marcus aemilius lepidus met with philip v during the siege to deliver an ultimatum on behalf of the roman senate. ultimately, the city was forced to surrender to philip v due to a lack of reinforcements. the macedonian occupation ended after the peace of flamininus at the end of the war in 196 bc. at this time, abydos was substantially depopulated and partially ruined as a result of the macedonian occupation. in the spring of 196 bc, abydos was seized by antiochus iii, megas basileus of the seleucid empire, who refortified the city in 192 / 191 bc. antiochus iii later withdrew from abydos during the roman - seleucid war, thus allowing for the transportation of the roman army into asia minor by october 190 bc. dardanus was subsequently liberated from abydene control, and the treaty of apamea of 188 bc returned abydos to the kingdom of pergamon. a gymnasium was active at abydos in the 2nd century bc. roman period attalus iii, king of pergamon, bequeathed his kingdom to rome upon his death in 133 bc, and thus abydos became part of the province of asia. the gold mines of abydos at astyra or kremaste were near exhaustion at the time was strabo was writing. the city was counted amongst the telonia ( custom houses ) of the province of asia in the lex portorii asiae of 62 ad, and formed part of the conventus iuridicus adramytteum. abydos is mentioned in the tabula peuting