head of state of alberta. his duties concerning the government of alberta are carried out by lieutenant governor salma lakhani. the king and lieutenant governor are figureheads whose actions are highly restricted by custom and constitutional convention. the lieutenant governor handles numerous honorific duties in the name of the king. the government is headed by the premier. the premier is normally a member of the legislative assembly, and draws all the members of the cabinet from among the members of the legislative assembly. the city of edmonton is the seat of the provincial government — the capital of alberta. the current premier is danielle smith, who was sworn in on october 11, 2022. alberta ' s elections have tended to yield much more conservative outcomes than those of other canadian provinces. from the 1980s to the 2010s, alberta had three main political parties, the progressive conservatives ( " conservatives " or " tories " ), the liberals, and the social democratic new democrats. the wildrose party, a more libertarian party formed in early 2008, gained much support in the 2012 election and became the official opposition, a role it held until 2017 when it was dissolved and succeeded by the new united conservative party created by the merger of wildrose and the progressive conservatives. the strongly conservative social credit party was a power in alberta for many decades, but fell from the political map after the progressive conservatives came to power in 1971. for 44 years the progressive conservatives governed alberta. they lost the 2015 election to the ndp ( which formed their own government for the first time in provincial history, breaking almost 80 consecutive years of right - wing rule ), suggesting at the time a possible shift to the left in the province, also indicated by the election of progressive mayors in both of alberta ' s major cities. since becoming a province in 1905, alberta has seen only five changes of government — only six parties have governed alberta : the liberals, from 1905 to 1921 ; the united farmers of alberta, from 1921 to 1935 ; the social credit party, from 1935 to 1971 ; the progressive conservative party, from 1971 to 2015 ; from 2015 to 2019, the alberta new democratic party ; and from 2019, the united conservative party, with the most recent transfer of power being the first time in provincial history that an incumbent government was not returned to a second term. administrative divisions the province is divided into ten types of local governments – urban municipalities ( including cities, towns, villages and summer villages ), specialized municipalities, rural municipalities ( including municipal districts ( often named as counties ), improvement districts, and special areas ), metis settlements, and