will increase the risk of mouth cancer ". studies conducted in 1985, 1995, 2003, and 2012 did not support an association between alcohol - containing mouth rinses and oral cancer. andrew penman, chief executive of the cancer council new south wales, called for further research on the matter. in a march 2009 brief, the american dental association said " the available evidence does not support a connection between oral cancer and alcohol - containing mouthrinse ". many newer brands of mouthwash are alcohol - free, not just in response to consumer concerns about oral cancer, but also to cater for religious groups who abstain from alcohol consumption. benzydamine ( analgesic ) in painful oral conditions such as aphthous stomatitis, analgesic mouthrinses ( e. g. benzydamine mouthwash, or " difflam " ) are sometimes used to ease pain, commonly used before meals to reduce discomfort while eating. benzoic acid benzoic acid acts as a buffer. betamethasone betamethasone is sometimes used as an anti - inflammatory, corticosteroid mouthwash. it may be used for severe inflammatory conditions of the oral mucosa such as the severe forms of aphthous stomatitis. cetylpyridinium chloride ( antiseptic, antimalodor ) cetylpyridinium chloride containing mouthwash ( e. g. 0. 05 % ) is used in some specialized mouthwashes for halitosis. cetylpyridinium chloride mouthwash has less anti - plaque effect than chlorhexidine and may cause staining of teeth, or sometimes an oral burning sensation or ulceration. chlorhexidine digluconate and hexetidine ( antiseptic ) chlorhexidine digluconate is a chemical antiseptic and is used in a 0. 05 – 0. 2 % solution as a mouthwash. there is no evidence to support that higher concentrations are more effective in controlling dental plaque and gingivitis. a randomized clinical trial conducted in rabat university in morocco found better results in plaque inhibition when chlorohexidine with alcohol base 0. 12 % was used, when compared to an alcohol - free 0. 1 % chlorhexidine mouthrinse. chlorhexidine has good substantivity ( the ability of a mouthwash to bind to hard and soft tissues in the mouth ). it has anti - plaque action