a, or a, is the first letter and the first vowel of the latin alphabet, used in the modern english alphabet, the alphabets of other western european languages and others worldwide. its name in english is a ( pronounced ), plural aes. it is similar in shape to the ancient greek letter alpha, from which it derives. the uppercase version consists of the two slanting sides of a triangle, crossed in the middle by a horizontal bar. the lowercase version can be written in two forms : the double - storey a and single - storey ɑ. the latter is commonly used in handwriting and fonts based on it, especially fonts intended to be read by children, and is also found in italic type. in english grammar, " a ", and its variant " an ", are indefinite articles. history the earliest known certain ancestor of " a " is aleph ( also written ' aleph ), the first letter of the phoenician alphabet, which consisted entirely of consonants ( for that reason, it is also called an abjad to distinguish it from a true alphabet ). in turn, the ancestor of aleph may have been a pictogram of an ox head in proto - sinaitic script influenced by egyptian hieroglyphs, styled as a triangular head with two horns extended. when the ancient greeks adopted the alphabet, they had no use for a letter to represent the glottal stop — the consonant sound that the letter denoted in phoenician and other semitic languages, and that was the first phoneme of the phoenician pronunciation of the letter — so they used their version of the sign to represent the vowel, and called it by the similar name of alpha. in the earliest greek inscriptions after the greek dark ages, dating to the eighth century bc, the letter rests upon its side, but in the greek alphabet of later times it generally resembles the modern capital letter, although many local varieties can be distinguished by the shortening of one leg, or by the angle at which the cross line is set. the etruscans brought the greek alphabet to their civilization in the italian peninsula and left the letter unchanged. the romans later adopted the etruscan alphabet to write the latin language, and the resulting letter was preserved in the latin alphabet that would come to be used to write many languages, including english. typographic variants during roman times, there were many variant forms of the letter " a ". first was the monumental or lapidary style, which was used when inscr