gottfried ), an organ - builder greatly revered by bach, which had been restored by the lorraine organ - builder frederic harpfer shortly before the first world war. these recordings were made in the course of a fortnight in october 1936. schweitzer technique schweitzer developed a technique for recording the performances of bach ' s music. known as the " schweitzer technique ", it is a slight improvement on what is commonly known as mid - side. the mid - side sees a figure - 8 microphone pointed off - axis, perpendicular to the sound source. then a single cardioid microphone is placed on axis, bisecting the figure - 8 pattern. the signal from the figure - 8 is muted, panned hard left and right, one of the signals being flipped out of polarity. in the schweitzer method, the figure - 8 is replaced by two small diaphragm condenser microphones pointed directly away from each other. the information that each capsule collects is unique, unlike the identical out - of - polarity information generated from the figure - 8 in a regular mid - side. the on - axis microphone is often a large diaphragm condenser. the technique has since been used to record many modern instruments. columbia recordings altogether his early columbia discs included 25 records of bach and eight of cesar franck. the bach titles were mainly distributed as follows : queen ' s hall : organ prelude and fugue in e minor ( edition peters vol 3, 10 ) ; ( bwv 727 ) ; ( vol 7, 58 ( leipzig 18 ) ). all hallows : prelude and fugue in c major ; fantasia and fugue in g minor ( the great ) ; prelude and fugue in g major ; prelude and fugue in f minor ; little fugue in g minor ; toccata and fugue in d minor. ste aurelie : prelude and fugue in c minor ; prelude and fugue in e minor ; toccata and fugue in d minor. chorale preludes : ( peters vol 7, 49 ( leipzig 4 ) ) ; ( vol 5, 45 ) ; ( vol 7, 48 ( leipzig 6 ) ) ; ( vol 5, 8 ) ; ( vol 5, 9 ) ; ( vol 6, 12b ) ; ( vol 5, 6 ) ; ( vol 5, app 5 ) ; ( vol 5, 4 ) ; ( var 11, vol 5, app. 3 ) ; ( vol 6, 31 ( leipzig 15