that abecedary is derived from latin letters a be ce de, abjad is derived from the arabic a b j d, and alphabet is derived from the names of the two first letters in the greek alphabet, alpha and beta. abugida as a term in linguistics was proposed by peter t. daniels in his 1990 typology of writing systems. terminology as daniels used the word, an abugida is in contrast with a syllabary, where letters with shared consonant or vowel sounds show no particular resemblance to one another. furthermore, an abugida is also in contrast with an alphabet proper, where independent letters are used to denote both consonants and vowels. the term alphasyllabary was suggested for the indic scripts in 1997 by william bright, following south asian linguistic usage, to convey the idea that, " they share features of both alphabet and syllabary. " the formal definitions given by daniels and bright for abugida and alphasyllabary differ ; some writing systems are abugidas but not alphasyllabaries, and some are alphasyllabaries but not abugidas. an abugida is defined as " a type of writing system whose basic characters denote consonants followed by a particular vowel, and in which diacritics denote other vowels ". ( this ' particular vowel ' is referred to as the inherent or implicit vowel, as opposed to the explicit vowels marked by the ' diacritics '. ) an alphasyllabary is defined as " a type of writing system in which the vowels are denoted by subsidiary symbols, not all of which occur in a linear order ( with relation to the consonant symbols ) that is congruent with their temporal order in speech ". bright did not require that an alphabet explicitly represent all vowels. ʼphags - pa is an example of an abugida because it has an inherent vowel, but it is not an alphasyllabary because its vowels are written in linear order. modern lao is an example of an alphasyllabary that is not an abugida, for there is no inherent vowel and its vowels are always written explicitly and not in accordance to their temporal order in speech, meaning that a vowel can be written before, below or above a consonant letter, while the syllable is still pronounced in the order of a consonant - vowel combination ( cv ). general description the fundamental principles of an abugida apply to words made up of consonant - vowel ( cv ) syllables. the syllables are