. a. leptodon hirst, 1906 o. a. matschiei grote, 1921 o. a. observandus grote, 1921 o. a. ruvanensis grote, 1921 o. a. senegalensis lesson, 1840 o. a. somalicus lydekker, 1908 o. a. wardi lydekker, 1908 o. a. wertheri matschie, 1898 ( eastern aardvark ) the 1911 encyclopædia britannica also mentions o. a. capensis or cape ant - bear from south africa. description the aardvark is vaguely pig - like in appearance. its body is stout with a prominently arched back and is sparsely covered with coarse hairs. the limbs are of moderate length, with the rear legs being longer than the forelegs. the front feet have lost the pollex ( or ' thumb ' ), resulting in four toes, while the rear feet have all five toes. each toe bears a large, robust nail which is somewhat flattened and shovel - like, and appears to be intermediate between a claw and a hoof. whereas the aardvark is considered digitigrade, it appears at times to be plantigrade. this confusion happens because when it squats it stands on its soles. a contributing characteristic to the burrow digging capabilities of aardvarks is an endosteal tissue called compacted coarse cancellous bone ( cccb ). the stress and strain resistance provided by cccb allows aardvarks to create their burrows, ultimately leading to a favourable environment for plants and a variety of animals. an aardvark ' s weight is typically between. an aardvark ' s length is usually between, and can reach lengths of when its tail ( which can be up to ) is taken into account. it is tall at the shoulder, and has a girth of about. it is the largest member of the proposed clade afroinsectiphilia. the aardvark is pale yellowish - grey in colour and often stained reddish - brown by soil. the aardvark ' s coat is thin, and the animal ' s primary protection is its tough skin. its hair is short on its head and tail ; however its legs tend to have longer hair. the hair on the majority of its body is grouped in clusters of 3 - 4 hairs. the hair surrounding its nostrils is dense to help filter particulate matter out as it digs. its tail is very