centre arla nativa in agro food park and in 2018 aarhus university is moving the danish centre for food and agriculture there as well. in 2016, some 1000 people worked at agro food park, spread across 50 companies and institutions and in august 2016 agro food park management published plans to expand facilities from 92, 000 m2 to. in addition, aarhus is home to the aarhus school of architecture, one of two danish ministry of education institutions that provide degree programs in architecture, and some of the largest architecture firms in the nordic countries such as schmidt hammer lassen architects, arkitema architects and c. f. møller architects. taken together these organisations form a unique concentration of expertise and knowledge in architecture outside copenhagen, which the danish ministry of business and growth refers to as ( the architecture cluster ). to promote the " cluster ", the school of architecture will be given new school buildings centrally in the new freight station neighborhood, planned for development in the 2020s. in the interim, the city council supports a culture, business and education centre in the area, which may continue in the future neighbourhood in some form. the future occupants of the neighbourhood will be businesses and organisations selected for their ability to be involved in the local community, and it is hoped that the area will evolve into a hotspot for creativity and design. cityscape aarhus has developed in stages, from the viking age to modern times, all visible in the city today. many architectural styles are represented in different parts of the city such as romanesque, gothic, renaissance, baroque, rococo, national romantic, nordic classicism, neoclassical, empire and functionalism. the city has developed around the main transport hubs – the river, the harbour, and later the railway station – and as a result, the oldest parts are also the most central and busiest today. the streets of volden ( the rampart ) and graven ( the moat ) testify to the defences of the initial viking town, and allegaderingen in midtbyen roughly follows the boundaries of that settlement. the street network in the inner city formed during the middle ages with narrow, curved streets and low, dense housing by the river and the coast. vesterport ( westward gate ) still bears the name of the medieval city gate and the narrow alleyways posthussmøgen and telefonsmøgen are remnants of toll stations from that time. the inner city has the oldest preserved buildings, especially the latin quarter, with houses dating back to the early 17th century in mej