aloe jucunda reynolds aloe khamiesensis pillans aloe kilifiensis christian aloe maculata all. aloe marlothii a. berger aloe mubendiensis christian aloe namibensis giess aloe nyeriensis christian & i. verd. aloe pearsonii schonland aloe peglerae schonland aloe perfoliata l. aloe perryi baker aloe petricola pole - evans aloe polyphylla pillans aloe rauhii reynolds aloe reynoldsii letty aloe scobinifolia reynolds & bally aloe sinkatana reynolds aloe squarrosa baker ex balf. f. aloe striata haw. aloe succotrina lam. aloe suzannae decary aloe thraskii baker aloe vera ( l. ) burm. f. aloe viridiflora reynolds aloe wildii ( reynolds ) reynolds in addition to the species and hybrids between species within the genus, several hybrids with other genera have been created in cultivation, such as between aloe and gasteria ( × gasteraloe ), and between aloe and astroloba ( ×aloloba ). uses aloe species are frequently cultivated as ornamental plants both in gardens and in pots. many aloe species are highly decorative and are valued by collectors of succulents. aloe vera is used both internally and externally on humans as folk or alternative medicine. the aloe species is known for its medicinal and cosmetic properties. around 75 % of aloe species are used locally for medicinal uses. the plants can also be made into types of special soaps or used in other skin care products ( see natural skin care ). numerous cultivars with mixed or uncertain parentage are grown. of these, aloe ‘ lizard lips ’ has gained the royal horticultural society ’ s award of garden merit. aloe variegata has been planted on graves in the superstitious belief that this ensures eternal life. historical uses historical use of various aloe species is well documented. documentation of the clinical effectiveness is available, although relatively limited. of the 500 + species, only a few were used traditionally as herbal medicines, aloe vera again being the most commonly used species. also included are a. perryi and a. ferox. the ancient greeks and romans used aloe vera to treat wounds. in the middle ages, the yellowish liquid found inside the leaves was