in 1920, and a foreign member of the royal society in 1921. in 1922, he was awarded the 1921 nobel prize in physics " for his services to theoretical physics, and especially for his discovery of the law of the photoelectric effect ". at this point some physicists still regarded the general theory of relativity sceptically, and the nobel citation displayed a degree of doubt even about the work on photoelectricity that it acknowledged : it did not assent to einstein ' s notion of the particulate nature of light, which only won over the entire scientific community when s. n. bose derived the planck spectrum in 1924. that same year, einstein was elected an international honorary member of the american academy of arts and sciences. britain ' s closest equivalent of the nobel award, the royal society ' s copley medal, was not hung around einstein ' s neck until 1925. he was elected an international member of the american philosophical society in 1930. einstein resigned from the prussian academy in march 1933. his accomplishments in berlin had included the completion of the general theory of relativity, proving the einstein – de haas effect, contributing to the quantum theory of radiation, and the development of bose – einstein statistics. 1919 : putting general relativity to the test in 1907, einstein reached a milestone on his long journey from his special theory of relativity to a new idea of gravitation with the formulation of his equivalence principle, which asserts that an observer in an infinitesimally small box falling freely in a gravitational field would be unable to find any evidence that the field exists. in 1911, he used the principle to estimate the amount by which a ray of light from a distant star would be bent by the gravitational pull of the sun as it passed close to the sun ' s photosphere ( that is, the sun ' s apparent surface ). he reworked his calculation in 1913, having now found a way to model gravitation with the riemann curvature tensor of a non - euclidean four - dimensional spacetime. by the fall of 1915, his reimagining of the mathematics of gravitation in terms of riemannian geometry was complete, and he applied his new theory not just to the behavior of the sun as a gravitational lens but also to another astronomical phenomenon, the precession of the perihelion of mercury ( a slow drift in the point in mercury ' s elliptical orbit at which it approaches the sun most closely ). a total eclipse of the sun that took place on 29 may 1919 provided an opportunity to put his theory of gravitational