that his rough skin was caused by the impure gift of dirt in the previous life. some later texts repeat this story, without mentioning the negative implications of gifting dirt ; these texts include kumaralata ' s kalpana - manditika, aryashura ' s jataka - mala, and the maha - karma - vibhaga. the chinese writer pao ch ' eng ' s shih chia ju lai ying hua lu asserts that an insignificant act like gifting dirt could not have been meritorious enough to cause ashoka ' s future greatness. instead, the text claims that in another past life, ashoka commissioned a large number of buddha statues as a king, and this act of merit caused him to become a great emperor in the next life. the 14th century pali - language fairy tale dasavatthuppakarana ( possibly from ) combines the stories about the merchant ' s gift of honey, and the boy ' s gift of dirt. it narrates a slightly different version of the mahavamsa story, stating that it took place before the birth of the gautama buddha. it then states that the merchant was reborn as the boy who gifted dirt to the buddha ; however, in this case, the buddha his attendant to ananda to create plaster from the dirt, which is used repair cracks in the monastery walls. last years tissarakkha as the queen ashoka ' s last dated inscription - the pillar edict 4 is from his 26th regnal year. the only source of information about ashoka ' s later years are the buddhist legends. the sri lankan tradition states that ashoka ' s queen asandhamitta died during his 29th regnal year, and in his 32nd regnal year, his wife tissarakkha was given the title of queen. both mahavamsa and ashokavadana state that ashoka extended favours and attention to the bodhi tree, and a jealous tissarakkha mistook " bodhi " to be a mistress of ashoka. she then used black magic to make the tree wither. according to the ashokavadana, she hired a sorceress to do the job, and when ashoka explained that " bodhi " was the name of a tree, she had the sorceress heal the tree. according to the mahavamsa, she completely destroyed the tree, during ashoka ' s 34th regnal year. the ashokavadana states that tissarakkha ( called " tishyarakshita " here