##ology ( a term coined and defined by adam f. kollar in 1783 ). it is sometimes referred to as sociocultural anthropology in the parts of the world that were influenced by the european tradition. fields anthropology is a global discipline involving humanities, social sciences and natural sciences. anthropology builds upon knowledge from natural sciences, including the discoveries about the origin and evolution of homo sapiens, human physical traits, human behavior, the variations among different groups of humans, how the evolutionary past of homo sapiens has influenced its social organization and culture, and from social sciences, including the organization of human social and cultural relations, institutions, social conflicts, etc. early anthropology originated in classical greece and persia and studied and tried to understand observable cultural diversity, such as by al - biruni of the islamic golden age. as such, anthropology has been central in the development of several new ( late 20th century ) interdisciplinary fields such as cognitive science, global studies, and various ethnic studies. according to clifford geertz, sociocultural anthropology has been heavily influenced by structuralist and postmodern theories, as well as a shift toward the analysis of modern societies. during the 1970s and 1990s, there was an epistemological shift away from the positivist traditions that had largely informed the discipline. during this shift, enduring questions about the nature and production of knowledge came to occupy a central place in cultural and social anthropology. in contrast, archaeology and biological anthropology remained largely positivist. due to this difference in epistemology, the four sub - fields of anthropology have lacked cohesion over the last several decades. sociocultural sociocultural anthropology draws together the principal axes of cultural anthropology and social anthropology. cultural anthropology is the comparative study of the manifold ways in which people make sense of the world around them, while social anthropology is the study of the relationships among individuals and groups. cultural anthropology is more related to philosophy, literature and the arts ( how one ' s culture affects the experience for self and group, contributing to a more complete understanding of the people ' s knowledge, customs, and institutions ), while social anthropology is more related to sociology and history. in that, it helps develop an understanding of social structures, typically of others and other populations ( such as minorities, subgroups, dissidents, etc. ). there is no hard - and - fast distinction between them, and these categories overlap to a considerable degree. inquiry in sociocultural anthropology is guided in part by cultural relativism, the attempt to understand other societies in terms of their own