" albertus repente ex asino factus philosophus et ex philosopho asinus " [ albert was suddenly transformed from an ass into a philosopher and from a philosopher into an ass ]. in mary shelley ' s frankenstein, the titular frankenstein studies the works of albertus magnus. johann eduard erdmann considers albert greater and more original than his pupil aquinas. in open all hours, arkwright invents st albert ' s day so grandville can check customers pockets. influence and tribute a number of schools have been named after albert, including albertus magnus high school in bardonia, new york ; albertus magnus lyceum in river forest, illinois ; and albertus magnus college in new haven, connecticut. albertus magnus science hall at thomas aquinas college, in santa paula, california, is named in honor of albert. the main science buildings at providence college and aquinas college in grand rapids, michigan, are also named after him. the central square at the campus of the university of cologne features a statue of albert and is named after him. the academy for science and design in new hampshire honored albert by naming one of its four houses magnus house. as a tribute to the scholar ' s contributions to the law, the university of houston law center displays a statue of albert. it is located on the campus of the university of houston. the albertus - magnus - gymnasium is found in rottweil, germany. in managua, nicaragua, the albertus magnus international institute, a business and economic development research center, was founded in 2004. in the philippines, the albertus magnus building at the university of santo tomas that houses the conservatory of music, college of tourism and hospitality management, college of education, and ust education high school is named in his honor. the saint albert the great science academy in san carlos city, pangasinan, which offers preschool, elementary and high school education, takes pride in having st. albert as their patron saint. its main building was named albertus magnus hall in 2008. san alberto magno academy in tubao, la union is also dedicated in his honor. this century - old catholic high school continues to live on its vision - mission up to this day, offering senior high school courses. due to his contributions to natural philosophy, the bacterium agrobacterium albertimagni, the plant species alberta magna, the crustacean bodigiella albertimagni, the fossil brachiopod albasphe albertimagni, and the