trout, sea bream, mussels and crustaceans. albania has one of europe ' s longest histories of viticulture. today ' s region was one of the few places where vine was naturally grown during the ice age. the oldest found seeds in the region are 4, 000 to 6, 000 years old. in 2009, the nation produced an estimated 17, 500 tonnes of wine. secondary sector the secondary sector of albania has undergone many changes and diversification since the collapse of the communist regime in the country. it is very diversified, from electronics, manufacturing, textiles, to food, cement, mining, and energy. the antea cement plant in fushe - kruje is considered one of the largest industrial greenfield investments in the country. albanian oil and gas represents of the most promising, albeit strictly regulated, sectors of its economy. albania has the second largest oil deposits in the balkan peninsula after romania, and the largest oil reserves in europe. the albpetrol company is owned by the albanian state and monitors the state petroleum agreements in the country. the textile industry has seen an extensive expansion by approaching companies from the european union ( eu ) in albania. according to the institute of statistics ( instat ), the textile production marked an annual growth of 5. 3 % and an annual turnover of around 1. 5 billion euros. albania is a significant minerals producer and is ranked among the world ' s leading chromium producers and exporters. the nation is also a notable producer of copper, nickel and coal. the batra mine, bulqize mine, and thekna mine are among the most recognised albanian mines that are still in operation. tertiary sector the tertiary sector represents the fastest growing sector of the country ' s economy. 36 % of the population work in the service sector which contributes to 65 % of the country ' s gdp. ever since the end of the 20th century, the banking industry is a major component of the tertiary sector and remains in good conditions overall due to privatisation and the commendable monetary policy. previously one of the most isolated and controlled countries in the world, telecommunication industry represents nowadays another major contributor to the sector. it developed largely through privatisation and subsequent investment by both domestic and foreign investors. eagle, vodafone and telekom albania are the leading telecommunications service providers in the country. tourism is recognised as an industry of national importance and has been steadily increasing since the beginnings of the 21st century. it directly accounted for 8. 4 % of