not involve needles. electroacupuncture is a form of acupuncture in which acupuncture needles are attached to a device that generates continuous electric pulses ( this has been described as " essentially transdermal electrical nerve stimulation [ tens ] masquerading as acupuncture " ). fire needle acupuncture also known as fire needling is a technique which involves quickly inserting a flame - heated needle into areas on the body. sonopuncture is a stimulation of the body similar to acupuncture using sound instead of needles. this may be done using purpose - built transducers to direct a narrow ultrasound beam to a depth of 6 – 8 centimetres at acupuncture meridian points on the body. alternatively, tuning forks or other sound emitting devices are used. acupuncture point injection is the injection of various substances ( such as drugs, vitamins or herbal extracts ) into acupoints. this technique combines traditional acupuncture with injection of what is often an effective dose of an approved pharmaceutical drug, and proponents claim that it may be more effective than either treatment alone, especially for the treatment of some kinds of chronic pain. however, a 2016 review found that most published trials of the technique were of poor value due to methodology issues and larger trials would be needed to draw useful conclusions. auriculotherapy, commonly known as ear acupuncture, auricular acupuncture, or auriculoacupuncture, is considered to date back to ancient china. it involves inserting needles to stimulate points on the outer ear. the modern approach was developed in france during the early 1950s. there is no scientific evidence that it can cure disease ; the evidence of effectiveness is negligible. scalp acupuncture, developed in japan, is based on reflexological considerations regarding the scalp. koryo hand acupuncture, developed in korea, centers around assumed reflex zones of the hand. medical acupuncture attempts to integrate reflexological concepts, the trigger point model, and anatomical insights ( such as dermatome distribution ) into acupuncture practice, and emphasizes a more formulaic approach to acupuncture point location. cosmetic acupuncture is the use of acupuncture in an attempt to reduce wrinkles on the face. bee venom acupuncture is a treatment approach of injecting purified, diluted bee venom into acupoints. veterinary acupuncture is the use of