lack of uniformity as regards containing apocryphal books, and some also contain books classed as pseudepigrapha, from which texts were cited by some early writers in the second and later centuries as being scripture. while a few scholars conclude that the jewish canon was the achievement of the hasmonean dynasty, it is generally considered not to have been finalized until about 100 ad or somewhat later, at which time considerations of greek language and beginnings of christian acceptance of the septuagint weighed against some of the texts. some were not accepted by the jews as part of the hebrew bible canon and the apocrypha is not part of the historical jewish canon. early church fathers such as athanasius, melito, origen, and cyril of jerusalem, spoke against the canonicity of much or all of the apocrypha, but the most weighty opposition was the fourth century catholic scholar jerome who preferred the hebrew canon, whereas augustine and others preferred the wider ( greek ) canon, with both having followers in the generations that followed. the catholic encyclopedia states as regards the middle ages, the prevailing attitude of western medieval authors is substantially that of the greek fathers. the wider christian canon accepted by augustine became the more established canon in the western church after being promulgated for use in the easter letter of athanasius ( circa 372 a. d. ), the synod of rome ( 382 a. d., but its decretum gelasianum is generally considered to be a much later addition ) and the local councils of carthage and hippo in north africa ( 391 and 393 a. d ). athanasius called canonical all books of the hebrew bible including baruch, while excluding esther. he adds that " there are certain books which the fathers had appointed to be read to catechumens for edification and instruction ; these are the wisdom of solomon, the wisdom of sirach ( ecclesiasticus ), esther, judith, tobias, the didache, or doctrine of the apostles, and the shepherd of hermas. all others are apocrypha and the inventions of heretics ( festal epistle for 367 ) ". nevertheless, none of these constituted indisputable definitions, and significant scholarly doubts and disagreements about the nature of the apocrypha continued for centuries and even into trent, which provided the first infallible definition of the catholic canon in 1546. this canon came to see appropriately 1, 000 years of nearly uniform use by