##er bugandensis bacterial strains, none pathogenic to humans, that microorganisms on iss should be carefully monitored to continue assuring a medically healthy environment for astronauts. a study by russian scientists published in april 2019 stated that astronauts facing space radiation could face temporary hindrance of their memory centers. while this does not affect their intellectual capabilities, it temporarily hinders formation of new cells in brain ' s memory centers. the study conducted by moscow institute of physics and technology ( mipt ) concluded this after they observed that mice exposed to neutron and gamma radiation did not impact the rodents ' intellectual capabilities. a 2020 study conducted on the brains of eight male russian cosmonauts after they returned from long stays aboard the international space station showed that long - duration spaceflight causes many physiological adaptions, including macro - and microstructural changes. while scientists still know little about the effects of spaceflight on brain structure, this study showed that space travel can lead to new motor skills ( dexterity ), but also slightly weaker vision, both of which could possibly be long lasting. it was the first study to provide clear evidence of sensorimotor neuroplasticity, which is the brain ' s ability to change through growth and reorganization. food and drink an astronaut on the international space station requires about mass of food per meal each day ( inclusive of about packaging mass per meal ). space shuttle astronauts worked with nutritionists to select menus that appealed to their individual tastes. five months before flight, menus were selected and analyzed for nutritional content by the shuttle dietician. foods are tested to see how they will react in a reduced gravity environment. caloric requirements are determined using a basal energy expenditure ( bee ) formula. on earth, the average american uses about of water every day. on board the iss astronauts limit water use to only about per day. insignia in russia, cosmonauts are awarded pilot - cosmonaut of the russian federation upon completion of their missions, often accompanied with the award of hero of the russian federation. this follows the practice established in the ussr where cosmonauts were usually awarded the title hero of the soviet union. at nasa, those who complete astronaut candidate training receive a silver lapel pin. once they have flown in space, they receive a gold pin. u. s. astronauts who also have active - duty military status receive a special qualification badge, known as the astronaut badge, after participation on a spaceflight. the united states air force also presents an astronaut badge to its pilots who