large ionic radii. sodium and potassium are very abundant in earth, both being among the ten most common elements in earth ' s crust ; sodium makes up approximately 2. 6 % of the earth ' s crust measured by weight, making it the sixth most abundant element overall and the most abundant alkali metal. potassium makes up approximately 1. 5 % of the earth ' s crust and is the seventh most abundant element. sodium is found in many different minerals, of which the most common is ordinary salt ( sodium chloride ), which occurs in vast quantities dissolved in seawater. other solid deposits include halite, amphibole, cryolite, nitratine, and zeolite. many of these solid deposits occur as a result of ancient seas evaporating, which still occurs now in places such as utah ' s great salt lake and the dead sea. despite their near - equal abundance in earth ' s crust, sodium is far more common than potassium in the ocean, both because potassium ' s larger size makes its salts less soluble, and because potassium is bound by silicates in soil and what potassium leaches is absorbed far more readily by plant life than sodium. despite its chemical similarity, lithium typically does not occur together with sodium or potassium due to its smaller size. due to its relatively low reactivity, it can be found in seawater in large amounts ; it is estimated that seawater is approximately 0. 14 to 0. 25 parts per million ( ppm ) or 25 micromolar. its diagonal relationship with magnesium often allows it to replace magnesium in ferromagnesium minerals, where its crustal concentration is about 18 ppm, comparable to that of gallium and niobium. commercially, the most important lithium mineral is spodumene, which occurs in large deposits worldwide. rubidium is approximately as abundant as zinc and more abundant than copper. it occurs naturally in the minerals leucite, pollucite, carnallite, zinnwaldite, and lepidolite, although none of these contain only rubidium and no other alkali metals. caesium is more abundant than some commonly known elements, such as antimony, cadmium, tin, and tungsten, but is much less abundant than rubidium. francium - 223, the only naturally occurring isotope of francium, is the product of the alpha decay of actinium - 227 and can be found in trace amounts in uranium minerals. in a given sample of uranium, there is estimated to