become the prosperous capital of the ptolemaic kingdom after his death. control of egypt passed to ptolemy i ( son of lagos ), the founder of the ptolemaic dynasty ( 305 - 30 bc ) after the death of alexander. assyria and babylonia leaving egypt in 331 bc, alexander marched eastward into achaemenid assyria in upper mesopotamia ( now northern iraq ) and defeated darius again at the battle of gaugamela. darius once more fled the field, and alexander chased him as far as arbela. gaugamela would be the final and decisive encounter between the two. darius fled over the mountains to ecbatana ( modern hamadan ) while alexander captured babylon. babylonian astronomical diaries say that " the king of the world, alexander " sent his scouts with a message to the people of babylon before entering the city : " i shall not enter your houses ". persia from babylon, alexander went to susa, one of the achaemenid capitals, and captured its treasury. he sent the bulk of his army to the persian ceremonial capital of persepolis via the persian royal road. alexander himself took selected troops on the direct route to the city. he then stormed the pass of the persian gates ( in the modern zagros mountains ) which had been blocked by a persian army under ariobarzanes and then hurried to persepolis before its garrison could loot the treasury. on entering persepolis, alexander allowed his troops to loot the city for several days. alexander stayed in persepolis for five months. during his stay a fire broke out in the eastern palace of xerxes i and spread to the rest of the city. possible causes include a drunken accident or deliberate revenge for the burning of the acropolis of athens during the second persian war by xerxes ; plutarch and diodorus allege that alexander ' s companion, the hetaera thais, instigated and started the fire. even as he watched the city burn, alexander immediately began to regret his decision. plutarch claims that he ordered his men to put out the fires, but that the flames had already spread to most of the city. curtius claims that alexander did not regret his decision until the next morning. plutarch recounts an anecdote in which alexander pauses and talks to a fallen statue of xerxes as if it were a live person : fall of the persian empire and the east alexander then chased darius, first into media, and then parthia.