europa. failed love attempts marpessa was kidnapped by idas but was loved by apollo as well. zeus made her choose between them, and she chose idas on the grounds that apollo, being immortal, would tire of her when she grew old. sinope, a nymph, was approached by the amorous apollo. she made him promise that he would grant to her whatever she would ask for, and then cleverly asked him to let her stay a virgin. apollo kept his promise and went back. bolina was admired by apollo but she refused him and jumped into the sea. to avoid her death, apollo turned her into a nymph, saving her life. castalia was a nymph whom apollo loved. she fled from him and dove into the spring at delphi, at the base of mt. parnassos, which was then named after her. water from this spring was sacred ; it was used to clean the delphian temples and inspire the priestesses. cassandra, was a daughter of hecuba and priam. apollo wished to court her. cassandra promised to return his love on one condition - he should give her the power to see the future. apollo fulfilled her wish, but she went back on her word and rejected him soon after. angered that she broke her promise, apollo cursed her that even though she would see the future, no one would ever believe her prophecies. the sibyl of cumae like cassandra promised apollo her love if he would give her a boon. the sibyl took a handful of sand and asked apollo to grant her years of life as many as the grains of sand she held in her hands. apollo granted her wish, but sibyl went back on her word. although sibyl did live an extended life as apollo had promised, he did not give her agelessness along with it, so she shrivelled and shrank and only her voice remained. hestia, the goddess of the hearth, rejected both apollo ' s and poseidon ' s marriage proposals and swore that she would always stay unmarried. in one version of the prophet tiresias ' s origins, he was originally a woman who promised apollo to sleep with him if he would give her music lessons. apollo gave her her wish, but then she went back on her word and refused him. apollo in anger turned her into a man. female counterparts artemis artemis as the sister of apollo, is thea apollousa, that is, she as a female divinity represented the same