groundwater, caused by the anoxic conditions of the subsurface. this groundwater was used after local and western ngos and the bangladeshi government undertook a massive shallow tube well drinking - water program in the late twentieth century. this program was designed to prevent drinking of bacteria - contaminated surface waters, but failed to test for arsenic in the groundwater. many other countries and districts in southeast asia, such as vietnam and cambodia, have geological environments that produce groundwater with a high arsenic content. arsenicosis was reported in nakhon si thammarat, thailand, in 1987, and the chao phraya river probably contains high levels of naturally occurring dissolved arsenic without being a public health problem because much of the public uses bottled water. in pakistan, more than 60 million people are exposed to arsenic polluted drinking water indicated by a 2017 report in science. podgorski ' s team investigated more than 1200 samples and more than 66 % exceeded the who minimum contamination level. since the 1980s, residents of the ba men region of inner mongolia, china have been chronically exposed to arsenic through drinking water from contaminated wells. a 2009 research study observed an elevated presence of skin lesions among residents with well water arsenic concentrations between 5 and 10 µg / l, suggesting that arsenic induced toxicity may occur at relatively low concentrations with chronic exposure. overall, 20 of china ' s 34 provinces have high arsenic concentrations in the groundwater supply, potentially exposing 19 million people to hazardous drinking water. a study by iit kharagpur found high levels of arsenic in groundwater of 20 % of india ' s land, exposing more than 250 million people. states such as punjab, bihar, west bengal, assam, haryana, uttar pradesh, and gujarat have highest land area exposed to arsenic. in the united states, arsenic is most commonly found in the ground waters of the southwest. parts of new england, michigan, wisconsin, minnesota and the dakotas are also known to have significant concentrations of arsenic in ground water. increased levels of skin cancer have been associated with arsenic exposure in wisconsin, even at levels below the 10 ppb drinking water standard. according to a recent film funded by the us superfund, millions of private wells have unknown arsenic levels, and in some areas of the us, more than 20 % of the wells may contain levels that exceed established limits. low - level exposure to arsenic at concentrations of 100 ppb ( i. e., above the 10 ppb drinking water standard ) compromises the initial immune response to h1n1 or swine flu infection according to niehs - supported