the amber diceless roleplaying game is a role - playing game created and written by erick wujcik, set in the fictional universe created by author roger zelazny for his chronicles of amber. the game is unusual in that no dice are used in resolving conflicts or player actions ; instead a simple diceless system of comparative ability, and narrative description of the action by the players and gamemaster, is used to determine how situations are resolved. amber drpg was created in the 1980s, and is much more focused on relationships and roleplaying than most of the roleplaying games of that era. most amber characters are members of the two ruling classes in the amber multiverse, and are much more advanced in matters of strength, endurance, psyche, warfare and sorcery than ordinary beings. this often means that the only individuals who are capable of opposing a character are from his or her family, a fact that leads to much suspicion and intrigue. history erick wujcik wanted to design a role - playing game based on amber for west end games, and they agreed to look at his work. wujcik intended to integrate the feel of the amber setting from the novels into a role - playing game, and playtested his system for a few months at the michigan gaming center where he decided to try it out as a diceless game. west end games was not interested in a diceless role - playing game, so wujcik acquired the role - playing game rights to amber and offered the game to r. talsorian games, until he withdrew over creative differences. wujcik then founded phage press, and published amber diceless role - playing in 1991. the original 256 - page game book was published in 1991 by phage press, covering material from the first five novels ( the " corwin cycle " ) and some details – sorcery and the logrus – from the remaining five novels ( the " merlin cycle " ), in order to allow players to roleplay characters from the courts of chaos. some details were changed slightly to allow more player choice – for example, players can be full trump artists without having walked the pattern or the logrus, which merlin says is impossible ; and players ' psychic abilities are far greater than those shown in the books. a 256 - page companion volume, shadow knight, was published in 1993. this supplemental rule book includes the remaining elements from the merlin novels, such as broken patterns, and allows players to create constructs such as