consistent within this range even as different powers — including nubians, greeks, and romans — conquered the empire. a wide range of mtdna haplogroups were found including clades of j, u, h, hv, m, r0, r2, k, t, l, i, n, x, w. modern egyptians shared this mtdna haplogroup profile. the authors of the study noted that the mummies at abusir el - meleq had 6 – 15 % maternal sub - saharan component while the 135 modern egyptian samples had a little more maternal sub - saharan component, 14 – 21 %, suggesting some degree of influx after the end of the empire. " genetic continuity between ancient and modern egyptians cannot be ruled out despite this more recent sub - saharan african influx, while continuity with modern ethiopians is not supported ". gourdine, anselin and keita criticised the methodology of the scheunemann et al study and argued that the sub - saharan " genetic affinities " may be attributed to " early settlers " and " the relevant sub - saharan genetic markers " do not correspond with the geography of known trade routes ". in 2022, danielle candelora noted several limitations with the 2017 scheunemann et al. study such as its " untested sampling methods, small sample size and problematic comparative data " which she argued had been misused to legitimize racist conceptions of ancient egypt with " scientific evidence ". in 2023, christopher ehret criticised the conclusions of the 2017 study which proposed the ancient egyptians had a levantine background based on insufficient sampling and a biased interpretation of the genetic data. ehret argued this was reminiscent of earlier scholarship and also conflicted with existing archaeological, linguistic and biological anthropological evidence which determined the founding locales of ancient egypt to be the descendants of longtime populations in northeastern africa such as nubia and the northern horn of africa. ehret also criticised the study for asserting that there was " no sub - saharan " component in the egyptian population. because the 2017 study only sampled from a single site at abusir el - meleq, scheunemann et al. ( 2022 ) carried out a follow - up study by collecting samples from six different excavation sites along the entire length of the nile valley, spanning 4000 years of egyptian history. 81 samples were collected from 17 mummies and 14 skeletal remains, and 18 high quality mitochondrial genomes were reconstructed from 10 individuals. the authors argued that the analyzed mitochondrial genome