of new democracy. the municipality is divided into seven municipal districts which are mainly used for administrative purposes. for the athenians the most popular way of dividing the downtown is through its neighbourhoods such as pagkrati, ampelokipoi, goudi, exarcheia, patisia, ilisia, petralona, plaka, anafiotika, koukaki, kolonaki and kypseli, each with its own distinct history and characteristics. metropolitan area the athens metropolitan area, with an area of and inhabited by 3, 744, 059 people in 2021, consists of the athens urban area with the addition of the towns and villages of east and west attica, which surround the dense urban area of the greek capital. it actually sprawls over the whole peninsula of attica, which is the best part of the region of attica, excluding the islands. safety athens ranks in the lowest percentage for the risk on frequency and severity of terrorist attacks according to the eu global terrorism database ( eiu 2007 – 2016 calculations ). the city also ranked 35th in digital security, 21st on health security, 29th on infrastructure security and 41st on personal security globally in a 2017 the economist intelligence unit report. it also ranks as a very safe city ( 39th globally out of 162 cities overall ) on the ranking of the safest and most dangerous countries. as may 2022 the crime index from numbeo places athens at 56. 33 ( moderate ), while its safety index is at 43. 68. crime in athens according to a mercer 2019 quality of living survey, athens ranks 89th on the mercer quality of living survey ranking. economy athens is the financial capital of greece. according to data from 2014, athens as a metropolitan economic area produced us $ 130 billion as gdp in ppp, which consists of nearly half of the production for the whole country. athens was ranked 102nd in that year ' s list of global economic metropolises, while gdp per capita for the same year was 32, 000 us - dollars. athens is one of the major economic centres in south - eastern europe and is considered a regional economic power. the port of piraeus, where big investments by cosco have already been delivered during the recent decade, the completion of the new cargo centre in thriasion, the expansion of the athens metro and the athens tram, as well as the hellenikon metropolitan park redevelopment in elliniko and other urban projects, are the economic landmarks of the upcoming years. prominent greek companies such