regimen, she said, " i played two times a week from age six. it was a children ' s program. and it was just for fun ; my parents didn ' t know i was going to play professionally, they just wanted me to do something because i had lots of energy. it was only when i started playing well at seven that i went to a professional academy. i would go to school, and then my parents would take me to the club, and i ' d spend the rest of the day there just having fun with the kids. " in 1986, kournikova became a member of the spartak tennis club, coached by larissa preobrazhenskaya. in 1989, at the age of eight, kournikova began appearing in junior tournaments, and by the following year, was attracting attention from tennis scouts across the world. she signed a management deal at age ten and went to bradenton, florida, to train at nick bollettieri ' s celebrated tennis academy. tennis career 1989 – 1997 : early years and breakthrough following her arrival in the united states, she became prominent on the tennis scene. at the age of 14, she won the european championships and the italian open junior tournament. in december 1995, she became the youngest player to win the 18 - and - under division of the junior orange bowl tennis tournament. by the end of the year, kournikova was crowned the itf junior world champion u - 18 and junior european champion u - 18. earlier, in september 1995, kournikova, still only 14 years of age, debuted in the wta tour, when she received a wildcard into the qualifications at the wta tournament in moscow, the moscow ladies open, and qualified before losing in the second round of the main draw to third - seeded sabine appelmans. she also reached her first wta tour doubles final in that debut appearance — partnering with 1995 wimbledon girls ' champion in both singles and doubles aleksandra olsza, she lost the title match to meredith mcgrath and larisa savchenko - neiland. in february – march 1996, kournikova won two itf titles, in midland, michigan and rockford, illinois. still only 14 years of age, in april 1996 she debuted at the fed cup for russia, the youngest player ever to participate and win a match. in 1996, she started playing under a new coach, ed nagel. her six - year association with nagel was successful. at 15, she made her grand slam debut, reaching