notion of simulation enters ". when speed is being measured, the instruction set matters. for example, the subprogram in euclid ' s algorithm to compute the remainder would execute much faster if the programmer had a " modulus " instruction available rather than just subtraction ( or worse : just minsky ' s " decrement " ). structured programming, canonical structures : per the church – turing thesis, any algorithm can be computed by a model known to be turing complete, and per minsky ' s demonstrations, turing completeness requires only four instruction types — conditional goto, unconditional goto, assignment, halt. kemeny and kurtz observe that, while " undisciplined " use of unconditional gotos and conditional if - then gotos can result in " spaghetti code ", a programmer can write structured programs using only these instructions ; on the other hand " it is also possible, and not too hard, to write badly structured programs in a structured language ". tausworthe augments the three bohm - jacopini canonical structures : sequence, if - then - else, and while - do, with two more : do - while and case. an additional benefit of a structured program is that it lends itself to proofs of correctness using mathematical induction. canonical flowchart symbols : the graphical aide called a flowchart offers a way to describe and document an algorithm ( and a computer program corresponding to it ). like the program flow of a minsky machine, a flowchart always starts at the top of a page and proceeds down. its primary symbols are only four : the directed arrow showing program flow, the rectangle ( sequence, goto ), the diamond ( if - then - else ), and the dot ( or - tie ). the bohm – jacopini canonical structures are made of these primitive shapes. sub - structures can " nest " in rectangles, but only if a single exit occurs from the superstructure. the symbols and their use to build the canonical structures are shown in the diagram. examples algorithm example one of the simplest algorithms is to find the largest number in a list of numbers of random order. finding the solution requires looking at every number in the list. from this follows a simple algorithm, which can be stated in a high - level description in english prose, as : high - level description : if there are no numbers in the set, then there is no highest number. assume the first number in the