york city chapter of lemar ( legalize marijuana ). throughout the 1960s he took an active role in the demystification of lsd, and, with timothy leary, worked to promote its common use. he remained for many decades an advocate of marijuana legalization, and, at the same time, warned his audiences against the hazards of tobacco in his put down your cigarette rag ( don ' t smoke ) : " don ' t smoke don ' t smoke nicotine nicotine no / no don ' t smoke the official dope smoke dope dope. " cia drug trafficking ginsberg worked closely with alfred w. mccoy on the latter ' s book the politics of heroin in southeast asia, which claimed that the cia was knowingly involved in the production of heroin in the golden triangle of burma, thailand, and laos. in addition to working with mccoy, ginsberg personally confronted richard helms, the director of the cia in the 1970s, about the matter, but helms denied that the cia had anything to do with selling illegal drugs. ginsberg wrote many essays and articles, researching and compiling evidence of the cia ' s alleged involvement in drug trafficking, but it took ten years, and the publication of mccoy ' s book in 1972, before anyone took him seriously. in 1978, ginsberg received a note from the chief editor of the new york times, apologizing for not having taken his allegations seriously. the political subject is dealt with in his song / poem " cia dope calypso ". the united states department of state responded to mccoy ' s initial allegations stating that they were " unable to find any evidence to substantiate them, much less proof. " subsequent investigations by the inspector general of the cia, united states house committee on foreign affairs, and united states senate select committee to study governmental operations with respect to intelligence activities, a. k. a. the church committee, also found the charges to be unsubstantiated. work most of ginsberg ' s very early poetry was written in formal rhyme and meter like that of his father, and of his idol william blake. his admiration for the writing of jack kerouac inspired him to take poetry more seriously. in 1955, upon the advice of a psychiatrist, ginsberg dropped out of the working world to devote his entire life to poetry. soon after, he wrote howl, the poem that brought him and his beat generation contemporaries to national attention and allowed him to live as a professional poet for the rest of his life. later in life, gin