a straight angle but less than 1 turn ( between 180° and 360° ) is called a reflex angle. an angle equal to 1 turn ( 360° or 2 radians ) is called a full angle, complete angle, round angle or perigon. an angle that is not a multiple of a right angle is called an oblique angle. the names, intervals, and measuring units are shown in the table below : vertical and angle pairs when two straight lines intersect at a point, four angles are formed. pairwise, these angles are named according to their location relative to each other. a transversal is a line that intersects a pair of ( often parallel ) lines and is associated with alternate interior angles, corresponding angles, interior angles, and exterior angles. combining angle pairs three special angle pairs involve the summation of angles : polygon - related angles an angle that is part of a simple polygon is called an interior angle if it lies on the inside of that simple polygon. a simple concave polygon has at least one interior angle, that is, a reflex angle. in euclidean geometry, the measures of the interior angles of a triangle add up to radians, 180°, or turn ; the measures of the interior angles of a simple convex quadrilateral add up to 2 radians, 360°, or 1 turn. in general, the measures of the interior angles of a simple convex polygon with n sides add up to ( n − 2 ) radians, or ( n − 2 ) 180 degrees, ( n − 2 ) 2 right angles, or ( n − 2 ) turn. the supplement of an interior angle is called an exterior angle ; that is, an interior angle and an exterior angle form a linear pair of angles. there are two exterior angles at each vertex of the polygon, each determined by extending one of the two sides of the polygon that meet at the vertex ; these two angles are vertical and hence are equal. an exterior angle measures the amount of rotation one must make at a vertex to trace the polygon. if the corresponding interior angle is a reflex angle, the exterior angle should be considered negative. even in a non - simple polygon, it may be possible to define the exterior angle. still, one will have to pick an orientation of the plane ( or surface ) to decide the sign of the exterior angle measure. in euclidean geometry, the sum of the exterior angles of a simple convex polygon, if only one of the two exterior angles is assumed