of sound is adiabatic. for such an adiabatic process, the modulus of elasticity ( young ' s modulus ) can be expressed as, where is the ratio of specific heats at constant pressure and at constant volume ( ) and is the pressure of the gas. various applications of the adiabatic assumption for a closed system, one may write the first law of thermodynamics as, where denotes the change of the system ' s internal energy, the quantity of energy added to it as heat, and the work done by the system on its surroundings. if the system has such rigid walls that work cannot be transferred in or out ( ), and the walls are not adiabatic and energy is added in the form of heat ( ), and there is no phase change, then the temperature of the system will rise. if the system has such rigid walls that pressure – volume work cannot be done, but the walls are adiabatic ( ), and energy is added as isochoric ( constant volume ) work in the form of friction or the stirring of a viscous fluid within the system ( ), and there is no phase change, then the temperature of the system will rise. if the system walls are adiabatic ( ) but not rigid ( ), and, in a fictive idealized process, energy is added to the system in the form of frictionless, non - viscous pressure – volume work ( ), and there is no phase change, then the temperature of the system will rise. such a process is called an isentropic process and is said to be " reversible ". ideally, if the process were reversed the energy could be recovered entirely as work done by the system. if the system contains a compressible gas and is reduced in volume, the uncertainty of the position of the gas is reduced, and seemingly would reduce the entropy of the system, but the temperature of the system will rise as the process is isentropic ( ). should the work be added in such a way that friction or viscous forces are operating within the system, then the process is not isentropic, and if there is no phase change, then the temperature of the system will rise, the process is said to be " irreversible ", and the work added to the system is not entirely recoverable in the form of work. if the walls of a system are not adiabatic, and energy is transferred in as heat, entropy is transferred into the