##0 ), where u is some constant and log2 ( n0 ) represents the length of the integer value n0, under the reasonable assumption that it is encoded in binary digits. we will choose n0 to be greater than the program length, that is, such that n0 > u + log2 ( n0 ). this is clearly true for n0 sufficiently large, because the left hand side grows linearly in n0 whilst the right hand side grows logarithmically in n0 up to the fixed constant u. then no proof of the form " k ( s ) ≥l " with l≥n0 can be obtained in s, as can be seen by an indirect argument : if complexitylowerboundnthproof ( i ) could return a value ≥n0, then the loop inside generateprovablycomplexstring would eventually terminate, and that procedure would return a string s such that this is a contradiction, q. e. d. as a consequence, the above program, with the chosen value of n0, must loop forever. similar ideas are used to prove the properties of chaitin ' s constant. minimum message length the minimum message length principle of statistical and inductive inference and machine learning was developed by c. s. wallace and d. m. boulton in 1968. mml is bayesian ( i. e. it incorporates prior beliefs ) and information - theoretic. it has the desirable properties of statistical invariance ( i. e. the inference transforms with a re - parametrisation, such as from polar coordinates to cartesian coordinates ), statistical consistency ( i. e. even for very hard problems, mml will converge to any underlying model ) and efficiency ( i. e. the mml model will converge to any true underlying model about as quickly as is possible ). c. s. wallace and d. l. dowe ( 1999 ) showed a formal connection between mml and algorithmic information theory ( or kolmogorov complexity ). kolmogorov randomnesskolmogorov randomness defines a string ( usually of bits ) as being random if and only if every computer program that can produce that string is at least as long as the string itself. to make this precise, a universal computer ( or universal turing machine ) must be specified, so that " program " means a program for this universal machine. a random string in this sense is " incompressible " in that it is impossible to "