which was the standard confession of 1660. in the 1640s the particular baptists were formed, diverging strongly from arminian doctrine and embracing the strong calvinism of the presbyterians and independents. their robust calvinism was publicized in such confessions as the london baptist confession of 1644 and the second london confession of 1689. the london confession of 1689 was later used by calvinistic baptists in america ( called the philadelphia baptist confession ), whereas the standard confession of 1660 was used by the american heirs of the english general baptists, who soon came to be known as free will baptists. methodists this same dynamic between arminianism and calvinism can be seen in the heated discussions between friends and fellow anglican ministers john wesley and george whitefield. wesley was highly influenced by 17th - century english arminianism and thinkers such as john goodwin, jeremy taylor and henry hammond of the anglican " holy living " school, and the remonstrant hugo grotius. wesley knew very little about the beliefs of jacobus arminius and arrived at his religious views independently of arminius. wesley acknowledged late in life, with the 1778 publication of a periodical titled the arminian, that he and arminius were in general agreement. theology professor w. stephen gunther concludes he was " a faithful representative " of arminius ' beliefs. wesley was a champion of arminian teachings, defending his soteriology in the arminian and writing articles such as predestination calmly considered. he defended arminianism against charges of semi - pelagianism, holding strongly to beliefs in original sin and total depravity. at the same time, wesley attacked the determinism that he claimed characterized calvinistic doctrines of unconditional election and reprobation and maintained a belief in the ability to lose salvation. wesley also clarified the doctrine of prevenient grace and preached the ability of christians to attain to perfection ( fully mature, not " sinlessness " ). his system of thought has become known as wesleyan arminianism, the foundations of which were laid by wesley and his fellow preacher john william fletcher. pentecostals pentecostalism has its background in the activity of charles parham ( 1873 – 1929 ). its origin as a movement was in the azusa street revival in los angeles in 1906. this revival was led by william j. seymour ( 1870 – 1922 ). due to the methodist and holiness background of many early pentecostal preachers, the pentecostal churches usually possessed practices that arose from the wesleyan arm