apple juice, the same as the drinking water standard. concern about arsenic in rice in bangladesh was raised in 2002, but at the time only australia had a legal limit for food ( one milligram per kilogram ). concern was raised about people who were eating u. s. rice exceeding who standards for personal arsenic intake in 2005. in 2011, the people ' s republic of china set a food standard of 150 ppb for arsenic. in the united states in 2012, testing by separate groups of researchers at the children ' s environmental health and disease prevention research center at dartmouth college ( early in the year, focusing on urinary levels in children ) and consumer reports ( in november ) found levels of arsenic in rice that resulted in calls for the fda to set limits. the fda released some testing results in september 2012, and as of july 2013, is still collecting data in support of a new potential regulation. it has not recommended any changes in consumer behavior. consumer reports recommended : that the epa and fda eliminate arsenic - containing fertilizer, drugs, and pesticides in food production ; that the fda establish a legal limit for food ; that industry change production practices to lower arsenic levels, especially in food for children ; and that consumers test home water supplies, eat a varied diet, and cook rice with excess water, then draining it off ( reducing inorganic arsenic by about one third along with a slight reduction in vitamin content ). evidence - based public health advocates also recommend that, given the lack of regulation or labeling for arsenic in the u. s., children should eat no more than 1. 5 servings per week of rice and should not drink rice milk as part of their daily diet before age 5. they also offer recommendations for adults and infants on how to limit arsenic exposure from rice, drinking water, and fruit juice. a 2014 world health organization advisory conference was scheduled to consider limits of 200 – 300 ppb for rice. reducing arsenic content in rice in 2020, scientists assessed multiple preparation procedures of rice for their capacity to reduce arsenic content and preserve nutrients, recommending a procedure involving parboiling and water - absorption. occupational exposure limits ecotoxicity arsenic is bioaccumulative in many organisms, marine species in particular, but it does not appear to biomagnify significantly in food webs. in polluted areas, plant growth may be affected by root uptake of arsenate, which is a phosphate analog and therefore readily transported in plant tissues and cells. in polluted areas, uptake of the more