. travelling to boston in april 1871, bell proved successful in training the school ' s instructors. he was subsequently asked to repeat the programme at the american asylum for deaf - mutes in hartford, connecticut, and the clarke school for the deaf in northampton, massachusetts. returning home to brantford after six months abroad, bell continued his experiments with his " harmonic telegraph ". the basic concept behind his device was that messages could be sent through a single wire if each message was transmitted at a different pitch, but work on both the transmitter and receiver was needed. unsure of his future, he contemplated returning to london to complete his studies, but decided to return to boston as a teacher. his father helped him set up his private practice by contacting gardiner greene hubbard, the president of the clarke school for the deaf for a recommendation. teaching his father ' s system, in october 1872, alexander bell opened his " school of vocal physiology and mechanics of speech " in boston, which attracted a large number of deaf pupils, with his first class numbering 30 students. while he was working as a private tutor, one of his pupils was helen keller, who came to him as a young child unable to see, hear, or speak. she was later to say that bell dedicated his life to the penetration of that " inhuman silence which separates and estranges ". in 1893, keller performed the sod - breaking ceremony for the construction of bell ' s new volta bureau, dedicated to " the increase and diffusion of knowledge relating to the deaf ". throughout his lifetime, bell sought to integrate the deaf and hard of hearing with the hearing world. bell encouraged speech therapy and lip reading over sign language. he outlined this in a 1898 paper detailing his belief that with resources and effort, the deaf could be taught to read lips and speak ( known as oralism ) thus enabling their integration within the wider society. bell has been criticised by members of the deaf community for supporting ideas that could cause the closure of dozens of deaf schools, and what some consider eugenicist ideas. bell did not support a ban on deaf people marrying each other, an idea articulated by the national association of the deaf ( united states ). although, in his memoir memoir upon the formation of a deaf variety of the human race, bell observed that if deaf people tended to marry other deaf people, this could result in the emergence of a " deaf race ". ultimately, in 1880, the second international congress on education of the deaf passed a resolution preferring the teaching of oral communication rather than signing in schools.