his analytical engine, although the majority were never published. bromley notes several dozen sample programs prepared by babbage between 1837 and 1840, all substantially predating lovelace ' s notes. dorothy k. stein regards lovelace ' s notes as " more a reflection of the mathematical uncertainty of the author, the political purposes of the inventor, and, above all, of the social and cultural context in which it was written, than a blueprint for a scientific development ". doron swade has said that ada only published the first computer program instead of actually writing it, but agrees that she was the only person to see the potential of the analytical engine as a machine capable of expressing entities other than quantities. in his book, idea makers, stephen wolfram defends lovelace ' s contributions. while acknowledging that babbage wrote several unpublished algorithms for the analytical engine prior to lovelace ' s notes, wolfram argues that " there ' s nothing as sophisticated — or as clean — as ada ' s computation of the bernoulli numbers. babbage certainly helped and commented on ada ' s work, but she was definitely the driver of it. " wolfram then suggests that lovelace ' s main achievement was to distill from babbage ' s correspondence " a clear exposition of the abstract operation of the machine — something which babbage never did ". commemoration the computer language ada, created on behalf of the united states department of defense, was named after lovelace. the reference manual for the language was approved on 10 december 1980 and the department of defense military standard for the language, mil - std - 1815, was given the number of the year of her birth. in 1981, the association for women in computing inaugurated its ada lovelace award., the british computer society ( bcs ) has awarded the lovelace medal, and in 2008 initiated an annual competition for women students. bcswomen sponsors the lovelace colloquium, an annual conference for women undergraduates. ada college is a further - education college in tottenham hale, london, focused on digital skills. ada lovelace day is an annual event celebrated on the second tuesday of october, which began in 2009. its goal is to "... raise the profile of women in science, technology, engineering, and maths, " and to " create new role models for girls and women " in these fields. events have included wikipedia edit - a - thons with the aim of improving the representation of women on wikipedia in terms of articles and editors