% is higher than the national average of 7 %. the university of aberdeen began as king ' s college, aberdeen, which was founded in 1495 by william elphinstone ( 1431 – 1514 ), bishop of aberdeen and chancellor of scotland. marischal college, a separate institution, was founded in " new " aberdeen by george keith, fifth earl marischal of scotland in 1593. these institutions were merged by order of parliament in 1860 to form the university of aberdeen. the university is the fifth oldest in the english - speaking world and offers degrees in a full range of disciplines. its main campus is in old aberdeen in the north of the city and it currently has approximately 14, 000 students. the university ' s debating society is the oldest in scotland, founded in 1848 as the king ' s college debating society. today, aberdeen is consistently ranked among the top 200 universities in the world and is ranked within the top 20 universities in the united kingdom. aberdeen was also named the 2019 scottish university of the year by the times and sunday times good university guide. in early 2022, aberdeen opened the science teaching hub. robert gordon ' s college ( originally robert gordon ' s hospital ) was founded in 1750 by the merchant robert gordon, grandson of the map maker robert gordon of straloch, and was further endowed in 1816 by alexander simpson of collyhill. originally devoted to the instruction and maintenance of the sons of poor burgesses of guild and trade in the city, it was reorganised in 1881 as a day and night school for secondary and technical education. in 1903, the vocational education component of the college was designated a central institution and was renamed as the robert gordon institute of technology in 1965. in 1992, university status was awarded and it became robert gordon university. the university has expanded and developed significantly in recent years, and was named best modern university in the uk for 2012 by the sunday times. it was previously the sunday times scottish university of the year for 2011, primarily because of its record on graduate employment. the citation for the 2011 award read : " with a graduate unemployment rate that is lower than the most famous universities, including oxford and cambridge, plus a flourishing reputation for research, high student satisfaction rates and ambitious plans for its picturesque campus, the robert gordon university is the sunday times scottish university of the year ". aberdeen is also home to two artistic schools : gray ' s school of art, founded in 1886, which is one of the oldest established colleges of art in the uk. scott sutherland school of architecture and