sign of volcanic activity. despite this, however, there is not yet definitive evidence of presently active volcanoes. subglacial volcanism is often characterized by ice melt and subglacial water. though there are other sources of subglacial water, such as geothermal heat, it almost always is a condition of volcanism. scientists remain uncertain about the presence of water underneath the west antarctic ice sheet, with some claiming to have found evidence indicating the existence. conditions of formation in west antarctica ' s marie byrd land, volcanoes are typically composed of alkaline and basaltic lava. sometimes, the volcanoes are entirely basaltic in composition. due to the geographic similarity of the marie byrd land, it is believed that the volcanoes in the west antarctic rift system are also composed of basalt. above - ice basaltic volcanoes, also known as subaerial basaltic volcanoes, generally form in tall, broad cone shapes. since they are formed from repeated piling of liquid magma sourced from the center, they spread widely and grow upwards relatively slowly. however, west antarctic volcanoes form underneath ice sheets, and are thus categorized as subglacial volcanoes. subglacial volcanoes that are monogenetic are far more narrow, steeper, flat topped structures. polygenetic subglacial volcanoes have a wider variety of shapes and sizes due to being made up of many different eruptions. often, they look more cone shaped, like stratovolcanoes. hazards hazardous ash little has been studied about the implications of volcanic ash from eruptions within the antarctic circle. it is likely that an eruption at lower latitudes would cause global health and aviation hazards due to ash disbursement. the clockwise air circulation around the low pressure system at the south pole forces air upwards, hypothetically sending ash upwards towards the stratospheric jet streams, and thus quickly dispersing it throughout the globe. melting ice recently, in 2017, a study found evidence of subglacial volcanic activity within the west antarctic ice sheet. this activity poses a threat to the stability of the ice sheet, as volcanic activity leads to increased melting. this could possibly plunge the west antarctic ice sheet into a positive feedback loop of rising temperatures and increased melting. canyons there are three vast canyons that run for hundreds of kilometers, cutting through tall mountains. none of the canyons are visible at the snow - covered surface of the continent since they are buried under hundreds of meters of ice. the largest of the canyons is called foundation trough and is over