, 2009, 2011 and 2013. the team played in the 2015, 2019, and 2023 cricket world cups. the afghanistan cricket board ( acb ) is the official governing body of the sport and is headquartered in kabul. the alokozay kabul international cricket ground serves as the nation ' s main cricket stadium. there are several other stadiums throughout the country, including the ghazi amanullah khan international cricket stadium near jalalabad. domestically, cricket is played between teams from different provinces. the afghanistan national football team has been competing in international football since 1941. the national team plays its home games at the ghazi stadium in kabul, while football in afghanistan is governed by the afghanistan football federation. the national team has never competed or qualified for the fifa world cup but won an international football trophy in 2013. the country also has a national team in the sport of futsal, a 5 - a - side variation of football. the traditional and the national sport of afghanistan is buzkashi, particularly popular in the north. it is similar to polo, played by horsemen in two teams, each trying to grab and hold a goat carcass. the afghan hound ( a type of running dog ) originated in afghanistan and was used in wolf hunting. see also outline of afghanistan explanatory notes references citations general and cited sources further reading external links afghanistan. the world factbook. central intelligence agency. research guide to afghanistan 1709 establishments in asia central asian countries countries in asia emirates iranian plateau islamic states landlocked countries least developed countries member states of the organisation of islamic cooperation member states of the south asian association for regional cooperation member states of the united nations pashto - speaking countries and territories countries and territories where persian is an official language south asian countries states and territories established in 1709 states and territories established in 1747 theocracies totalitarian states