##ingly, ronald evans and bill pogue. capsule communicators the capsule communicator ( capcom ) was an astronaut at the mission control center in houston, texas, who was the only person who communicated directly with the flight crew. for apollo 11, the capcoms were : charles duke, ronald evans, bruce mccandless ii, james lovell, william anders, ken mattingly, fred haise, don l. lind, owen k. garriott and harrison schmitt. flight directors the flight directors for this mission were : other key personnel other key personnel who played important roles in the apollo 11 mission include the following. preparations insignia the apollo 11 mission emblem was designed by collins, who wanted a symbol for " peaceful lunar landing by the united states ". at lovell ' s suggestion, he chose the bald eagle, the national bird of the united states, as the symbol. tom wilson, a simulator instructor, suggested an olive branch in its beak to represent their peaceful mission. collins added a lunar background with the earth in the distance. the sunlight in the image was coming from the wrong direction ; the shadow should have been in the lower part of the earth instead of the left. aldrin, armstrong and collins decided the eagle and the moon would be in their natural colors, and decided on a blue and gold border. armstrong was concerned that " eleven " would not be understood by non - english speakers, so they went with " apollo 11 ", and they decided not to put their names on the patch, so it would " be representative of everyone who had worked toward a lunar landing ". an illustrator at the manned spacecraft center ( msc ) did the artwork, which was then sent off to nasa officials for approval. the design was rejected. bob gilruth, the director of the msc felt the talons of the eagle looked " too warlike ". after some discussion, the olive branch was moved to the talons. when the eisenhower dollar coin was released in 1971, the patch design provided the eagle for its reverse side. the design was also used for the smaller susan b. anthony dollar unveiled in 1979. call signs after the crew of apollo 10 named their spacecraft charlie brown and snoopy, assistant manager for public affairs julian scheer wrote to george low, the manager of the apollo spacecraft program office at the msc, to suggest the apollo 11 crew be less flippant in naming their craft. the name snowcone was used for the cm and haystack was used for the