##sallows velars from occurring with pharyngeals. vowel systems there is a large variety of vocalic systems in aa, and attempts to reconstruct the vocalic system of proto - afroasiatic vary considerably. all branches of afroasiatic have a limited number of underlying vowels ( between two and seven ), but the number of phonetic vowels can be much larger. the quality of the underlying vowels varies considerably by language ; the most common vowel throughout aa is schwa. in the different languages, central vowels are often inserted to break up consonant clusters ( a form of epenthesis ). various semitic, cushitic, berber, and chadic languages, including arabic, amharic, berber, somali, and east dangla, also exhibit various types of vowel harmony. tones the majority of aa languages are tonal languages : phonemic tonality is found in omotic, chadic, and cushitic languages, but absent in berber and semitic. there is no information on whether egyptian had tones. in contemporary omotic, chadic, and cushitic languages, tone is primarily a grammatical feature : it encodes various grammatical functions, only differentiating lexical roots in a few cases. in some chadic and some omotic languages every syllable has to have a tone, whereas in most cushitic languages this is not the case. some scholars postulate that proto - afroasiatic may have had tone, while others believe it arose later from a pitch accent. similarities in grammar, syntax, and morphology at present, there is no generally accepted reconstruction of proto - afroasiatic grammar, syntax, or morphology, nor one for any of the sub - branches besides egyptian. this means that it is difficult to know which features in afroasiatic languages are retentions, and which are innovations. moreover, all afroasiatic languages have long been in contact with other language families and with each other, leading to the possibility of widespread borrowing both within afroasiatic and from unrelated languages. there are nevertheless a number of commonly observed features in afroasiatic morphology and derivation, including, the use of suffixes, infixes, vowel lengthening and shortening as a morphological change, as well as the use of tone changes to indicate morphology. further commonalities and differences are explored in more detail below. general features consonantal root structures a widely attested feature in aa languages is a consonantal structure into which various vocalic " templates " are placed. this structure is particularly visible in the verbs, and