for " ancient wisdom ". although the seeds of these events were planted as early as the 17th century, alchemy still flourished for some two hundred years, and in fact may have reached its peak in the 18th century. as late as 1781 james price claimed to have produced a powder that could transmute mercury into silver or gold. early modern european alchemy continued to exhibit a diversity of theories, practices, and purposes : " scholastic and anti - aristotelian, paracelsian and anti - paracelsian, hermetic, neoplatonic, mechanistic, vitalistic, and more — plus virtually every combination and compromise thereof. " robert boyle ( 1627 – 1691 ) pioneered the scientific method in chemical investigations. he assumed nothing in his experiments and compiled every piece of relevant data. boyle would note the place in which the experiment was carried out, the wind characteristics, the position of the sun and moon, and the barometer reading, all just in case they proved to be relevant. this approach eventually led to the founding of modern chemistry in the 18th and 19th centuries, based on revolutionary discoveries and ideas of lavoisier and john dalton. beginning around 1720, a rigid distinction began to be drawn for the first time between " alchemy " and " chemistry ". by the 1740s, " alchemy " was now restricted to the realm of gold making, leading to the popular belief that alchemists were charlatans, and the tradition itself nothing more than a fraud. in order to protect the developing science of modern chemistry from the negative censure to which alchemy was being subjected, academic writers during the 18th - century scientific enlightenment attempted, for the sake of survival, to divorce and separate the " new " chemistry from the " old " practices of alchemy. this move was mostly successful, and the consequences of this continued into the 19th, 20th and 21st centuries. during the occult revival of the early 19th century, alchemy received new attention as an occult science. the esoteric or occultist school, which arose during the 19th century, held ( and continues to hold ) the view that the substances and operations mentioned in alchemical literature are to be interpreted in a spiritual sense, and it downplays the role of the alchemy as a practical tradition or protoscience. this interpretation further forwarded the view that alchemy is an art primarily concerned with spiritual enlightenment or illumination, as opposed to the physical manipulation of apparatus and chemicals, and claims that