case of higher alkanes is more complex but based on similar principles, with the antiperiplanar conformation always being the most favored around each carbon – carbon bond. for this reason, alkanes are usually shown in a zigzag arrangement in diagrams or in models. the actual structure will always differ somewhat from these idealized forms, as the differences in energy between the conformations are small compared to the thermal energy of the molecules : alkane molecules have no fixed structural form, whatever the models may suggest. spectroscopic properties virtually all organic compounds contain carbon – carbon and carbon – hydrogen bonds, and so show some of the features of alkanes in their spectra. alkanes are notable for having no other groups, and therefore for the absence of other characteristic spectroscopic features of a functional group like – oh, – cho, – cooh, etc. infrared spectroscopy the carbon – hydrogen stretching mode gives a strong absorption between 2850 and 2960 cm−1, while the carbon – carbon stretching mode absorbs between 800 and 1300 cm−1. the carbon – hydrogen bending modes depend on the nature of the group : methyl groups show bands at 1450 cm−1 and 1375 cm−1, while methylene groups show bands at 1465 cm−1 and 1450 cm−1. carbon chains with more than four carbon atoms show a weak absorption at around 725 cm−1. nmr spectroscopy the proton resonances of alkanes are usually found at δh = 0. 5 – 1. 5. the carbon - 13 resonances depend on the number of hydrogen atoms attached to the carbon : δc = 8 – 30 ( primary, methyl, – ch3 ), 15 – 55 ( secondary, methylene, – ch2 – ), 20 – 60 ( tertiary, methyne, c – h ) and quaternary. the carbon - 13 resonance of quaternary carbon atoms is characteristically weak, due to the lack of nuclear overhauser effect and the long relaxation time, and can be missed in weak samples, or samples that have not been run for a sufficiently long time. mass spectrometry alkanes have a high ionization energy, and the molecular ion is usually weak. the fragmentation pattern can be difficult to interpret, but in the case of branched chain alkanes, the carbon chain is preferentially cleaved at tertiary or quaternary carbons due to the relative stability of the resulting free radicals. the fragment resulting from the loss of a single methyl