how autocratic tendencies can be kept in check by republican values. alexander was used by these writers as an example of ruler values such as ( friendship ) and ( clemency ), but also ( anger ) and ( over - desire for glory ). emperor julian in his satire called " the caesars ", describes a contest between the previous roman emperors, with alexander the great called in as an extra contestant, in the presence of the assembled gods. the itinerarium alexandri is a 4th - century latin itinerarium which describes alexander the great ' s campaigns. julius caesar went to serve his quaestorship in hispania after his wife ' s funeral, in the spring or early summer of 69 bc. while there, he encountered a statue of alexander the great, and realised with dissatisfaction that he was now at an age when alexander had the world at his feet, while he had achieved comparatively little. pompey posed as the " new alexander " since he was his boyhood hero. after caracalla concluded his campaign against the alamanni, it became evident that he was inordinately preoccupied with alexander the great. he began openly mimicking alexander in his personal style. in planning his invasion of the parthian empire, caracalla decided to arrange 16, 000 of his men in macedonian - style phalanxes, despite the roman army having made the phalanx an obsolete tactical formation. the historian christopher matthew mentions that the term phalangarii has two possible meanings, both with military connotations. the first refers merely to the roman battle line and does not specifically mean that the men were armed with pikes, and the second bears similarity to the ' marian mules ' of the late roman republic who carried their equipment suspended from a long pole, which were in use until at least the 2nd century ad. as a consequence, the phalangarii of legio ii parthica may not have been pikemen, but rather standard battle line troops or possibly triarii. caracalla ' s mania for alexander went so far that caracalla visited alexandria while preparing for his persian invasion and persecuted philosophers of the aristotelian school based on a legend that aristotle had poisoned alexander. this was a sign of caracalla ' s increasingly erratic behaviour. but this mania for alexander, strange as it was, was overshadowed by subsequent events in alexandria. in 39, caligula performed a spectacular stunt by ordering a temporary floating bridge to be built using ships as pont