##oremediation but the disposal of contaminated plant material needs to be considered. bioremediation requires careful evaluation and design in accordance with existing conditions. some sites may require the addition of an electron acceptor while others require microbe supplementation ( bioaugmentation ). regardless of the method used, only constant monitoring can prevent future contamination. arsenic removal coagulation and flocculation coagulation and flocculation are closely related processes common in arsenate removal from water. due to the net negative charge carried by arsenate ions, they settle slowly or do not settle at all due to charge repulsion. in coagulation, a positively charged coagulent such as fe and alum ( common used salts : fecl3, fe2 ( so4 ) 3, al2 ( so4 ) 3 ) neutralise the negatively charged arsenate, enable it to settle. flocculation follows where an flocculant bridge smaller particles and allows the aggregate to precipitate out from water. however, such methods may not be efficient on arsenite as as ( iii ) exist in uncharged arsenious acid, h3aso3, at near neutral ph. the major drawbacks of coagulation and flocculation is the costly disposal of arsenate - concentrated sludge, and possible secondary contamination of environment. moreover, coagulents such as fe may produce ion contamination that exceeds safety level. toxicity and precautions arsenic and many of its compounds are especially potent poisons. small amount of arsenic can be detected by pharmacopoial methods which includes reduction of arsenic to arsenious with help of zinc and can be confirmed with mercuric chloride paper. classification elemental arsenic and arsenic sulfate and trioxide compounds are classified as " toxic " and " dangerous for the environment " in the european union under directive 67 / 548 / eec. the international agency for research on cancer ( iarc ) recognizes arsenic and inorganic arsenic compounds as group 1 carcinogens, and the eu lists arsenic trioxide, arsenic pentoxide, and arsenate salts as category 1 carcinogens. arsenic is known to cause arsenicosis when present in drinking water, " the most common species being arsenate [ ; as ( v ) ] and arsenite [ ; as ( iii ) ] ". legal limits, food, and drink in the united states since 2006, the maximum concentration in drinking water allowed by the environmental protection agency ( epa ) is 10 ppb