and ought not to become a rigid entity that is invariable from place to place. his advice to augustine of hippo on this point was to follow local liturgical custom. " when i am at rome, i fast on a saturday ; when i am at milan, i do not. follow the custom of the church where you are. " thus ambrose refused to be drawn into a false conflict over which particular local church had the " right " liturgical form where there was no substantial problem. his advice has remained in the english language as the saying, " when in rome, do as the romans do. " one interpretation of ambrose ' s writings is that he was a christian universalist. it has been noted that ambrose ' s theology was significantly influenced by that of origen and didymus the blind, two other early christian universalists. one quotation cited in favor of this belief is : one could interpret this passage as being another example of the mainstream christian belief in a general resurrection ( that both those in heaven and in hell undergo a bodily resurrection ), or an allusion to purgatory ( that some destined for heaven must first undergo a phase of purification ). several other works by ambrose clearly teach the mainstream view of salvation. for example : " the jews feared to believe in manhood taken up into god, and therefore have lost the grace of redemption, because they reject that on which salvation depends. " giving to the poor in de officiis, the most influential of his surviving works, and one of the most important texts of patristic literature, he reveals his views connecting justice and generosity by asserting these practices are of mutual benefit to the participants. ambrose draws heavily on cicero and the biblical book of genesis for this concept of mutual inter - dependence in society. in the bishop ' s view, it is concern for one another ' s interests that binds society together. ambrose asserts that avarice leads to a breakdown in this mutuality, therefore avarice leads to a breakdown in society itself. in the late 380s, the bishop took the lead in opposing the greed of the elite landowners in milan by starting a series of pointed sermons directed at his wealthy constituents on the need for the rich to care for the poor. some scholars have suggested ambrose ' endeavors to lead his people as both a roman and a christian caused him to strive for what a modern context would describe as a type of communism or socialism. he was not just interested in the church but was also interested in the condition of contemporary italian society. ambrose considered the poor not a