five petals, produced singly or in pairs and appearing before the leaves in early spring. almond grows best in mediterranean climates with warm, dry summers and mild, wet winters. the optimal temperature for their growth is between and the tree buds have a chilling requirement of 200 to 700 hours below to break dormancy. almonds begin bearing an economic crop in the third year after planting. trees reach full bearing five to six years after planting. the fruit matures in the autumn, 7 – 8 months after flowering. the almond fruit is long. it is not a nut but a drupe. the outer covering, consisting of an outer exocarp, or skin, and mesocarp, or flesh, fleshy in other members of prunus such as the plum and cherry, is instead a thick, leathery, gray - green coat ( with a downy exterior ), called the hull. inside the hull is a woody endocarp which forms a reticulated, hard shell ( like the outside of a peach pit ) called the pyrena. inside the shell is the edible seed, commonly called a nut. generally, one seed is present, but occasionally two occur. after the fruit matures, the hull splits and separates from the shell, and an abscission layer forms between the stem and the fruit so that the fruit can fall from the tree. taxonomy sweet and bitter almonds the seeds of prunus dulcis var. dulcis are predominantly sweet but some individual trees produce seeds that are somewhat more bitter. the genetic basis for bitterness involves a single gene, the bitter flavor furthermore being recessive, both aspects making this trait easier to domesticate. the fruits from prunus dulcis var. amara are always bitter, as are the kernels from other species of genus prunus, such as apricot, peach and cherry ( although to a lesser extent ). the bitter almond is slightly broader and shorter than the sweet almond and contains about 50 % of the fixed oil that occurs in sweet almonds. it also contains the enzyme emulsin which, in the presence of water, acts on the two soluble glucosides amygdalin and prunasin yielding glucose, cyanide and the essential oil of bitter almonds, which is nearly pure benzaldehyde, the chemical causing the bitter flavor. bitter almonds may yield 4 – 9 milligrams of hydrogen cyanide per almond and contain 42 times higher amounts of cyanide than the