##ao, aruba, and bonaire were taught predominantly in spanish until the late 18th century. aruba ' s educational system is structured after the dutch system of education. the government of aruba finances the public national education system. schools are a mixture of public and private, including the international school of aruba, the schakel college and mostly the colegio arubano. there are three medical schools, american university school of medicine aruba ( ausoma ), aureus university school of medicine and xavier university school of medicine, as well as its own national university, the university of aruba. economy the island ' s economy is dominated by four main industries : tourism, aloe export, petroleum refining, and offshore banking. aruba has one of the highest standards of living in the caribbean region. the gdp per capita ( ppp ) for aruba was estimated to be $ 37, 500 in 2017. its main trading partners are colombia, the united states, venezuela, and the netherlands. the agriculture and manufacturing sectors are fairly minimal. gold mining was important in the 19th century. aloe was introduced to aruba in 1840 but did not become a big export until 1890. cornelius eman founded aruba aloe balm, and over time the industry became very important to the economy. at one point, two - thirds of the island was covered in aloe vera fields, and aruba became the largest exporter of aloe in the world. the industry continues today, though on a smaller scale. access to biocapacity in aruba is much lower than world average. in 2016, aruba had 0. 57 global hectares of biocapacity per person within its territory, much less than the world average of 1. 6 global hectares per person. in 2016, aruba used 6. 5 global hectares of biocapacity per person - their ecological footprint of consumption. this means they use almost 12 times the biocapacity that aruba contains. this is the extent of aruba ' s biocapacity deficit. the official exchange rate of the aruban florin is pegged to the us dollar at 1. 80 florins to us $ 1.! - - - note that currency fluctuates slightly because of the necessity of forcing the florin to the dollar by buying or selling florins or dollars - - - > this fact, and the majority of tourists being us, means businesses of hotel and resort districts prefer to bank and trade with the consumer in us dollars