ambiguity is the type of meaning in which a phrase, statement, or resolution is not explicitly defined, making several interpretations plausible. a common aspect of ambiguity is uncertainty. it is thus an attribute of any idea or statement whose intended meaning cannot be definitively resolved, according to a rule or process with a finite number of steps. ( the prefix ambi - reflects the idea of " two, " as in " two meanings. " ) the concept of ambiguity is generally contrasted with vagueness. in ambiguity, specific and distinct interpretations are permitted ( although some may not be immediately obvious ), whereas with vague information it is difficult to form any interpretation at the desired level of specificity. linguistic forms lexical ambiguity is contrasted with semantic ambiguity. the former represents a choice between a finite number of known and meaningful context - dependent interpretations. the latter represents a choice between any number of possible interpretations, none of which may have a standard agreed - upon meaning. this form of ambiguity is closely related to vagueness. ambiguity in human language is argued to reflect principles of efficient communication. languages that communicate efficiently will avoid sending information that is redundant with information provided in the context. this can be shown mathematically to result in a system which is ambiguous when context is neglected. in this way, ambiguity is viewed as a generally useful feature of a linguistic system. linguistic ambiguity can be a problem in law, because the interpretation of written documents and oral agreements is often of paramount importance. lexical ambiguity the lexical ambiguity of a word or phrase applies to it having more than one meaning in the language to which the word belongs. " meaning " here refers to whatever should be represented by a good dictionary. for instance, the word " bank " has several distinct lexical definitions, including " financial institution " and " edge of a river ". or consider " apothecary ". one could say " i bought herbs from the apothecary ". this could mean one actually spoke to the apothecary ( pharmacist ) or went to the apothecary ( pharmacy ). the context in which an ambiguous word is used often makes it clearer which of the meanings is intended. if, for instance, someone says " i put $ 100 in the bank ", most people would not think someone used a shovel to dig in the mud. however, some linguistic contexts do not provide sufficient information to make a used word clearer. lexical ambiguity can be addressed by algorithmic methods that automatically associate the appropriate meaning with a word in context, a task referred to