##cl3 · 6h2o but [ al ( h2o ) 6 ] cl3, and the al – o bonds are so strong that heating is not sufficient to break them and form al – cl bonds instead : 2 [ al ( h2o ) 6 ] cl3 al2o3 + 6 hcl + 9 h2o all four trihalides are well known. unlike the structures of the three heavier trihalides, aluminium fluoride ( alf3 ) features six - coordinate aluminium, which explains its involatility and insolubility as well as high heat of formation. each aluminium atom is surrounded by six fluorine atoms in a distorted octahedral arrangement, with each fluorine atom being shared between the corners of two octahedra. such { alf6 } units also exist in complex fluorides such as cryolite, na3alf6. alf3 melts at and is made by reaction of aluminium oxide with hydrogen fluoride gas at. with heavier halides, the coordination numbers are lower. the other trihalides are dimeric or polymeric with tetrahedral four - coordinate aluminium centers. aluminium trichloride ( alcl3 ) has a layered polymeric structure below its melting point of but transforms on melting to al2cl6 dimers. at higher temperatures those increasingly dissociate into trigonal planar alcl3 monomers similar to the structure of bcl3. aluminium tribromide and aluminium triiodide form al2x6 dimers in all three phases and hence do not show such significant changes of properties upon phase change. these materials are prepared by treating aluminium metal with the halogen. the aluminium trihalides form many addition compounds or complexes ; their lewis acidic nature makes them useful as catalysts for the friedel – crafts reactions. aluminium trichloride has major industrial uses involving this reaction, such as in the manufacture of anthraquinones and styrene ; it is also often used as the precursor for many other aluminium compounds and as a reagent for converting nonmetal fluorides into the corresponding chlorides ( a transhalogenation reaction ). aluminium forms one stable oxide with the chemical formula al2o3, commonly called alumina. it can be found in nature in the mineral corundum, α - alumina ; there is also a γ - alumina phase. its crystalline form, corundum, is very hard (