ordeal by innocence at christmas 2017 were delayed because of controversy surrounding one of the cast members. the three - part adaptation aired in april 2018. a three - part adaptation of the a. b. c. murders starring john malkovich and rupert grint began filming in june 2018 and was first broadcast in december 2018. a two - part adaptation of the pale horse was broadcast on bbc1 in february 2020. death comes as the end will be the next bbc adaptation. since 2020, reissues of christie ' s miss marple and hercule poirot novels by harpercollins have removed " passages containing descriptions, insults or references to ethnicity ". works works of fiction hercule poirot and miss marple christie ' s first published book, the mysterious affair at styles, was released in 1920 and introduced the detective hercule poirot, who appeared in 33 of her novels and more than 50 short stories. over the years, christie grew tired of poirot, much as doyle did with sherlock holmes. by the end of the 1930s, christie wrote in her diary that she was finding poirot " insufferable ", and by the 1960s she felt he was " an egocentric creep ". thompson believes christie ' s occasional antipathy to her creation is overstated, and points out that " in later life she sought to protect him against misrepresentation as powerfully as if he were her own flesh and blood ". unlike doyle, she resisted the temptation to kill her detective off while he was still popular. she married off poirot ' s " watson ", captain arthur hastings, in an attempt to trim her cast commitments. miss jane marple was introduced in a series of short stories that began publication in december 1927 and were subsequently collected under the title the thirteen problems. marple was a genteel, elderly spinster who solved crimes using analogies to english village life. christie said, " miss marple was not in any way a picture of my grandmother ; she was far more fussy and spinsterish than my grandmother ever was ", but her autobiography establishes a firm connection between the fictional character and christie ' s step - grandmother margaret miller ( " auntie - grannie " ) and her " ealing cronies ". both marple and miller " always expected the worst of everyone and everything, and were, with almost frightening accuracy, usually proved right ". marple appeared in 12 novels and 20 stories. during the second world war, christie wrote two novels, curtain and sleeping