frequented the ports of the aegean, to athens. this interest in trade appears to have further increased the economic prosperity of the town. the 11th and 12th centuries were the golden age of byzantine art in athens. almost all of the most important middle byzantine churches in and around athens were built during these two centuries, and this reflects the growth of the town in general. however, this medieval prosperity was not to last. in 1204, the fourth crusade conquered athens and the city was not recovered from the latins before it was taken by the ottoman turks. it did not become greek in government again until the 19th century. from 1204 until 1458, athens was ruled by latins in three separate periods, following the crusades. the " latins ", or " franks ", were western europeans and followers of the latin church brought to the eastern mediterranean during the crusades. along with rest of byzantine greece, athens was part of the series of feudal fiefs, similar to the crusader states established in syria and on cyprus after the first crusade. this period is known as the frankokratia. ottoman athens the first ottoman attack on athens, which involved a short - lived occupation of the town, came in 1397, under the ottoman generals yaqub pasha and timurtash. finally, in 1458, athens was captured by the ottomans under the personal leadership of sultan mehmed ii. as the ottoman sultan rode into the city, he was greatly struck by the beauty of its ancient monuments and issued a firman ( imperial edict ) forbidding their looting or destruction, on pain of death. the parthenon was converted into the main mosque of the city. under ottoman rule, athens was denuded of any importance and its population severely declined, leaving it as a " small country town " ( franz babinger ). from the early 17th century, athens came under the jurisdiction of the kizlar agha, the chief black eunuch of the sultan ' s harem. the city had originally been granted by sultan ahmed i ( ) to basilica, one of his favourite concubines, who hailed from the city, in response of complaints of maladministration by the local governors. after her death, athens came under the purview of the kizlar agha. the turks began a practice of storing gunpowder and explosives in the parthenon and propylaea. in 1640, a lightning bolt struck the propylaea, causing its destruction. in 1687, during the morean war