refers to him as " the troubler of israel " ( 1 kings 18 : 17 ). this encounter ends with elijah ' s victory over the prophets of baal in a contest held for the sake of ahab and the israelites, to bring them into repentance. the second encounter is between ahab and an unnamed prophet in. the third is again between ahab and an unnamed prophet who condemns ahab for his actions in a battle that had just taken place. the fourth is when elijah confronts ahab over his role in the unjust execution of naboth and usurpation of the latter ' s ancestral vineyard. upon the prophet ' s remonstration ( " hast thou killed and also taken possession? " ), ahab sincerely repented, which god relays to elijah. the fifth encounter is with micaiah, the prophet who, when asked for advice to recapturing ramoth - gilead, sarcastically assures ahab that he will be successful. micaiah ultimately tells him the truth of god ' s plan to kill ahab in battle, due to his reliance on the false prophets, who were empowered by a deceiving spirit. death of ahab after some years, ahab with jehoshaphat of judah went to recover ramoth - gilead from the arameans. during this battle, ahab disguised himself, but he was mortally wounded by an unaimed arrow. the hebrew bible says that dogs licked his blood, according to the prophecy of elijah. but the septuagint adds that pigs also licked his blood, symbolically making him unclean to the israelites, who abstained from pork. ahab was succeeded by his sons, ahaziah and jehoram. jezebel ' s death, however, was more dramatic than ahab ' s. as recorded in, jehu had his servants throw jezebel out of a window, causing her death. the dogs ate jezebel ' s body, leaving nothing but her skull, her feet, and the palms of her hands, as prophesied by elijah. legacy 1 kings 16 : 29 through 22 : 40 contains the narrative of ahab ' s reign. his reign was slightly more emphasized upon than the previous kings, due to his blatant trivialization of the " sins of jeroboam ", which the previous kings of israel were plagued by, and his subsequent marriage with a pagan princess, the nationwide institution of baal worship, the persecution