it was while he was in bed with a fever that he thought about malthus ' s idea of positive checks on human population, and had the idea of natural selection. his autobiography says that he was on the island of ternate at the time ; but the evidence of his journal suggests that he was in fact on the island of gilolo. from 1858 to 1861, he rented a house on ternate from the dutchman maarten dirk van renesse van duivenbode, which he used as a base for expeditions to other islands such as gilolo. wallace describes how he discovered natural selection as follows : wallace had once briefly met darwin, and was one of the correspondents whose observations darwin used to support his own theories. although wallace ' s first letter to darwin has been lost, wallace carefully kept the letters he received. in the first letter, dated 1 may 1857, darwin commented that wallace ' s letter of 10 october which he had recently received, as well as wallace ' s paper " on the law which has regulated the introduction of new species " of 1855, showed that they thought alike, with similar conclusions, and said that he was preparing his own work for publication in about two years time. the second letter, dated 22 december 1857, said how glad he was that wallace was theorising about distribution, adding that " without speculation there is no good and original observation " but commented that " i believe i go much further than you ". wallace believed this and sent darwin his february 1858 essay, " on the tendency of varieties to depart indefinitely from the original type ", asking darwin to review it and pass it to charles lyell if he thought it worthwhile. although wallace had sent several articles for journal publication during his travels through the malay archipelago, the ternate essay was in a private letter. darwin received the essay on 18 june 1858. although the essay did not use darwin ' s term " natural selection ", it did outline the mechanics of an evolutionary divergence of species from similar ones due to environmental pressures. in this sense, it was very similar to the theory that darwin had worked on for 20 years, but had yet to publish. darwin sent the manuscript to charles lyell with a letter saying " he could not have made a better short abstract! even his terms now stand as heads of my chapters... he does not say he wishes me to publish, but i shall, of course, at once write and offer to send to any journal. " distraught about the illness of his baby son,