of french sign language ( lsf ) on asl is readily apparent ; for example, it has been found that about 58 % of signs in modern asl are cognate to old french sign language signs. however, that is far less than the standard 80 % measure used to determine whether related languages are actually dialects. that suggests that nascent asl was highly affected by the other signing systems brought by the asd students although the school ' s original director, laurent clerc, taught in lsf. in fact, clerc reported that he often learned the students ' signs rather than conveying lsf : it has been proposed that asl is a creole in which lsf is the superstrate language and the native village sign languages are substrate languages. however, more recent research has shown that modern asl does not share many of the structural features that characterize creole languages. asl may have begun as a creole and then undergone structural change over time, but it is also possible that it was never a creole - type language. there are modality - specific reasons that sign languages tend towards agglutination, such as the ability to simultaneously convey information via the face, head, torso, and other body parts. that might override creole characteristics such as the tendency towards isolating morphology. additionally, clerc and thomas hopkins gallaudet may have used an artificially constructed form of manually coded language in instruction rather than true lsf. although the united states, the united kingdom, and australia share english as a common oral and written language, asl is not mutually intelligible with either british sign language ( bsl ) or auslan. all three languages show degrees of borrowing from english, but that alone is not sufficient for cross - language comprehension. it has been found that a relatively high percentage ( 37 – 44 % ) of asl signs have similar translations in auslan, which for oral languages would suggest that they belong to the same language family. however, that does not seem justified historically for asl and auslan, and it is likely that the resemblance is caused by the higher degree of iconicity in sign languages in general as well as contact with english. american sign language is growing in popularity in many states. many high school and university students desire to take it as a foreign language, but until recently, it was usually not considered a creditable foreign language elective. asl users, however, have a very distinct culture, and they interact very differently when they talk. their facial expressions and