. anemochory ( wind dispersal ) is common, assisted by a hairy pappus. epizoochory is another common method, in which the dispersal unit, a single cypsela ( e. g. bidens ) or entire capitulum ( e. g. arctium ) has hooks, spines or some structure to attach to the fur or plumage ( or even clothes, as in the photo ) of an animal just to fall off later far from its mother plant. some members of asteraceae are economically important as weeds. notable in the united states are senecio jacobaea ( ragwort ), senecio vulgaris ( groundsel ), and taraxacum ( dandelion ). some are invasive species in particular regions, often having been introduced by human agency. examples include various tumbleweeds, bidens, ragweeds, thistles, and dandelion. dandelion was introduced into north america by european settlers who used the young leaves as a salad green. a number of species are toxic to grazing animals. uses asteraceae is an economically important family, providing products such as cooking oils, leaf vegetables like lettuce, sunflower seeds, artichokes, sweetening agents, coffee substitutes and herbal teas. several genera are of horticultural importance, including pot marigold ( calendula officinalis ), echinacea ( coneflowers ), various daisies, fleabane, chrysanthemums, dahlias, zinnias, and heleniums. asteraceae are important in herbal medicine, including grindelia, yarrow, and many others. commercially important plants in asteraceae include the food crops lactuca sativa ( lettuce ), cichorium ( chicory ), cynara scolymus ( globe artichoke ), helianthus annuus ( sunflower ), smallanthus sonchifolius ( yacon ), carthamus tinctorius ( safflower ) and helianthus tuberosus ( jerusalem artichoke ). plants are used as herbs and in herbal teas and other beverages. chamomile, for example, comes from two different species : the annual matricaria chamomilla ( german chamomile ) and the perennial chamaemelum nobile ( roman chamomile ). calendula ( known as pot marigold ) is grown commercially for herbal teas and pot