strengthened by later events ; the conversion of goths led to a widespread diffusion of arianism among other germanic tribes as well ( vandals, langobards, svevi, and burgundians ). when the germanic peoples entered the provinces of the western roman empire and began founding their own kingdoms there, most of them were arian christians. the conflict in the 4th century had seen arian and nicene factions struggling for control of western europe. in contrast, among the arian german kingdoms established in the collapsing western empire in the 5th century were entirely separate arian and nicene churches with parallel hierarchies, each serving different sets of believers. the germanic elites were arians, and the romance majority population was nicene. the arian germanic tribes were generally tolerant towards nicene christians and other religious minorities, including the jews. the apparent resurgence of arianism after nicaea was more an anti - nicene reaction exploited by arian sympathizers than a pro - arian development. by the end of the 4th century it had surrendered its remaining ground to trinitarianism. in western europe, arianism, which had been taught by ulfilas, the arian missionary to the germanic tribes, was dominant among the goths, langobards and vandals. by the 8th century, it had ceased to be the tribes ' mainstream belief as the tribal rulers gradually came to adopt nicene orthodoxy. this trend began in 496 with clovis i of the franks, then reccared i of the visigoths in 587 and aripert i of the lombards in 653. the franks and the anglo - saxons were unlike the other germanic peoples in that they entered the western roman empire as pagans and were converted to chalcedonian christianity, led by their kings, clovis i of the franks, and æthelberht of kent and others in britain ( see also christianity in gaul and christianisation of anglo - saxon england ). the remaining tribes – the vandals and the ostrogoths – did not convert as a people nor did they maintain territorial cohesion. having been militarily defeated by the armies of emperor justinian i, the remnants were dispersed to the fringes of the empire and became lost to history. the vandalic war of 533 – 534 dispersed the defeated vandals. following their final defeat at the battle of mons lactarius in 553, the ostrogoths went back north and (