not allowed in the city by the people of ankara and rebelled again, only to be crushed by murad pasha ' s forces. kalenderoglu ended up fleeing to persia. murad pasha then suppressed some smaller revolts in central anatolia and suppressed other jelali chiefs by inviting them to join the army. due to the widespread violence of the jelali revolts, a great number of people had fled their villages and a lot of villages were destroyed. some military chiefs had claimed these abandoned villages as their property. this deprived the porte of tax income and on 30 september 1609, ahmed i issued a letter guaranteeing the rights of the villagers. he then worked on the resettlement of abandoned villages. ottoman - safavid war : peace and continuation the new grand vizier, nasuh pasha, did not want to fight with the safavids. the safavid shah also sent a letter saying that he was willing to sign a peace treaty, with which he would have to send 200 loads of silk every year to constantinople. on 20 november 1612, the treaty of nasuh pasha was signed, which ceded all the lands the ottoman empire had gained in the war of 1578 – 90 back to persia and reinstated the 1555 boundaries. however, the peace ended in 1615 when the shah did not send the 200 loads of silk. on 22 may 1615, grand vizier okuz mehmed pasha was assigned to organize an attack on persia. mehmed pasha delayed the attack till the next year, until when the safavids made their preparations and attacked ganja. in april 1616, mehmed pasha left aleppo with a large army and marched to yerevan, where he failed to take the city and withdrew to erzurum. he was removed from his post and replaced by damat halil pasha. halil pasha went for the winter to diyarbekir, while the khan of crimea, canibek giray, attacked the areas of ganja, nakhichevan and julfa. capitulations and trade treaties ahmed i renewed trade treaties with england, france and venice. in july 1612, the first ever trade treaty with the dutch republic was signed. he expanded the capitulations given to france, specifying that merchants from spain, ragusa, genoa, ancona and florence could trade under the french flag. architect and service to islam sultan ahmed constructed the sultan ahmed mosque, the magnum opus of the ottoman architecture, across from the hagia sophia. the sultan