, pharaoh demanded that abram and sarai leave. abram and lot separate when they lived for a while in the negev after being banished from egypt and came back to the bethel and ai area, abram ' s and lot ' s sizable herds occupied the same pastures. this became a problem for the herdsmen, who were assigned to each family ' s cattle. the conflicts between herdsmen had become so troublesome that abram suggested that lot choose a separate area, either on the left hand or on the right hand, that there be no conflict amongst brethren. lot decided to go eastward to the plain of jordan, where the land was well watered everywhere as far as zoar, and he dwelled in the cities of the plain toward sodom. abram went south to hebron and settled in the plain of mamre, where he built another altar to worship god. chedorlaomer during the rebellion of the jordan river cities, sodom and gomorrah, against elam, abram ' s nephew, lot, was taken prisoner along with his entire household by the invading elamite forces. the elamite army came to collect the spoils of war, after having just defeated the king of sodom ' s armies. lot and his family, at the time, were settled on the outskirts of the kingdom of sodom which made them a visible target. one person who escaped capture came and told abram what happened. once abram received this news, he immediately assembled 318 trained servants. abram ' s force headed north in pursuit of the elamite army, who were already worn down from the battle of siddim. when they caught up with them at dan, abram devised a battle plan by splitting his group into more than one unit, and launched a night raid. not only were they able to free the captives, abram ' s unit chased and slaughtered the elamite king chedorlaomer at hobah, just north of damascus. they freed lot, as well as his household and possessions, and recovered all of the goods from sodom that had been taken. upon abram ' s return, sodom ' s king came out to meet with him in the valley of shaveh, the " king ' s dale ". also, melchizedek king of salem ( jerusalem ), a priest of el elyon, brought out bread and wine and blessed abram and god. abram then gave melchizedek a tenth of everything.