discussion of his theories on education is in an essay, " observations on the principles and methods of infant instruction ". alcott believed that early education must draw out " unpremeditated thoughts and feelings of the child " and emphasized that infancy should primarily focus on enjoyment. he noted that learning was not about the acquisition of facts but the development of a reflective state of mind. alcott ' s ideas as an educator were controversial. writer harriet martineau, for example, wrote dubiously that, " the master presupposes his little pupils possessed of all truth ; and that his business is to bring it out into expression ". even so, his ideas helped to found one of the first adult education centers in america, and provided the foundation for future generations of liberal education. many of alcott ' s educational principles are still used in classrooms today, including " teach by encouragement ", art education, music education, acting exercises, learning through experience, risk - taking in the classroom, tolerance in schools, physical education / recess, and early childhood education. the teachings of william ellery channing a few years earlier had also laid the groundwork for the work of most of the concord transcendentalists. the concord school of philosophy, which closed following alcott ' s death in 1888, was reopened almost 90 years later in the 1970s. it has continued functioning with a summer conversational series in its original building at orchard house, now run by the louisa may alcott memorial association. while many of alcott ' s ideas continue to be perceived as being on the liberal / radical edge, they are still common themes in society, including vegetarian / veganism, sustainable living, and temperance / self - control. alcott described his sustenance as a " pythagorean diet " : meat, eggs, butter, cheese, and milk were excluded and drinking was confined to well water. alcott believed that diet held the key to human perfection and connected physical well - being to mental improvement. he further viewed a perfection of nature to the spirit and, in a sense, predicted modern environmentalism by condemning pollution and encouraging humankind ' s role in sustaining ecology. criticism alcott ' s philosophical teachings have been criticized as inconsistent, hazy or abrupt. he formulated no system of philosophy, and shows the influence of plato, german mysticism, and immanuel kant as filtered through the writings of samuel taylor coleridge. margaret fuller referred to alcott as " a philosopher of the balmy times of ancient greece — a man whom the world