the festival ' s highest prize. sports basketball is the second most popular sport in angola. its national team has won the afrobasket 11 times and holds the record of most titles. as a top team in africa, it is a regular competitor at the summer olympic games and the fiba world cup. angola is home to one of africa ' s first competitive leagues. in football, angola hosted the 2010 africa cup of nations. the angola national football team qualified for the 2006 fifa world cup, their first appearance in the world cup finals. they were eliminated after one defeat and two draws in the group stage. they won three cosafa cups and finished runner - up in the 2011 african nations championship. angola has participated in the world women ' s handball championship for several years. the country has also appeared in the summer olympics for seven years and both regularly competes in and once has hosted the firs roller hockey world cup, where the best finish is sixth. angola is also often believed to have historic roots in the martial art " capoeira angola " and " batuque " which were practised by enslaved african angolans transported as part of the atlantic slave trade. see also outline of angola index of angola - related articles references further reading birmingham, david ( 2006 ) empire in africa : angola and its neighbors, ohio university press : athens, ohio. bosl, anton ( 2008 ) angola ' s parliamentary elections in 2008. a country on its way to one - party - democracy, kas auslandsinformationen 10 / 2008. die parlamentswahlen in angola 2008 cilliers, jackie and christian dietrich, eds. ( 2000 ). angola ' s war economy : the role of oil and diamonds. pretoria, south africa, institute for security studies. global witness ( 1999 ). a crude awakening, the role of oil and banking industries in angola ' s civil war and the plundering of state assets. london, uk, global witness. a crude awakening hodges, tony ( 2001 ). angola from afro - stalinism to petro - diamond capitalism. oxford : james currey. hodges, tony ( 2004 ). angola : the anatomy of an oil state. oxford, uk and indianapolis, us, the fridtjol nansen institute & the international african institute in association with james currey and indiana university press. human rights watch ( 2004 ). some transparency, no accountability : the use of oil revenues in angola and its impact on human rights. new york, human rights watch. some transparency,