commercial interest as food additives or dietary supplements. syrup historically, almond syrup was an emulsion of sweet and bitter almonds, usually made with barley syrup ( orgeat syrup ) or in a syrup of orange flower water and sugar, often flavored with a synthetic aroma of almonds. orgeat syrup is an important ingredient in the mai tai and many other tiki drinks. due to the cyanide found in bitter almonds, modern syrups generally are produced only from sweet almonds. such syrup products do not contain significant levels of hydrocyanic acid, so are generally considered safe for human consumption. oils almonds are a rich source of oil, with 50 % of kernel dry mass as fat ( whole almond nutrition table ). in relation to total dry mass of the kernel, almond oil contains 32 % monounsaturated oleic acid ( an omega - 9 fatty acid ), 13 % linoleic acid ( a polyunsaturated omega - 6 essential fatty acid ), and 10 % saturated fatty acid ( mainly as palmitic acid ). linolenic acid, a polyunsaturated omega - 3 fat, is not present ( table ). almond oil is a rich source of vitamin e, providing 261 % of the daily value per 100 millilitres. when almond oil is analyzed separately and expressed per 100 grams as a reference mass, the oil provides of food energy, 8 grams of saturated fat ( 81 % of which is palmitic acid ), 70 grams of oleic acid, and 17 grams of linoleic acid ( oil table ). oleum amygdalae, the fixed oil, is prepared from either sweet or bitter almonds, and is a glyceryl oleate with a slight odour and a nutty taste. it is almost insoluble in alcohol but readily soluble in chloroform or ether. almond oil is obtained from the dried kernel of almonds. sweet almond oil is used as a carrier oil in aromatherapy and cosmetics while bitter almond oil, containing benzaldehyde, is used as a food flavouring and in perfume. in culture the almond is highly revered in some cultures. the tree originated in the middle east. in the bible, the almond is mentioned ten times, beginning with genesis 43 : 11, where it is described as " among the best of fruits ". in numbers 17, levi is chosen from the other tribes of israel by aaron ' s rod, which brought forth almond flowers. the almond