" the end of further experiments with atom bombs would be like the early sunrays of hope which suffering humanity is longing for. " weeks prior to his death, an american film crew was allowed to visit schweitzer and drs. muntz and friedman, both holocaust survivors, to record his work and daily life at the hospital. the film the legacy of albert schweitzer, narrated by henry fonda, was produced by warner brothers and aired once. it resides in their vault today in deteriorating condition. although several attempts have been made to restore and re - air the film, all access has been denied. in 1955, he was made an honorary member of the order of merit ( om ) by queen elizabeth ii. he was also a chevalier of the military and hospitaller order of saint lazarus of jerusalem. schweitzer died on 4 september 1965 at his beloved hospital in lambarene, now in independent gabon. his grave, on the banks of the ogooue river, is marked by a cross he made himself. his cousin anne - marie schweitzer sartre was the mother of jean - paul sartre. her father, charles schweitzer, was the older brother of albert schweitzer ' s father, louis theophile. schweitzer is often cited in vegetarian literature as being an advocate of vegetarianism in his later years. schweitzer was not a vegetarian in his earlier life. for example, in 1950, biographer magnus c. ratter commented that schweitzer never " commit [ ted ] himself to the anti - vivisection, vegetarian, or pacifist positions, though his thought leads in this direction ". biographer james bentley has written that schweitzer became a vegetarian after his wife ' s death in 1957 and he was " living almost entirely on lentil soup ". in contrast to this, historian david n. stamos has written that schweitzer was not a vegetarian in his personal life nor imposed it on his missionary hospital but he did help animals and was opposed to hunting. stamos noted that schweitzer held the view that evolution ingrained humans with an instinct for meat so it was useless in trying to deny it. the albert schweitzer fellowship was founded in 1940 by schweitzer to unite us supporters in filling the gap in support for his hospital when his european supply lines were cut off by war, and continues to support the lambarene hospital today. schweitzer considered