the university of paris as a full - time professor, holding the seat of the chair of theology at the college of st. james. during this time thomas aquinas began to study under albertus. albert was the first to comment on virtually all of the writings of aristotle, thus making them accessible to wider academic debate. the study of aristotle brought him to study and comment on the teachings of muslim academics, notably avicenna and averroes, and this would bring him into the heart of academic debate. in 1254, albert was made provincial of the dominican order and fulfilled the duties of the office with great care and efficiency. during his tenure, he publicly defended the dominicans against attacks by the secular faculty of the university of paris, commented on john the evangelist, and answered what he perceived as errors of the islamic philosopher averroes. in 1259, albert took part in the general chapter of the dominicans at valenciennes together with thomas aquinas, masters bonushomo britto, florentius, and peter ( later pope innocent v ), establishing a ratio studiorum or program of studies for the dominicans that featured the study of philosophy as an innovation for those not sufficiently trained to study theology. this innovation initiated the tradition of dominican scholastic philosophy put into practice, for example, in 1265 at the order ' s studium provinciale at the convent of santa sabina in rome, out of which would develop the pontifical university of saint thomas aquinas, the " angelicum ". in 1260, pope alexander iv made him bishop of regensburg, an office from which he resigned after three years. during the exercise of his duties he enhanced his reputation for humility by refusing to ride a horse, in accord with the dictates of the order, instead traversing his huge diocese on foot. in 1263, pope urban iv relieved him of the duties of bishop and asked him to preach the eighth crusade in german - speaking countries. after this, he was especially known for acting as a mediator between conflicting parties. in cologne, he is known not only for being the founder of germany ' s oldest university there, but also for " the big verdict " ( der große schied ) of 1258, which brought an end to the conflict between the citizens of cologne and the archbishop. among the last of his labors was the defense of the orthodoxy of his former pupil, thomas aquinas, whose death in 1274 grieved albert ( the story that he