his stomach : he suffers from sea sickness, and, in death in the clouds, he states that his air sickness prevents him from being more alert at the time of the murder. later in his life, we are told : poirot is extremely punctual and carries a pocket watch almost to the end of his career. he is also particular about his personal finances, preferring to keep a bank balance of 444 pounds, 4 shillings, and 4 pence. actor david suchet, who portrayed poirot on television, said " there ' s no question he ' s obsessive - compulsive ". film portrayer kenneth branagh said that he " enjoyed finding the sort of obsessive - compulsive " in poirot. as mentioned in curtain and the clocks, he is fond of classical music, particularly mozart and bach. methods in the mysterious affair at styles, poirot operates as a fairly conventional, clue - based and logical detective ; reflected in his vocabulary by two common phrases : his use of " the little grey cells " and " order and method ". hastings is irritated by the fact that poirot sometimes conceals important details of his plans, as in the big four. in this novel, hastings is kept in the dark throughout the climax. this aspect of poirot is less evident in the later novels, partly because there is rarely a narrator to mislead. in murder on the links, still largely dependent on clues himself, poirot mocks a rival " bloodhound " detective who focuses on the traditional trail of clues established in detective fiction ( e. g., sherlock holmes depending on footprints, fingerprints, and cigar ash ). from this point on, poirot establishes his psychological bona fides. rather than painstakingly examining crime scenes, he enquires into the nature of the victim or the psychology of the murderer. he predicates his actions in the later novels on his underlying assumption that particular crimes are committed by particular types of people. poirot focuses on getting people to talk. in the early novels, he casts himself in the role of " papa poirot ", a benign confessor, especially to young women. in later works, christie made a point of having poirot supply false or misleading information about himself or his background to assist him in obtaining information. in the murder of roger ackroyd, poirot speaks of a non - existent mentally disabled nephew to uncover information about homes for the