operated by clear channel in ames. knwm - fm, contemporary christian madrid / ames station owned and operated by the university of northwestern – st. paul - simulcast with knwi - fm osceola / des moines khoi, community radio station licensed to story city with studios in ames. khoi broadcasts music and local public affairs programs and is affiliated with the pacifica radio network. ames is also served by stations in the des moines media market, which includes clear channel ' s 50, 000 - watt talk station who, music stations kazr, kdrb, kggo, kkdm, khki, kioa, kjjy, krnt, kspz and kstz, talk station kwqw, and sports stations kxno and kxno - fm. television like radio, ames is served by the des moines media market. woi - dt, the abc affiliate in central iowa, was originally owned and operated by iowa state university until the 1990s. the station is still licensed to ames, but studio ' s are located in west des moines. other stations serving ames include kcci, kdin - tv, who - dt, kcwi - tv, kdmi, kdsm - tv and kfpx - tv. channel 12 is owned by the city of ames and overseen by the city manager ' s office. the channel broadcasts meetings for city council as well as other city government councils and boards. channel 12 also produces its own original content focused on news and other happenings in ames. channel 12 has won various regional and national awards including a natoa government programming award and a telly award. channel 12 ' s goals are " to provide quality programming to the citizens of ames that educates and informs about city government issues " and " to provide live coverage and rebroadcasts of council and commission meetings. " channel 16 serves as ames ' public access tv channel. " the purpose of ames public access tv ( channel 16 ) is to provide residents the opportunity to broadcast locally produced programs on cable television. apatv provides cablecasting of non - commercial, public access programming independently produced by professionals or non - professionals in either a vhs or dvd format. this service is provided on a first - come - first - served, non - discriminatory, non monopolistic basis. other services include video messaging to serve as a community calendar. " infrastructure transportation the town is served by u. s. highways 30 and 69 and interstate 35. ames