probably relied on local guides ; these guides may have made up some buddhism - related interpretations to gratify him, or may have themselves relied on faulty translations based on oral traditions. xuanzang may have encountered a similar situation, or may have taken the supposed content of the inscriptions from faxian ' s writings. this theory is corroborated by the fact that some brahmin scholars are known to have similarly come up with a fanciful interpretation of ashoka pillar inscriptions, when requested to decipher them by the 14th century muslim king firuz shah tughlaq. according to shams - i siraj ' s tarikh - i firoz shahi, after the king had these pillar transported from topra and mirat to delhi as war trophies, these brahmins told him that the inscriptions prophesied that nobody would be able to remove the pillars except a king named firuz. moreover, by this time, there were local traditions that attributed the erection of these pillars to the legendary hero bhima. according to scholars such as richard gombrich, ashoka ' s dharma shows buddhist influence. for example, the kalinga separate edict i seems to be inspired by buddha ' s advice to sigala and his other sermons. animal welfare ashoka ' s rock edicts declare that injuring living things is not good, and no animal should be slaughtered for sacrifice. however, he did not prohibit common cattle slaughter or beef eating. he imposed a ban on killing of " all four - footed creatures that are neither useful nor edible ", and of specific animal species including several birds, certain types of fish and bulls among others. he also banned killing of female goats, sheep and pigs that were nursing their young ; as well as their young up to the age of six months. he also banned killing of all fish and castration of animals during certain periods such as chaturmasa and uposatha. ashoka also abolished the royal hunting of animals and restricted the slaying of animals for food in the royal residence. because he banned hunting, created many veterinary clinics and eliminated meat eating on many holidays, the mauryan empire under ashoka has been described as " one of the very few instances in world history of a government treating its animals as citizens who are as deserving of its protection as the human residents ". foreign relations it is well known that ashoka sent dutas or emissaries to convey messages or letters, written or oral ( rather both ), to various people. the vith rock