the emperor and his immediate heir could hope to attain. the tribunician power allowed him to control the senate, and it was first given to julius caesar. agrippa acted as tribune in the senate to pass important legislation and, though he lacked some of the emperor ' s power and authority, he was approaching the position of co - regent. after the birth of agrippa ' s second son, lucius, in 17 bc, lucius and his brother gaius were adopted together by augustus. around the time of their adoption in the summer, augustus held the fifth ever ludi saeculares ( " secular games " ). cassius dio says the adoption of the boys coupled with the games served to introduce a new era of peace – the pax augusta. it is not known what agrippa thought of their adoption ; however, following their adoption, agrippa was dispatched to govern the eastern provinces, bringing his family with him. early life and family agrippina was born in 14 bc to marcus vipsanius agrippa and julia the elder, before their return to rome in 13 bc. she had several siblings, including half - sisters vipsania agrippina, vipsania attica, vipsania marcella and vipsania marcellina ( from her father ' s marriages to pomponia caecilia attica and claudia marcella major ) ; and four full siblings, with three brothers ; gaius, lucius, and postumus agrippa ( all were adopted by augustus ; gaius and lucius were adopted together following lucius ' birth in 17 bc ; postumus in ad 4 ), and a sister julia the younger. she was a prominent member of the julio - claudian dynasty. on her mother ' s side, she was the younger granddaughter of augustus. she was the stepdaughter of tiberius by her mother ' s marriage to him, and sister in law of claudius, the brother of her husband germanicus. her son gaius, better known as " caligula ", would be the third emperor, and her grandson nero would be the last emperor of the dynasty. in 13 bc, her father returned to rome and was promptly sent to pannonia to suppress a rebellion. agrippa arrived there that winter ( in 12 bc ), but the pannonians gave up that same year. agrippa returned to campania in italy, where he fell ill and died soon after. after her father ' s death, she spent the rest of her childhood in augustus