any future conflict. negotiations between russia and the u. s. over the sale of alaska were halted due to the outbreak of the civil war, but after the u. s. victory in the war, talks resumed. russia instructed its minister in washington, baron eduard de stoeckl, to negotiate a sale. de stoeckl did so deftly, getting seward to raise his offer from $ 5 million ( coincidentally, the minimum that russia had instructed de stoeckl to accept ) to $ 7 million, and then getting $ 200, 000 added by raising various objections. this sum of $ 7. 2 million is equivalent to $ in present - day terms. on march 30, 1867, de stoeckl and seward signed the treaty, working quickly as the senate was about to adjourn. johnson and seward took the signed document to the president ' s room in the capitol, only to be told there was no time to deal with the matter before adjournment. the president summoned the senate into session to meet on april 1 ; that body approved the treaty, 37 – 2. emboldened by his success in alaska, seward sought acquisitions elsewhere. his only success was staking an american claim to uninhabited wake island in the pacific, which would be officially claimed by the u. s. in 1898. he came close with the danish west indies as denmark agreed to sell and the local population approved the transfer in a plebiscite, but the senate never voted on the treaty and it expired. another treaty that fared badly was the johnson - clarendon convention, negotiated in settlement of the alabama claims, for damages to american shipping from british - built confederate raiders. negotiated by the united states minister to britain, former maryland senator reverdy johnson, in late 1868, it was ignored by the senate during the remainder of the president ' s term. the treaty was rejected after he left office, and the grant administration later negotiated considerably better terms from britain. administration and cabinet judicial appointments johnson appointed nine article iii federal judges during his presidency, all to united states district courts ; he did not appoint a justice to serve on the supreme court. in april 1866, he nominated henry stanbery to fill the vacancy left with the death of john catron, but congress eliminated the seat to prevent the appointment, and to ensure that he did not get to make any appointments eliminated the next vacancy as well, providing that the court would shrink by one justice when one next departed from office. johnson appointed his greene