the automobile himself instead of letting technicians transfer a scale - model design to the car. reportedly, it took him only 23 minutes to paint the entire car. racecar drivers herve poulain, manfred winkelhock and marcel mignot drove the car at the 1979 24 hours of le mans. some of warhol ' s work, as well as his own personality, has been described as being keatonesque. warhol has been described as playing dumb to the media. he sometimes refused to explain his work. he has suggested that all one needs to know about his work is " already there ' on the surface. his rorschach inkblots are intended as pop comments on art and what art could be. his cow wallpaper ( literally, wallpaper with a cow motif ) and his oxidation paintings ( canvases prepared with copper paint that was then oxidized with urine ) are also noteworthy in this context. equally noteworthy is the way these works — and their means of production — mirrored the atmosphere at andy ' s new york " factory ". biographer bob colacello provides some details on andy ' s " piss paintings " : warhol ' s 1982 portrait of basquiat, jean - michel basquiat, is a silkscreen over an oxidized copper " piss painting ". after many years of silkscreen, oxidation, photography, etc., warhol returned to painting with a brush in hand. in 1983, warhol began collaborating with basquiat and clemente. warhol and basquiat created a series of more than 50 large collaborative works between 1984 and 1985. despite criticism when these were first shown, warhol called some of them " masterpieces ", and they were influential for his later work. in 1984, warhol was commissioned by collector and gallerist alexander iolas to produce work based on leonardo da vinci ' s the last supper for an exhibition at the old refectory of the palazzo delle stelline in milan, opposite from the santa maria delle grazie where leonardo da vinci ' s mural can be seen. warhol exceeded the demands of the commission and produced nearly 100 variations on the theme, mostly silkscreens and paintings, and among them a collaborative sculpture with basquiat, the ten punching bags ( last supper ). the milan exhibition that opened in january 1987 with a set of 22 silk - screens, was the last exhibition for both the artist and the gallerist. the series of the last supper was seen by some as " arguably his greatest