650 bce. apollo became extremely important to the greek world as an oracular deity in the archaic period, and the frequency of theophoric names such as apollodorus or apollonios and cities named apollonia testify to his popularity. oracular sanctuaries to apollo were established in other sites. in the 2nd and 3rd century ce, those at didyma and claros pronounced the so - called " theological oracles ", in which apollo confirms that all deities are aspects or servants of an all - encompassing, highest deity. " in the 3rd century, apollo fell silent. julian the apostate ( 359 – 361 ) tried to revive the delphic oracle, but failed. " oracular shrines apollo had a famous oracle in delphi, and other notable ones in claros and didyma. his oracular shrine in abae in phocis, where he bore the toponymic epithet abaeus (, apollon abaios ), was important enough to be consulted by croesus. his oracular shrines include : abae in phocis. bassae in the peloponnese. at clarus, on the west coast of asia minor ; as at delphi a holy spring which gave off a pneuma, from which the priests drank. in corinth, the oracle of corinth came from the town of tenea, from prisoners supposedly taken in the trojan war. at khyrse, in troad, the temple was built for apollo smintheus. in delos, there was an oracle to the delian apollo, during summer. the hieron ( sanctuary ) of apollo adjacent to the sacred lake, was the place where the god was said to have been born. in delphi, the pythia became filled with the pneuma of apollo, said to come from a spring inside the adyton. in didyma, an oracle on the coast of anatolia, south west of lydian ( luwian ) sardis, in which priests from the lineage of the branchidae received inspiration by drinking from a healing spring located in the temple. was believed to have been founded by branchus, son or lover of apollo. in hierapolis bambyce, syria ( modern manbij ), according to the treatise de dea syria, the sanctuary of the syrian goddess contained a robed and bearded image of apollo. divination was based on spontaneous movements of this image. at patara