years ( depending on which eucharistic and office lectionaries are used, respectively ). the sermon ( or homily ) is typically about ten to twenty minutes in length, often comparably short to sermons in evangelical churches. even in the most informal anglican services, it is common for set prayers such as the weekly collect to be read. there are also set forms for intercessory prayer, though this is now more often extemporaneous. in high and anglo - catholic churches there are generally prayers for the dead. although anglican public worship is usually ordered according to the canonically approved services, in practice many anglican churches use forms of service outside these norms. liberal churches may use freely structured or experimental forms of worship, including patterns borrowed from ecumenical traditions such as those of the taize community or the iona community. anglo - catholic parishes might use the modern roman catholic liturgy of the mass or more traditional forms, such as the tridentine mass ( which is translated into english in the english missal ), the anglican missal, or, less commonly, the sarum rite. catholic devotions such as the rosary, angelus, and benediction of the blessed sacrament are also common among anglo - catholics. eucharistic discipline only baptised persons are eligible to receive communion, although in many churches communion is restricted to those who have not only been baptised but also confirmed. in many anglican provinces, however, all baptised christians are now often invited to receive communion and some dioceses have regularised a system for admitting baptised young people to communion before they are confirmed. the discipline of fasting before communion is practised by some anglicans. most anglican priests require the presence of at least one other person for the celebration of the eucharist ( referring back to christ ' s statement in matthew 18 : 20, " when two or more are gathered in my name, i will be in the midst of them. " ), though some anglo - catholic priests ( like roman catholic priests ) may say private masses. as in the roman catholic church, it is a canonical requirement to use fermented wine for communion. unlike in roman catholicism, the consecrated bread and wine are always offered to the congregation at a eucharistic service ( " communion in both kinds " ). this practice is becoming more frequent in the roman catholic church as well, especially through the neocatechumenal way. in some churches, the sacrament is reserved in a tabernacle or aumbry with a lighted candle or lamp nearby. in anglican churches,