and use, but the ' title ' would remind in the ' commonwealth ', an arrangement that might be aptly termed ' socialist fee simple '. they proposed to exempt from taxation all farm dwellings, animals, and improvements up to the value of $ 1, 000. the state board of agriculture would encourage ' co - operative societies ' of farmers to make plans f or the purchase of land, seed, tools, and for preparing and selling produce. in order to give farmers essential services at cost, the socialists called for the creation of state banks and mortgage agencies, crop insurance, elevators, and warehouses. this agrarian - backed socialist party would win numerous offices, causing a panic within the local democratic party. this agrarian - socialist movement would be inhibited by voter suppression laws aimed at reducing the participation of voters of color, as well as national wartime policies intended to disrupt political elements considered subversive. this party would peak in power in 1914. back - to - the - land movement agrarianism is similar to but not identical with the back - to - the - land movement. agrarianism concentrates on the fundamental goods of the earth, on communities of more limited economic and political scale than in modern society, and on simple living, even when the shift involves questioning the " progressive " character of some recent social and economic developments. thus, agrarianism is not industrial farming, with its specialization on products and industrial scale. see also agrarian socialism farmer – labor party, usa early 20th century jeffersonian democracy labour - farmer party, japan 1920s minnesota farmer – labor party, usa early 20th century nordic agrarian parties yeoman, english farmers references further reading agrarian values brass, tom. peasants, populism and postmodernism : the return of the agrarian myth ( 2000 ) * inge, m. thomas. agrarianism in american literature ( 1969 ) kolodny, annette. the land before her : fantasy and experience of the american frontiers, 1630 – 1860 ( 1984 ). online edition marx, leo. the machine in the garden : technology and the pastoral ideal in america ( 1964 ). murphy, paul v. the rebuke of history : the southern agrarians and american conservative thought ( 2000 ) parrington, vernon. main currents in american thought ( 1927 ), 3 - vol online thompson, paul, and thomas c. hilde, eds. the agrarian roots of pragmatism ( 2000 ) primary sources sorokin, pitirim a. et al., eds. a systematic source book in rural sociology ( 3 vol