boasted 30 million square yards of asphalt paving, well ahead of brick. the streets became faster and more dangerous so electric traffic lights were installed. electric trolleys ( at 12 miles per hour ) became the main transportation service for middle class shoppers and office workers until they bought automobiles after 1945 and commuted from more distant suburbs in privacy and comfort on asphalt highways. canada canada has the world ' s largest deposit of natural bitumen in the athabasca oil sands, and canadian first nations along the athabasca river had long used it to waterproof their canoes. in 1719, a cree named wa - pa - su brought a sample for trade to henry kelsey of the hudson ' s bay company, who was the first recorded european to see it. however, it wasn ' t until 1787 that fur trader and explorer alexander mackenzie saw the athabasca oil sands and said, " at about 24 miles from the fork ( of the athabasca and clearwater rivers ) are some bituminous fountains into which a pole of 20 feet long may be inserted without the least resistance. " the value of the deposit was obvious from the start, but the means of extracting the bitumen was not. the nearest town, fort mcmurray, alberta, was a small fur trading post, other markets were far away, and transportation costs were too high to ship the raw bituminous sand for paving. in 1915, sidney ells of the federal mines branch experimented with separation techniques and used the product to pave 600 feet of road in edmonton, alberta. other roads in alberta were paved with material extracted from oil sands, but it was generally not economic. during the 1920s dr. karl a. clark of the alberta research council patented a hot water oil separation process and entrepreneur robert c. fitzsimmons built the bitumount oil separation plant, which between 1925 and 1958 produced up to per day of bitumen using dr. clark ' s method. most of the bitumen was used for waterproofing roofs, but other uses included fuels, lubrication oils, printers ink, medicines, rust - and acid - proof paints, fireproof roofing, street paving, patent leather, and fence post preservatives. eventually fitzsimmons ran out of money and the plant was taken over by the alberta government. today the bitumount plant is a provincial historic site. photography and art bitumen was used in early photographic technology. in 1826, or 1827, it was used by french scientist joseph nicephore