- interference of orthogonally - polarized beams, together with the phase - inversion rule in chromatic polarization, would be most easily explained if the waves were purely transverse, and ampere " had the same thought " on the phase - inversion rule. but that would raise a new difficulty : as natural light seemed to be unpolarized and its waves were therefore presumed to be longitudinal, one would need to explain how the longitudinal component of vibration disappeared on polarization, and why it did not reappear when polarized light was reflected or refracted obliquely by a glass plate. independently, on 12 january 1817, young wrote to arago ( in english ) noting that a transverse vibration would constitute a polarization, and that if two longitudinal waves crossed at a significant angle, they could not cancel without leaving a residual transverse vibration. young repeated this idea in an article published in a supplement to the encyclopædia britannica in february 1818, in which he added that malus ' s law would be explained if polarization consisted in a transverse motion. thus fresnel, by his own testimony, may not have been the first person to suspect that light waves could have a transverse component, or that polarized waves were exclusively transverse. and it was young, not fresnel, who first published the idea that polarization depends on the orientation of a transverse vibration. but these incomplete theories had not reconciled the nature of polarization with the apparent existence of unpolarized light ; that achievement was to be fresnel ' s alone. in a note that buchwald dates in the summer of 1818, fresnel entertained the idea that unpolarized waves could have vibrations of the same energy and obliquity, with their orientations distributed uniformly about the wave - normal, and that the degree of polarization was the degree of non - uniformity in the distribution. two pages later he noted, apparently for the first time in writing, that his phase - inversion rule and the non - interference of orthogonally - polarized beams would be easily explained if the vibrations of fully polarized waves were " perpendicular to the normal to the wave " — that is, purely transverse. but if he could account for lack of polarization by averaging out the transverse component, he did not also need to assume a longitudinal component. it was enough to suppose that light waves are purely transverse, hence always polarized in the sense of having a particular transverse orientation, and that the " unpolarized " state