responsibility of the royal anguilla police force. population demographics the majority of residents ( 90. 08 % ) are black, most of whom are the descendants of enslaved people transported from africa. minorities include whites at 3. 74 % and people of mixed race at 4. 65 % ( figures from 2001 census ). 72 % of the population is anguillan while 28 % is non - anguillan ( 2001 census ). of the non - anguillan population, many are citizens of the united states, united kingdom, st kitts & nevis, the dominican republic, jamaica and nigeria. 2006 and 2007 saw an influx of large numbers of chinese, indian and mexican workers, brought in as labour for major tourist developments due to the local population not being large enough to support the labour requirements. religion christian churches did not have a consistent or strong presence during the initial period of english colonisation ; spiritual and religious practices of europeans and africans tended to reflect their regional origins. as early as 1813, christian ministers formally ministered to enslaved africans and promoted literacy among converts. the wesleyan ( methodist ) missionary society of england built churches and schools from 1817. according to the 2001 census, christianity is anguilla ' s predominant religion, with 29 % of the population practising anglicanism ; another 23. 9 % are methodist. other churches on the island include seventh - day adventist, baptist, roman catholic ( served by the diocese of saint john ' s – basseterre, with the see at saint john on antigua and barbuda ) and a small community of jehovah ' s witnesses ( 0. 7 % ). between 1992 and 2001, the number of followers of the church of god and pentecostals increased considerably. there are at least 15 churches on the island. although a minority on the island, anguilla is an important location to followers of rastafarian religion as the birthplace of robert athlyi rogers, author of the holy piby which had a strong influence on rastafarian and other africa - centre belief systems. more recently, a muslim cultural centre has opened on the island. languages today most people in anguilla speak a british - influenced variety of standard english. other languages are also spoken on the island, including varieties of spanish, chinese and the languages of other immigrant communities. however, the most common language other than standard english is the island ' s own english - lexifier creole language ( not to be confused with antillean creole ( ' french creole ' ), spoken in