amasis ii ( ; hms ) or ahmose ii was a pharaoh ( reigned 570526 bce ) of the twenty - sixth dynasty of egypt, the successor of apries at sais. he was the last great ruler of egypt before the persian conquest. life most of our information about him is derived from herodotus ( 2. 161ff ) and can only be imperfectly verified by monumental evidence. according to the greek historian, he was of common origins. he was originally an officer in the egyptian army. his birthplace was siuph at sais. he took part in a general campaign of pharaoh psamtik ii in 592 bc in nubia. a revolt which broke out among native egyptian soldiers gave him his opportunity to seize the throne. these troops, returning home from a disastrous military expedition to cyrene in libya, suspected that they had been betrayed in order that apries, the reigning king, might rule more absolutely by means of his greek mercenaries ; many egyptians fully sympathized with them. general amasis, sent to meet them and quell the revolt, was proclaimed king by the rebels instead, and apries, who then had to rely entirely on his mercenaries, was defeated. apries fled to the babylonians and was captured and killed mounting an invasion of his native homeland in 567 bce with the aid of a babylonian army. an inscription confirms the struggle between the native egyptian and the foreign soldiery, and proves that apries was killed and honourably buried in the third year of amasis ( bce ). amasis then married khedebneithirbinet ii, one of the daughters of his predecessor apries, in order to legitimise his kingship. some information is known about the family origins of amasis : his mother was a certain tashereniset, as a bust of her, today located in the british museum, shows. a stone block from mehallet el - kubra also establishes that his maternal grandmother — tashereniset ' s mother — was a certain tjenmutetj. his court is relatively well known. the head of the gate guard ahmose - sa - neith appears on numerous monuments, including the location of his sarcophagus. he was referenced on monuments of the 30th dynasty and apparently had a special significance in his time. wahibre was ' leader of the southern foreigners ' and ' head of the doors of foreigners ', so he was the highest official for border security. under amasis