advancing british troops. even so, the committee continued with its work. the final draft of the articles of confederation and perpetual union was completed on november 15, 1777. consensus was achieved by including language guaranteeing that each state retained its sovereignty, leaving the matter of western land claims in the hands of the individual states, including language stating that votes in congress would be en bloc by state, and establishing a unicameral legislature with limited and clearly delineated powers. ratification the articles of confederation was submitted to the states for ratification in late november 1777. the first state to ratify was virginia on december 16, 1777 ; 12 states had ratified the articles by february 1779, 14 months into the process. the lone holdout, maryland, refused to go along until the landed states, especially virginia, had indicated they were prepared to cede their claims west of the ohio river to the union. it would be two years before the maryland general assembly became satisfied that the various states would follow through, and voted to ratify. during this time, congress observed the articles as its de facto frame of government. maryland finally ratified the articles on february 2, 1781. congress was informed of maryland ' s assent on march 1, and officially proclaimed the articles of confederation to be the law of the land. the several states ratified the articles of confederation on the following dates : article summaries the articles of confederation contain a preamble, thirteen articles, a conclusion, and a signatory section. the individual articles set the rules for current and future operations of the confederation ' s central government. under the articles, the states retained sovereignty over all governmental functions not specifically relinquished to the national congress, which was empowered to make war and peace, negotiate diplomatic and commercial agreements with foreign countries, and to resolve disputes between the states. the document also stipulates that its provisions " shall be inviolably observed by every state " and that " the union shall be perpetual ". summary of the purpose and content of each of the 13 articles : establishes the name of the confederation with these words : " the stile of this confederacy shall be ' the united states of america. ' " asserts the sovereignty of each state, except for the specific powers delegated to the confederation government : " each state retains its sovereignty, freedom, and independence, and every power, jurisdiction, and right, which is not by this confederation expressly delegated. " declares the purpose of the confederation : " the said states hereby severally enter into a firm league of friendship with each other,