". similarly, the aramaic word for " god " in the language of assyrian christians is ʼelaha, or alaha. ( even the arabic - descended maltese language of malta, whose population is almost entirely catholic, uses alla for " god ". ) arab christians, for example, use the terms ( ) for god the father, ( ) for god the son, and ( ) for god the holy spirit. ( see god in christianity for the christian concept of god. ) arab christians have used two forms of invocations that were affixed to the beginning of their written works. they adopted the muslim, and also created their own trinitized as early as the 8th century. the muslim reads : " in the name of god, the compassionate, the merciful. " the trinitized reads : " in the name of father and the son and the holy spirit, one god. " the syriac, latin and greek invocations do not have the words " one god " at the end. this addition was made to emphasize the monotheistic aspect of trinitarian belief and also to make it more palatable to muslims. according to marshall hodgson, it seems that in the pre - islamic times, some arab christians made pilgrimage to the kaaba, a pagan temple at that time, honoring allah there as god the creator. some archaeological excavation quests have led to the discovery of ancient pre - islamic inscriptions and tombs made by arab christians in the ruins of a church at umm el - jimal in northern jordan, which initially, according to enno littman ( 1949 ), contained references to allah as the proper name of god. however, on a second revision by bellamy et al. ( 1985 & 1988 ) the 5 - versed - inscription was re - translated as " ( 1 ) this [ inscription ] was set up by colleagues of ʿulayh, ( 2 ) son of ʿubaydah, secretary ( 3 ) of the cohort augusta secunda ( 4 ) philadelphiana ; may he go mad who ( 5 ) effaces it. " the syriac word ( ʼelaha ) can be found in the reports and the lists of names of christian martyrs in south arabia, as reported by antique syriac documents of the names of those martyrs from the era of the himyarite and aksumite kingdoms in ibn ishaq ' s biography there is a christian leader named abd allah ibn abu bakr ibn muhammad, who was martyred in najran in 523, as he had worn