framework prime crew the initial crew assignment of frank borman as commander, michael collins as command module pilot ( cmp ) and william anders as lunar module pilot ( lmp ) for the third crewed apollo flight was officially announced on november 20, 1967. collins was replaced by jim lovell in july 1968, after suffering a cervical disc herniation that required surgery to repair. this crew was unique among pre - space shuttle era missions in that the commander was not the most experienced member of the crew : lovell had flown twice before, on gemini vii and gemini xii. this would also be the first case of a commander of a previous mission ( lovell, gemini xii ) flying as a non - commander. this was also the first mission to reunite crewmates from a previous mission ( lovell and borman, gemini vii )., all three apollo 8 astronauts remain alive. backup crew the backup crew assignment of neil armstrong as commander, lovell as cmp, and buzz aldrin as lmp for the third crewed apollo flight was officially announced at the same time as the prime crew. when lovell was reassigned to the prime crew, aldrin was moved to cmp, and fred haise was brought in as backup lmp. armstrong would later command apollo11, with aldrin as lmp and collins as cmp. haise served on the backup crew of apollo11 as lmp and flew on apollo13 as lmp. support personnel during projects mercury and gemini, each mission had a prime and a backup crew. for apollo, a third crew of astronauts was added, known as the support crew. the support crew maintained the flight plan, checklists, and mission ground rules, and ensured that the prime and backup crews were apprised of any changes. the support crew developed procedures in the simulators, especially those for emergency situations, so that the prime and backup crews could practice and master them in their simulator training. for apollo8, the support crew consisted of ken mattingly, vance brand, and gerald carr. the capsule communicator ( capcom ) was an astronaut at the mission control center in houston, texas, who was the only person who communicated directly with the flight crew. for apollo8, the capcoms were michael collins, gerald carr, ken mattingly, neil armstrong, buzz aldrin, vance brand, and fred haise. the mission control teams rotated in three shifts, each led by a flight director. the directors for apollo8 were clifford e. charlesworth (