in the high andes of chile, bolivia, peru, and ecuador. locally, the relatives of the camel, the llama, and the alpaca continue to carry out important uses as pack animals, but this use has generally diminished in modern times. donkeys, mules, and horses are also useful. agriculture the ancient peoples of the andes such as the incas have practiced irrigation techniques for over 6, 000 years. because of the mountain slopes, terracing has been a common practice. terracing, however, was only extensively employed after incan imperial expansions to fuel their expanding realm. the potato holds a very important role as an internally consumed staple crop. maize was also an important crop for these people, and was used for the production of chicha, important to andean native people. currently, tobacco, cotton and coffee are the main export crops. coca, despite eradication programmes in some countries, remains an important crop for legal local use in a mildly stimulating herbal tea, and, both controversially and illegally, for the production of cocaine. irrigation in unirrigated land, pasture is the most common type of land use. in the rainy season ( summer ), part of the rangeland is used for cropping ( mainly potatoes, barley, broad beans and wheat ). irrigation is helpful in advancing the sowing data of the summer crops which guarantees an early yield in the period of food shortage. also, by early sowing, maize can be cultivated higher up in the mountains ( up to ). in addition, it makes cropping in the dry season ( winter ) possible and allows the cultivation of frost - resistant vegetable crops like onion and carrot. mining the andes rose to fame for their mineral wealth during the spanish conquest of south america. although andean amerindian peoples crafted ceremonial jewelry of gold and other metals, the mineralizations of the andes were first mined on a large scale after the spanish arrival. potosi in present - day bolivia and cerro de pasco in peru were among the principal mines of the spanish empire in the new world. rio de la plata and argentina derive their names from the silver of potosi. currently, mining in the andes of chile and peru places these countries as the first and second major producers of copper in the world. peru also contains the 4th largest goldmine in the world : the yanacocha. the bolivian andes produce principally tin although historically silver mining had a huge impact on the economy of 17th - century europe. there is a long history of mining in the andes, from