mentions a kashmiri king ashoka of gonandiya dynasty who built several stupas : some scholars, such as aurel stein, have identified this king with the maurya king ashoka ; others, such as ananda w. p. guruge dismiss this identification as inaccurate. alternative interpretation of the epigraphic evidence for some scholars, such as christopher i. beckwith, ashoka, whose name only appears in the minor rock edicts, is not the same as king piyadasi, or devanampiya piyadasi ( i. e. " beloved of the gods piyadasi ", " beloved of the gods " being a fairly widespread title for " king " ), who is named as the author of the major pillar edicts and the major rock edicts. beckwith suggests that piyadasi was living in the 3rd century bce, was probably the son of chandragupta maurya known to the greeks as amitrochates, and only advocated for piety ( " dharma " ) in his major pillar edicts and major rock edicts, without ever mentioning buddhism, the buddha, or the samgha ( the single notable exception is the 7th edict of the major pillar edicts which does mention the samgha, but is a considered a later fake by beckwith ). also, the geographical spread of his inscription shows that piyadasi ruled a vast empire, contiguous with the seleucid empire in the west. on the contrary, for beckwith, ashoka was a later king of the 1st – 2nd century ce, whose name only appears explicitly in the minor rock edicts and allusively in the minor pillar edicts, and who does mention the buddha and the samgha, explicitly promoting buddhism. the name " priyadarsi " does occur in two of the minor edicts ( gujarra and bairat ), but beckwith again considers them as later fabrications. the minor inscriptions cover a very different and much smaller geographical area, clustering in central india. according to beckwith, the inscriptions of this later ashoka were typical of the later forms of " normative buddhism ", which are well attested from inscriptions and gandhari manuscripts dated to the turn of the millennium, and around the time of the kushan empire. the quality of the inscriptions of this ashoka is significantly lower than the quality of the inscriptions of the earlier piyadasi. names and titles the name " a - shoka " literally means " without sorrow ".