##n missionary ulfilas gives a picture of arian beliefs. the arian ulfilas, who was ordained a bishop by the arian bishop eusebius of nicomedia and returned to his people to work as a missionary, believed : god, the father, ( " unbegotten " god ; almighty god ) always existing and who is the only true god. the son of god, jesus christ, ( " only - begotten god " ), was begotten before time began. the holy spirit is the illuminating and sanctifying power of god. 1 corinthians 8 : 5 – 6 was cited as proof text : the creed of arian ulfilas ( c. 311 – 383 ), which concludes the above - mentioned letter by auxentius, distinguishes god the father ( " unbegotten " ), who is the only true god, from the son of god ( " only - begotten " ) ; and the holy spirit, the illuminating and sanctifying power, which is neither god the father nor the lord jesus christ : a letter from arius ( c. 250 – 336 ) to the arian eusebius of nicomedia ( died 341 ) states the core beliefs of the arians : principally, the dispute between trinitarianism and arianism was about : has the son always existed eternally with the father or was the son begotten at a certain time in the past? is the son equal to the father or subordinate to the father? for constantine, these were minor theological points that stood in the way of uniting the empire, but for the theologians, it was of huge importance ; for them, it was a matter of salvation. for the theologians of the 19th century it was already obvious that in fact arius and alexander / athanasius did not have much to quarrel about, the difference between their views was very small, and that the end of the fight was by no means clear during their quarrel, both arius and athanasius suffering a great deal for their own views. arius was the father of homoiousianism and alexander the father of homoousianism, which was championed by athanasius. for those theologians it was clear that arius, alexander and athanasius were far from a true doctrine of trinity, which developed later, historically speaking. guido m. berndt and roland steinacher state clearly that the beliefs of arius were acceptable ( " not especially unusual " ) to a huge number of orthodox