van amsterdam, uva ), and the vrije universiteit amsterdam ( vu ). other institutions for higher education include an art school – gerrit rietveld academie, a university of applied sciences – the hogeschool van amsterdam, and the amsterdamse hogeschool voor de kunsten. amsterdam ' s international institute of social history is one of the world ' s largest documentary and research institutions concerning social history, and especially the history of the labour movement. amsterdam ' s hortus botanicus, founded in the early 17th century, is one of the oldest botanical gardens in the world, with many old and rare specimens, among them the coffee plant that served as the parent for the entire coffee culture in central and south america. there are over 200 primary schools in amsterdam. some of these primary schools base their teachings on particular pedagogic theories like the various montessori schools. the biggest montessori high school in amsterdam is the montessori lyceum amsterdam. many schools, however, are based on religion. this used to be primarily roman catholicism and various protestant denominations, but with the influx of muslim immigrants, there has been a rise in the number of islamic schools. jewish schools can be found in the southern suburbs of amsterdam. amsterdam is noted for having five independent grammar schools ( dutch : gymnasia ), the vossius gymnasium, barlaeus gymnasium, st. ignatius gymnasium, het 4e gymnasium and the cygnus gymnasium where a classical curriculum including latin and classical greek is taught. though believed until recently by many to be an anachronistic and elitist concept that would soon die out, the gymnasia have recently experienced a revival, leading to the formation of a fourth and fifth grammar school in which the three aforementioned schools participate. most secondary schools in amsterdam offer a variety of different levels of education in the same school. the city also has various colleges ranging from art and design to politics and economics which are mostly also available for students coming from other countries. schools for foreign nationals in amsterdam include the amsterdam international community school, british school of amsterdam, albert einstein international school amsterdam, lycee vincent van gogh la haye - amsterdam primary campus ( french school ), international school of amsterdam, and the japanese school of amsterdam. notable people media amsterdam is a prominent centre for national and international media. some locally based newspapers include het parool, a national daily paper ; de telegraaf, the largest dutch daily newspaper ; the daily newspapers trouw, de