eyes the greatest privilege which this still young century ( 1818 ) may claim before all previous centuries, if then the reader, i say, has received his initiation in primeval indian wisdom, and received it with an open heart, he will be prepared in the very best way for hearing what i have to tell him. it will not sound to him strange, as to many others, much less disagreeable ; for i might, if it did not sound conceited, contend that every one of the detached statements which constitute the upanishads, may be deduced as a necessary result from the fundamental thoughts which i have to enunciate, though those deductions themselves are by no means to be found there. thoughts on other philosophers giordano bruno and spinoza schopenhauer saw bruno and spinoza as philosophers not bound to their age or nation. " both were fulfilled by the thought, that as manifold the appearances of the world may be, it is still one being, that appears in all of them.... consequently, there is no place for god as creator of the world in their philosophy, but god is the world itself. " schopenhauer expressed regret that spinoza stuck, for the presentation of his philosophy, with the concepts of scholasticism and cartesian philosophy, and tried to use geometrical proofs that do not hold because of vague and overly broad definitions. bruno on the other hand, who knew much about nature and ancient literature, presented his ideas with italian vividness, and is amongst philosophers the only one who comes near plato ' s poetic and dramatic power of exposition. schopenhauer noted that their philosophies do not provide any ethics, and it is therefore very remarkable that spinoza called his main work ethics. in fact, it could be considered complete from the standpoint of life - affirmation, if one completely ignores morality and self - denial. it is yet even more remarkable that schopenhauer mentions spinoza as an example of the denial of the will, if one uses the french biography by jean maximilien lucas as the key to tractatus de intellectus emendatione. immanuel kant the importance of kant for schopenhauer, in philosophy as well as on a personal level, cannot be overstated. kant ' s philosophy was the foundation of schopenhauer ' s, and he had high praise for the transcendental aesthetic section of kant ' s critique of pure reason. schopenhauer maintained that kant stands