##ydos remained an ally of sparta throughout the war and dercylidas served as harmost of the city from 394 until he was replaced by anaxibius in ; the latter was killed in an ambush near abydos by the athenian general iphicrates in. at the conclusion of the corinthian war, under the terms of the peace of antalcidas in 387 bc, abydos was annexed to the persian empire. within the persian empire, abydos was administered as part of the satrapy of hellespontine phrygia, and was ruled by the tyrant philiscus in 368. in, the city came under the control of the tyrant iphiades. hellenistic period abydos remained under persian control until it was seized by a macedonian army led by parmenion, a general of philip ii, in the spring of 336 bc. in 335, whilst parmenion besieged the city of pitane, abydos was besieged by a persian army led by memnon of rhodes, forcing parmenion to abandon his siege of pitane and march north to relieve abydos. alexander ferried across from sestos to abydos in 334 and travelled south to the city of troy, after which he returned to abydos. the following day, alexander left abydos and led his army north to percote. alexander later established a royal mint at abydos, as well as at other cities in asia minor. after the death of alexander the great in 323 bc, abydos, as part of the satrapy of hellespontine phrygia, came under the control of leonnatus as a result of the partition of babylon. at the partition of triparadisus in 321 bc, arrhidaeus succeeded leonnatus as satrap of hellespontine phrygia. in 302, during the fourth war of the diadochi, lysimachus, king of thrace, crossed over into asia minor and invaded the kingdom of antigonus i. unlike the neighbouring cities of parium and lampsacus which surrendered, abydos resisted lysimachus and was besieged. lysimachus was forced to abandon the siege, however, after the arrival of a relief force sent by demetrius, son of king antigonus i. according to polybius, by the third century bc, the neighbouring city of arisbe had become subordinate to abydos. the city of dar