aristotle ' s claim that the soul is the form of a living being is meant to eliminate that possibility and thus rule out reincarnation. memory according to aristotle in on the soul, memory is the ability to hold a perceived experience in the mind and to distinguish between the internal " appearance " and an occurrence in the past. in other words, a memory is a mental picture ( phantasm ) that can be recovered. aristotle believed an impression is left on a semi - fluid bodily organ that undergoes several changes in order to make a memory. a memory occurs when stimuli such as sights or sounds are so complex that the nervous system cannot receive all the impressions at once. these changes are the same as those involved in the operations of sensation, aristotelian, and thinking. aristotle uses the term ' memory ' for the actual retaining of an experience in the impression that can develop from sensation, and for the intellectual anxiety that comes with the impression because it is formed at a particular time and processing specific contents. memory is of the past, prediction is of the future, and sensation is of the present. retrieval of impressions cannot be performed suddenly. a transitional channel is needed and located in past experiences, both for previous experience and present experience. because aristotle believes people receive all kinds of sense perceptions and perceive them as impressions, people are continually weaving together new impressions of experiences. to search for these impressions, people search the memory itself. within the memory, if one experience is offered instead of a specific memory, that person will reject this experience until they find what they are looking for. recollection occurs when one retrieved experience naturally follows another. if the chain of " images " is needed, one memory will stimulate the next. when people recall experiences, they stimulate certain previous experiences until they reach the one that is needed. recollection is thus the self - directed activity of retrieving the information stored in a memory impression. only humans can remember impressions of intellectual activity, such as numbers and words. animals that have perception of time can retrieve memories of their past observations. remembering involves only perception of the things remembered and of the time passed. aristotle believed the chain of thought, which ends in recollection of certain impressions, was connected systematically in relationships such as similarity, contrast, and contiguity, described in his laws of association. aristotle believed that past experiences are hidden within the mind. a force operates to awaken the hidden material to bring up the actual experience. according to aristotle, association is the power innate in a mental state, which