failure due to exceptions is the ariane 5 flight 501 rocket failure ( june 4, 1996 ). proof of program correctness by use of mathematical induction : knuth demonstrates the application of mathematical induction to an " extended " version of euclid ' s algorithm, and he proposes " a general method applicable to proving the validity of any algorithm ". tausworthe proposes that a measure of the complexity of a program be the length of its correctness proof. measuring and improving the euclid algorithms elegance ( compactness ) versus goodness ( speed ) : with only six core instructions, " elegant " is the clear winner, compared to " inelegant " at thirteen instructions. however, " inelegant " is faster ( it arrives at halt in fewer steps ). algorithm analysis indicates why this is the case : " elegant " does two conditional tests in every subtraction loop, whereas " inelegant " only does one. as the algorithm ( usually ) requires many loop - throughs, on average much time is wasted doing a " b = 0? " test that is needed only after the remainder is computed. can the algorithms be improved? : once the programmer judges a program " fit " and " effective " — that is, it computes the function intended by its author — then the question becomes, can it be improved? the compactness of " inelegant " can be improved by the elimination of five steps. but chaitin proved that compacting an algorithm cannot be automated by a generalized algorithm ; rather, it can only be done heuristically ; i. e., by exhaustive search ( examples to be found at busy beaver ), trial and error, cleverness, insight, application of inductive reasoning, etc. observe that steps 4, 5 and 6 are repeated in steps 11, 12 and 13. comparison with " elegant " provides a hint that these steps, together with steps 2 and 3, can be eliminated. this reduces the number of core instructions from thirteen to eight, which makes it " more elegant " than " elegant ", at nine steps. the speed of " elegant " can be improved by moving the " b = 0? " test outside of the two subtraction loops. this change calls for the addition of three instructions ( b = 0?, a = 0?, goto ). now " elegant " computes the example - numbers faster ; whether this is always the case for any given a, b, and r, s would require