prevent the soldiers from plundering. the town council and five hundred civilians took refuge at the temple of apollo, where alexander had them massacred. judean civil war war with obodas i the judean civil war initially began after the conquest of gaza around 99 bce. due to jannaeus ' s victory at gaza, the nabataean kingdom no longer had direct access to the mediterranean sea. alexander soon captured gadara, which together with the loss of gaza caused the nabataeans to lose their main trade routes leading to rome and damascus. after losing gadara, the nabataean king obodas i launched an attack against alexander in a steep valley at gadara, where alexander barely managed to escape. after his defeat in the battle of gadara, jannaeus returned to jerusalem, only to be met with fierce jewish opposition. feast of tabernacles during the jewish holiday sukkot, alexander jannaeus, while officiating as the high priest at the temple in jerusalem, demonstrated his displeasure against the pharisees by refusing to perform the water libation ceremony properly : instead of pouring it on the altar, he poured it on his feet. the crowd responded with shock at his mockery and showed their displeasure by pelting him with etrogim ( citrons ). they made the situation worse by insulting him. they called him a descendant of a captive woman and unsuitable to hold office and to sacrifice. outraged, he killed six thousand people. alexander also had wooden barriers built around the altar and the temple preventing people from going near him. only the priests were permitted to enter. this incident during the feast of tabernacles was a major factor leading up to the judean civil war. war with demetrius iii and conclusion of the civil war after jannaeus succeeded early in the war, the rebels asked for seleucid assistance. judean insurgents joined forces with demetrius iii eucaerus to fight against jannaeus. alexander had gathered six thousand two hundred mercenaries and twenty thousand jews for battle as demetrius had forty thousand soldiers and three thousand horses. there were attempts from both sides to persuade each other to abandon positions but were unsuccessful. the seleucid forces defeated jannaeus at shechem, and all of alexander ' s mercenaries were killed in battle. this defeat forced alexander to take refuge in the mountains. in sympathy towards jannaeus, six thousand judean rebels ultimately returned to him. in fear of this news, demetrius withdrew. nevertheless,