experience gladness, while those who have lived in error will become aware of the opportunities they have lost. also, in the bahaʼi view, souls will be able to recognize the accomplishments of the souls that have reached the same level as themselves, but not those that have achieved a rank higher than them. indian religions early indian religions were characterized by the belief in an afterlife, ancestor worship, and related rites. these concepts started to significantly change after the period of the upanishads. buddhism afterlife in buddhism is complex, consisting of an intermediated spirit world, the six realms of existence, and the pure land after achieving enlightenment. ancestor worship, and links to one ' s ancestors, was once an important component of early buddhism, but became less relevant already before the formation of the different buddhist streams. the concepts and importance of afterlife vary among modern buddhist teachings. buddhists maintain that rebirth takes place without an unchanging self or soul passing from one form to another. the type of rebirth will be conditioned by the moral tone of the person ' s actions ( kamma or karma ). for example, if a person has committed harmful actions by body, speech and mind based on greed, hate and delusion, would have his / her rebirth in a lower realm, i. e. an animal, a hungry ghost or a hell realm, is to be expected. on the other hand, where a person has performed skillful actions based on generosity, loving - kindness ( metta ), compassion and wisdom, rebirth in a happy realm, i. e. human or one of the many heavenly realms, can be expected. however, the mechanism of rebirth with kamma is not deterministic. it depends on various levels of kamma. the most important moment that determines where a person is reborn into is the last thought moment. at that moment, heavy kamma would ripen if there were performed. if not, near death kamma would ripen, and if not death kamma, then habitual kamma would ripen. finally if none of the above happened, then residual kamma from previous actions can ripen. according to theravada buddhism, there are 31 realms of existence that one can be reborn into. according to these, 31 existences comprise 20 existences of supreme deities ( brahmas ) ; 6 existences of deities ( devas ) ; the human existence ( manussa ) ; and, lastly, 4 existences of deprivation or unhappiness ( apaya ). pure land