must be done for its own sake " and said, " there hardly exists in the literature of the world a collection of maxims in which we find so much lofty wisdom. " later life after the birth of their daughter ( rhena schweitzer miller ), albert ' s wife, helene schweitzer was no longer able to live in lambarene due to her health. in 1923, the family moved to konigsfeld im schwarzwald, baden - wurttemberg, where he was building a house for the family. this house is now maintained as a schweitzer museum. from 1939 to 1948, he stayed in lambarene, unable to go back to europe because of the war. three years after the end of world war ii, in 1948, he returned for the first time to europe and kept travelling back and forth ( and once to the us ) as long as he was able. during his return visits to his home village of gunsbach, schweitzer continued to make use of the family house, which after his death became an archive and museum to his life and work. his life was portrayed in the 1952 movie il est minuit, docteur schweitzer, starring pierre fresnay as albert schweitzer and jeanne moreau as his nurse marie. schweitzer inspired actor hugh o ' brian when o ' brian visited in africa. o ' brian returned to the united states and founded the hugh o ' brian youth leadership foundation ( hoby ). schweitzer was awarded the nobel peace prize of 1952, accepting the prize with the speech, " the problem of peace ". with the $ 33, 000 prize money, he started the leprosarium at lambarene. from 1952 until his death he worked against nuclear tests and nuclear weapons with albert einstein, otto hahn and bertrand russell. in 1957 and 1958, he broadcast four speeches over radio oslo which were published in peace or atomic war. in 1957, schweitzer was one of the founders of the committee for a sane nuclear policy. on 23 april 1957, schweitzer made his " declaration of conscience " speech ; it was broadcast to the world over radio oslo, pleading for the abolition of nuclear weapons. his speech ended, " the end of further experiments with atom bombs would be like the early sunrays of hope which suffering humanity is longing for. " weeks prior to his death, an american film crew was allowed to visit schweitzer and drs. mu