only orbitals with an anti - node ( a region of high wave function density ) at the center of the nucleus. all other orbitals ( p, d, f, etc. ) have angular momentum, and thus avoid the nucleus ( having a wave node at the nucleus ). recently, there has been an effort to experimentally image the 1s and 2p orbitals in a srtio3 crystal using scanning transmission electron microscopy with energy dispersive x - ray spectroscopy. because the imaging was conducted using an electron beam, coulombic beam - orbital interaction that is often termed as the impact parameter effect is included in the outcome ( see the figure at right ). the shapes of p, d and f orbitals are described verbally here and shown graphically in the orbitals table below. the three p orbitals for have the form of two ellipsoids with a point of tangency at the nucleus ( the two - lobed shape is sometimes referred to as a " dumbbell " — there are two lobes pointing in opposite directions from each other ). the three p orbitals in each shell are oriented at right angles to each other, as determined by their respective linear combination of values of. the overall result is a lobe pointing along each direction of the primary axes. four of the five d orbitals for look similar, each with four pear - shaped lobes, each lobe tangent at right angles to two others, and the centers of all four lying in one plane. three of these planes are the xy -, xz -, and yz - planes — the lobes are between the pairs of primary axes — and the fourth has the center along the x and y axes themselves. the fifth and final d orbital consists of three regions of high probability density : a torus in between two pear - shaped regions placed symmetrically on its z axis. the overall total of 18 directional lobes point in every primary axis direction and between every pair. there are seven f orbitals, each with shapes more complex than those of the d orbitals. additionally, as is the case with the s orbitals, individual p, d, f and g orbitals with values higher than the lowest possible value, exhibit an additional radial node structure which is reminiscent of harmonic waves of the same type, as compared with the lowest ( or fundamental ) mode of the wave. as with s orbitals, this phenomenon provides p, d, f, and g orbitals at the next higher possible value of ( for example, 3p orbital