( huangdi neijing ) around 100 bc. it introduced the concept of using acupuncture to manipulate the flow of life energy ( qi ) in a network of meridian ( channels ) in the body. the network concept was made up of acu - tracts, such as a line down the arms, where it said acupoints were located. some of the sites acupuncturists use needles at today still have the same names as those given to them by the yellow emperor ' s classic. numerous additional documents were published over the centuries introducing new acupoints. by the 4th century ad, most of the acupuncture sites in use today had been named and identified. early development in china establishment and growth in the first half of the 1st century ad, acupuncturists began promoting the belief that acupuncture ' s effectiveness was influenced by the time of day or night, the lunar cycle, and the season. the ' science of the yin - yang cycles ' ( ) was a set of beliefs that curing diseases relied on the alignment of both heavenly ( tian ) and earthly ( di ) forces that were attuned to cycles like that of the sun and moon. there were several different belief systems that relied on a number of celestial and earthly bodies or elements that rotated and only became aligned at certain times. according to needham and lu, these " arbitrary predictions " were depicted by acupuncturists in complex charts and through a set of special terminology. acupuncture needles during this period were much thicker than most modern ones and often resulted in infection. infection is caused by a lack of sterilization, but at that time it was believed to be caused by use of the wrong needle, or needling in the wrong place, or at the wrong time. later, many needles were heated in boiling water, or in a flame. sometimes needles were used while they were still hot, creating a cauterizing effect at the injection site. nine needles were recommended in the great compendium of acupuncture and moxibustion from 1601, which may have been because of an ancient chinese belief that nine was a magic number. other belief systems were based on the idea that the human body operated on a rhythm and acupuncture had to be applied at the right point in the rhythm to be effective. in some cases a lack of balance between yin and yang were believed to be the cause of disease. in the 1st century ad, many of