football contradicted the complicated morality imposed by authorities such as the state and church. formative years in 1934, aged 20, camus was in a relationship with simone hie. simone had an addiction to morphine, a drug she used to ease her menstrual pains. his uncle gustave did not approve of the relationship, but camus married hie to help her fight her addiction. he subsequently discovered she was in a relationship with her doctor at the same time and the couple later divorced. camus joined the french communist party ( pcf ) in early 1935. he saw it as a way to " fight inequalities between europeans and ' natives ' in algeria, " even though he was not a marxist. he explained : " we might see communism as a springboard and asceticism that prepares the ground for more spiritual activities. " camus left the pcf a year later. in 1936, the independence - minded algerian communist party ( pca ) was founded, and camus joined it after his mentor grenier advised him to do so. camus ' s main role within the pca was to organise the theatre du travail ( " workers ' theatre " ). camus was also close to the parti du peuple algerien ( algerian people ' s party ( ppa ) ), which was a moderate anti - colonialist / nationalist party. as tensions in the interwar period escalated, the stalinist pca and ppa broke ties. camus was expelled from the pca for refusing to toe the party line. this series of events sharpened his belief in human dignity. camus ' s mistrust of bureaucracies that aimed for efficiency instead of justice grew. he continued his involvement with theatre and renamed his group theatre de l ' equipe ( " theatre of the team " ). some of his scripts were the basis for his later novels. in 1938, camus began working for the leftist newspaper alger republicain ( founded by pascal pia ) as he had strong anti - fascist feelings, and the rise of fascist regimes in europe was worrying him. by then, camus had developed strong feelings against authoritative colonialism as he witnessed the harsh treatment of the arabs and berbers by french authorities. alger republicain was banned in 1940 and camus flew to paris to take a new job at paris - soir as editor - in - chief. in paris, he almost completed his " first cycle " of works dealing with the absurd and the