off mosquitoes in the summer. continental europe in 1553, pierre belon described in his work observations that pissasphalto, a mixture of pitch and bitumen, was used in the republic of ragusa ( now dubrovnik, croatia ) for tarring of ships. an 1838 edition of mechanics magazine cites an early use of asphalt in france. a pamphlet dated 1621, by " a certain monsieur d ' eyrinys, states that he had discovered the existence ( of asphaltum ) in large quantities in the vicinity of neufchatel ", and that he proposed to use it in a variety of ways – " principally in the construction of air - proof granaries, and in protecting, by means of the arches, the water - courses in the city of paris from the intrusion of dirt and filth ", which at that time made the water unusable. " he expatiates also on the excellence of this material for forming level and durable terraces " in palaces, " the notion of forming such terraces in the streets not one likely to cross the brain of a parisian of that generation ". but the substance was generally neglected in france until the revolution of 1830. in the 1830s there was a surge of interest, and asphalt became widely used " for pavements, flat roofs, and the lining of cisterns, and in england, some use of it had been made of it for similar purposes ". its rise in europe was " a sudden phenomenon ", after natural deposits were found " in france at osbann ( bas - rhin ), the parc ( ain ) and the puy - de - la - poix ( puy - de - dome ) ", although it could also be made artificially. one of the earliest uses in france was the laying of about 24, 000 square yards of seyssel asphalt at the place de la concorde in 1835. united kingdom among the earlier uses of bitumen in the united kingdom was for etching. william salmon ' s polygraphice ( 1673 ) provides a recipe for varnish used in etching, consisting of three ounces of virgin wax, two ounces of mastic, and one ounce of asphaltum. by the fifth edition in 1685, he had included more asphaltum recipes from other sources. the first british patent for the use of asphalt was " cassell ' s patent asphalte or bitumen " in 1834. then on 25 november 1837, richard tappin claridge patented the use of seyssel asphalt