productivity and so on are determined by the significance of the last unit added to or subtracted from the total. time structure of production and consumption : decisions to save reflect " time preferences " regarding consumption in the immediate, distant, or indefinite future and investments are made in view of larger outputs expected to be obtained if more time - taking production processes are undertaken. he included two additional tenets held by the mises branch of austrian economics : consumer sovereignty : the influence consumers have on the effective demand for goods and services and through the prices which result in free competitive markets, on the production plans of producers and investors, is not merely a hard fact but also an important objective, attainable only by complete avoidance of governmental interference with the markets and of restrictions on the freedom of sellers and buyers to follow their own judgment regarding quantities, qualities and prices of products and services. political individualism : only when individuals are given full economic freedom will it be possible to secure political and moral freedom. restrictions on economic freedom lead, sooner or later, to an extension of the coercive activities of the state into the political domain, undermining and eventually destroying the essential individual liberties which the capitalistic societies were able to attain in the 19th century. contributions to economic thought opportunity cost the opportunity cost doctrine was first explicitly formulated by the austrian economist friedrich von wieser in the late 19th century. opportunity cost is the cost of any activity measured in terms of the value of the next best alternative foregone ( that is not chosen ). it is the sacrifice related to the second best choice available to someone, or group, who has picked among several mutually exclusive choices. although a more ephemeral scarcity, expectations of the future must also be considered. quantified as time preference, opportunity cost must also be valued with respect to one ’ s preference for present versus future investments. opportunity cost is a key concept in mainstream economics and has been described as expressing " the basic relationship between scarcity and choice ". the notion of opportunity cost plays a crucial part in ensuring that resources are used efficiently. capital and interest the austrian theory of capital and interest was first developed by eugen bohm von bawerk. he stated that interest rates and profits are determined by two factors, namely supply and demand in the market for final goods and time preference. bohm - bawerk ' s theory equates capital intensity with the degree of roundaboutness of production processes. bohm - bawerk also argued that the law of marginal utility necessarily implies the classical law of costs. some austrian economists