130 battlefields in 24 states. the five major civil war battlefield parks operated by the national park service ( gettysburg, antietam, shiloh, chickamauga / chattanooga and vicksburg ) had a combined 3. 1 million visitors in 2018, down 70 % from 10. 2 million in 1970. civil war commemoration the american civil war has been commemorated in many capacities, ranging from the reenactment of battles to statues and memorial halls erected, to films being produced, to stamps and coins with civil war themes being issued, all of which helped to shape public memory. these commemorations occurred in greater numbers on the 100th and 150th anniversaries of the war. hollywood ' s take on the war has been especially influential in shaping public memory, as in such film classics as the birth of a nation ( 1915 ), gone with the wind ( 1939 ), and lincoln ( 2012 ). ken burns ' s pbs television series the civil war ( 1990 ) is especially well - remembered, though criticized for its historical inaccuracy. technological significance numerous technological innovations during the civil war had a great impact on 19th - century science. the civil war was one of the earliest examples of an " industrial war ", in which technological might is used to achieve military supremacy in a war. new inventions, such as the train and telegraph, delivered soldiers, supplies and messages at a time when horses were considered to be the fastest way to travel. it was also in this war that aerial warfare, in the form of reconnaissance balloons, was first used. it saw the first action involving steam - powered ironclad warships in naval warfare history. repeating firearms such as the henry rifle, spencer rifle, colt revolving rifle, triplett & scott carbine and others, first appeared during the civil war ; they were a revolutionary invention that would soon replace muzzle - loading and single - shot firearms in warfare. the war also saw the first appearances of rapid - firing weapons and machine guns such as the agar gun and the gatling gun. in works of culture and art the civil war is one of the most studied events in american history, and the collection of cultural works around it is enormous. this section gives an abbreviated overview of the most notable works. literature when lilacs last in the dooryard bloom ' d and o captain! my captain! ( 1865 ) by walt whitman, famous eulogies to lincoln battle - pieces and aspects of the war ( 1866 ) poetry by herman melville the rise and fall of the confederate government ( 1881 ) by jefferson davis