a voyeur, saying : " he was the essence of sexuality. it permeated everything. andy exuded it, along with his great artistic creativity.... it brought a joy to the whole art world in new york. " " but his personality was so vulnerable that it became a defense to put up the blank front. " warhol ' s lovers included john giorno billy name, charles lisanby, and jon gould. gould was the most photographed subject of warhol ' s later career and worked as an american film executive at paramount pictures where he was responsible for films including john travolta ' s urban cowboy. his boyfriend of 12 years was jed johnson, whom he met in 1968, and who later achieved fame as an interior designer. the fact that warhol ' s homosexuality influenced his work and shaped his relationship to the art world is a major subject of scholarship on the artist and is an issue that warhol himself addressed in interviews, in conversation with his contemporaries, and in his publications ( e. g., popism : the warhol 1960s ). throughout his career, warhol produced erotic photography and drawings of male nudes. many of his most famous works ( portraits of liza minnelli, judy garland, and elizabeth taylor and films such as blow job, my hustler and lonesome cowboys ) draw from gay underground culture or openly explore the complexity of sexuality and desire. as has been addressed by a range of scholars, many of his films premiered in gay porn theaters, including the new andy warhol garrick theatre and 55th street playhouse, in the late 1960s. the first works that warhol submitted to a fine art gallery, homoerotic drawings of male nudes, were rejected for being too openly gay. in popism, furthermore, the artist recalls a conversation with the filmmaker emile de antonio about the difficulty warhol had being accepted socially by the then - more - famous ( but closeted ) gay artists jasper johns and robert rauschenberg. de antonio explained that warhol was " too swish and that upsets them ". in response to this, warhol writes, " there was nothing i could say to that. it was all too true. so i decided i just wasn ' t going to care, because those were all the things that i didn ' t want to change anyway, that i didn ' t think i ' should ' want to change... other people could change their attitudes but not me ". in exploring warhol ' s biography,