track to the enhanced 2012 cd release of the concert sinatra. in 1976, while the united states celebrated its bicentennial, a soulful version popularized by ray charles peaked at number 98 on the us r & b chart. his version was traditionally played on new year ' s eve in times square following the ball drop. three different renditions of the song have entered the hot country songs charts. the first was by charlie rich, which went to number 22 in 1976. a second, by mickey newbury, peaked at number 82 in 1980. aretha franklin performed a rendition before an undisputed audience of 93, 173 to open wrestlemania iii, a performance meta - critic rj city called " a lovely version ". an all - star version of " america the beautiful " performed by country singers trace adkins, sherrie austin, billy dean, vince gill, carolyn dawn johnson, toby keith, brenda lee, lonestar, lyle lovett, lila mccann, lorrie morgan, jamie o ' neal, the oak ridge boys, collin raye, kenny rogers, keith urban and phil vassar reached number 58 in july 2001. the song re - entered the chart following the september 11 attacks. barbra streisand released an official music video footage during norman lear ' s special in 1982. during her peak to stardom, r & b singer mariah carey sang the song at the 1990 nba finals. whitney houston also recorded the song, covering ray charles ' soulful rearranged version as the b - side to her 1991 rendition of " the star spangled banner ". the song has been performed as part of the indianapolis 500 pre - race ceremonies since 1991. the us singer / songwriter martin sexton recorded a gospel - tinged version on his lp ' black sheep ', released in 1996. < > popularity of the song increased greatly in the decades following 9 / 11 ; at some sporting events it was sung in addition to the traditional singing of the national anthem. during the first taping of the late show with david letterman following the attacks, cbs newsman dan rather cried briefly as he quoted the fourth verse. for super bowl xlviii, the coca - cola company aired a multilingual version of the song, sung in several different languages. the commercial received some criticism on social media sites, such as twitter and facebook, and from some conservatives, such as glenn beck. despite the controversies, coca - cola later reused the super bowl ad during super bowl li, the opening ceremonies of the 2014 winter olympics and 2016 summer olympics and