than the others. the lack of such a bias in the examined allosaurus fossils indicates an origin for the stress fractures from a source other than running. the authors conclude that these fractures occurred during interaction with prey, like an allosaur trying to hold struggling prey with its feet. the abundance of stress fractures and avulsion injuries in allosaurus provide evidence for " very active " predation - based rather than scavenging diets. the left scapula and fibula of an allosaurus fragilis specimen catalogued as usnm 4734 are both pathological, both probably due to healed fractures. the specimen usnm 8367 preserved several pathological gastralia which preserve evidence of healed fractures near their middle. some of the fractures were poorly healed and " formed pseudoarthroses ". a specimen with a fractured rib was recovered from the cleveland - lloyd quarry. another specimen had fractured ribs and fused vertebrae near the end of the tail. an apparent subadult male allosaurus fragilis was reported to have extensive pathologies, with a total of fourteen separate injuries. the specimen mor 693 had pathologies on five ribs, the sixth neck vertebra, the third, eighth, and thirteenth back vertebrae, the second tail vertebra and its chevron, the gastralia right scapula, manual phalanx i left ilium metatarsals iii and v, the first phalanx of the third toe and the third phalanx of the second. the ilium had " a large hole... caused by a blow from above ". the near end of the first phalanx of the third toe was afflicted by an involucrum. other pathologies reported in allosaurus include : willow breaks in two ribs healed fractures in the humerus and radius distortion of joint surfaces in the foot, possibly due to osteoarthritis or developmental issues osteopetrosis along the endosteal surface of a tibia. distortions of the joint surfaces of the tail vertebrae, possibly due to osetoarthritis or developmental issues " [ e ] xtensive ' neoplastic ' ankylosis of caudals ", possibly due to physical trauma, as well as the fusion of chevrons to centra coossification of vertebral centra near the end of the tail amputation of a chevron and foot bone, both possibly a result of bites " [ e ] xtensive exostoses "