##nthesised through normal amino acid metabolism and is toxic in high concentrations. the liver converts ammonia to urea through a series of reactions known as the urea cycle. liver dysfunction, such as that seen in cirrhosis, may lead to elevated amounts of ammonia in the blood ( hyperammonemia ). likewise, defects in the enzymes responsible for the urea cycle, such as ornithine transcarbamylase, lead to hyperammonemia. hyperammonemia contributes to the confusion and coma of hepatic encephalopathy, as well as the neurologic disease common in people with urea cycle defects and organic acidurias. ammonia is important for normal animal acid / base balance. after formation of ammonium from glutamine, α - ketoglutarate may be degraded to produce two bicarbonate ions, which are then available as buffers for dietary acids. ammonium is excreted in the urine, resulting in net acid loss. ammonia may itself diffuse across the renal tubules, combine with a hydrogen ion, and thus allow for further acid excretion. excretion ammonium ions are a toxic waste product of metabolism in animals. in fish and aquatic invertebrates, it is excreted directly into the water. in mammals, sharks, and amphibians, it is converted in the urea cycle to urea, which is less toxic and can be stored more efficiently. in birds, reptiles, and terrestrial snails, metabolic ammonium is converted into uric acid, which is solid and can therefore be excreted with minimal water loss. beyond earth ammonia has been detected in the atmospheres of the giant planets jupiter, saturn, uranus and neptune, along with other gases such as methane, hydrogen, and helium. the interior of saturn may include frozen ammonia crystals. it is found on deimos and phobos – the two moons of mars. interstellar space ammonia was first detected in interstellar space in 1968, based on microwave emissions from the direction of the galactic core. this was the first polyatomic molecule to be so detected. the sensitivity of the molecule to a broad range of excitations and the ease with which it can be observed in a number of regions has made ammonia one of the most important molecules for studies of molecular clouds. the relative intensity of the ammonia lines can be used to measure the temperature of the emitting medium. the following isotopic species of ammonia have been detected :,,,, and. the