cycle, aurelianus ( most often referred to as " aurelius " ) figures prominently, along with his brother uther, in the second book of the series, merlin. he is poisoned soon after becoming high king of britain, and uther succeeds him. lawhead alters the standard arthurian story somewhat, in that he has aurelius marry igraine and become the true father of king arthur ( uther does marry his brother ' s widow, though ). in valerio massimo manfredi ' s the last legion, aurelianus ( here called " aurelianus ambrosius ventidius " ) is a major character and is shown as one of the last loyal romans, going to enormous lengths for his boy emperor romulus augustus, whose power has been wrested by the barbarian odoacer. in this story, romulus augustus marries igraine, and king arthur is their son, and the sword of julius caesar becomes the legendary excalibur in britain. in the 2007 film version of the novel, he is played by colin firth and his name becomes " aurelianus caius antonius ". in both he is called " aurelius " for short. mary stewart ' s the crystal cave follows geoffrey of monmouth in calling him aurelius ambrosius and portrays him as the father of merlin, the elder brother of uther ( hence uncle of arthur ), an initiate of mithras, and generally admired by everyone except the saxons. much of the book is set at his court in brittany or during the campaign to retake his throne from vortigern. later books in the series show that merlin ' s attitude toward arthur is influenced by his belief that arthur is a reincarnation of ambrosius, who is seen through merlin ' s eyes as a model of good kingship. in rosemary sutcliff ' s the lantern bearers prince ambrosius aurelianus of arfon fights the saxons by training his british army with roman techniques and making effective use of cavalry. by the end of the novel, the elite cavalry wing is led by his nephew, a dashing young warrior prince named artos, whom sutcliff postulates to be the real arthur. in the sequel sword at sunset, artos eventually succeeds an ailing ambrosius as high king after he deliberately gets himself killed while hunting. in parke godwin ' s firelord, ambrosius is the elderly tribune of the diminished,