then - receding afsharid empire. ahmad shah had captured kabul and peshawar from the mughal appointed governor, nasir khan. ahmad shah had then conquered herat in 1750, and had also captured kashmir in 1752. ahmad shah had launched two campaigns into khorasan, 1750 – 1751 and 1754 – 1755. his first campaign had seen the siege of mashhad, however, he was forced to retreat after four months. in november 1750, he moved to siege nishapur, but he was unable to capture the city and was forced to retreat in early 1751. ahmad shah returned in 1754 ; he captured tun, and on 23 july, he sieged mashhad once again. mashhad had fallen on 2 december, but shahrokh was reappointed in 1755. he was forced to give up torshiz, bakharz, jam, khaf, and turbat - e haidari to the afghans, as well as accept afghan sovereignty. following this, ahmad shah sieged nishapur once again, and captured it. ahmad shah | invaded india eight times during his reign, beginningin 1748. crossing the indus river, his armies sacked and absorbed lahore into the durrani realm. he met mughal armies at the battle of manupur ( 1748 ), where he was defeated and forced to retreat to back to afghanistan. he returned the next year in 1749 and captured the area around lahore and punjab, presenting it as an afghan victory for this campaign. from 1749 to 1767, ahmad shah led six more invasions, the most important being the last ; the third battle of panipat created a power vacuum in northern india, halting maratha expansion. ahmad shah durrani died in october 1772, and a civil war over succession followed, with his named successor, timur shah durrani succeeding him after the defeat of his brother, suleiman mirza. timur shah durrani ascended to the throne in november 1772, having defeated a coalition under shah wali khan and humayun mirza. timur shah began his reign by consolidating power toward himself and people loyal to him, purging durrani sardars and influential tribal leaders in kabul and kandahar. one of timur shah ' s reforms was to move the capital of the durrani empire from kandahar to kabul. timur shah fought multiple series of rebellions to consolidate the empire, and he also led campaigns into punjab against the sikhs like his father, though more successfully