short vowel is never added, but consonants like r l m n occurring between two other consonants will be pronounced as a syllabic consonant, as in the english words " butter bottle bottom button ". when a doubled consonant occurs before another consonant, or finally, it is often shortened to a single consonant rather than a vowel added. moroccan arabic never shortens doubled consonants or inserts short vowels to break up clusters, instead tolerating arbitrary - length series of arbitrary consonants and hence moroccan arabic speakers are likely to follow the same rules in their pronunciation of modern standard arabic. the clitic suffixes themselves tend also to be changed, in a way that avoids many possible occurrences of three - consonant clusters. in particular, - ka - ki - hu generally sound as - ak - ik - uh. final long vowels are often shortened, merging with any short vowels that remain. depending on the level of formality, the speaker ' s education level, etc., various grammatical changes may occur in ways that echo the colloquial variants : any remaining case endings ( e. g. masculine plural nominative - un vs. oblique - in ) will be leveled, with the oblique form used everywhere. in words like ' father ' and ' brother ' with special long - vowel case endings in the construct state, the nominative is used everywhere, hence ' father of ', ' brother of '. feminine plural endings in verbs and clitic suffixes will often drop out, with the masculine plural endings used instead. if the speaker ' s native variety has feminine plural endings, they may be preserved, but will often be modified in the direction of the forms used in the speaker ' s native variety, e. g. - an instead of - na. dual endings will often drop out except on nouns and then used only for emphasis, similar to their use in the colloquial varieties. elsewhere, the plural endings are used, or feminine singular, if appropriate. colloquial varieties vowels as mentioned above, many spoken dialects have a process of emphasis spreading, where the " emphasis " ( pharyngealization ) of emphatic consonants spreads forward and back through adjacent syllables, pharyngealizing all nearby consonants and triggering the back allophone in all nearby low vowels. the extent of emphasis spreading varies. for example, in moroccan arabic, it spreads as far as the first full vowel ( i. e. sound derived from a long vowel or diphthong ) on either side ; in many levantine dialects, it spreads