inspired. the tune came to him while he was on a ferryboat trip from coney island back to his home in new york city after a leisurely summer day and he immediately wrote it down. he composed the tune for the old hymn " o mother dear, jerusalem ", retitling the work " materna ". ward ' s music combined with bates ' s poem were first published together in 1910 and titled " america the beautiful ". ward died in 1903, not knowing the national stature his music would attain. bates was more fortunate, since the song ' s popularity was well established by the time of her death in 1929. it is included in songbooks in many religious congregations in the united states. at various times in the more than one hundred years that have elapsed since the song was written, particularly during the john f. kennedy administration, there have been efforts to give " america the beautiful " legal status either as a national hymn or as a national anthem equal to, or in place of, " the star - spangled banner ", but so far this has not succeeded. proponents prefer " america the beautiful " for various reasons, saying it is easier to sing, more melodic, and more adaptable to new orchestrations while still remaining as easily recognizable as " the star - spangled banner ". some prefer " america the beautiful " over " the star - spangled banner " due to the latter ' s war - oriented imagery, while others object to the implicit support of slavery and racism in its third verse ; others prefer " the star - spangled banner " because of its war themes. while that national dichotomy has stymied any effort at changing the tradition of the national anthem, " america the beautiful " continues to be held in high esteem by a large number of americans, and was even being considered before 1931 as a candidate to become the national anthem of the united states. lyrics notable performances elvis presley performed it many times in concerts starting in 1976. bing crosby included the song in a medley on his album 101 gang songs ( 1961 ). frank sinatra recorded the song with nelson riddle during the sessions for the concert sinatra in february 1963, for a projected 45 single release. the 45 was not commercially issued however, but the song was later added as a bonus track to the enhanced 2012 cd release of the concert sinatra. in 1976, while the united states celebrated its bicentennial, a soulful version popularized by ray charles peaked at number 98 on the us r & b chart. his version was traditionally played