of gothic arches along the garden walls. along the path of the former colonnade sits the remains of edinburgh ' s 15th century mercat cross and several examples of classical sculpture. the estate and its neo - medieval features nod towards scott ' s desire for a historical feel, but the writer ensured that the house would provide all the comforts of modern living. as a result, scott used the space as a proving - ground for new technologies. the house was outfitted with early gas lighting and pneumatic bells connecting residents with servants elsewhere in the house. scott had only enjoyed his residence one year when ( 1825 ) he met with that reverse of fortune which involved the estate in debt. in 1830, the library and museum were presented to him as a free gift by the creditors. the property was wholly disencumbered in 1847 by robert cadell, the publisher, who cancelled the bond upon it in exchange for the family ' s share in the copyright of sir walter ' s works. scott ' s only son walter did not live to enjoy the property, having died on his way from india in 1847. among subsequent possessors were scott ' s grandson walter scott lockhart ( later walter lockhart scott, 1826 – 1853 ), his younger sister charlotte harriet jane hope - scott ( nee lockhart ) 1828 – 1858, j. r. hope scott, qc, and his daughter ( scott ' s great - granddaughter ), the hon. mrs maxwell scott. the house was opened to the public in 1833, but continued to be occupied by scott ' s descendants until 2004. the last of his direct descendants to hold the lairdship of abbotsford was his great - great - great - granddaughter dame jean maxwell - scott ( 8 june 1923 – 5 may 2004 ). she inherited it from her elder sister patricia maxwell - scott in 1998. the sisters turned the house into one of scotland ' s premier tourist attractions, after they had to rely on paying visitors to afford the upkeep of the house. it had electricity installed only in 1962. dame jean was at one time a lady - in - waiting to princess alice, duchess of gloucester, patron of the dandie dinmont club, a breed of dog named after one of sir walter scott ' s characters ; and a horse trainer, one of whose horses, sir wattie, ridden by ian stark, won two silver medals at the 1988 summer olympics. on dame jean ' s death the abbotsford trust was established to safeguard the estate. in 2005, scottish borders council considered an application by a property