amazons ( 1986 ), deathstalker ii ( 1987 ), ronal the barbarian ( 2011 ), hercules ( 2014 ) and dc extended universe films : wonder woman ( 2017 ), justice league ( 2017 ), wonder woman 1984 ( 2020 ), zack snyder ' s justice league ( 2021 ). amazons in television series hercules : the legendary journeys, young hercules, and xena : warrior princess, the legend of the hidden city and huntik : secrets & seekers and supernatural. games amazons are featured in the following roleplay - and video games : diablo, heroes unlimited, aliens unlimited, amazon : guardians of eden, flight of the amazon queen, a total war saga : troy, rome : total war, final fantasy iv, age of wonders : planetfall, legend of zelda series and yu - gi - oh games. military units russian general and statesman grigory potemkin, and then favourite of catherine the great created an amazons company in 1787. wives and daughters of the soldiers of the greek battalion of balaklava were enlisted and formed this unit. the mino, or minon, ( our mothers ) were a late 19th to early 20th - century all - female official military regiment of the former kingdom of dahomey ( present - day benin ). since the early 18th - century women contingents had already joined the army, usually during deployment, in order to inflate the army size. however, women proved themselves courageous and effective in active combat, and a regular unit was established. western observers, who had allegedly perceived certain amazon - like physical and mental qualities in these women, came up with the trivial epithet dahomey amazons. social and religious activism during the period 1905 – 1913, members of the militant suffragette movement were frequently referred to as " amazons " in books and newspaper articles. in ukraine katerina tarnovska leads a group called the asgarda which claims to be a new tribe of amazons. tarnovska believes that the amazons are the direct ancestors of ukrainian women, and she has created an all - female martial art for her group, based on another form of fighting called combat hopak, but with a special emphasis on self - defense. science the neptune trojans, asteroids 60° ahead or beyond neptune on its orbit, are individually named after mythological amazons. see also list of amazons action heroine amazons ( dc comics ) matriarchy list of women warriors in folklore women in the military timeline of women in ancient warfare ares ( father of amazon