. the first knowledge of the flying person would be " i am, " affirming his or her essence. that essence could not be the body, obviously, as the flying person has no sensation. thus, the knowledge that " i am " is the core of a human being : the soul exists and is self - aware. avicenna thus concluded that the idea of the self is not logically dependent on any physical thing, and that the soul should not be seen in relative terms, but as a primary given, a substance. the body is unnecessary ; in relation to it, the soul is its perfection. in itself, the soul is an immaterial substance. principal works the canon of medicine avicenna authored a five - volume medical encyclopedia : the canon of medicine ( al - qanun fi ' t - tibb ). it was used as the standard medical textbook in the islamic world and europe up to the 18th century. the canon still plays an important role in unani medicine. liber primus naturalium avicenna considered whether events like rare diseases or disorders have natural causes. he used the example of polydactyly to explain his perception that causal reasons exist for all medical events. this view of medical phenomena anticipated developments in the enlightenment by seven centuries. the book of healing earth sciences avicenna wrote on earth sciences such as geology in the book of healing. while discussing the formation of mountains, he explained : philosophy of science in the al - burhan ( on demonstration ) section of the book of healing, avicenna discussed the philosophy of science and described an early scientific method of inquiry. he discussed aristotle ' s posterior analytics and significantly diverged from it on several points. avicenna discussed the issue of a proper methodology for scientific inquiry and the question of " how does one acquire the first principles of a science? " he asked how a scientist would arrive at " the initial axioms or hypotheses of a deductive science without inferring them from some more basic premises? " he explained that the ideal situation is when one grasps that a " relation holds between the terms, which would allow for absolute, universal certainty ". avicenna then added two further methods for arriving at the first principles : the ancient aristotelian method of induction ( istiqra ), and the method of examination and experimentation ( tajriba ). avicenna criticized aristotelian induction, arguing that " it does not lead to the absolute, universal, and