is moving faster along its orbital path. as the metre is defined in terms of the second and the speed of light is constant for all observers, the terrestrial metre appears to change in length compared with the " planetary metre " on a periodic basis. the metre is defined to be a unit of proper length. indeed, the international committee for weights and measures ( cipm ) notes that " its definition applies only within a spatial extent sufficiently small that the effects of the non - uniformity of the gravitational field can be ignored ". as such, a distance within the solar system without specifying the frame of reference for the measurement is problematic. the 1976 definition of the astronomical unit was incomplete because it did not specify the frame of reference in which to apply the measurement, but proved practical for the calculation of ephemerides : a fuller definition that is consistent with general relativity was proposed, and " vigorous debate " ensued until august 2012 when the iau adopted the current definition of 1 astronomical unit = metres. the astronomical unit is typically used for stellar system scale distances, such as the size of a protostellar disk or the heliocentric distance of an asteroid, whereas other units are used for other distances in astronomy. the astronomical unit is too small to be convenient for interstellar distances, where the parsec and light - year are widely used. the parsec ( parallax arcsecond ) is defined in terms of the astronomical unit, being the distance of an object with a parallax of. the light - year is often used in popular works, but is not an approved non - si unit and is rarely used by professional astronomers. when simulating a numerical model of the solar system, the astronomical unit provides an appropriate scale that minimizes ( overflow, underflow and truncation ) errors in floating point calculations. history the book on the sizes and distances of the sun and moon, which is ascribed to aristarchus, says the distance to the sun is 18 to 20 times the distance to the moon, whereas the true ratio is about. the latter estimate was based on the angle between the half - moon and the sun, which he estimated as ( the true value being close to ). depending on the distance that van helden assumes aristarchus used for the distance to the moon, his calculated distance to the sun would fall between and earth radii. according to eusebius in the praeparatio evangelica ( book xv, chapter 53 ), eratosthenes found the distance to the