##rygius and dictys of crete. roman myth and literature the history of aeneas was continued by roman authors. one influential source was the account of rome ' s founding in cato the elder ' s origines. the aeneas legend was well known in virgil ' s day and appeared in various historical works, including the roman antiquities of the greek historian dionysius of halicarnassus ( relying on marcus terentius varro ), ab urbe condita by livy ( probably dependent on quintus fabius pictor, fl. 200 bce ), and gnaeus pompeius trogus ( now extant only in an epitome by justin ). virgil ' s aeneid the aeneid explains that aeneas is one of the few trojans who were not killed or enslaved when troy fell. aeneas, after being commanded by the gods to flee, gathered a group, collectively known as the aeneads, who then traveled to italy and became progenitors of the romans. the aeneads included aeneas ' s trumpeter misenus, his father anchises, his friends achates, sergestus, and acmon, the healer iapyx, the helmsman palinurus, and his son ascanius ( also known as iulus, julus, or ascanius julius ). he carried with him the lares and penates, the statues of the household gods of troy, and transplanted them to italy. several attempts to find a new home failed ; one such stop was on sicily, where in drepanum, on the island ' s western coast, his father, anchises, died peacefully. after a brief but fierce storm sent up against the group at juno ' s request, aeneas and his fleet made landfall at carthage after six years of wanderings. aeneas had a year - long affair with the carthaginian queen dido ( also known as elissa ), who proposed that the trojans settle in her land and that she and aeneas reign jointly over their peoples. a marriage of sorts was arranged between dido and aeneas at the instigation of juno, who was told that her favorite city would eventually be defeated by the trojans ' descendants. aeneas ' s mother venus ( the roman adaptation of aphrodite ) realized that her son and his company needed a temporary respite to reinforce themselves for the journey to come. however, the messenger god mercury