" libertarian ", rand has had a continuing influence on right - wing politics and libertarianism. rand is often considered one of the three most important women ( along with rose wilder lane and isabel paterson ) in the early development of modern american libertarianism. david nolan, one founder of the libertarian party, said that " without ayn rand, the libertarian movement would not exist ". in his history of that movement, journalist brian doherty described her as " the most influential libertarian of the twentieth century to the public at large ". political scientist andrew koppelman called her " the most widely read libertarian ". historian jennifer burns referred to her as " the ultimate gateway drug to life on the right ". the political figures who cite rand as an influence are usually conservatives ( often members of the republican party ), despite rand taking some atypical positions for a conservative, like being pro - choice and an atheist. she faced intense opposition from william f. buckley jr. and other contributors to the conservative national review magazine, which published numerous criticisms of her writings and ideas. nevertheless, a 1987 article in the new york times called her the reagan administration ' s " novelist laureate ". republican congressmen and conservative pundits have acknowledged her influence on their lives and have recommended her novels. she has influenced some conservative politicians outside the u. s., such as sajid javid in the united kingdom, siv jensen in norway, and ayelet shaked in israel. the financial crisis of 2007 – 2008 renewed interest in her works, especially atlas shrugged, which some saw as foreshadowing the crisis. opinion articles compared real - world events with the novel ' s plot. signs mentioning rand and her fictional hero john galt appeared at tea party protests. there was increased criticism of her ideas, especially from the political left. critics blamed the economic crisis on her support of selfishness and free markets, particularly through her influence on alan greenspan. in 2015, adam weiner said that through greenspan, " rand had effectively chucked a ticking time bomb into the boiler room of the us economy ". lisa duggan said that rand ' s novels had " incalculable impact " in encouraging the spread of neoliberal political ideas. in 2021, cass sunstein said rand ' s ideas could be seen in the tax and regulatory policies of the trump administration, which he attributed to the " enduring influence " of rand ' s fiction. objectivist movement after the closure of the nathaniel branden institute, the objectivist movement continued in other forms