. release. it requires the film to be submitted as its country ' s official selection. the best documentary feature award requires either week - long releases in both los angeles county and any of the five boroughs of new york city during the previous calendar year, or a qualifying award at a competitive film festival from the documentary feature qualifying festival list ( regardless of any public exhibition or distribution ), or submission in the international feature film category as its country ' s official selection. the qualifying theatrical runs must meet the same requirements as those for non - documentary films regarding numbers and times of screenings. additionally, a film must have been reviewed by a critic from the new york times, time out new york, the los angeles times, or la weekly. producers must submit an official screen credits online form before the deadline ; in case it is not submitted by the defined deadline, the film will be ineligible for academy awards in any year. the form includes the production credits for all related categories. then, each form is checked and put in a reminder list of eligible releases. awards in short film categories ( best documentary short subject, best animated short film, and best live action short film ) have noticeably different eligibility rules from most other competitive awards. first, the qualifying period for release does not coincide with a calendar year, instead covering one year starting on october 1, and ending on september 30 of the calendar year before the ceremony. second, there are multiple methods of qualification. the main method is a week - long theatrical release in either new york city or los angeles county during the eligibility period. films also can qualify by winning specified awards at one of several competitive film festivals designated by the academy, also without regard to prior public distribution. finally, a film that is selected as a gold, silver, or bronze medal winner in an appropriate category of the immediately previous student academy awards is also eligible ( documentary category for that award, and animation, narrative, alternative, or international for the other awards ). the requirements for the qualifying theatrical run are also different from those for other awards. only one screening per day is required. for the documentary award, the screening must start between noon and 10 pm local time ; for other awards, no specific start time is required, but the film must appear in regular theater listings with dates and screening times. in late december, ballots, and copies of the reminder list of eligible releases are mailed to around 6, 000 active members. for most categories, members from each of the branches vote to determine the nominees only in their respective categories ( i. e.