fight, in contrast to his father ' s preference for diplomacy. after an initial victory against persian forces at the battle of the granicus, alexander accepted the surrender of the persian provincial capital and treasury of sardis ; he then proceeded along the ionian coast, granting autonomy and democracy to the cities. miletus, held by achaemenid forces, required a delicate siege operation, with persian naval forces nearby. further south, at halicarnassus, in caria, alexander successfully waged his first large - scale siege, eventually forcing his opponents, the mercenary captain memnon of rhodes and the persian satrap of caria, orontobates, to withdraw by sea. alexander left the government of caria to a member of the hecatomnid dynasty, ada, who adopted alexander. from halicarnassus, alexander proceeded into mountainous lycia and the pamphylian plain, asserting control over all coastal cities to deny the persians naval bases. from pamphylia onwards the coast held no major ports and alexander moved inland. at termessos, alexander humbled but did not storm the pisidian city. at the ancient phrygian capital of gordium, alexander " undid " the hitherto unsolvable gordian knot, a feat said to await the future " king of asia ". according to the story, alexander proclaimed that it did not matter how the knot was undone and hacked it apart with his sword. the levant and syria in spring 333 bc, alexander crossed the taurus into cilicia. after a long pause due to an illness, he marched on towards syria. though outmanoeuvered by darius ' s significantly larger army, he marched back to cilicia, where he defeated darius at issus. darius fled the battle, causing his army to collapse, and left behind his wife, his two daughters, his mother sisygambis, and a fabulous treasure. he offered a peace treaty that included the lands he had already lost, and a ransom of 10, 000 talents for his family. alexander replied that since he was now king of asia, it was he alone who decided territorial divisions. alexander proceeded to take possession of syria, and most of the coast of the levant. in the following year, 332 bc, he was forced to attack tyre, which he captured after a long and difficult siege. the men of military age were massacred and the women and children sold into slavery. egypt when alexander destroyed tyre, most of