abbot is an ecclesiastical title given to the male head of a monastery in various western religious traditions, including christianity. the office may also be given as an honorary title to a clergyman who is not the head of a monastery. the female equivalent is abbess. origins the title had its origin in the monasteries of egypt and syria, spread through the eastern mediterranean, and soon became accepted generally in all languages as the designation of the head of a monastery. the word is derived from the aramaic meaning " father " or, meaning " my father " ( it still has this meaning in contemporary hebrew : אבא and aramaic : ) in the septuagint, it was written as " abbas ". at first it was employed as a respectful title for any monk, but it was soon restricted by canon law to certain priestly superiors. at times it was applied to various priests, e. g. at the court of the frankish monarchy the ( " of the palace " ' ) and ( " of the camp " ) were chaplains to the merovingian and carolingian sovereigns ' court and army respectively. the title of abbot came into fairly general use in western monastic orders whose members include priests. monastic history an abbot ( from,, from ( " father " ), from ( ), from / (, " father " ) ; compare ; ) is the head and chief governor of a community of monks, called also in the east hegumen or archimandrite. the english version for a female monastic head is abbess. early history in egypt, the first home of monasticism, the jurisdiction of the abbot, or archimandrite, was but loosely defined. sometimes he ruled over only one community, sometimes over several, each of which had its own abbot as well. saint john cassian speaks of an abbot of the thebaid who had 500 monks under him. by the rule of st benedict, which, until the cluniac reforms, was the norm in the west, the abbot has jurisdiction over only one community. the rule, as was inevitable, was subject to frequent violations ; but it was not until the foundation of the cluniac order that the idea of a supreme abbot, exercising jurisdiction over all the houses of an order, was definitely recognised. monks, as a rule, were laymen, nor at the outset was the abbot any exception. for the reception of the sacraments, and for other religious offices, the abbot and his monks were commanded to attend the nearest church. this rule proved inc