. friedman further wrote that " [ e ] ven where the icelandic legal system recognized an essentially ' public ' offense, it dealt with it by giving some individual ( in some cases chosen by lot from those affected ) the right to pursue the case and collect the resulting fine, thus fitting it into an essentially private system ". friedman and bruce l. benson argued that the icelandic commonwealth saw significant economic and social progress in the absence of systems of criminal law, an executive, or bureaucracy. this commonwealth was led by chieftains, whose position could be bought and sold like that of private property. being a member of the chieftainship was also completely voluntary. american old west according to terry l. anderson and p. j. hill, the old west in the united states in the period of 1830 to 1900 was similar to anarcho - capitalism in that " private agencies provided the necessary basis for an orderly society in which property was protected and conflicts were resolved " and that the common popular perception that the old west was chaotic with little respect for property rights is incorrect. since squatters had no claim to western lands under federal law, extra - legal organizations formed to fill the void. benson explains : according to anderson, " [ d ] efining anarcho - capitalist to mean minimal government with property rights developed from the bottom up, the western frontier was anarcho - capitalistic. people on the frontier invented institutions that fit the resource constraints they faced ". gaelic ireland in his work for a new liberty, murray rothbard has claimed ancient gaelic ireland as an example of nearly anarcho - capitalist society. in his depiction, citing the work of professor joseph peden, the basic political unit of ancient ireland was the tuath, which is portrayed as " a body of persons voluntarily united for socially beneficial purposes " with its territorial claim being limited to " the sum total of the landed properties of its members ". civil disputes were settled by private arbiters called " brehons " and the compensation to be paid to the wronged party was insured through voluntary surety relationships. commenting on the " kings " of tuaths, rothbard stated : law merchant, admiralty law, and early common law some libertarians have cited law merchant, admiralty law and early common law as examples of anarcho - capitalism. in his work power and market, rothbard stated : somalia from 1991 to 2006 economist alex tabarrok argued that somalia in its stateless period provided a " unique test of the theory of anarchy ", in some aspects near