s area and its perimeter in half goes through the triangle ' s incenter ( the center of its incircle ). there are either one, two, or three of these for any given triangle. any line through the midpoint of a parallelogram bisects the area. all area bisectors of a circle or other ellipse go through the center, and any chords through the center bisect the area. in the case of a circle they are the diameters of the circle. optimization given a wire contour, the surface of least area spanning ( " filling " ) it is a minimal surface. familiar examples include soap bubbles. the question of the filling area of the riemannian circle remains open. the circle has the largest area of any two - dimensional object having the same perimeter. a cyclic polygon ( one inscribed in a circle ) has the largest area of any polygon with a given number of sides of the same lengths. a version of the isoperimetric inequality for triangles states that the triangle of greatest area among all those with a given perimeter is equilateral. the triangle of largest area of all those inscribed in a given circle is equilateral ; and the triangle of smallest area of all those circumscribed around a given circle is equilateral. the ratio of the area of the incircle to the area of an equilateral triangle,, is larger than that of any non - equilateral triangle. the ratio of the area to the square of the perimeter of an equilateral triangle, is larger than that for any other triangle. see also brahmagupta quadrilateral, a cyclic quadrilateral with integer sides, integer diagonals, and integer area. equiareal map heronian triangle, a triangle with integer sides and integer area. list of triangle inequalities one - seventh area triangle, an inner triangle with one - seventh the area of the reference triangle. routh ' s theorem, a generalization of the one - seventh area triangle. orders of magnitude — a list of areas by size. derivation of the formula of a pentagon planimeter, an instrument for measuring small areas, e. g. on maps. area of a convex quadrilateral robbins pentagon, a cyclic pentagon whose side lengths and area are all rational numbers. references external links