that the mutual effect of these decisions on each other is determined almost exclusively by chance. in foreign affairs alexander iii was a man of peace, but not at any price, and held that the best means of averting war is to be well - prepared for it. diplomat nikolay girs, scion of a rich and powerful family, served as his foreign minister from 1882 to 1895 and established the peaceful policies for which alexander has been given credit. girs was an architect of the franco - russian alliance of 1891, which was later expanded into the triple entente with the addition of great britain. that alliance brought france out of diplomatic isolation, and moved russia from the german orbit to a coalition with france, one that was strongly supported by french financial assistance to russia ' s economic modernisation. girs was in charge of a diplomacy that featured numerous negotiated settlements, treaties and conventions. these agreements defined russian boundaries and restored equilibrium to dangerously unstable situations. the most dramatic success came in 1885, settling long - standing tensions with great britain, which was fearful that russian expansion to the south would be a threat to india. girs was usually successful in restraining the aggressive inclinations of tsar alexander convincing him that the very survival of the tsarist system depended on avoiding major wars. with a deep insight into the tsar ' s moods and views, girs was usually able to shape the final decisions by outmaneuvering hostile journalists, ministers, and even the tsarina, as well as his own ambassadors. though alexander was indignant at the conduct of german chancellor otto von bismarck towards russia, he avoided an open rupture with germany — even reviving the league of three emperors for a period of time and in 1887, signed the reinsurance treaty with the germans. however, in 1890, the expiration of the treaty coincided with the dismissal of bismarck by the new german emperor, kaiser wilhelm ii ( for whom the tsar had an immense dislike ), and the unwillingness of wilhelm ii ' s government to renew the treaty. in response alexander iii then began cordial relations with france, eventually entering into an alliance with the french in 1892. despite chilly relations with berlin, the tsar nevertheless confined himself to keeping a large number of troops near the german frontier. with regard to bulgaria he exercised similar self - control. the efforts of prince alexander and afterwards of stambolov to destroy russian influence in the principality roused his indignation, but he vetoed all proposals to intervene by force of arms. in central asian affairs he followed the traditional policy of