would be used by newton and cowper in their prayer meetings, and did not address any political objective. for newton, the beginning of the year was a time to reflect on one ' s spiritual progress. at the same time he completed a diary which has since been lost that he had begun 17 years before, two years after he quit sailing. the last entry of 1772 was a recounting of how much he had changed since then. the title ascribed to the hymn, " 1 chronicles 17 : 16 – 17 ", refers to david ' s reaction to the prophet nathan telling him that god intends to maintain his family line forever. some christians interpret this as a prediction that jesus christ, as a descendant of david, was promised by god as the salvation for all people. newton ' s sermon on that january day in 1773 focused on the necessity to express one ' s gratitude for god ' s guidance, that god is involved in the daily lives of christians though they may not be aware of it, and that patience for deliverance from the daily trials of life is warranted when the glories of eternity await. newton saw himself a sinner like david who had been chosen, perhaps undeservedly, and was humbled by it. according to newton, unconverted sinners were " blinded by the god of this world " until " mercy came to us not only undeserved but undesired... our hearts endeavored to shut him out till he overcame us by the power of his grace. " the new testament served as the basis for many of the lyrics of " amazing grace ". the first verse, for example, can be traced to the story of the prodigal son. in the gospel of luke the father says, " for this son of mine was dead and is alive again ; he was lost, and is found ". the story of jesus healing a blind man who tells the pharisees that he can now see is told in the gospel of john. newton used the words " i was blind but now i see " and declared " oh to grace how great a debtor! " in his letters and diary entries as early as 1752. the effect of the lyrical arrangement, according to bruce hindmarsh, allows an instant release of energy in the exclamation " amazing grace! ", to be followed by a qualifying reply in " how sweet the sound ". in an annotated anthology of hymns, newton ' s use of an exclamation at the beginning of