an archipelago ( ), sometimes called an island group or island chain, is a chain, cluster, or collection of islands, or sometimes a sea containing a small number of scattered islands. examples of archipelagos include : the indonesian archipelago, the andaman and nicobar islands, the lakshadweep islands, the galapagos islands, the japanese archipelago, the philippine archipelago, the maldives, the balearic islands, the aland islands, the bahamas, the aegean islands, the hawaiian islands, the canary islands, malta, the azores, the canadian arctic archipelago, the british isles, the islands of the archipelago sea, and shetland. archipelagos are sometimes defined by political boundaries. for example, while they are geopolitically divided, the san juan islands and gulf islands geologically form part of a larger gulf archipelago. etymology the word archipelago is derived from the ancient greek αρχι - ( arkhi -, " chief " ) and πελαγος ( pelagos, " sea " ) through the italian arcipelago. in antiquity, " archipelago " ( from medieval greek * αρχιπελαγος and latin ) was the proper name for the aegean sea. later, usage shifted to refer to the aegean islands ( since the sea has a large number of islands ). geographic types archipelagos may be found isolated in large amounts of water or neighbouring a large land mass. for example, scotland has more than 700 islands surrounding its mainland, which form an archipelago. archipelagos are often volcanic, forming along island arcs generated by subduction zones or hotspots, but may also be the result of erosion, deposition, and land elevation. depending on their geological origin, islands forming archipelagos can be referred to as oceanic islands, continental fragments, or continental islands. oceanic islands oceanic islands are mainly of volcanic origin, and widely separated from any adjacent continent. the hawaiian islands and galapagos islands in the pacific, and mascarene islands in the south indian ocean are examples. continental fragments continental fragments correspond to land masses that have separated from a continental mass due to tectonic displacement. the farallon islands off the coast of california are an example. continental archipelagos sets of islands formed close to the coast of a continent are considered continental archipelagos when they form part of the same continental shelf, when those islands are above - water extensions of the shelf. the islands of the inside passage off the coast of british columbia and the canadian arctic archipelago are examples. artificial archipelagos