to be recognized as a masterpiece of japanese speculative fiction. twelve years later, author hiroshi aramata wrote the groundbreaking teito monogatari which reimagined the history of tokyo across the 20th century in a world heavily influenced by the supernatural. television 1983 is set on a world where the iron curtain never fell and the cold war continues until the present ( 2003 ). an englishman ' s castle tells the story of the writer of a soap opera in a 1970s england which lost world war ii. england is run by a collaborator government which strains to maintain a normal appearance of british life. slowly, however, the writer begins to uncover the truth. in the community episode " remedial chaos theory, " each of the six members of the study group rolls a die to decide who has to go downstairs to accept a pizza delivery for the group, creating 6 different alternative worlds. characters from the worst universe, " darkest timeline, " would later appear in the " prime universe ". confederate was a planned hbo series set on a world where the south won the us civil war. social media backlash during pre - production led to the series being cancelled with no episodes produced. counterpart tells of a united nations agency that is responsible for monitoring passage between alternative worlds. two of the worlds, alpha and prime are locked in a cold war. the court - martial of george armstrong custer is a 1977 telemovie where george custer survives the battle of little bighorn and faces a court martial hearing over his incompetence. c. s. a. : the confederate states of america presents itself as a british tv documentary uncovering some of the dark secrets of the confederacy on a world where the south won the us civil war. dark skies tells that much of history having been shaped since the 1940s by a government conspiracy with aliens. one race of aliens can take over humans, while those immune to the alien ' s control fight back. doctor who ' ' ' s main character has visited two alternative worlds in the tv show and several in its spin off media. the third doctor visits a world with a fascist great britain on the brink of destruction, inferno while the tenth doctor visits a britain that has a president and blimps are a common form of transportation beset by cybermen, " doomsday ". the seventh doctor faces a threat from an alternative world in battlefield, where magic is real and the alternative version of the doctor is hinted to be that reality ' s merlin. fallout shows a 1950s retro - future world that suffers a global nuclear war on the amazon