##ky, william sloane coffin, dwight macdonald, robert lowell, and norman mailer. in 1968, ginsberg signed the " writers and editors war tax protest " pledge, vowing to refuse tax payments in protest against the vietnam war, and later became a sponsor of the war tax resistance project, which practiced and advocated tax resistance as a form of anti - war protest. he was present the night of the tompkins square park riot ( 1988 ) and provided an eyewitness account to the new york times. relationship to communism ginsberg talked openly about his connections with communism and his admiration for past communist heroes and the labor movement at a time when the red scare and mccarthyism were still raging. he admired fidel castro and many other marxist figures from the 20th century. in " america " ( 1956 ), ginsberg writes : " america, i used to be a communist when i was a kid i ' m not sorry ". biographer jonah raskin has claimed that, despite his often stark opposition to communist orthodoxy, ginsberg held " his own idiosyncratic version of communism. " on the other hand, when donald manes, a new york city politician, publicly accused ginsberg of being a member of the communist party, ginsberg objected : " i am not, as a matter of fact, a member of the communist party, nor am i dedicated to the overthrow of the u. s. government or any government by violence... i must say that i see little difference between the armed and violent governments both communist and capitalist that i have observed ". ginsberg travelled to several communist countries to promote free speech. he claimed that communist countries, such as china, welcomed him because they thought he was an enemy of capitalism, but often turned against him when they saw him as a troublemaker. for example, in 1965 ginsberg was deported from cuba for publicly protesting the persecution of homosexuals. the cubans sent him to czechoslovakia, where one week after being named the kral majalesu ( " king of may ", a students ' festivity, celebrating spring and student life ), ginsberg was arrested for alleged drug use and public drunkenness, and the security agency stb confiscated several of his writings, which they considered to be lewd and morally dangerous. ginsberg was then deported from czechoslovakia on may 7, 1965, by order of the stb. vaclav havel points to ginsberg as an important inspiration. gay rights one contribution that is often considered his most significant and most controversial was his openness