although ethnic groups such as armenians, greeks, and assyrians remained numerous and retained christianity and their native languages ). in the following century, the byzantines managed to reassert their control in western and northern anatolia. control of anatolia was then split between the byzantine empire and the seljuk sultanate of rum, with the byzantine holdings gradually being reduced. in 1255, the mongols swept through eastern and central anatolia, and would remain until 1335. the ilkhanate garrison was stationed near ankara. after the decline of the ilkhanate from 1335 to 1353, the mongol empire ' s legacy in the region was the uyghur eretna dynasty that was overthrown by kadi burhan al - din in 1381. by the end of the 14th century, most of anatolia was controlled by various anatolian beyliks. smyrna fell in 1330, and the last byzantine stronghold in anatolia, philadelphia, fell in 1390. the turkmen beyliks were under the control of the mongols, at least nominally, through declining seljuk sultans. the beyliks did not mint coins in the names of their own leaders while they remained under the suzerainty of the mongol ilkhanids. the osmanli ruler osman i was the first turkish ruler who minted coins in his own name in 1320s ; they bear the legend " minted by osman son of ertugrul ". since the minting of coins was a prerogative accorded in islamic practice only to a sovereign, it can be considered that the osmanli, or ottoman turks, had become formally independent from the mongol khans. ottoman empire among the turkish leaders, the ottomans emerged as great power under osman i and his son orhan. the anatolian beyliks were successively absorbed into the rising ottoman empire during the 15th century. it is not well understood how the osmanlı, or ottoman turks, came to dominate their neighbours, as the history of medieval anatolia is still little known. the ottomans completed the conquest of the peninsula in 1517 with the taking of halicarnassus ( modern bodrum ) from the knights of saint john. modern times with the acceleration of the decline of the ottoman empire in the early 19th century, and as a result of the expansionist policies of the russian empire in the caucasus, many muslim nations and groups in that region, mainly circassians, tatars, azeris, lezgis, chechens and several turkic groups left