in an arian attempt to undermine ambrose, whom gratian had not yet met, gratian was " warned " that ambrose ' faith was suspect. gratian took steps to investigate by writing to ambrose and asking him to explain his faith. ambrose and gratian first met, after this, in 379 during a visit to milan. the bishop made a good impression on gratian and his court, which was pervasively christian and aristocratic – much like ambrose himself. the emperor returned to milan in 380 to find that ambrose had complied with his request for a statement of his faith – in two volumes – known as de fide : a statement of orthodoxy and of ambrose ' political theology, as well as a polemic against the arian heresy – intended for public discussion. the emperor had not asked to be instructed by ambrose, and in de fide ambrose states this clearly. nor was he asked to refute the arians. he was asked to justify his own position, but in the end, he did all three. it seems that by 382 ambrose had replaced ausonius to become a major influence in gratian ' s court. ambrose had not yet become the " conscience " of kings he would in the later 380s, but he did speak out against reinstating the altar of victory. in 382, gratian was the first to divert public financial subsidies that had previously supported rome ' s cults. before that year, contributions in support of the ancient customs had continued unchallenged by the state. valentinian ii the childless gratian had treated his younger brother valentinian ii like a son. ambrose, on the other hand, had incurred the lasting enmity of valentinian ii ' s mother, the empress justina, in the winter of 379 by helping to appoint a nicene bishop in sirmium. not long after this, valentinian ii, his mother, and the court left sirmium ; sirmium had come under theodosius ' control, so they went to milan which was ruled by gratian. in 383 gratian was assassinated at lyon, in gaul ( france ) by magnus maximus. valentinian was twelve years old, and the assassination left his mother, justina, in a position of something akin to a regent. in 385 ( or 386 ) the emperor valentinian ii and his mother justina, along with a considerable number of clergy, the laity, and the military, professed arianism. conflict between ambrose and justina