alkaline, almanac, amber, arsenal, assassin, candy, carat, cipher, coffee, cotton, ghoul, hazard, jar, kismet, lemon, loofah, magazine, mattress, sherbet, sofa, sumac, tariff, and zenith. other languages such as maltese and kinubi derive ultimately from arabic, rather than merely borrowing vocabulary or grammatical rules. terms borrowed range from religious terminology ( like berber tazallit, " prayer ", from salat ( ) ), academic terms ( like uyghur mentiq, " logic " ), and economic items ( like english coffee ) to placeholders ( like spanish fulano, " so - and - so " ), everyday terms ( like hindustani lekin, " but ", or spanish taza and french tasse, meaning " cup " ), and expressions ( like catalan a betzef, " galore, in quantity " ). most berber varieties ( such as kabyle ), along with swahili, borrow some numbers from arabic. most islamic religious terms are direct borrowings from arabic, such as ( salat ), " prayer ", and ( imam ), " prayer leader. " in languages not directly in contact with the arab world, arabic loanwords are often transferred indirectly via other languages rather than being transferred directly from arabic. for example, most arabic loanwords in hindustani and turkish entered through persian. older arabic loanwords in hausa were borrowed from kanuri. most arabic loanwords in yoruba entered through hausa. arabic words made their way into several west african languages as islam spread across the sahara. variants of arabic words such as kitab ( " book " ) have spread to the languages of african groups who had no direct contact with arab traders. since, throughout the islamic world, arabic occupied a position similar to that of latin in europe, many of the arabic concepts in the fields of science, philosophy, commerce, etc. were coined from arabic roots by non - native arabic speakers, notably by aramaic and persian translators, and then found their way into other languages. this process of using arabic roots, especially in kurdish and persian, to translate foreign concepts continued through to the 18th and 19th centuries, when swaths of arab - inhabited lands were under ottoman rule. spoken varieties colloquial arabic is a collective term for the spoken dialects of arabic used throughout the arab world, which differ radically from the literary language. the main dialectal division is between