on monuments of the 30th dynasty and apparently had a special significance in his time. wahibre was ' leader of the southern foreigners ' and ' head of the doors of foreigners ', so he was the highest official for border security. under amasis the career of the doctor, udjahorresnet, began, who was of particular importance to the persians. several " heads of the fleet " are known. psamtek meryneit and pasherientaihet / padineith are the only known viziers. herodotus describes how amasis ii would eventually cause a confrontation with the persian armies. according to herodotus, amasis was asked by cambyses ii or cyrus the great for an egyptian ophthalmologist on good terms. amasis seems to have complied by forcing an egyptian physician into mandatory labor, causing him to leave his family behind in egypt and move to persia in forced exile. in an attempt to exact revenge for this, the physician grew very close to cambyses and suggested that cambyses should ask amasis for a daughter in marriage in order to solidify his bonds with the egyptians. cambyses complied and requested a daughter of amasis for marriage. amasis, worrying that his daughter would be a concubine to the persian king, refused to give up his offspring ; amasis also was not willing to take on the persian empire, so he concocted a deception in which he forced the daughter of the ex - pharaoh apries, whom herodotus explicitly confirms to have been killed by amasis, to go to persia instead of his own offspring. this daughter of apries was none other than nitetis, who was, as per herodotus ' s account, " tall and beautiful. " nitetis naturally betrayed amasis and upon being greeted by the persian king explained amasis ' s trickery and her true origins. this infuriated cambyses and he vowed to take revenge for it. amasis died before cambyses reached him, but his heir and son psamtik iii was defeated by the persians. herodotus also describes how, just like his predecessor, amasis relied on greek mercenaries and councilmen. one such figure was phanes of halicarnassus, who would later leave amasis, for reasons that herodotus does not clearly know, but suspects were personal between the two figures. amasis sent one of his eunuchs to capture phanes, but the eunuch was best