jest. the minister worried that after ascending the throne, susima may jokingly hurt him with a sword. therefore, he instigated five hundred ministers to support ashoka ' s claim to the throne when the time came, noting that ashoka was predicted to become a chakravartin ( universal ruler ). sometime later, takshashila rebelled again, and bindusara dispatched susima to curb the rebellion. shortly after, bindusara fell ill and was expected to die soon. susima was still in takshashila, having been unsuccessful in suppressing the rebellion. bindusara recalled him to the capital and asked ashoka to march to takshashila. however, the ministers told him that ashoka was ill and suggested that he temporarily install ashoka on the throne until susmia ' s return from takshashila. when bindusara refused to do so, ashoka declared that if the throne were rightfully his, the gods would crown him as the next king. at that instance, the gods did so, bindusara died, and ashoka ' s authority extended to the entire world, including the yaksha territory located above the earth and the naga territory located below the earth. when susima returned to the capital, ashoka ' s newly appointed prime minister radhagupta tricked him into a pit of charcoal. susima died a painful death, and his general bhadrayudha became a buddhist monk. the mahavamsa states that when bindusara fell sick, ashoka returned to pataliputra from ujjain and gained control of the capital. after his father ' s death, ashoka had his eldest brother killed and ascended the throne. the text also states that ashoka killed ninety - nine of his half - brothers, including sumana. the dipavamsa states that he killed a hundred of his brothers and was crowned four years later. the vamsatthapakasini adds that an ajivika ascetic had predicted this massacre based on the interpretation of a dream of ashoka ' s mother. according to these accounts, only ashoka ' s uterine brother tissa was spared. other sources name the surviving brother vitashoka, vigatashoka, sudatta ( so - ta - to in a - yi - uang - chuan ), or sugatra ( siu - ka - tu - lu in fen - pie - kung - te - hun )