, which is ringed by the ray flowers when both are present. in some species, ray flowers may be arranged around the disc in irregular symmetry, or with a weakly bilaterally symmetric arrangement. variations a radiate head has disc flowers surrounded by ray flowers. a ligulate head has all ligulate flowers and no disc flowers. when an asteraceae flower head has only disc flowers that are either sterile, male, or bisexual ( but not female and fertile ), it is a discoid head. disciform heads possess only disc flowers in their heads, but may produce two different sex types ( male or female ) within their disciform head. some other species produce two different head types : staminate ( all - male ), or pistillate ( all - female ). in a few unusual species, the " head " will consist of one single disc flower ; alternatively, a few species will produce both single - flowered female heads, along with multi - flowered male heads, in their " pollination strategy ". floral structures the distinguishing characteristic of asteraceae is their inflorescence, a type of specialised, composite flower head or pseudanthium, technically called a calathium or capitulum, that may look superficially like a single flower. the capitulum is a contracted raceme composed of numerous individual sessile flowers, called florets, all sharing the same receptacle. a set of bracts forms an involucre surrounding the base of the capitulum. these are called " phyllaries ", or " involucral bracts ". they may simulate the sepals of the pseudanthium. these are mostly herbaceous but can also be brightly coloured ( e. g. helichrysum ) or have a scarious ( dry and membranous ) texture. the phyllaries can be free or fused, and arranged in one to many rows, overlapping like the tiles of a roof ( imbricate ) or not ( this variation is important in identification of tribes and genera ). each floret may be subtended by a bract, called a " palea " or " receptacular bract ". these bracts are often called " chaff ". the presence or absence of these bracts, their distribution on the receptacle, and their size and shape are all important diagnostic characteristics for genera and tribes. the florets have five petals fused