duty to the union and contributed to advance its needs. dougherty ( 2009 ) concludes that generally the states ' behavior validated the federalist analysis. this helps explain why the articles of confederation needed reforms. foreign policy the 1783 treaty of paris, which ended hostilities with great britain, languished in congress for several months because too few delegates were present at any one time to constitute a quorum so that it could be ratified. afterward, the problem only got worse as congress had no power to enforce attendance. rarely did more than half of the roughly sixty delegates attend a session of congress at the time, causing difficulties in raising a quorum. the resulting paralysis embarrassed and frustrated many american nationalists, including george washington. many of the most prominent national leaders, such as washington, john adams, john hancock, and benjamin franklin, retired from public life, served as foreign delegates, or held office in state governments ; and for the general public, local government and self - rule seemed quite satisfactory. this served to exacerbate congress ' s impotence. inherent weaknesses in the confederation ' s frame of government also frustrated the ability of the government to conduct foreign policy. in 1786, thomas jefferson, concerned over the failure of congress to fund an american naval force to confront the barbary pirates, wrote in a diplomatic correspondence to james monroe that, " it will be said there is no money in the treasury. there never will be money in the treasury till the confederacy shows its teeth. " furthermore, the 1786 jay – gardoqui treaty with spain also showed weakness in foreign policy. in this treaty, which was never ratified, the united states was to give up rights to use the mississippi river for 25 years, which would have economically strangled the settlers west of the appalachian mountains. finally, due to the confederation ' s military weakness, it could not compel the british army to leave frontier forts which were on american soil — forts which, in 1783, the british promised to leave, but which they delayed leaving pending u. s. implementation of other provisions such as ending action against loyalists and allowing them to seek compensation. this incomplete british implementation of the treaty of paris would later be resolved by the implementation of jay ' s treaty in 1795 after the federal constitution came into force. taxation and commerce under the articles of confederation, the central government ' s power was kept quite limited. the confederation congress could make decisions but lacked enforcement powers. implementation of most decisions, including modifications to the articles, required unanimous approval of all thirteen state legislatures. congress was denied any powers