to grow rapidly during the latter half of the 20th century and eventually outranked izmir as turkey ' s second - largest city, after istanbul. ankara ' s urban population reached 4, 587, 558 in 2014, while the population of ankara province reached 5, 150, 072 in 2015. the presidential palace of turkey is situated in ankara. this building serves as the main residence of the president. geography geographically, ankara is located in the middle of the kızılırmak and sakarya rivers, and the sakarya river forms its border with eskisehir in the west. ankara shares its borders with bolu and cankırı in the north ; konya in the south and kırıkkale in the east. ankara and its province are located in the central anatolia region of turkey. the cubuk brook flows through the city center of ankara. it is connected in the western suburbs of the city to the ankara river, which is a tributary of the sakarya river. climate ankara has a cold semi - arid climate ( koppen climate classification : bsk ). under the trewartha climate classification, ankara has a temperate humid continental climate ( dc ). due to its elevation and inland location, ankara has cold and snowy winters, and hot and dry summers. rainfall occurs mostly during the spring and autumn. the city lies in usda hardiness zone 7b, and its annual average precipitation is fairly low at, nevertheless precipitation can be observed throughout the year. monthly mean temperatures range from in january to in july, with an annual mean of. demographics ankara had a population of 75, 000 in 1927. as of 2019, the population of the ankara province was 5, 639, 076. when ankara became the capital of the republic of turkey in 1923, it was designated as a planned city for 500, 000 future inhabitants. during the 1920s, 1930s and 1940s, the city grew in a planned and orderly pace. however, from the 1950s onward, the city grew much faster than envisioned, because unemployment and poverty forced people to migrate from the countryside into the city in order to seek a better standard of living. as a result, many illegal houses called gecekondu were built around the city, causing the unplanned and uncontrolled urban landscape of ankara, as not enough planned housing could be built fast enough. although precariously built, the vast majority of them have electricity, running water and modern household amenities. nevertheless, many of