and anglicanism ). " the more liberal provinces that are open to changing church doctrine on marriage in order to allow for same - sex unions include brazil, canada, new zealand, scotland, south india, south africa, the us and wales, " while the more conservative provinces are primarily located in the global south. the lack of social consensus among and within provinces of diverse cultural traditions has resulted in considerable conflict and even schism concerning some or all of these developments ( see anglican realignment ). more conservative elements within and outside of anglicanism ( primarily african churches and factions within north american anglicanism ) have opposed these changes, while some liberal and moderate anglicans see this opposition as representing a new fundamentalism within anglicanism and " believe a split is inevitable and preferable to continued infighting and paralysis. " some anglicans opposed to various liberalising changes, in particular the ordination of women, have become roman catholics or orthodox. others have, at various times, joined the continuing anglican movement or departed for non - anglican evangelical churches. continuum the term " continuing anglicanism " refers to a number of church bodies which have formed outside of the anglican communion in the belief that traditional forms of anglican faith, worship, and order have been unacceptably revised or abandoned within some anglican communion churches in recent decades. they therefore claim that they are " continuing " traditional anglicanism. the modern continuing anglican movement principally dates to the congress of st. louis, held in the united states in 1977, where participants rejected changes that had been made in the episcopal church ' s book of common prayer and also the episcopal church ' s approval of the ordination of women to the priesthood. more recent changes in the north american churches of the anglican communion, such as the introduction of same - sex marriage rites and the ordination of gay and lesbian people to the priesthood and episcopate, have created further separations. continuing churches have generally been formed by people who have left the anglican communion. the original anglican churches are charged by the continuing anglicans with being greatly compromised by secular cultural standards and liberal theology. many continuing anglicans believe that the faith of some churches in communion with the archbishop of canterbury has become unorthodox and therefore have not sought to also be in communion with him. the original continuing parishes in the united states were found mainly in metropolitan areas. since the late 1990s, a number have appeared in smaller communities, often as a result of a division in the town ' s existing episcopal churches. the 2007 – 08 directory of traditional anglican and episcopal parishes, published by