to fly. musicians john darnielle, musician from indie rock band the mountain goats ; former ames resident envy corps, indie rock band leslie hall, electronic rap musician / gem sweater collector, born in ames in 1981 peter schickele, musician, born in ames in 1935 richie hayward, drummer and founding member of the band little feat ; former ames resident and graduate of ames high school journalists robert bartley, editorial page editor of the wall street journal and a presidential medal of freedom recipient ; raised in ames and isu graduate wally bruner, abc news journalist and television host michael gartner, former president of nbc news ; retired to own and publish the ames tribune politicians ruth bascom, mayor of eugene, oregon edward mezvinsky, former u. s. congressman ; father - in - law of chelsea clinton ; raised in ames bee nguyen, former georgia ( u. s. state ) state representative bob walkup, mayor of tucson, arizona lee teng - hui, president of the republic of china, isu graduate henry a. wallace, 11th united states secretary of agriculture, 10th united states secretary of commerce, and 33rd vice president of the united states, isu graduate ; lived in ames from 1892 - 1896 sports harrison barnes, nba player, 2015 nba champion, 2016 u. s. olympic gold medalist, ames hs graduate joe burrow, nfl player, 2019 heisman trophy award winner, 2020 cfp national championship winner. born in ames, but grew up in the plains, ohio juan sebastian botero, soccer player doug mcdermott, basketball player, ames hs graduate kip corrington, nfl player dick gibbs, nba player, ames hs graduate terry hoage, nfl player fred hoiberg, retired nba basketball player ; raised in ames, isu graduate, former isu basketball coach, former coach of the chicago bulls and current nebraska men ' s basketball coach. cael sanderson, u. s. olympic gold medalist ; undefeated, four - time ncaa wrestling champion ; former isu wrestling coach and alumnus herb sies, pro football player and coach billy sunday, evangelist and major league baseball player ; born in ames in 1863 fred tisue, olympian water polo player scientists george washington carver, inventor, iowa state university alumnus and professor laurel blair salton clark, astronaut, died on sts - 107 charles w. " chuck " durham, civil engineer, philanthropist, civic leader, former ceo and chairman emeritus of hdr, inc. ; raised in ames lyle goodhue, scientist, lived and studied here 1925