art is a diverse range of human activity, and its resulting product, that involves creative or imaginative talent expressive of technical proficiency, beauty, emotional power, or conceptual ideas. there is no generally agreed definition of what constitutes art, and its interpretation has varied greatly throughout history and across cultures. in the western tradition, the three classical branches of visual art are painting, sculpture, and architecture. theatre, dance, and other performing arts, as well as literature, music, film and other media such as interactive media, are included in a broader definition of the arts. until the 17th century, art referred to any skill or mastery and was not differentiated from crafts or sciences. in modern usage after the 17th century, where aesthetic considerations are paramount, the fine arts are separated and distinguished from acquired skills in general, such as the decorative or applied arts. the nature of art and related concepts, such as creativity and interpretation, are explored in a branch of philosophy known as aesthetics. the resulting artworks are studied in the professional fields of art criticism and the history of art. overview in the perspective of the history of art, artistic works have existed for almost as long as humankind : from early prehistoric art to contemporary art ; however, some theorists think that the typical concept of " artistic works " does not fit well outside modern western societies. one early sense of the definition of art is closely related to the older latin meaning, which roughly translates to " skill " or " craft ", as associated with words such as " artisan ". english words derived from this meaning include artifact, artificial, artifice, medical arts, and military arts. however, there are many other colloquial uses of the word, all with some relation to its etymology. over time, philosophers like plato, aristotle, socrates and immanuel kant, among others, questioned the meaning of art. several dialogues in plato tackle questions about art : socrates says that poetry is inspired by the muses, and is not rational. he speaks approvingly of this, and other forms of divine madness ( drunkenness, eroticism, and dreaming ) in the phaedrus ( 265a – c ), and yet in the republic wants to outlaw homer ' s great poetic art, and laughter as well. in ion, socrates gives no hint of the disapproval of homer that he expresses in the republic. the dialogue ion suggests that homer ' s iliad functioned in the ancient greek world as the bible does today in the modern christian world : as divinely inspired literary art that can provide moral guidance