securing his wife ' s womb with a seal engraved with a lion ' s image. plutarch offered a variety of interpretations for these dreams : that olympias was pregnant before her marriage, indicated by the sealing of her womb ; or that alexander ' s father was zeus. ancient commentators were divided about whether the ambitious olympias promulgated the story of alexander ' s divine parentage, variously claiming that she had told alexander, or that she dismissed the suggestion as impious. on the day alexander was born, philip was preparing a siege on the city of potidea on the peninsula of chalcidice. that same day, philip received news that his general parmenion had defeated the combined illyrian and paeonian armies and that his horses had won at the olympic games. it was also said that on this day, the temple of artemis in ephesus, one of the seven wonders of the world, burnt down. this led hegesias of magnesia to say that it had burnt down because artemis was away, attending the birth of alexander. such legends may have emerged when alexander was king, and possibly at his instigation, to show that he was superhuman and destined for greatness from conception. in his early years, alexander was raised by a nurse, lanike, sister of alexander ' s future general cleitus the black. later in his childhood, alexander was tutored by the strict leonidas, a relative of his mother, and by lysimachus of acarnania. alexander was raised in the manner of noble macedonian youths, learning to read, play the lyre, ride, fight, and hunt. when alexander was ten years old, a trader from thessaly brought philip a horse, which he offered to sell for thirteen talents. the horse refused to be mounted, and philip ordered it away. alexander, however, detecting the horse ' s fear of its own shadow, asked to tame the horse, which he eventually managed. plutarch stated that philip, overjoyed at this display of courage and ambition, kissed his son tearfully, declaring : " my boy, you must find a kingdom big enough for your ambitions. macedon is too small for you ", and bought the horse for him. alexander named it bucephalas, meaning " ox - head ". bucephalas carried alexander as far as india. when the animal died ( because of old age, according to plutarch, at age 30 ), alexander named a city after him