able to preserve antihydrogen for approximately 17 minutes. the record for storing antiparticles is currently held by the trap experiment at cern : antiprotons were kept in a penning trap for 405 days. a proposal was made in 2018 to develop containment technology advanced enough to contain a billion anti - protons in a portable device to be driven to another lab for further experimentation. cost scientists claim that antimatter is the costliest material to make. in 2006, gerald smith estimated $ 250 million could produce 10 milligrams of positrons ( equivalent to $ 25 billion per gram ) ; in 1999, nasa gave a figure of $ 62. 5 trillion per gram of antihydrogen. this is because production is difficult ( only very few antiprotons are produced in reactions in particle accelerators ) and because there is higher demand for other uses of particle accelerators. according to cern, it has cost a few hundred million swiss francs to produce about 1 billionth of a gram ( the amount used so far for particle / antiparticle collisions ). in comparison, to produce the first atomic weapon, the cost of the manhattan project was estimated at $ 23 billion with inflation during 2007. several studies funded by the nasa institute for advanced concepts are exploring whether it might be possible to use magnetic scoops to collect the antimatter that occurs naturally in the van allen belt of the earth, and ultimately, the belts of gas giants, like jupiter, hopefully at a lower cost per gram. uses medical matter – antimatter reactions have practical applications in medical imaging, such as positron emission tomography ( pet ). in positive beta decay, a nuclide loses surplus positive charge by emitting a positron ( in the same event, a proton becomes a neutron, and a neutrino is also emitted ). nuclides with surplus positive charge are easily made in a cyclotron and are widely generated for medical use. antiprotons have also been shown within laboratory experiments to have the potential to treat certain cancers, in a similar method currently used for ion ( proton ) therapy. fuel isolated and stored antimatter could be used as a fuel for interplanetary or interstellar travel as part of an antimatter - catalyzed nuclear pulse propulsion or another antimatter rocket. since the energy density of antimatter is higher than that of conventional fuels, an antimatter - fueled spacecraft would have a higher thrust - to - weight ratio than a