di castellina ". dyeing alabaster is a porous stone and can be " dyed " into any colour or shade, a technique used for centuries. for this the stone needs to be fully immersed in various pigmentary solutions and heated to a specific temperature. the technique can be used to disguise alabaster. in this way a very misleading imitation of coral that is called " alabaster coral " is produced. types, occurrence, history typically only one type is sculpted in any particular cultural environment, but sometimes both have been worked to make similar pieces in the same place and time. this was the case with small flasks of the alabastron type made in cyprus from the bronze age into the classical period. window panels when cut in thin sheets, alabaster is translucent enough to be used for small windows. it was used for this purpose in byzantine churches and later in medieval ones, especially in italy. large sheets of aragonese gypsum alabaster are used extensively in the contemporary cathedral of our lady of the angels, which was dedicated in 2002 by the los angeles, california, archdiocese. the cathedral incorporates special cooling to prevent the panes from overheating and turning opaque. the ancients used the calcite type, while the modern los angeles cathedral is using gypsum alabaster. there are also multiple examples of alabaster windows in ordinary village churches and monasteries in northern spain. calcite alabaster calcite alabaster, harder than the gypsum variety, was the kind primarily used in ancient egypt and the wider middle east ( but not assyrian palace reliefs ), and is also used in modern times. it is found as either a stalagmitic deposit from the floor and walls of limestone caverns, or as a kind of travertine, similarly deposited in springs of calcareous water. its deposition in successive layers gives rise to the banded appearance that the marble often shows on cross - section, from which its name is derived : onyx - marble or alabaster - onyx, or sometimes simply ( and wrongly ) as onyx. egypt and the middle east egyptian alabaster has been worked extensively near suez and assiut. this stone variety is the " alabaster " of the ancient egyptians and bible and is often termed oriental alabaster, since the early examples came from the far east. the greek name alabastrites is said to be derived from the town of alabastron in egypt, where the stone was quarried