from st kitts following a referendum. the events, led by atlin harrigan and ronald webster among others, became known as the anguillan revolution ; its goal was not independence per se, but rather independence from saint kitts and nevis and a return to being a british colony. with negotiations failing to break the deadlock, a second referendum confirming anguillans ' desire for separation from st kitts was held and the republic of anguilla was declared unilaterally, with ronald webster as president. efforts by british envoy william whitlock failed to break the impasse and 300 british troops were subsequently sent in march 1969. british authority was restored, and confirmed by the anguilla act of july 1971. in 1980, anguilla was finally allowed to formally secede from saint kitts and nevis and become a separate british crown colony ( now a british overseas territory ). since then, anguilla has been politically stable, and has seen a large growth in its tourism and offshore financing sectors. geography and geology anguilla is a flat, low - lying island of coral and limestone in the caribbean sea, measuring some 16 miles ( 26 km ) long and 3. 5 miles ( 6 km ) in width. it lies to the east of puerto rico and the virgin islands and directly north of saint martin, separated from that island by the anguilla channel. the soil is generally thin and poor, supporting scrub, tropical and forest vegetation. the terrain is generally low - lying, with the highest terrain located in the vicinity of the valley ; crocus hill, anguilla ' s highest peak at, lies in the western regions of the town. anguilla is noted for its ecologically important coral reefs and beaches. apart from the main island of anguilla itself, the territory includes a number of other smaller islands and cays, mostly tiny and uninhabited : anguillita blowing rock dog island little scrub island prickly pear cays scrub island seal island sombrero, also known as hat island sandy island scilly cay geology anguilla ( and the wider anguilla bank ) is of volcanic origin, lying on the lesser antilles volcanic island arc, and tuffs and volcaniclastic breccias of eocene age are exposed locally on the island. the island was largely submerged during the miocene, leading to the formation of the reefal limestone anguilla formation, which was subsequently tectonically uplifted and covers most of the island today. since the late pleistocene,