change is said not to be adiabatic, and the contrary word diabatic is applied to it. recent research suggests that the power absorbed from the perturbation corresponds to the rate of these non - adiabatic transitions. this corresponds to the classical process of energy transfer in the form of heat, but with the relative time scales reversed in the quantum case. quantum adiabatic processes occur over relatively long time scales, while classical adiabatic processes occur over relatively short time scales. it should also be noted that the concept of ' heat ' ( in reference to the quantity of thermal energy transferred ) breaks down at the quantum level, and the specific form of energy ( typically electromagnetic ) must be considered instead. the small or negligible absorption of energy from the perturbation in a quantum adiabatic process provides a good justification for identifying it as the quantum analogue of adiabatic processes in classical thermodynamics, and for the reuse of the term. furthermore, in atmospheric thermodynamics, a diabatic process is one in which heat is exchanged. in classical thermodynamics, such a rapid change would still be called adiabatic because the system is adiabatically isolated, and there is no transfer of energy as heat. the strong irreversibility of the change, due to viscosity or other entropy production, does not impinge on this classical usage. thus for a mass of gas, in macroscopic thermodynamics, words are so used that a compression is sometimes loosely or approximately said to be adiabatic if it is rapid enough to avoid significant heat transfer, even if the system is not adiabatically isolated. but in quantum statistical theory, a compression is not called adiabatic if it is rapid, even if the system is adiabatically isolated in the classical thermodynamic sense of the term. the words are used differently in the two disciplines, as stated just above. see also fire piston heat burst related physics topics first law of thermodynamics entropy ( classical thermodynamics ) adiabatic conductivity adiabatic lapse rate total air temperature magnetic refrigeration berry phase related thermodynamic processes cyclic process isobaric process isenthalpic process isentropic process isochoric process isothermal process polytropic process quasistatic process references general nave, carl rod. " adiabatic processes ". hyperphysics. thorngren, dr. jane r.. " adi