to make sure the narrator speaks in an unbiased and uncomplicated fashion. the difference is seen in the way that the animals speak and interact, as the general moral animals seem to speak their minds clearly, while the wicked animals on the farm, such as napoleon, twist language in such a way that it meets their insidious desires. this style reflects orwell ' s proximity to the issues facing europe at the time and his determination to comment critically on stalin ' s soviet russia. background origin and writing george orwell wrote the manuscript between november 1943 and february 1944 after his experiences during the spanish civil war, which he described in homage to catalonia ( 1938 ). in the preface of a 1947 ukrainian edition of animal farm, he explained how escaping the communist purges in spain taught him " how easily totalitarian propaganda can control the opinion of enlightened people in democratic countries ". this motivated orwell to expose and strongly condemn what he saw as the stalinist corruption of the original socialist ideals. homage to catalonia sold poorly ; after seeing arthur koestler ' s best - selling, darkness at noon, about the moscow trials, orwell decided that fiction would be the best way to describe totalitarianism. immediately before writing the book, orwell quit the bbc. he was also upset about a booklet for propagandists the ministry of information had put out. the booklet included instructions on how to quell ideological fears of the soviet union, such as directions to claim that the red terror was a figment of nazi imagination. in the preface, orwell described the source of the idea of setting the book on a farm : in 1944, the manuscript was almost lost when a german v - 1 flying bomb destroyed his london home. orwell spent hours sifting through the rubble to find the pages intact. publication publishing orwell initially encountered difficulty getting the manuscript published, largely due to fears that the book might upset the alliance between britain, the united states, and the soviet union. four publishers refused to publish animal farm, yet one had initially accepted the work but declined it after consulting the ministry of information. eventually, secker and warburg published the first edition in 1945. during the second world war, it became clear to orwell that anti - soviet literature was not something which most major publishing houses would touch – including his regular publisher gollancz. he also submitted the manuscript to faber and faber, where the poet t. s. eliot ( who was a director of the firm ) rejected it ; eliot wrote back to or