the oldest language family accepted by contemporary linguists. comparative study of afroasiatic is hindered by the massive disparities in textual attestation between its branches : while the semitic and egyptian branches are attested in writing as early as the fourth millennium bc, berber, cushitic, and omotic languages were often not recorded until the 19th or 20th centuries. while systematic sound laws have not yet been established to explain the relationships between the various branches of afroasiatic, the languages share a number of common features. one of the most important for establishing membership in the branch is a common set of pronouns. other widely shared features include a prefix m - which creates nouns from verbs, evidence for alternations between the vowel " a " and a high vowel in the forms of the verb, similar methods of marking gender and plurality, and some details of phonology such as the presence of pharyngeal fricatives. other features found in multiple branches include a specialized verb conjugation using suffixes ( egyptian, semitic, berber ), a specialized verb conjugation using prefixes ( semitic, berber, cushitic ), verbal prefixes deriving middle ( t - ), causative ( s - ), and passive ( m - ) verb forms ( semitic, berber, egyptian, cushitic ), and a suffix used to derive adjectives ( egyptian, semitic ). name in current scholarship, the most common names for the family are afroasiatic ( or afro - asiatic ), hamito - semitic, and semito - hamitic. other proposed names that have yet to find widespread acceptance include erythraic / erythraean, lisramic, noahitic, and lamekhite. friedrich muller introduced the name hamito - semitic to describe the family in his ( 1876 ). the variant semito - hamitic is mostly used in older russian sources. the elements of the name were derived from the names of two sons of noah as attested in the book of genesis ' s table of nations passage : " semitic " from the first - born shem, and " hamitic " from the second - born ham ( ). within the table of nations, each of noah ' s sons is presented as the common progenitor of various people groups deemed to be closely related : among others shem was the father of the jews, assyrians, and arameans, while ham was the father of the egyptians and cushites. this genealogy does not reflect the actual origins of these