traditional azerbaijani distinctive folk unaccompanied song, usually performed by several people improvising on a particular subject. ashiq combines poetry, storytelling, dance, and vocal and instrumental music into a traditional performance art that stands as a symbol of azerbaijani culture. it is a mystic troubadour or traveling bard who sings and plays the saz. this tradition has its origin in the shamanistic beliefs of ancient turkic peoples. ashiqs ' songs are semi - improvised around common bases. azerbaijan ' s ashiq art was included in the list of intangible cultural heritage by the unesco on 30 september 2009. since the mid - 1960s, western - influenced azerbaijani pop music, in its various forms, that has been growing in popularity in azerbaijan, while genres such as rock and hip hop are widely produced and enjoyed. azerbaijani pop and azerbaijani folk music arose with the international popularity of performers like alim qasimov, rashid behbudov, vagif mustafazadeh, muslim magomayev, shovkat alakbarova and rubaba muradova. azerbaijan is an enthusiastic participant in the eurovision song contest. azerbaijan made its debut appearance at the 2008 eurovision song contest. the country ' s entry gained third place in 2009 and fifth the following year. ell and nikki won the first place at the eurovision song contest 2011 with the song " running scared ", entitling azerbaijan to host the contest in 2012, in baku. they have qualified for every grand final up until the 2018 edition of the contest, entering with x my heart by singer aisel. there are dozens of azerbaijani folk dances. they are performed at formal celebrations and the dancers wear national clothes like the chokha, which is well - preserved within the national dances. most dances have a very fast rhythm. literature among the medieval authors born within the territorial limits of modern azerbaijani republic was persian poet and philosopher nizami, called ganjavi after his place of birth, ganja, who was the author of the khamsa ( " the quintuplet " ), composed of five romantic poems, including " the treasure of mysteries ", " khosrow and shirin ", and " leyli and mejnun ". the earliest known figure in written azerbaijani literature was izzeddin hasanoghlu, who composed a divan consisting of persian and azerbaijani ghazals. in persian ghazals he used his pen - name, while his azerbaijani ghazals were composed under his own name of hasan