with energy hf each, where h is planck ' s constant. he did not say much more, because he was not sure how the particles were related to the wave. but he did suggest that this idea would explain certain experimental results, notably the photoelectric effect. quantized atomic vibrations in 1907, einstein proposed a model of matter where each atom in a lattice structure is an independent harmonic oscillator. in the einstein model, each atom oscillates independently — a series of equally spaced quantized states for each oscillator. einstein was aware that getting the frequency of the actual oscillations would be difficult, but he nevertheless proposed this theory because it was a particularly clear demonstration that quantum mechanics could solve the specific heat problem in classical mechanics. peter debye refined this model. bose – einstein statistics in 1924, einstein received a description of a statistical model from indian physicist satyendra nath bose, based on a counting method that assumed that light could be understood as a gas of indistinguishable particles. einstein noted that bose ' s statistics applied to some atoms as well as to the proposed light particles, and submitted his translation of bose ' s paper to the zeitschrift fur physik. einstein also published his own articles describing the model and its implications, among them the bose – einstein condensate phenomenon that some particulates should appear at very low temperatures. it was not until 1995 that the first such condensate was produced experimentally by eric allin cornell and carl wieman using ultra - cooling equipment built at the nist – jila laboratory at the university of colorado at boulder. bose – einstein statistics are now used to describe the behaviors of any assembly of bosons. einstein ' s sketches for this project may be seen in the einstein archive in the library of the leiden university. wave – particle duality although the patent office promoted einstein to technical examiner second class in 1906, he had not given up on academia. in 1908, he became a privatdozent at the university of bern. in " uber die entwicklung unserer anschauungen uber das wesen und die konstitution der strahlung " ( " the development of our views on the composition and essence of radiation " ), on the quantization of light, and in an earlier 1909 paper, einstein showed that max planck ' s energy quanta must have well - defined momenta and act in some respects as independent, point - like particles