a multimillion - dollar, multiyear endorsement deal with schick and became the worldwide spokesman for the company. agassi signed a multiyear contract with twinlab and promoted the company ' s nutritional supplements. in mid - 2003, he was named the spokesman of aramis life, a fragrance by aramis, and signed a five - year deal with the company. in march 2004, he signed a ten - year agreement worth $ 1. 5 million a year with 24 hour fitness, which will open five andre agassi fitness centers by year - end. prior to the 2012 australian open, agassi and australian winemaker jacobs creek announced a three - year partnership and created the open film series to " [ share ] personal stories about the life defining moments that shaped his character on and off the court. " in 2007, watchmaker longines named agassi as their brand ambassador. agassi and his mother appeared in a got milk? advertisement in 2002. agassi has appeared in many advertisements and television commercials with graf. they both endorsed deutsche telekom in 2002, genworth financial and canon inc. in 2004, lvmh in 2007, and nintendo wii and wii fit u and longines in 2013. personal life relationships and family in the early 1990s, after dating wendi stewart, agassi dated american singer and entertainer barbra streisand. he wrote about the relationship in his 2009 autobiography, " we agree that we ' re good for each other, and so what if she ' s twenty - eight years older? we ' re sympatico, and the public outcry only adds spice to our connection. it makes our friendship feel forbidden, taboo – another piece of my overall rebellion. dating barbra streisand is like wearing hot lava. " he was married to brooke shields from 1997 to 1999. he married steffi graf on october 22, 2001, at their las vegas home ; the only witnesses were their mothers. they have two children : son jaden gil ( born 2001 ) and daughter jaz elle ( born 2003 ). agassi has said that he and graf are not pushing their children toward becoming tennis players. the graf - agassi family resides in summerlin, a community in the las vegas valley. graf ' s mother and brother, michael, with his four children, also live there. long - time trainer gil reyes has been called one of agassi ' s closest friends ; some have described him as being a " father