his own works, therefore making the studio ' s potential losses smaller, while in turn allowing himself more artistic freedom as co - producer. kurosawa agreed, and the kurosawa production company was established in april 1959, with toho as the majority shareholder. despite risking his own money, kurosawa chose a story that was more directly critical of the japanese business and political elites than any previous work. the bad sleep well, based on a script by kurosawa ' s nephew mike inoue, is a revenge drama about a young man who is able to infiltrate the hierarchy of a corrupt japanese company with the intention of exposing the men responsible for his father ' s death. its theme proved topical : while the film was in production, the massive anpo protests were held against the new u. s. – japan security treaty, which was seen by many japanese, particularly the young, as threatening the country ' s democracy by giving too much power to corporations and politicians. the film opened in september 1960 to positive critical reaction and modest box office success. the 25 - minute opening sequence depicting a corporate wedding reception is widely regarded as one of kurosawa ' s most skillfully executed set pieces, but the remainder of the film is often perceived as disappointing by comparison. the movie has also been criticized for employing the conventional kurosawan hero to combat a social evil that cannot be resolved through the actions of individuals, however courageous or cunning. yojimbo ( the bodyguard ), kurosawa production ' s second film, centers on a masterless samurai, sanjuro, who strolls into a 19th - century town ruled by two opposing violent factions and provokes them into destroying each other. the director used this work to play with many genre conventions, particularly the western, while at the same time offering an unprecedentedly ( for the japanese screen ) graphic portrayal of violence. some commentators have seen the sanjuro character in this film as a fantasy figure who magically reverses the historical triumph of the corrupt merchant class over the samurai class. featuring tatsuya nakadai in his first major role in a kurosawa movie, and with innovative photography by kazuo miyagawa ( who shot rashomon ) and takao saito, the film premiered in april 1961 and was a critically and commercially successful venture, earning more than any previous kurosawa film. the movie and its blackly comic tone were also widely imitated abroad. sergio leone ' s a fistful of dollars was a virtual ( unauthorized ) scene - by