, 1863, the slaves would be freed. he spent the next 100 days, between september 22 and january 1, preparing the army and the nation for emancipation, while democrats rallied their voters by warning of the threat that freed slaves posed to northern whites. at the same time, during those 100 days, lincoln made efforts to end the war with slavery intact. but, on january 1, 1863, keeping his word, lincoln issued the emancipation proclamation, freeing the slaves in 10 states not then under union control, with exemptions specified for areas under such control. lincoln ' s comment on signing the proclamation was : " i never, in my life, felt more certain that i was doing right, than i do in signing this paper. " with the abolition of slavery in the rebel states now a military objective, union armies advancing south " enable [ d ] thousands of slaves to escape to freedom ". the emancipation proclamation having stated that freedmen would be " received into the armed service of the united states, " enlisting these freedmen became official policy. by the spring of 1863, lincoln was ready to recruit black troops in more than token numbers. in a letter to tennessee military governor andrew johnson encouraging him to lead the way in raising black troops, lincoln wrote, " the bare sight of fifty thousand armed, and drilled black soldiers on the banks of the mississippi would end the rebellion at once ". by the end of 1863, at lincoln ' s direction, general lorenzo thomas " had enrolled twenty regiments of african americans " from the mississippi valley. gettysburg address ( 1863 ) lincoln spoke at the dedication of the gettysburg battlefield cemetery on november 19, 1863. in 272 words, and three minutes, lincoln asserted that the nation was born not in 1789, but in 1776, " conceived in liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal ". he defined the war as dedicated to the principles of liberty and equality for all. he declared that the deaths of so many brave soldiers would not be in vain, that slavery would end, and the future of democracy would be assured, that " government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth ". defying his prediction that " the world will little note, nor long remember what we say here ", the address became the most quoted speech in american history. promoting general grant general ulysses grant ' s victories at the battle of shiloh and in the vicksburg campaign impressed lincoln. responding to criticism of grant after shiloh, lincoln had said, " i