he repeated his call for russian gentiles and jews to share responsibility for everything that happened in the soviet union. he also downplayed the number of victims of an 1882 pogrom despite current evidence, and failed to mention the beilis affair, a 1911 trial in kiev where a jew was accused of ritually murdering christian children. he was also criticized for relying on outdated scholarship, ignoring current western scholarship, and for selectively quoting to strengthen his preconceptions, such as that the soviet union often treated jews better than non - jewish russians. similarities between two hundred years together and an anti - semitic essay titled " jews in the ussr and in the future russia ", attributed to solzhenitsyn, have led to the inference that he stands behind the anti - semitic passages. solzhenitsyn himself explained that the essay consists of manuscripts stolen from him by the kgb, and then carefully edited to appear anti - semitic, before being published, 40 years before, without his consent. cathy young : reply to daniel j. mahoney in reason magazine, august – september 2004. according to the historian semyon reznik, textological analyses have proven solzhenitsyn ' s authorship. criticism of communism solzhenitsyn emphasized the significantly more oppressive character of the soviet police state, in comparison to the russian empire of the house of romanov. he asserted that imperial russia did not censor literature or the media to the extreme style of the soviet glavlit, that political prisoners typically were not forced into labor camps, and that the number of political prisoners and exiles was only one ten - thousandth of the numbers of prisoners and exiles following the bolshevik revolution. he noted that the tsar ' s secret police, the okhrana, was only present in the three largest cities, and not at all in the imperial russian army. shortly before his return to russia, solzhenitsyn delivered a speech in les lucs - sur - boulogne to commemorate the 200th anniversary of the vendee uprising. during his speech, solzhenitsyn compared lenin ' s bolsheviks with the jacobin club during the french revolution. he also compared the vendean rebels with the russian, ukrainian, and cossack peasants who rebelled against the bolsheviks, saying that both were destroyed mercilessly by revolutionary despotism. he commented that, while the french reign of terror ended with the thermidorian reaction and the toppling of the jacobins and the execution of maximilien robes