considered αττιλα ( attila ) a composite title - name which derived from turkic * es ( great, old ), and * til ( sea, ocean ), and the suffix / a /. the stressed back syllabic til assimilated the front member es, so it became * as. it is a nominative, in form of attil - ( < * etsil < * es til ) with the meaning " the oceanic, universal ruler ". j. j. mikkola connected it with turkic at ( name, fame ). as another turkic possibility, h. althof ( 1902 ) considered it was related to turkish atli ( horseman, cavalier ), or turkish at ( horse ) and dil ( tongue ). maenchen - helfen argues that pritsak ' s derivation is " ingenious but for many reasons unacceptable ", while dismissing mikkola ' s as " too farfetched to be taken seriously ". m. snædal similarly notes that none of these proposals has achieved wide acceptance. criticizing the proposals of finding turkic or other etymologies for attila, doerfer notes that king george vi of the united kingdom had a name of greek origin, and suleyman the magnificent had a name of arabic origin, yet that does not make them greeks or arabs : it is therefore plausible that attila would have a name not of hunnic origin. historian hyun jin kim, however, has argued that the turkic etymology is " more probable ". m. snædal, in a paper that rejects the germanic derivation but notes the problems with the existing proposed turkic etymologies, argues that attila ' s name could have originated from turkic - mongolian at, adyy / agta ( gelding, warhorse ) and turkish atlı ( horseman, cavalier ), meaning " possessor of geldings, provider of warhorses ". historiography and source the historiography of attila is faced with a major challenge, in that the only complete sources are written in greek and latin by the enemies of the huns. attila ' s contemporaries left many testimonials of his life, but only fragments of these remain. priscus was a byzantine diplomat and historian who wrote in greek, and he was both a witness to and an actor in the story of attila, as a member of the embassy of theodosius ii at the hunnic court in 449