##zhenitsyn approached the position argued by christian dmitri panin, with whom he had a fall out in exile, namely that evil " must be confronted by force, and the centralised, spiritually independent roman catholic church is better placed to do it than orthodoxy with its otherworldliness and tradition of subservience to the state. " in " rebuilding russia ", an essay first published in 1990 in komsomolskaya pravda, solzhenitsyn urged the soviet union to grant independence to all the non - slav republics, which he claimed were sapping the russian nation and he called for the creation of a new slavic state bringing together russia, ukraine, belarus, and parts of kazakhstan that he considered to be russified. regarding ukraine he wrote “ all the talk of a separate ukrainian people existing since something like the ninth century and possessing its own non - russian language is recently invented falsehood ” and " we all sprang from precious kiev ". on post - soviet russia in some of his later political writings, such as rebuilding russia ( 1990 ) and russia in collapse ( 1998 ), solzhenitsyn criticized the oligarchic excesses of the new russian democracy, while opposing any nostalgia for soviet communism. he defended moderate and self - critical patriotism ( as opposed to extreme nationalism ). he also urged for local self - government similar to what he had seen in new england town meetings and in the cantons of switzerland. he also expressed concern for the fate of the 25 million ethnic russians in the " near abroad " of the former soviet union. in an interview with joseph pearce, solzhenitsyn was asked whether he felt that the socioeconomic theories of e. f. schumacher were, " the key to society rediscovering its sanity ". he replied, " i do believe that it would be the key, but i don ' t think this will happen, because people succumb to fashion, and they suffer from inertia and it is hard to them to come round to a different point of view. " solzhenitsyn refused to accept russia ' s highest honor, the order of st. andrew, in 1998. solzhenitsyn later said : " in 1998, it was the country ' s low point, with people in misery ;... yeltsin decreed i be honored the highest state order. i replied that i was unable to receive an award from a government that had led russia into such dire straits. " in a 2003