##cleons. the radius of a nucleus is approximately equal to femtometres, where is the total number of nucleons. this is much smaller than the radius of the atom, which is on the order of 105 fm. the nucleons are bound together by a short - ranged attractive potential called the residual strong force. at distances smaller than 2. 5 fm this force is much more powerful than the electrostatic force that causes positively charged protons to repel each other. atoms of the same element have the same number of protons, called the atomic number. within a single element, the number of neutrons may vary, determining the isotope of that element. the total number of protons and neutrons determine the nuclide. the number of neutrons relative to the protons determines the stability of the nucleus, with certain isotopes undergoing radioactive decay. the proton, the electron, and the neutron are classified as fermions. fermions obey the pauli exclusion principle which prohibits identical fermions, such as multiple protons, from occupying the same quantum state at the same time. thus, every proton in the nucleus must occupy a quantum state different from all other protons, and the same applies to all neutrons of the nucleus and to all electrons of the electron cloud. a nucleus that has a different number of protons than neutrons can potentially drop to a lower energy state through a radioactive decay that causes the number of protons and neutrons to more closely match. as a result, atoms with matching numbers of protons and neutrons are more stable against decay, but with increasing atomic number, the mutual repulsion of the protons requires an increasing proportion of neutrons to maintain the stability of the nucleus. the number of protons and neutrons in the atomic nucleus can be modified, although this can require very high energies because of the strong force. nuclear fusion occurs when multiple atomic particles join to form a heavier nucleus, such as through the energetic collision of two nuclei. for example, at the core of the sun protons require energies of 3 to 10 kev to overcome their mutual repulsion — the coulomb barrier — and fuse together into a single nucleus. nuclear fission is the opposite process, causing a nucleus to split into two smaller nuclei — usually through radioactive decay. the nucleus can also be modified through bombardment by high energy subatomic particles or photons. if this modifies the number of protons in a nucleus, the atom changes to a different chemical element. if the mass