, what kind of influence, and in what ways, when, has been debated in the scholarship of the late twentieth and early twenty - first centuries. gratian it has long been convention to see gratian and ambrose as having a personal friendship, putting ambrose in the dominant role of spiritual guide, but modern scholars now find this view hard to support from the sources. the ancient christian historian sozomen ( ) is the only ancient source that shows ambrose and gratian together in any personal interaction. in that interaction, sozomen relates that, in the last year of gratian ' s reign, ambrose crashed gratian ' s private hunting - party in order to appeal on behalf of a pagan senator sentenced to die. after years of acquaintance, this indicates that ambrose could not take for granted that gratian would see him, so instead, ambrose had to resort to such maneuverings to make his appeal. gratian was personally devout long before meeting ambrose. modern scholarship indicates gratian ' s religious policies do not evidence capitulation to ambrose more than they evidence gratian ' s own views. gratian ' s devotion did lead ambrose to write a large number of books and letters of theology and spiritual commentary dedicated to the emperor. the sheer volume of these writings and the effusive praise they contain has led many historians to conclude that gratian was dominated by ambrose, and it was that dominance that produced gratian ' s anti - pagan actions. mclynn asserts that effusive praises were common in everyone ' s correspondence with the crown. he adds that gratian ' s actions were determined by the constraints of the system as much as " by his own initiatives or ambrose ' s influence ". mclynn asserts that the largest influence on gratian ' s policy was the profound change in political circumstances produced by the battle of adrianople in 378. gratian had become involved in fighting the goths the previous year and had been on his way to the balkans when his uncle and the " cream of the eastern army " were destroyed at adrianople. gratian withdrew to sirmium and set up his court there. several rival groups, including the arians, sought to secure benefits from the government at sirmium. in an arian attempt to undermine ambrose, whom gratian had not yet met, gratian was " warned " that ambrose ' faith was suspect. gratian took steps to investigate by writing to ambrose and asking him to explain his faith