bucephalas, meaning " ox - head ". bucephalas carried alexander as far as india. when the animal died ( because of old age, according to plutarch, at age 30 ), alexander named a city after him, bucephala. education when alexander was 13, philip began to search for a tutor, and considered such academics as isocrates and speusippus, the latter offering to resign from his stewardship of the academy to take up the post. in the end, philip chose aristotle and provided the temple of the nymphs at mieza as a classroom. in return for teaching alexander, philip agreed to rebuild aristotle ' s hometown of stageira, which philip had razed, and to repopulate it by buying and freeing the ex - citizens who were slaves, or pardoning those who were in exile. mieza was like a boarding school for alexander and the children of macedonian nobles, such as ptolemy, hephaistion, and cassander. many of these students would become his friends and future generals, and are often known as the " companions ". aristotle taught alexander and his companions about medicine, philosophy, morals, religion, logic, and art. under aristotle ' s tutelage, alexander developed a passion for the works of homer, and in particular the iliad ; aristotle gave him an annotated copy, which alexander later carried on his campaigns. alexander was able to quote euripides from memory. during his youth, alexander was also acquainted with persian exiles at the macedonian court, who received the protection of philip ii for several years as they opposed artaxerxes iii. among them were artabazos ii and his daughter barsine, possible future mistress of alexander, who resided at the macedonian court from 352 to 342 bc, as well as amminapes, future satrap of alexander, or a persian nobleman named sisines. this gave the macedonian court a good knowledge of persian issues, and may even have influenced some of the innovations in the management of the macedonian state. suda writes that anaximenes of lampsacus was one of alexander ' s teachers, and that anaximenes also accompanied alexander on his campaigns. heir of philip ii regency and ascent of macedon at the age of 16, alexander ' s education under aristotle ended. philip ii had waged war against the thracians to the north, which left alexander in charge as regent and heir apparent. during philip ' s absence, the thracian tribe