a magnet to bend the trajectory of a beam of ions, and the amount of deflection is determined by the ratio of an atom ' s mass to its charge. the chemist francis william aston used this instrument to show that isotopes had different masses. the atomic mass of these isotopes varied by integer amounts, called the whole number rule. the explanation for these different isotopes awaited the discovery of the neutron, an uncharged particle with a mass similar to the proton, by the physicist james chadwick in 1932. isotopes were then explained as elements with the same number of protons, but different numbers of neutrons within the nucleus. fission, high - energy physics and condensed matter in 1938, the german chemist otto hahn, a student of rutherford, directed neutrons onto uranium atoms expecting to get transuranium elements. instead, his chemical experiments showed barium as a product. a year later, lise meitner and her nephew otto frisch verified that hahn ' s result were the first experimental nuclear fission. in 1944, hahn received the nobel prize in chemistry. despite hahn ' s efforts, the contributions of meitner and frisch were not recognized. in the 1950s, the development of improved particle accelerators and particle detectors allowed scientists to study the impacts of atoms moving at high energies. neutrons and protons were found to be hadrons, or composites of smaller particles called quarks. the standard model of particle physics was developed that so far has successfully explained the properties of the nucleus in terms of these sub - atomic particles and the forces that govern their interactions. structure subatomic particles though the word atom originally denoted a particle that cannot be cut into smaller particles, in modern scientific usage the atom is composed of various subatomic particles. the constituent particles of an atom are the electron, the proton and the neutron. the electron is by far the least massive of these particles at, with a negative electrical charge and a size that is too small to be measured using available techniques. it was the lightest particle with a positive rest mass measured, until the discovery of neutrino mass. under ordinary conditions, electrons are bound to the positively charged nucleus by the attraction created from opposite electric charges. if an atom has more or fewer electrons than its atomic number, then it becomes respectively negatively or positively charged as a whole ; a charged atom is called an ion. electrons have been known since the late 19th century, mostly thanks to j. j. thomson ; see history of subatomic physics for details. protons have a