judges hold office for six - year terms. the magistrates and judges are appointed by the high court, as is the president of the criminal law court. the high court also appoints members of the office of the attorney general. the constitutional court is responsible for interpreting the constitution and reviewing all appeals of unconstitutionality against laws and treaties. it is composed of four judges, one appointed by each of the co - princes and two by the general council. they serve eight - year terms. the court is presided over by one of the judges on a two - year rotation so that each judge at one point will preside over the court. foreign relations, defence and security andorra does not have its own armed forces, although there is a small ceremonial army. responsibility for defending the nation rests primarily with france and spain. however, in case of emergencies or natural disasters, the sometent ( an alarm ) is called and all able - bodied men between 21 and 60 of andorran nationality must serve. this is why all andorrans, and especially the head of each house ( usually the eldest able - bodied man of a house ) should, by law, keep a rifle, even though the law also states that the police will offer a firearm in case of need. andorra is a full member of the united nations ( un ), the organization for security and co - operation in europe ( osce ), and has a special agreement with the european union ( eu ). after the constitution was ratified, andorra would later establish diplomatic relations with their major allies aside from neighbours france and spain such as the united kingdom in 1994 and the united states in 1995. it also has observer status at the world trade organization ( wto ). on 16 october 2020, andorra became the 190th member of the international monetary fund ( imf ), during the covid - 19 pandemic. military andorra has a small army, which has historically been raised or reconstituted at various dates, but has never in modern times amounted to a standing army. the basic principle of andorran defence is that all able - bodied men are available to fight if called upon by the summoning of the sometent ( a civil defense organization of andorra, made up of the heads of households ). being a landlocked country, andorra has no navy. before world war i, andorra maintained an armed militia force of about 600 part - time militiamen under the supervision of a captain ( capita or cap de sometent ) and a