esterification reaction is reversible and the presence of water can lead to hydrolysis of the aspirin. so, an anhydrous reagent is preferred. reaction mechanism formulations containing high concentrations of aspirin often smell like vinegar because aspirin can decompose through hydrolysis in moist conditions, yielding salicylic and acetic acids. physical properties aspirin, an acetyl derivative of salicylic acid, is a white, crystalline, weakly acidic substance, which melts at, and decomposes around. its acid dissociation constant ( pka ) is 3. 5 at. polymorphism polymorphism, or the ability of a substance to form more than one crystal structure, is important in the development of pharmaceutical ingredients. many drugs receive regulatory approval for only a single crystal form or polymorph. there was only one proven polymorph form i of aspirin, though the existence of another polymorph was debated since the 1960s, and one report from 1981 reported that when crystallized in the presence of aspirin anhydride, the diffractogram of aspirin has weak additional peaks. though at the time it was dismissed as mere impurity, it was, in retrospect, form ii aspirin. form ii was reported in 2005, found after attempted co - crystallization of aspirin and levetiracetam from hot acetonitrile. in form i, pairs of aspirin molecules form centrosymmetric dimers through the acetyl groups with the ( acidic ) methyl proton to carbonyl hydrogen bonds. in form ii, each aspirin molecule forms the same hydrogen bonds, but with two neighbouring molecules instead of one. with respect to the hydrogen bonds formed by the carboxylic acid groups, both polymorphs form identical dimer structures. the aspirin polymorphs contain identical 2 - dimensional sections and are therefore more precisely described as polytypes. pure form ii aspirin could be prepared by seeding the batch with aspirin anhydrate in 15 % weight. mechanism of action discovery of the mechanism in 1971, british pharmacologist john robert vane, then employed by the royal college of surgeons in london, showed aspirin suppressed the production of prostaglandins and thromboxanes. for this discovery he was awarded the 1982 nobel prize in physiology or medicine, jointly with sune bergstrom