mourned the loss of his kinsman. death after manzikert, the dominion of alp arslan extended over much of western asia. he soon prepared to march for the conquest of turkestan, the original seat of his ancestors. with a powerful army, he advanced to the banks of the oxus. before he could pass the river safely, however, it was necessary to subdue certain fortresses, one of which was for several days vigorously defended by the rebel, yusuf al - kharezmi or yusuf al - harani. perhaps over - eager to press on against his qarakhanid enemy, alp arslan gained the governor ' s submission by promising the rebel ' perpetual ownership of his lands '. when yusuf al - harani was brought before him, the sultan ordered that he be shot, but before the archers could raise their bows yusuf seized a knife and threw himself at alp arslan, striking three blows before being slain. four days later on 24 november 1072, alp arslan died and was buried at merv, having designated his 18 - year - old son malik shah as his successor. family one of his wives was safariyya khatun. she had a daughter, sifri khatun, who in 1071 – 72, married abbasid caliph al - muqtadi. safariyya died in isfahan in 1073 – 4. another of his wives was akka khatun. she had been formerly the wife of sultan tughril. alp arslan married her after tughril ' s death in 1063. another of his wives was shah khatun. she was the daughter of qadir khan yusuf, and had been formerly married to ghaznavid mas ' ud. another of his wives was the daughter of the georgian king bagrat. they married in 1067 – 68. he divorced her soon after, and married her to fadlun. his sons were malik - shah i, tutush i, tekish, and arslan arghun. one of his daughters married the son of kurd surkhab, son of bard in 1068. another daughter, zulaikha khatun, was married to a muslim, son of quraish in 1086 – 7. another daughter, aisha khatun, married shams al - mulk nasr, son of ibrahim khan tamghach. legacy alp arslan ' s conquest of anatolia from the byzantines is