and the inner city with the university hospital in skejby and also replaced local railway services to grenaa and odder in late 2018. it is the first electric light rail system in denmark and more routes are planned to open in coming years. tickets for the light rail are also available in local yellow bus lines. most city bus lines go through the inner city and pass through either park alle or banegardspladsen, or both, right at the central station. regional and inter - city buses terminate at aarhus bus terminal, just east of the central station. flixbus provides long - distance buses that travel to other cities in denmark and europe. ferries administered by danish ferry company mols - linien transports passengers and motorvehicles between aarhus and sjællands odde on zealand. the ferries comprises hsc katexpress 1 and hsc katexpress 2, the world ' s largest diesel - powered catamarans, and hsc max mols. aarhus airport is located on djursland, north - east of aarhus near tirstrup, and provides links to both copenhagen and international destinations. the larger billund airport is situated south - west of aarhus. there has been much discussion about constructing a new airport closer to the city for many years, but so far no plans have been realised. in august 2014, the city council officially initiated a process to assert the viability of a new international airport. a small seaplane now operates four flights daily between aarhus harbour and copenhagen harbour. aarhus has a free bike sharing system, aarhus bycykler ( aarhus city bikes ). the bicycles are available from 1 april to 30 october at 57 stands throughout the city and can be obtained by placing a dkk 20 coin in a release slot, like caddies in a supermarket. the coin can be retrieved when the bike is returned at a random stand. bicycles can also be hired from many shops. healthcare aarhus is home to aarhus university hospital, one of six danish " super hospitals " officially established in 2007 when the regions reformed the danish healthcare sector. the university hospital is the result of a series of mergers in the 2000s between the local hospitals of skejby sygehus, the municipal hospital, the county hospital, marselisborg hospital and risskov psychiatric hospital. it is today the largest hospital in denmark with a combined staff of some 10, 000 and 1, 150 patient beds, and has been ranked the best hospital in denmark consecutively since 2008. in 2012, construction of a new large hospital