the ainu are an ethnic group of related indigenous people native to northern japan, as well as the land surrounding the sea of okhotsk, including hokkaido island, northeast honshu island, sakhalin island, the kuril islands, the kamchatka peninsula, and the khabarovsk krai ; they have occupied these areas since before the arrival of the modern japanese and russians. these regions are often referred to as in historical japanese texts. official estimates place the total ainu population of japan at 25, 000. unofficial estimates place the total population at 200, 000 or higher, as the near - total assimilation of the ainu into japanese society has resulted in many individuals of ainu descent having no knowledge of their ancestry. the ainu are one of the only major ethnic minorities in the japanese islands with a distinct and highly unique culture and way of life. they were subject to forced assimilation, colonization, and ethnic and cultural genocide by the larger japanese populace since at least the 18th century. japanese assimilation policies in the 19th century around the meiji restoration included forcing ainu peoples off their land ; this, in turn, forced them to give up traditional ways of life such as subsistence hunting and fishing. ainu people were not allowed to practice their religion, and they were pushed into japanese - language schools where speaking the ainu language was strictly forbidden. in 1966, there were about 300 native ainu speakers ; in 2008, however, there were only about 100. names this people ' s most widely known ethnonym, " ainu " ( ; ; ) means " human " in the ainu language, particularly as opposed to, divine beings. ainu also identify themselves as " utari " ( " comrade " or " people " ). official documents use both names. history pre - modern the ainu are the native people of hokkaido, sakhalin, and the kurils. early ainu - speaking groups ( mostly hunters and fishermen ) also migrated into the kamchatka peninsula and into honshu, where their descendants are today known as the matagi hunters, who still use a large amount of ainu vocabulary in their dialect. ainu toponyms people also live in several places throughout northern honshu, mostly along the western coast and in the tohoku region. this serves as further evidence for ainu - speaking hunters and fishermen migrating down from northern hokkaido into honshu. there is also evidence that ainu speakers lived in the amur region through ainu loanwords found in the ui