combined might of those seeking the emperor ' s assassination. within minutes, alexander was dead. his mother, julia mamaea, was in the same tent with alexander and soon fell victim to the same group of assassins. alexander ' s body was buried together with the body of his mother, julia mamaea, in a mausoleum in rome. the actual mausoleum, called, is the third largest in rome after those of hadrian and augustus. it is still visible in piazza dei tribuni, in the quadraro area in rome, where it resembles a large earth mound. the large sarcophagus found inside the tomb in the 16th century, and which contained the emperor ' s remains, is in the palazzo dei conservatori museum in rome. according to some sources inside the same sarcophagus in 1582 a precious glass urn was found, the portland vase, currently on display at the british museum in london. legacy alexander ' s death marked the end of the severan dynasty. he was the last of the syrian emperors and the first emperor to be overthrown by military discontent on a wide scale. after his death his economic policies were completely discarded, and the roman currency was devalued ; this signaled the beginning of the chaotic period known as the crisis of the third century, which brought the empire to the brink of collapse. alexander ' s death at the hands of his troops can also be seen as the heralding of a new role for roman emperors. though they were not yet expected to personally fight in battle during alexander ' s time, emperors were increasingly expected to display general competence in military affairs. thus, alexander ' s taking of his mother ' s advice to not get involved in battle, his dishonorable and unsoldierly methods of dealing with the germanic threat, and the relative failure of his military campaign against the persians were all deemed highly unacceptable by the soldiers. indeed, maximinus was able to overthrow alexander by " harping on his own military excellence in contrast to that feeble coward ". yet by arrogating the power to dethrone their emperor, the legions paved the way for a half - century of widespread chaos and instability. alexander was deified after the death of maximinus in 238. portland vase perhaps his most tangible legacy was the emergence in the 16th century of the cameo glass portland vase ( or " barberini vase " ), dated to around the reign of augustus. this was allegedly found at the mausoleum of the emperor and his family at monte del grano. the