spiny dogfish, while other stocks shown no such signs, including cod, witch flounder, and redfish. stocks of invertebrates, in contrast, remain at record levels of abundance. 31 % of stocks are overfished in the north - west atlantic. in 1497, john cabot became the first western european since the vikings to explore mainland north america and one of his major discoveries was the abundant resources of atlantic cod off newfoundland. referred to as " newfoundland currency " this discovery yielded some 200 million tons of fish over five centuries. in the late 19th and early 20th centuries new fisheries started to exploit haddock, mackerel, and lobster. from the 1950s to the 1970s the introduction of european and asian distant - water fleets in the area dramatically increased the fishing capacity and the number of exploited species. it also expanded the exploited areas from near - shore to the open sea and to great depths to include deep - water species such as redfish, greenland halibut, witch flounder, and grenadiers. overfishing in the area was recognised as early as the 1960s but, because this was occurring on international waters, it took until the late 1970s before any attempts to regulate was made. in the early 1990s, this finally resulted in the collapse of the atlantic northwest cod fishery. the population of a number of deep - sea fishes also collapsed in the process, including american plaice, redfish, and greenland halibut, together with flounder and grenadier. eastern central atlantic in the eastern central atlantic small pelagic fishes constitute about 50 % of landings with sardine reaching 0. 6 – 1. 0 million tons per year. pelagic fish stocks are considered fully fished or overfished, with sardines south of cape bojador the notable exception. almost half of the stocks are fished at biologically unsustainable levels. total catches have been fluctuating since the 1970s ; reaching 3. 9 million tons in 2013 or slightly less than the peak production in 2010. western central atlantic in the western central atlantic, catches have been decreasing since 2000 and reached 1. 3 million tons in 2013. the most important species in the area, gulf menhaden, reached a million tons in the mid - 1980s but only half a million tons in 2013 and is now considered fully fished. round sardinella was an important species in the 1990s but is now considered overfished. groupers and snappers are overfished and northern brown shrimp and american cupped oyster are