behavior is defined by an atomic orbital, a mathematical function that characterises the probability that an electron appears to be at a particular location when its position is measured. only a discrete ( or quantized ) set of these orbitals exist around the nucleus, as other possible wave patterns rapidly decay into a more stable form. orbitals can have one or more ring or node structures, and differ from each other in size, shape and orientation. each atomic orbital corresponds to a particular energy level of the electron. the electron can change its state to a higher energy level by absorbing a photon with sufficient energy to boost it into the new quantum state. likewise, through spontaneous emission, an electron in a higher energy state can drop to a lower energy state while radiating the excess energy as a photon. these characteristic energy values, defined by the differences in the energies of the quantum states, are responsible for atomic spectral lines. the amount of energy needed to remove or add an electron — the electron binding energy — is far less than the binding energy of nucleons. for example, it requires only 13. 6 ev to strip a ground - state electron from a hydrogen atom, compared to 2. 23 million ev for splitting a deuterium nucleus. atoms are electrically neutral if they have an equal number of protons and electrons. atoms that have either a deficit or a surplus of electrons are called ions. electrons that are farthest from the nucleus may be transferred to other nearby atoms or shared between atoms. by this mechanism, atoms are able to bond into molecules and other types of chemical compounds like ionic and covalent network crystals. properties nuclear properties by definition, any two atoms with an identical number of protons in their nuclei belong to the same chemical element. atoms with equal numbers of protons but a different number of neutrons are different isotopes of the same element. for example, all hydrogen atoms admit exactly one proton, but isotopes exist with no neutrons ( hydrogen - 1, by far the most common form, also called protium ), one neutron ( deuterium ), two neutrons ( tritium ) and more than two neutrons. the known elements form a set of atomic numbers, from the single - proton element hydrogen up to the 118 - proton element oganesson. all known isotopes of elements with atomic numbers greater than 82 are radioactive, although the radioactivity of element 83 ( bismuth ) is so slight as to be practically negligible. about 339 nuclides occur naturally on earth, of which 251 ( about