encephalomyelitis or multiphasic disseminated encephalomyelitis ( mdem ). it has been found that anti - mog auto - antibodies are related to this kind of adem another variant of adem in adults has been described, also related to anti - mog auto - antibodies, has been named fulminant disseminated encephalomyelitis, and it has been reported to be clinically adem, but showing ms - like lesions on autopsy. it has been classified inside the anti - mog associated inflammatory demyelinating diseases. acute hemorrhagic leukoencephalitis acute hemorrhagic leukoencephalitis ( ahl, or ahle ), acute hemorrhagic encephalomyelitis ( ahem ), acute necrotizing hemorrhagic leukoencephalitis ( anhle ), weston - hurst syndrome, or hurst ' s disease, is a hyperacute and frequently fatal form of adem. ahl is relatively rare ( less than 100 cases have been reported in the medical literature ), it is seen in about 2 % of adem cases, and is characterized by necrotizing vasculitis of venules and hemorrhage, and edema. death is common in the first week and overall mortality is about 70 %, but increasing evidence points to favorable outcomes after aggressive treatment with corticosteroids, immunoglobulins, cyclophosphamide, and plasma exchange. about 70 % of survivors show residual neurological deficits, but some survivors have shown surprisingly little deficit considering the extent of the white matter affected. this disease has been occasionally associated with ulcerative colitis and crohn ' s disease, malaria, sepsis associated with immune complex deposition, methanol poisoning, and other underlying conditions. also anecdotal association with ms has been reported laboratory studies that support diagnosis of ahl are : peripheral leukocytosis, cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) pleocytosis associated with normal glucose and increased protein. on magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ), lesions of ahl typically show extensive t2 - weighted and fluid - attenuated inversion recovery ( flair ) white matter hyperintensities with areas of hemorrhages, significant edema, and mass effect. treatment no controlled clinical trials have been conducted on adem treatment, but aggressive treatment