for his son sulaiman, a shia who served as the governor of qandahar, ahmad shah is claimed to have ordered a pashto language textbook. ahmad shah is not known to have spoken pashto, and his tenacious literary bond with pashto was not upheld by his successors. abdur rahman khan, who paid for a pashto translation of the minutes of his meeting with british colonial official lord dufferin in 1885, was the next state ruler to leave a record of his interaction with pashto more than a century later. durrani ' s poetry durrani wrote a collection of odes in his native pashto. he was also the author of several poems in persian. one of his most famous pashto poems was love of a nation : personal life during nader shah ' s invasion of india in 1739, ahmad shah also accompanied him and stayed some days in the red fort of delhi. when he was standing " outside the jali gate near diwan - i - am ", asaf jah i saw him. he was " an expert in physiognomy " and predicted that ahmad shah was " destined to become a king ". when nader shah learned of it, he " purportedly clipped " his ears with his dagger and made the remark " when you become a king, this will remind you of me ". according to other sources, nader shah did not believe in it and asked him to be kind to his descendants " on the attaintment of royalty ". in popular culture in the 1994 television series the great maratha, the character of ahmad shah durrani is portrayed by bob christo. in the 2019 bollywood war drama panipat film, ahmad shah abdali appears as the primary antagonist who invaded maratha empire, and is portrayed by sanjay dutt. in ' panipat ' 1988 novel written by vishwas patil about third battle of panipat ( 1761 ) ahamed shah abdali appears as a notorious invading afgani shah. patil later wrote a stage play on his this novel titled ranagan ( ). see also list of monarchs of afghanistan references notes bibliography caroe, olaf ( 1958 ). the pathans : 500 b. c. – a. d. 1957. oxford in asia historical reprints. oxford university press, 1983.. clements, frank. conflict in afghanistan : a historical encyclopedia. abc - clio, 2003.. dupree, nancy hatch. an historical guide to