##lower and environ that are explained above ; see the fixes file in the source archive for details. this version is used by, for example, android, freebsd, netbsd, openbsd, macos, and illumos. brian kernighan and arnold robbins are the main contributors to a source repository for nawk :. gawk ( gnu awk ) is another free - software implementation and the only implementation that makes serious progress implementing internationalization and localization and tcp / ip networking. it was written before the original implementation became freely available. it includes its own debugger, and its profiler enables the user to make measured performance enhancements to a script. it also enables the user to extend functionality with shared libraries. some linux distributions include gawk as their default awk implementation. as of version 5. 2 ( september 2022 ) gawk includes a persistent memory feature that can remember script - defined variables and functions from one invocation of a script to the next and pass data between unrelated scripts, as described in the persistent - memory gawk user manual :. gawk - csv. the csv extension of gawk provides facilities for handling input and output csv formatted data. mawk is a very fast awk implementation by mike brennan based on a bytecode interpreter. libmawk is a fork of mawk, allowing applications to embed multiple parallel instances of awk interpreters. awka ( whose front end is written atop the mawk program ) is another translator of awk scripts into c code. when compiled, statically including the author ' s libawka. a, the resulting executables are considerably sped up and, according to the author ' s tests, compare very well with other versions of awk, perl, or tcl. small scripts will turn into programs of 160 – 170 kb. tawk ( thompson awk ) is an awk compiler for solaris, dos, os / 2, and windows, previously sold by thompson automation software ( which has ceased its activities ). jawk is a project to implement awk in java, hosted on sourceforge. extensions to the language are added to provide access to java features within awk scripts ( i. e., java threads, sockets, collections, etc. ). xgawk is a fork of gawk that extends gawk with dynamically loadable libraries. the xmlgawk extension was integrated into the official gnu awk release 4