recorded as being in possession of akkyll and owyll. immigration in the 17th and 18th centuries, there was much migration to achill from other parts of ireland, particularly ulster, due to the political and religious turmoil of the time. for a while, there were two different dialects of irish being spoken on achill. this led to many townlands being recorded as having two names during the 1824 ordnance survey, and some maps today give different names for the same place. achill irish still has many traces of ulster irish. in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, seasonal migration of farm workers to scotland to pick potatoes took place ; these squads of ' tattie howkers ' were known as achill workers, although not all were from achill, and were organised for potato merchants by gaffers or gangers. squads travelled from farm to farm to harvest the crop and were allocated basic accommodation. on 15 september 1937 ten young migrant potato pickers from achill died in a fire at kirkintilloch. specific historical sites and events grace o ' malley ' s castle carrickkildavnet castle is a 15th - century tower house associated with the o ' malley clan, who were once a ruling family of achill. grace o ' malley, or granuaile, the most famous of the o ' malleys, was born on clare island around 1530. her father was the chieftain of the barony of murrisk. the o ' malleys were a powerful seafaring family, who traded widely. grace became a fearless leader and gained fame as a sea captain and pirate. she is reputed to have met with queen elizabeth i in 1593. she died around 1603 and is buried in the o ' malley family tomb on clare island. achill mission one of achill ' s most famous historical sites is that of the achill mission or ' the colony ' at dugort. in 1831, the anglican ( church of ireland ) rev edward nangle founded a mission at dugort. the mission included schools, cottages, an orphanage, an infirmary and a guesthouse. the colony gave rise to mixed assessments, particularly during the great famine when charges of " souperism " were leveled against nangle. the provision of food across the achill mission schools - which also provided ' scriptural ' religious instruction - was particularly controversial. for almost forty years, nangle edited a newspaper called the achill missionary herald and western witness, which was printed in achill. he expanded his mission into mweelin, ki