hand and arm function and enable them to eat independently. in sports assistive technology in sports is an area of technology design that is growing. assistive technology is the array of new devices created to enable sports enthusiasts who have disabilities to play. assistive technology may be used in adaptive sports, where an existing sport is modified to enable players with a disability to participate ; or, assistive technology may be used to invent completely new sports with athletes with disabilities exclusively in mind. an increasing number of people with disabilities are participating in sports, leading to the development of new assistive technology. assistive technology devices can be simple, or " low - technology ", or they may use highly advanced technology. " low - tech " devices can include velcro gloves and adaptive bands and tubes. " high - tech " devices can include all - terrain wheelchairs and adaptive bicycles. accordingly, assistive technology can be found in sports ranging from local community recreation to the elite paralympic games. more complex assistive technology devices have been developed over time, and as a result, sports for people with disabilities " have changed from being a clinical therapeutic tool to an increasingly competition - oriented activity ". in education in the united states there are two major pieces of legislation that govern the use of assistive technology within the school system. the first is section 504 of the rehabilitation act of 1973 and the second being the individuals with disabilities education act ( idea ) which was first enacted in 1975 under the name the education for all handicapped children act. in 2004, during the reauthorization period for idea, the national instructional material access center ( nimac ) was created which provided a repository of accessible text including publisher ' s textbooks to students with a qualifying disability. files provided are in xml format and used as a starting platform for braille readers, screen readers, and other digital text software. idea defines assistive technology as follows : " any item, piece of equipment, or product system, whether acquired commercially off the shelf, modified, or customized, that is used to increase, maintain, or improve functional capabilities of a child with a disability. ( b ) exception. - - the term does not include a medical device that is surgically implanted, or the replacement of such device. " assistive technology listed is a student ' s iep is not only recommended, it is required ( koch, 2017 ). these devices help students both with and without disabilities access the curriculum in a way they were previously unable to ( koch, 2017 ). occupational therapists play an important