universities it is home to. these include the following, several of them being among the most reputable in the country : ankara university atılım university baskent university bilkent university cankaya university gazi university gulhane military medical academy hacettepe university middle east technical university ted university tobb university of economics and technology turkish aeronautical association university turkish military academy turkish national police academy ufuk university yıldırım beyazıt university fauna angora cat ankara is home to a world - famous domestic cat breed – the turkish angora, called ankara kedisi ( ankara cat ) in turkish. turkish angoras are one of the ancient, naturally occurring cat breeds, having originated in ankara and its surrounding region in central anatolia. they mostly have a white, silky, medium to long length coat, no undercoat and a fine bone structure. there seems to be a connection between the angora cats and persians, and the turkish angora is also a distant cousin of the turkish van. although they are known for their shimmery white coat, there are more than twenty varieties including black, blue and reddish fur. they come in tabby and tabby - white, along with smoke varieties, and are in every color other than pointed, lavender, and cinnamon ( all of which would indicate breeding to an outcross. ) eyes may be blue, green, or amber, or even one blue and one amber or green. the w gene which is responsible for the white coat and blue eye is closely related to the hearing ability, and the presence of a blue eye can indicate that the cat is deaf to the side the blue eye is located. however, a great many blue and odd - eyed white cats have normal hearing, and even deaf cats lead a very normal life if kept indoors. ears are pointed and large, eyes are almond shaped and the head is massive with a two plane profile. another characteristic is the tail, which is often kept parallel to the back. angora goat the angora goat ( ) is a breed of domestic goat that originated in ankara and its surrounding region in central anatolia. this breed was first mentioned in the time of moses, roughly in 1500 bc. the first angora goats were brought to europe by charles v, holy roman emperor, about 1554, but, like later imports, were not very successful. angora goats were first introduced in the united states in 1849 by james p. davis. seven adult goats were a gift from sultan abdulmecid i in