billion to america, resulting in a $ 38 billion tax payment spread over the following 8 years. charity apple is a partner of ( product ) red, a fundraising campaign for aids charity. in november 2014, apple arranged for all app store revenue in a two - week period to go to the fundraiser, generating more than us $ 20 million, and in march 2017, it released an iphone 7 with a red color finish. apple contributes financially to fundraisers in times of natural disasters. in november 2012, it donated $ 2. 5 million to the american red cross to aid relief efforts after hurricane sandy, and in 2017 it donated $ 5 million to relief efforts for both hurricane irma and hurricane harvey, as well as for the 2017 central mexico earthquake. the company has also used its itunes platform to encourage donations in the wake of environmental disasters and humanitarian crises, such as the 2010 haiti earthquake, the 2011 japan earthquake, typhoon haiyan in the philippines in november 2013, and the 2015 european migrant crisis. apple emphasizes that it does not incur any processing or other fees for itunes donations, sending 100 % of the payments directly to relief efforts, though it also acknowledges that the red cross does not receive any personal information on the users donating and that the payments may not be tax deductible. on april 14, 2016, apple and the world wide fund for nature ( wwf ) announced that they have engaged in a partnership to, " help protect life on our planet. " apple released a special page in the itunes app store, apps for earth. in the arrangement, apple has committed that through april 24, wwf will receive 100 % of the proceeds from the applications participating in the app store via both the purchases of any paid apps and the in - app purchases. apple and wwf ' s apps for earth campaign raised more than $ 8 million in total proceeds to support wwf ' s conservation work. wwf announced the results at wwdc 2016 in san francisco. during the covid - 19 pandemic, apple ' s ceo cook announced that the company will be donating " millions " of masks to health workers in the united states and europe. on january 13, 2021, apple announced a $ 100 million " racial equity and justice initiative " to help combat institutional racism worldwide. environment apple energy apple energy, llc is a wholly - owned subsidiary of apple inc. that sells solar energy., apple ' s solar farms in california and nevada have been declared to provide 217. 9 megawatts of solar generation capacity. in addition to the company ' s