or sex - selective abortion. maternal and fetal health an additional factor is maternal health which was listed as the main reason by about a third of women in 3 of 27 countries and about 7 % of women in a further 7 of these 27 countries. in the u. s., the supreme court decisions in roe v. wade and doe v. bolton : " ruled that the state ' s interest in the life of the fetus became compelling only at the point of viability, defined as the point at which the fetus can survive independently of its mother. even after the point of viability, the state cannot favor the life of the fetus over the life or health of the pregnant woman. under the right of privacy, physicians must be free to use their " medical judgment for the preservation of the life or health of the mother. " on the same day that the court decided roe, it also decided doe v. bolton, in which the court defined health very broadly : " the medical judgment may be exercised in the light of all factors — physical, emotional, psychological, familial, and the woman ' s age — relevant to the well - being of the patient. all these factors may relate to health. this allows the attending physician the room he needs to make his best medical judgment. " public opinion shifted in america following television personality sherri finkbine ' s discovery during her fifth month of pregnancy that she had been exposed to thalidomide. unable to obtain a legal abortion in the united states, she traveled to sweden. from 1962 to 1965, an outbreak of german measles left 15, 000 babies with severe birth defects. in 1967, the american medical association publicly supported liberalization of abortion laws. a national opinion research center poll in 1965 showed 73 % supported abortion when the mother ' s life was at risk, 57 % when birth defects were present and 59 % for pregnancies resulting from rape or incest. cancer the rate of cancer during pregnancy is 0. 02 – 1 %, and in many cases, cancer of the mother leads to consideration of abortion to protect the life of the mother, or in response to the potential damage that may occur to the fetus during treatment. this is particularly true for cervical cancer, the most common type of which occurs in 1 of every 2, 000 – 13, 000 pregnancies, for which initiation of treatment " cannot co - exist with preservation of fetal life ( unless neoadjuvant chemotherapy is chosen ) ". very early stage cervical cancers ( i and