did not discover ceres, they later found the asteroids 2 pallas, 3 juno and 4 vesta. one of the astronomers selected for the search was giuseppe piazzi, a catholic priest at the academy of palermo, sicily. before receiving his invitation to join the group, piazzi discovered ceres on 1 january 1801. he was searching for " the 87th [ star ] of the catalogue of the zodiacal stars of mr la caille ", but found that " it was preceded by another ". instead of a star, piazzi had found a moving star - like object, which he first thought was a comet : the light was a little faint, and of the colour of jupiter, but similar to many others which generally are reckoned of the eighth magnitude. therefore i had no doubt of its being any other than a fixed star. [... ] the evening of the third, my suspicion was converted into certainty, being assured it was not a fixed star. nevertheless before i made it known, i waited till the evening of the fourth, when i had the satisfaction to see it had moved at the same rate as on the preceding days. piazzi observed ceres a total of 24 times, the final time on 11 february 1801, when illness interrupted his work. he announced his discovery on 24 january 1801 in letters to only two fellow astronomers, his compatriot barnaba oriani of milan and bode in berlin. he reported it as a comet but " since its movement is so slow and rather uniform, it has occurred to me several times that it might be something better than a comet ". in april, piazzi sent his complete observations to oriani, bode, and french astronomer jerome lalande. the information was published in the september 1801 issue of the monatliche correspondenz. by this time, the apparent position of ceres had changed ( mostly due to earth ' s motion around the sun ), and was too close to the sun ' s glare for other astronomers to confirm piazzi ' s observations. toward the end of the year, ceres should have been visible again, but after such a long time it was difficult to predict its exact position. to recover ceres, mathematician carl friedrich gauss, then 24 years old, developed an efficient method of orbit determination. in a few weeks, he predicted the path of ceres and sent his results to von zach. on 31 december 1801, von zach and fellow celestial policeman heinrich w. m. olbers found ceres near the