aristotle was rather critical concerning democracy and, following the outline of certain ideas from plato ' s statesman, he developed a coherent theory of integrating various forms of power into a so - called mixed state : to illustrate this approach, aristotle proposed a first - of - its - kind mathematical model of voting, albeit textually described, where the democratic principle of " one voter – one vote " is combined with the oligarchic " merit - weighted voting " ; for relevant quotes and their translation into mathematical formulas see. aristotle ' s views on women influenced later western philosophers, who quoted him as an authority until the end of the middle ages, but these views have been controversial in modern times. aristotle ' s analysis of procreation describes an active, ensouling masculine element bringing life to an inert, passive female element. the biological differences are a result of the fact that the female body is well - suited for reproduction, which changes her body temperature, which in turn makes her, in aristotle ' s view, incapable of participating in political life. on this ground, proponents of feminist metaphysics have accused aristotle of misogyny and sexism. however, aristotle gave equal weight to women ' s happiness as he did to men ' s, and commented in his rhetoric that the things that lead to happiness need to be in women as well as men. economics aristotle made substantial contributions to economic thought, especially to thought in the middle ages. in politics, aristotle addresses the city, property, and trade. his response to criticisms of private property, in lionel robbins ' s view, anticipated later proponents of private property among philosophers and economists, as it related to the overall utility of social arrangements. aristotle believed that although communal arrangements may seem beneficial to society, and that although private property is often blamed for social strife, such evils in fact come from human nature. in politics, aristotle offers one of the earliest accounts of the origin of money. money came into use because people became dependent on one another, importing what they needed and exporting the surplus. for the sake of convenience, people then agreed to deal in something that is intrinsically useful and easily applicable, such as iron or silver. aristotle ' s discussions on retail and interest was a major influence on economic thought in the middle ages. he had a low opinion of retail, believing that contrary to using money to procure things one needs in managing the household, retail trade seeks to make a profit. it thus uses goods as a means to an end, rather than as an end unto itself.