biogeography, as well as their inhabitants, who have historically been related to indigenous americans. st. lawrence island in the northern bering sea belongs to alaska and may be associated with either continent but is almost always considered part of north america, as with the rat islands in the aleutian chain. at their nearest points, alaska and russia are separated by only. ongoing definition geographical asia is a cultural artifact of european conceptions of the world, beginning with the ancient greeks, being imposed onto other cultures, an imprecise concept causing endemic contention about what it means. asia does not exactly correspond to the cultural borders of its various types of constituents. from the time of herodotus a minority of geographers have rejected the three - continent system ( europe, africa, asia ) on the grounds that there is no substantial physical separation between them. for example, sir barry cunliffe, the emeritus professor of european archeology at oxford, argues that europe has been geographically and culturally merely " the western excrescence of the continent of asia ". geographically, asia is the major eastern constituent of the continent of eurasia with europe being a northwestern peninsula of the landmass. asia, europe and africa make up a single continuous landmass — afro - eurasia ( except for the suez canal ) — and share a common continental shelf. almost all of europe and a major part of asia sit atop the eurasian plate, adjoined on the south by the arabian and indian plate and with the easternmost part of siberia ( east of the chersky range ) on the north american plate. etymology the term " asia " is believed to originate in the bronze age placename assuwa ( ) which originally referred only to a portion of northwestern anatolia. the term appears in hittite records recounting how a confederation of assuwan states including troy unsuccessfully rebelled against the hittite king tudhaliya i around 1400 bce. roughly contemporary linear b documents contain the term asiwia ( ), seemingly in reference to captives from the same area. herodotus used the term ασια in reference to anatolia and the territory of the persian empire, in contrast to greece and egypt. he reports that greeks assumed that asia was named after the wife of prometheus, but that lydians say it was named after asies, son of cotys, who passed the name on to a tribe at sardis. in greek mythology, " asia " ( ασια ) or " asie " ( ασι