, alexios conducted a series of defensive operations in bithynia and mysia to defend his anatolian territories against the inroads of malik shah, the seljuq sultan of iconium. in 1117 he moved onto the offensive and pushed his army deep into the turkish - dominated anatolian plateau, where he defeated the seljuq sultan at the battle of philomelion. personal life during the last twenty years of his life alexios lost much of his popularity. the years were marked by persecution of the followers of the paulician and bogomil heresies — one of his last acts was publicly to burn at the stake basil, a bogomil leader, with whom he had engaged in a theological dispute. in spite of the success of the first crusade, alexios also had to repel numerous attempts on his territory by the seljuqs in 1110 – 1117. alexios was for many years under the strong influence of an eminence grise, his mother anna dalassene, a wise and immensely able politician whom, in a uniquely irregular fashion, he had crowned as augusta instead of the rightful claimant to the title, his wife irene doukaina. anna dalassene ' s ability to help him seize power and control the aristocracy, as well as her ability to understand and resolve dilemmas, assured alexius that her mother was a capable counsel and managing partner by his side, and a sane and trusted regent in his absence. alexios was never happier than when taking part in military exercises and he assumed personal command of his troops whenever possible. as such, dalassene was the effective administrator of the empire during alexios ' long absences in military campaigns : she was constantly at odds with her daughter - in - law and had assumed total responsibility for the upbringing and education of her granddaughter anna komnene. succession alexios ' last years were also troubled by anxieties over the succession. although he had crowned his son john ii komnenos co - emperor at the age of five in 1092, his wife irene doukaina wished to alter the succession in favor of their daughter anna and anna ' s husband, nikephoros bryennios the younger. bryennios had been made kaisar ( caesar ) and received the newly created title of panhypersebastos ( " honoured above all " ), and remained loyal to both alexios and john. pretenders and rebels apart from all of his external enemies, a host