since its independence, armenia has maintained a policy of trying to have positive and friendly relations with iran, russia, and the west, including the united states and the european union. it has full membership status in a number of international organizations, such as the council of europe and the eurasian economic union, and observer status, etc. in some others. however, the dispute over the armenian genocide of 1915 and the ongoing nagorno - karabakh conflict have created tense relations with two of its immediate neighbors, azerbaijan and turkey. the ministry of foreign affairs implements the foreign policy agenda of the government of armenia and organizes and manages diplomatic services abroad. since august 2021, ararat mirzoyan serves as the minister of foreign affairs of armenia. foreign relations armenia is a member of more than 70 different international organizations, including the following : asian development bank collective security treaty organization and the commonwealth of independent states council of europe the eu ' s eastern partnership and the euronest parliamentary assembly the un ' s eastern european group eurocontrol european bank for reconstruction and development european political community eurasian economic union eurasian development bank and the eurasian customs union federation of euro - asian stock exchanges international bank for reconstruction and development international monetary fund interpol la francophonie nato ' s euro - atlantic partnership council, individual partnership action plan, and partnership for peace organization for security and cooperation in europe organization of the black sea economic cooperation traceca united nations world bank, the world customs organization, and the world trade organization armenia is also an observer member of the asean inter - parliamentary assembly, the community of democratic choice, the non - aligned movement, the organization of american states, the pacific alliance, the arab league, the community of democracies, a dialogue partner in the shanghai cooperation organisation, and a regional member of the asian infrastructure investment bank. armenian genocide recognition as of 2023, 34 states have officially recognized the historical events as genocide. parliaments of countries that recognize the armenian genocide include argentina, armenia, austria, belgium, bolivia, brazil, bulgaria, canada, chile, cyprus, czech republic, france, germany, greece, italy, latvia, lebanon, libya, lithuania, luxembourg, mexico, the netherlands, paraguay, poland, portugal, russia, slovakia, sweden, switzerland, syria, united states, uruguay, vatican city and venezuela. additionally, some regional governments of countries recognize the armenian genocide too, such as new south wales and south australia in australia as well as scotland, northern ireland and wales in the united kingdom. us house resolution 106 was introduced on 30 january 2007,