were the three charites, whom hesiod identifies as the daughters of zeus and eurynome and names as aglaea ( " splendor " ), euphrosyne ( " good cheer " ), and thalia ( " abundance " ). the charites had been worshipped as goddesses in greece since the beginning of greek history, long before aphrodite was introduced to the pantheon. aphrodite ' s other set of attendants was the three horae ( the " hours " ), whom hesiod identifies as the daughters of zeus and themis and names as eunomia ( " good order " ), dike ( " justice " ), and eirene ( " peace " ). aphrodite was also sometimes accompanied by harmonia, her daughter by ares, and hebe, the daughter of zeus and hera. the fertility god priapus was usually considered to be aphrodite ' s son by dionysus, but he was sometimes also described as her son by hermes, adonis, or even zeus. a scholion on apollonius of rhodes ' s argonautica states that, while aphrodite was pregnant with priapus, hera envied her and applied an evil potion to her belly while she was sleeping to ensure that the child would be hideous. in another version, hera cursed aphrodite ' s unborn son because he had been fathered by zeus. when aphrodite gave birth, she was horrified to see that the child had a massive, permanently erect penis, a potbelly, and a huge tongue. aphrodite abandoned the infant to die in the wilderness, but a herdsman found him and raised him, later discovering that priapus could use his massive penis to aid in the growth of plants. anchises the first homeric hymn to aphrodite ( hymn 5 ), which was probably composed sometime in the mid - seventh century bc, describes how zeus once became annoyed with aphrodite for causing deities to fall in love with mortals, so he caused her to fall in love with anchises, a handsome mortal shepherd who lived in the foothills beneath mount ida near the city of troy. aphrodite appears to anchises in the form of a tall, beautiful, mortal virgin while he is alone in his home. anchises sees her dressed in bright clothing and gleaming jewelry, with her breasts shining with divine radiance