ambiorix ( gaulish " king of the surroundings ", or " king - protector " ) ( 54 – 53 bc ) was, together with cativolcus, prince of the eburones, leader of a belgic tribe of north - eastern gaul ( gallia belgica ), where modern belgium is located. in the nineteenth century ambiorix became a belgian national hero because of his resistance against julius caesar, as written in caesar ' s commentarii de bello gallico. name it is generally accepted that ambiorix is a gaulish personal name formed with the prefix ambio - attached to rix ( ' king ' ), but the meaning of the first element is debated. some scholars translate ambiorix as the ' king of the surroundings ' or ' king of the enclosure ', by interpreting ambio - as a thematized form of ambi - ( ' around, on both sides ' ) meaning ' surroundings ' or else ' enclosure ' ( cf. old irish imbe ' enclosure ' ). alternatively, fredrik otto lindeman renders ambiorix as the ' protector - king ', by deriving ambio - from the proto - indo - european compound ( ' protector ' ; cf. old indic adhi - pa - ' protector, ruler, master, king ' ). biography early history in 57 bc julius caesar conquered parts of gaul and also belgica ( belgium, modern - day northern france, luxembourg, part of present - day netherlands below the rhine river ; and the north - western portion of north rhine - westphalia, germany ). there were several tribes in the country who fought against each other frequently. the eburones were ruled by ambiorix and catuvolcus. in 54 bc caesar ' s troops urgently needed more food, and so the local tribes were forced to give up part of their harvest, which had not been good that year. understandably the starving eburones were reluctant to do so and caesar ordered that camps be built near the eburones ' villages. each centurion was ordered to make sure the food supplies were delivered to the roman soldiers. this created resentment among the eburones. although julius caesar had freed him from paying tribute to the atuatuci, ambiorix joined catuvolcus in the winter of 54 bc in an uprising against the roman forces under quintus titurius sabinus and lucius aurunculeius cotta. resisting the romans because a drought had disrupted his