to him that the traditional system of battle he had inherited played to the danes ' advantage. while the anglo - saxons and the danes attacked settlements for plunder, they employed different tactics. in their raids the anglo - saxons traditionally preferred to attack head - on by assembling their forces in a shield wall, advancing against their target and overcoming the oncoming wall marshalled against them in defence. the danes preferred to choose easy targets, mapping cautious forays to avoid risking their plunder with high - stake attacks for more. alfred determined their tactic was to launch small attacks from a secure base to which they could retreat should their raiders meet strong resistance. the bases were prepared in advance, often by capturing an estate and augmenting its defences with ditches, ramparts and palisades. once inside the fortification, alfred realised, the danes enjoyed the advantage, better situated to outlast their opponents or crush them with a counter - attack because the provisions and stamina of the besieging forces waned. the means by which the anglo - saxons marshalled forces to defend against marauders also left them vulnerable to the vikings. it was the responsibility of the shire fyrd to deal with local raids. the king could call up the national militia to defend the kingdom but in the case of the viking raids, problems with communication and raising supplies meant that the national militia could not be mustered quickly enough. it was only after the raids had begun that a call went out to landowners to gather their men for battle. large regions could be devastated before the fyrd could assemble and arrive. although the landowners were obliged to the king to supply these men when called, during the attacks in 878 many of them abandoned their king and collaborated with guthrum. with these lessons in mind alfred capitalised on the relatively peaceful years following his victory at edington with an ambitious restructuring of saxon defences. on a trip to rome alfred had stayed with charles the bald, and it is possible that he may have studied how the carolingian kings had dealt with viking raiders. learning from their experiences he was able to establish a system of taxation and defence for wessex. there had been a system of fortifications in pre - viking mercia that may have been an influence. when the viking raids resumed in 892 alfred was better prepared to confront them with a standing, mobile field army, a network of garrisons and a small fleet of ships navigating the rivers and estuaries. administration and taxation tenants in anglo - saxon england had a threefold obligation based