as a separate brand for the first time since the pre - war era. volkswagen introduced the audi brand to the united states for the 1970 model year. that same year, the mid - sized car that nsu had been working on, the k70, originally intended to slot between the rear - engined prinz models and the futuristic nsu ro 80, was instead launched as a volkswagen. after the launch of the audi 100 of 1968, the audi 80 / fox ( which formed the basis for the 1973 volkswagen passat ) followed in 1972 and the audi 50 ( later rebadged as the volkswagen polo ) in 1974. the audi 50 was a seminal design because it was the first incarnation of the golf / polo concept, one that led to a hugely successful world car. ultimately, the audi 80 and 100 ( progenitors of the a4 and a6, respectively ) became the company ' s biggest sellers, whilst little investment was made in the fading nsu range ; the prinz models were dropped in 1973 whilst the fatally flawed nsu ro80 went out of production in 1977, spelling the effective end of the nsu brand. production of the audi 100 had been steadily moved from ingolstadt to neckarsulm as the 1970s had progressed, and by the appearance of the second generation c2 version in 1976, all production was now at the former nsu plant. neckarsulm from that point onward would produce audi ' s higher - end models. the audi image at this time was a conservative one, and so, a proposal from chassis engineer jorg bensinger was accepted to develop the four - wheel drive technology in volkswagen ' s iltis military vehicle for an audi performance car and rally racing car. the performance car, introduced in 1980, was named the " audi quattro ", a turbocharged coupe which was also the first german large - scale production vehicle to feature permanent all - wheel drive through a centre differential. commonly referred to as the " ur - quattro " ( the " ur - " prefix is a german augmentative used, in this case, to mean " original " and is also applied to the first generation of audi ' s s4 and s6 sport saloons, as in " urs4 " and " urs6 " ), few of these vehicles were produced ( all hand - built by a single team ), but the model was a great success in rallying. prominent wins proved the viability of all - wheel - drive racecars, and the audi name became