no ceremony and little concern for the feelings of the families of the deceased. the inhabitants passively endure their increasing feelings of exile and separation. despondent, they waste away emotionally as well as physically. part four in september and october, the town remains at the mercy of the plague. rieux hears from the sanatorium that his wife ' s condition is worsening. he also hardens his heart regarding the plague victims so that he can continue to do his work. cottard, on the other hand, seems to flourish during the plague because it gives him a sense of being connected to others, since everybody faces the same danger. cottard and tarrou attend a performance of gluck ' s opera orpheus and eurydice, but the actor portraying orpheus collapses with plague symptoms during the performance. after extended negotiations with guards, rambert finally has a chance to escape, but he decides to stay, saying that he would feel ashamed of himself if he left. towards the end of october, castel ' s new antiplague serum is tried for the first time, but it cannot save the life of othon ' s young son, who suffers greatly, as paneloux, rieux, and tarrou tend to his bedside in horror. paneloux, who has joined the group of volunteers fighting the plague, gives a second sermon. he addresses the problem of an innocent child ' s suffering and says it is a test of a christian ' s faith since it requires him either to deny everything or believe everything. he urges the congregation not to give up the struggle but to do everything possible to fight the plague. a few days after the sermon, paneloux is taken ill. his symptoms do not conform to those of the plague, but the disease still proves fatal. tarrou and rambert visit one of the isolation camps, where they meet othon. when othon ' s period of quarantine ends, he chooses to stay in the camp as a volunteer because this will make him feel less separated from his dead son. tarrou tells rieux the story of his life and, to take their mind off the epidemic, the two men go swimming together in the sea. grand catches the plague and instructs rieux to burn all his papers. however, grand makes an unexpected recovery, and deaths from the plague start to decline. part five by late january the plague is in full retreat, and the townspeople begin to celebrate the imminent opening of the town gates. othon, however, does not