, preached the enjoyment of the material world. the religions of hinduism, buddhism, jainism and sikhism originated in india, south asia. in east asia, particularly in china and japan, confucianism, taoism and zen buddhism took shape., hinduism has around 1. 1 billion adherents. the faith represents around 25 % of asia ' s population and is the largest religion in asia. however, it is mostly concentrated in south asia. over 80 % of the populations of both india and nepal adhere to hinduism, alongside significant communities in bangladesh, pakistan, bhutan, sri lanka and bali, indonesia. many overseas indians in countries such as burma, singapore and malaysia also adhere to hinduism. buddhism has a great following in mainland southeast asia and east asia. buddhism is the religion of the majority of the populations of cambodia ( 96 % ), thailand ( 95 % ), burma ( 80 – 89 % ), japan ( 36 – 96 % ), bhutan ( 75 – 84 % ), sri lanka ( 70 % ), laos ( 60 – 67 % ) and mongolia ( 53 – 93 % ). taiwan ( 35 – 93 % ), south korea ( 23 – 50 % ), malaysia ( 19 – 21 % ), nepal ( 9 – 11 % ), vietnam ( 10 – 75 % ), china ( 20 – 50 % ), north korea ( 2 – 14 % ), and small communities in india and bangladesh. the communist - governed countries of china, vietnam and north korea are officially atheist, thus the number of buddhists and other religious adherents may be under - reported. jainism is found mainly in india and in overseas indian communities such as the united states and malaysia. sikhism is found in northern india and amongst overseas indian communities in other parts of asia, especially southeast asia. confucianism is found predominantly in mainland china, south korea, taiwan and in overseas chinese populations. taoism is found mainly in mainland china, taiwan, malaysia and singapore. in many chinese communities, taoism is easily syncretized with mahayana buddhism, thus exact religious statistics are difficult to obtain and may be understated or overstated. modern conflicts some of the events pivotal in the asia territory related to the relationship with the outside world in the post - second world war were : the partition of india the chinese civil war the kashmir conflict the balochistan conflict the naxalite – maoist insurgency in india the korean war the french indochina war the vietnam war the indonesia – malaysia confrontation the 1959 tibetan uprising the sino - vietnamese war the