of what they perceived as his reactionary preference for russian nationalism and the russian orthodox religion. solzhenitsyn also harshly criticised what he saw as the ugliness and spiritual vapidity of the dominant pop culture of the modern west, including television and much of popular music : "... the human soul longs for things higher, warmer, and purer than those offered by today ' s mass living habits... by tv stupor and by intolerable music. " despite his criticism of the " weakness " of the west, solzhenitsyn always made clear that he admired the political liberty which was one of the enduring strengths of western democratic societies. in a major speech delivered to the international academy of philosophy in liechtenstein on 14 september 1993, solzhenitsyn implored the west not to " lose sight of its own values, its historically unique stability of civic life under the rule of law — a hard - won stability which grants independence and space to every private citizen. " in a series of writings, speeches, and interviews after his return to his native russia in 1994, solzhenitsyn spoke about his admiration for the local self - government he had witnessed first hand in switzerland and new england. " the cavendish farewell " in ericson ( 2009 ) pp. 606 – 07 he " praised ' the sensible and sure process of grassroots democracy, in which the local population solves most of its problems on its own, not waiting for the decisions of higher authorities. ' " solzhenitsyn ' s patriotism was inward - looking. he called for russia to " renounce all mad fantasies of foreign conquest and begin the peaceful long, long long period of recuperation, " as he put it in a 1979 bbc interview with latvian - born bbc journalist janis sapiets. return to russia in 1990, his soviet citizenship was restored, and, in 1994, he returned to russia with his wife, natalia, who had become a united states citizen. their sons stayed behind in the united states ( later, his eldest son yermolai returned to russia ). from then until his death, he lived with his wife in a dacha in troitse - lykovo in west moscow between the dachas once occupied by soviet leaders mikhail suslov and konstantin chernenko. a staunch believer in traditional russian culture, solzhenitsyn expressed his disillusionment with post - soviet russia in works such as rebuilding russia, and called for the establishment of a