metal group, due to them sharing the characteristic s1 electron configuration of the alkali metals ( group 1 : p6s1 ; group 11 : d10s1 ). however, the similarities are largely confined to the stoichiometries of the + 1 compounds of both groups, and not their chemical properties. this stems from the filled d subshell providing a much weaker shielding effect on the outermost s electron than the filled p subshell, so that the coinage metals have much higher first ionisation energies and smaller ionic radii than do the corresponding alkali metals. furthermore, they have higher melting points, hardnesses, and densities, and lower reactivities and solubilities in liquid ammonia, as well as having more covalent character in their compounds. finally, the alkali metals are at the top of the electrochemical series, whereas the coinage metals are almost at the very bottom. the coinage metals ' filled d shell is much more easily disrupted than the alkali metals ' filled p shell, so that the second and third ionisation energies are lower, enabling higher oxidation states than + 1 and a richer coordination chemistry, thus giving the group 11 metals clear transition metal character. particularly noteworthy is gold forming ionic compounds with rubidium and caesium, in which it forms the auride ion ( au− ) which also occurs in solvated form in liquid ammonia solution : here gold behaves as a pseudohalogen because its 5d106s1 configuration has one electron less than the quasi - closed shell 5d106s2 configuration of mercury. production and isolation the production of pure alkali metals is somewhat complicated due to their extreme reactivity with commonly used substances, such as water. from their silicate ores, all the stable alkali metals may be obtained the same way : sulfuric acid is first used to dissolve the desired alkali metal ion and aluminium ( iii ) ions from the ore ( leaching ), whereupon basic precipitation removes aluminium ions from the mixture by precipitating it as the hydroxide. the remaining insoluble alkali metal carbonate is then precipitated selectively ; the salt is then dissolved in hydrochloric acid to produce the chloride. the result is then left to evaporate and the alkali metal can then be isolated. lithium and sodium are typically isolated through electrolysis from their liquid chlorides, with calcium chloride typically added to lower the melting point of the mixture. the heavier alkali metals, however,