and 1, 485, 000 internet users. there are five gsm providers : azercell, bakcell, azerfon ( nar mobile ), aztrank, catel mobile network operators and one cdma. tourism tourism is an important part of the economy of azerbaijan. the country was a well - known tourist spot in the 1980s. however, the fall of the soviet union, and the first nagorno - karabakh war during the 1988 – 1994 period, damaged the tourist industry and the image of azerbaijan as a tourist destination. it was not until the 2000s that the tourism industry began to recover, and the country has since experienced a high rate of growth in the number of tourist visits and overnight stays. in recent years, azerbaijan has also become a popular destination for religious, spa, and health care tourism. during winter, the shahdag winter complex offers skiing. the government of azerbaijan has set the development of azerbaijan as an elite tourist destination a top priority. it is a national strategy to make tourism a major, if not the single largest, contributor to the azerbaijani economy. these activities are regulated by the state tourism agency and the ministry of culture. the formula one grand prix is held in baku, the capital city and has been held here for years. currency system the azerbaijani manat is the currency of azerbaijani, denominated as the manat, subdivided into 100 qapik. the manat is issued by the central bank of azerbaijan, the monetary authority of azerbaijan. the iso 4217 abbreviation is azn. the latinised symbol is ( ). the manat is held in a floating exchange - rate system managed primarily against the us dollar. the rate of exchange ( azerbaijani manat per us $ 1 ) for 28 january 2016, was azn 1. 60. there is a complex relationship between azerbaijan ' s balance of trade, inflation, measured by the consumer price index and the value of its currency. despite allowing the value of the manat to " float ", azerbaijan ' s central bank has decisive ability to control its value with relationship to other currencies. infrastructure energy two - thirds of azerbaijan is rich in oil and natural gas. the region of the lesser caucasus accounts for most of the country ' s gold, silver, iron, copper, titanium, chromium, manganese, cobalt, molybdenum, complex ore and antimony. in september 1994, a 30 - year contract was signed between the state oil company of azerbaijan republic ( socar