are : lelylaan, rai, holendrecht, muiderpoort and science park. amsterdam centraal is also an international railway station. from the station there are regular services to destinations such as austria, belarus, belgium, czech republic, denmark, france, germany, hungary, poland, russia, switzerland and the united kingdom. among these trains are international trains of the nederlandse spoorwegen ( amsterdam - berlin ), the eurostar ( amsterdam - brussels - london ), thalys ( amsterdam - brussels - paris / lille ), and intercity - express ( amsterdam – cologne – frankfurt ). airport amsterdam airport schiphol is less than 20 minutes by train from amsterdam centraal station and is served by domestic and international intercity trains, such as thalys, eurostar and intercity brussel. schiphol is the largest airport in the netherlands, the third - largest in europe, and the 14th - largest in the world in terms of passengers. it handles over 68 million passengers per year and is the home base of four airlines, klm, transavia, martinair and arkefly., schiphol was the fifth busiest airport in the world measured by international passenger numbers. this airport is 4 meters below sea level. although schiphol is internationally known as amsterdam schiphol airport it actually lies in the neighbouring municipality of haarlemmermeer, southwest of the city. cycling amsterdam is one of the most bicycle - friendly large cities in the world and is a centre of bicycle culture with good facilities for cyclists such as bike paths and bike racks, and several guarded bike storage garages ( fietsenstalling ) which can be used. according to the most recent figures published by central bureau of statistics ( cbs ), in 2015 the 442. 693 households ( 850. 000 residents ) in amsterdam together owned 847. 000 bicycles – 1. 91 bicycle per household. theft is widespreadin 2011, about 83, 000 bicycles were stolen in amsterdam. bicycles are used by all socio - economic groups because of their convenience, amsterdam ' s small size, the of bike paths, the flat terrain, and the inconvenience of driving an automobile. education amsterdam has two universities : the university of amsterdam ( universiteit van amsterdam, uva ), and the vrije universiteit amsterdam ( vu ). other institutions for higher education include an art school – gerrit rietveld academie, a university of applied sciences – the hogeschool van