##ryphal. as grant continued to weaken lee ' s forces, efforts to discuss peace began. confederate vice president stephens led a group meeting with lincoln, seward, and others at hampton roads. lincoln refused to negotiate with the confederacy as a coequal ; his objective to end the fighting was not realized. on april 1, 1865, grant nearly encircled petersburg in a siege. the confederate government evacuated richmond and lincoln visited the conquered capital. on april 9, lee surrendered to grant at appomattox, officially ending the war. reelection lincoln ran for reelection in 1864, while uniting the main republican factions, along with war democrats edwin m. stanton and andrew johnson. lincoln used conversation and his patronage powers — greatly expanded from peacetime — to build support and fend off the radicals ' efforts to replace him. at its convention, the republicans selected johnson as his running mate. to broaden his coalition to include war democrats as well as republicans, lincoln ran under the label of the new union party. grant ' s bloody stalemates damaged lincoln ' s re - election prospects, and many republicans feared defeat. lincoln confidentially pledged in writing that if he should lose the election, he would still defeat the confederacy before turning over the white house ; lincoln did not show the pledge to his cabinet, but asked them to sign the sealed envelope. the pledge read as follows : the democratic platform followed the " peace wing " of the party and called the war a " failure " ; but their candidate, mcclellan, supported the war and repudiated the platform. meanwhile, lincoln emboldened grant with more troops and republican party support. sherman ' s capture of atlanta in september and david farragut ' s capture of mobile ended defeatism. the democratic party was deeply split, with some leaders and most soldiers openly for lincoln. the national union party was united by lincoln ' s support for emancipation. state republican parties stressed the perfidy of the copperheads. on november 8, lincoln carried all but three states, including 78 percent of union soldiers. on march 4, 1865, lincoln delivered his second inaugural address. in it, he deemed the war casualties to be god ' s will. historian mark noll places the speech " among the small handful of semi - sacred texts by which americans conceive their place in the world ; " it is inscribed in the lincoln memorial. lincoln said : reconstruction reconstruction preceded the war ' s end, as lincoln and his associates considered the reintegration of the nation, and the fates of confederate leaders and freed slaves