was only a boy when the events in the symposium are supposed to have occurred and it is possible that his aristophanes is in fact based on a reading of the plays. for example, conversation among the guests turns to the subject of love and aristophanes explains his notion of it in terms of an amusing allegory, a device he often uses in his plays. he is represented as suffering an attack of hiccups and this might be a humorous reference to the crude physical jokes in his plays. he tells the other guests that he is quite happy to be thought amusing but he is wary of appearing ridiculous. this fear of being ridiculed is consistent with his declaration in the knights that he embarked on the career of comic playwright warily after witnessing the public contempt and ridicule that other dramatists had incurred. aristophanes survived the peloponnesian war, two oligarchic revolutions and two democratic restorations ; this has been interpreted as evidence that he was not actively involved in politics, despite his highly political plays. he was probably appointed to the council of five hundred for a year at the beginning of the fourth century, but such appointments were very common in democratic athens. use of language the language of aristophanes ' plays, and in old comedy generally, was valued by ancient commentators as a model of the attic dialect. the orator quintilian believed that the charm and grandeur of the attic dialect made old comedy an example for orators to study and follow, and he considered it inferior in these respects only to the works of homer. a revival of interest in the attic dialect may have been responsible for the recovery and circulation of aristophanes ' plays during the fourth and fifth centuries ad, resulting in their survival today. in aristophanes ' plays, the attic dialect is couched in verse and his plays can be appreciated for their poetic qualities. for aristophanes ' contemporaries the works of homer and hesiod formed the cornerstones of hellenic history and culture. thus poetry had a moral and social significance that made it an inevitable topic of comic satire. aristophanes was very conscious of literary fashions and traditions and his plays feature numerous references to other poets. these include not only rival comic dramatists such as eupolis and hermippus and predecessors such as magnes, crates and cratinus, but also tragedians, notably aeschylus, sophocles and euripides, all three of whom are mentioned in e.