, is sometimes erroneously held to be the nahr isa, but it is more likely that it is to be identified with the pre - islamic nahr al - rufayl. it continued to be a place of much importance throughout the abbasid period. caliph harun al - rashid ( ) stayed at the town in 799 and in 803. the town ' s prosperity was founded on agricultural activities, but also on trade between iraq and syria. the town was still prosperous in the early 9th century, but the decline of abbasid authority during the later 9th century exposed it to bedouin attacks in 882 and 899. in 927, the qarmatians under abu tahir al - jannabi sacked the city during their invasion of iraq, and the devastation was compounded by another bedouin attack two years later. the town ' s decline accelerated after that : while the early 10th - century geographer istakhri still calls the town modest but populous, with the ruins of the buildings of as - saffah still visible, ibn hawqal and al - maqdisi, who wrote a generation later, attest to its decline, and the diminution of its population. the town was sacked again in 1262 by the mongols under kerboka. the ilkhanids retained anbar as an administrative centre, a role it retained until the first half of the 14th century ; the ilkhanid minister shams al - din juvayni had a canal dug from the city to najaf, and the city was surrounded by a wall of sun - dried bricks. ecclesiastical history anbar used to host an assyrian community from the fifth century : the town was the seat of a bishopric of the church of the east. the names of fourteen of its bishops of the period 486 – 1074 are known, three of whom became chaldean patriarchs of babylon. narses simeon salibazachi paul theodosius john enos 890 elias jaballaha sebarjesus elias ii unnamed bishop mundar maris zacharias titular see anbar is listed by the catholic church as a titular see of the chaldean catholic church, established as titular bishopric in 1980. it has had the following incumbents : titular archbishop stephane katchou ( 1980. 10. 03 – 1981. 11. 10 ), as coadjutor archeparch of bassorah of the chaldeans ( iraq ) ( 1980. 10. 03 – 1981. 11.