polar regions, but there is little shipping in those areas. hurricanes are a hazard in the western parts of the north atlantic during the summer and autumn. due to a consistently strong wind shear and a weak intertropical convergence zone, south atlantic tropical cyclones are rare. geology and plate tectonics the atlantic ocean is underlain mostly by dense mafic oceanic crust made up of basalt and gabbro and overlain by fine clay, silt and siliceous ooze on the abyssal plain. the continental margins and continental shelf mark lower density, but greater thickness felsic continental rock that is often much older than that of the seafloor. the oldest oceanic crust in the atlantic is up to 145 million years and situated off the west coast of africa and east coast of north america, or on either side of the south atlantic. in many places, the continental shelf and continental slope are covered in thick sedimentary layers. for instance, on the north american side of the ocean, large carbonate deposits formed in warm shallow waters such as florida and the bahamas, while coarse river outwash sands and silt are common in shallow shelf areas like the georges bank. coarse sand, boulders, and rocks were transported into some areas, such as off the coast of nova scotia or the gulf of maine during the pleistocene ice ages. central atlantic the break - up of pangaea began in the central atlantic, between north america and northwest africa, where rift basins opened during the late triassic and early jurassic. this period also saw the first stages of the uplift of the atlas mountains. the exact timing is controversial with estimates ranging from 200 to 170 ma. the opening of the atlantic ocean coincided with the initial break - up of the supercontinent pangaea, both of which were initiated by the eruption of the central atlantic magmatic province ( camp ), one of the most extensive and voluminous large igneous provinces in earth ' s history associated with the triassic – jurassic extinction event, one of earth ' s major extinction events. theoliitic dikes, sills, and lava flows from the camp eruption at 200 ma have been found in west africa, eastern north america, and northern south america. the extent of the volcanism has been estimated to of which covered what is now northern and central brazil. the formation of the central american isthmus closed the central american seaway at the end of the pliocene 2. 8 ma ago. the formation of the isthmus resulted in the migration and extinction of many land - living animals