of oncoming traffic, making overtaking safer when driving on the right. the merger of the four companies under the logo of four rings in august 1928, jørgen rasmussen, the owner of dampf - kraft - wagen ( dkw ), acquired the majority of shares in audiwerke ag. in the same year, rasmussen bought the remains of the u. s. automobile manufacturer rickenbacker, including the manufacturing equipment for 8 - cylinder engines. these engines were used in audi zwickau and audi dresden models that were launched in 1929. at the same time, 6 - cylinder and 4 - cylinder ( the " four " with a peugeot engine ) models were manufactured. audi cars of that era were luxurious cars equipped with special bodywork. in 1932, audi merged with horch, dkw, and wanderer, to form auto union ag, chemnitz. it was during this period that the company offered the audi front that became the first european car to combine a six - cylinder engine with front - wheel drive. it used a power train shared with the wanderer, but turned 180 degrees, so that the drive shaft faced the front. before world war ii, auto union used the four interlinked rings that make up the audi badge today, representing these four brands. however, this badge was used only on auto union racing cars in that period while the member companies used their own names and emblems. the technological development became more and more concentrated and some audi models were propelled by horch - or wanderer - built engines. reflecting the economic pressures of the time, auto union concentrated increasingly on smaller cars through the 1930s, so that by 1938 the company ' s dkw brand accounted for 17. 9 % of the german car market, while audi held only 0. 1 %. after the final few audis were delivered in 1939 the " audi " name disappeared completely from the new car market for more than two decades. post - world war ii like most german manufacturing, at the onset of world war ii the auto union plants were retooled for military production, and were a target for allied bombing during the war which left them damaged. overrun by the soviet army in 1945, on the orders of the soviet union military administration the factories were dismantled as part of war reparations. following this, the company ' s entire assets were expropriated without compensation. on 17 august 1948, auto union ag of chemnitz was deleted from the commercial register. these actions had the