language elements as optional parameters, symbolic variables, conditionals, string manipulation, and arithmetic operations, all usable during the execution of a given macro, and allowing macros to save context or exchange information. thus a macro might generate numerous assembly language instructions or data definitions, based on the macro arguments. this could be used to generate record - style data structures or " unrolled " loops, for example, or could generate entire algorithms based on complex parameters. for instance, a " sort " macro could accept the specification of a complex sort key and generate code crafted for that specific key, not needing the run - time tests that would be required for a general procedure interpreting the specification. an organization using assembly language that has been heavily extended using such a macro suite can be considered to be working in a higher - level language since such programmers are not working with a computer ' s lowest - level conceptual elements. underlining this point, macros were used to implement an early virtual machine in snobol4 ( 1967 ), which was written in the snobol implementation language ( sil ), an assembly language for a virtual machine. the target machine would translate this to its native code using a macro assembler. this allowed a high degree of portability for the time. macros were used to customize large scale software systems for specific customers in the mainframe era and were also used by customer personnel to satisfy their employers ' needs by making specific versions of manufacturer operating systems. this was done, for example, by systems programmers working with ibm ' s conversational monitor system / virtual machine ( vm / cms ) and with ibm ' s " real time transaction processing " add - ons, customer information control system cics, and acp / tpf, the airline / financial system that began in the 1970s and still runs many large computer reservation systems ( crs ) and credit card systems today. it is also possible to use solely the macro processing abilities of an assembler to generate code written in completely different languages, for example, to generate a version of a program in cobol using a pure macro assembler program containing lines of cobol code inside assembly time operators instructing the assembler to generate arbitrary code. ibm os / 360 uses macros to perform system generation. the user specifies options by coding a series of assembler macros. assembling these macros generates a job stream to build the system, including job control language and utility control statements. this is because, as was realized in the 1960s, the concept of "