a park bench holding a book was unveiled in wallingford. adaptations christie ' s works have been adapted for cinema and television. the first was the 1928 british film the passing of mr. quin. poirot ' s first film appearance was in 1931 in alibi, which starred austin trevor as christie ' s sleuth. margaret rutherford played marple in a series of films released in the 1960s. christie liked her acting, but considered the first film " pretty poor " and thought no better of the rest. she felt differently about the 1974 film murder on the orient express, directed by sidney lumet, which featured major stars and high production values ; her attendance at the london premiere was one of her last public outings. in 2017, a new film version was released, directed by kenneth branagh, who also starred, wearing " the most extravagant mustache moviegoers have ever seen ". the television adaptation agatha christie ' s poirot ( 1989 – 2013 ), with david suchet in the title role, ran for 70 episodes over 13 series. it received nine bafta award nominations and won four bafta awards in 1990 – 1992. the television series miss marple ( 1984 – 1992 ), with joan hickson as " the bbc ' s peerless miss marple ", adapted all 12 marple novels. the french television series ( 2009 – 2012, 2013 – 2020 ), adapted 36 of christie ' s stories. christie ' s books have also been adapted for bbc radio, a video game series, and graphic novels. interests and influences pharmacology during the first world war, christie took a break from nursing to train for the apothecaries hall examination. while she subsequently found dispensing in the hospital pharmacy monotonous, and thus less enjoyable than nursing, her new knowledge provided her with a background in potentially toxic drugs. early in the second world war, she brought her skills up to date at torquay hospital. as michael c. gerald puts it, her " activities as a hospital dispenser during both world wars not only supported the war effort but also provided her with an appreciation of drugs as therapeutic agents and poisons... these hospital experiences were also likely responsible for the prominent role physicians, nurses, and pharmacists play in her stories. " there were to be many medical practitioners, pharmacists, and scientists, naive or suspicious, in christie ' s cast of characters ; featuring in murder in mesopotamia, cards on the table, the pale horse, and mrs