anarcho - capitalism ( colloquially : ancap or ' " an - cap " ' ) is an anti - statist, libertarian political philosophy and economic theory that seeks to abolish centralized states in favor of stateless societies with systems of private property enforced by private agencies, the non - aggression principle, free markets and self - ownership, which extends the concept to include control of private property as part of the self. in the absence of statute, anarcho - capitalists hold that society tends to contractually self - regulate and civilize through participation in the free market, which they describe as a voluntary society involving the voluntary exchange of goods and services. in a theoretical anarcho - capitalist society, the system of private property would still exist and be enforced by private defense agencies and / or insurance companies selected by customers, which would operate competitively in a market and fulfill the roles of courts and the police. according to its proponents, various historical theorists have espoused philosophies similar to anarcho - capitalism. while the earliest extant attestation of " anarchocapitalism [ sic ] " is in karl hess ' s essay " the death of politics " published by playboy in march 1969, the person credited with coining the terms anarcho - capitalism and anarcho - capitalist is murray rothbard. rothbard, a leading figure in the 20th - century american libertarian movement, synthesized elements from the austrian school, classical liberalism and 19th - century american individualist anarchists and mutualists lysander spooner and benjamin tucker, while rejecting the labor theory of value. rothbard ' s anarcho - capitalist society would operate under a mutually agreed - upon " legal code which would be generally accepted, and which the courts would pledge themselves to follow ". this legal code would recognize contracts between individuals, private property, self - ownership and tort law in keeping with the non - aggression principle. rothbard views the power of the state as unjustified, arguing that it restricts individual rights and prosperity, and creates social and economic problems. anarcho - capitalists and right - libertarians cite several historical precedents of what they believe to be examples of quasi - anarcho - capitalism, including the republic of cospaia, acadia, anglo - saxon england, medieval iceland, the american old west, gaelic ireland, and merchant law, admiralty law, and early common law. anarcho - capitalism is distinguished from minarchism, which advocates a night - watchman state