on as emperor. an enormous funerary procession of mourners traveled with augustus ' s body from nola to rome, and all public and private businesses closed on the day of his burial. tiberius and his son drusus delivered the eulogy while standing atop two rostra. augustus ' s body was coffin - bound and cremated on a pyre close to his mausoleum. it was proclaimed that augustus joined the company of the gods as a member of the roman pantheon. historian d. c. a. shotter states that augustus ' s policy of favoring the julian family line over the claudian might have afforded tiberius sufficient cause to show open disdain for augustus after the latter ' s death ; instead, tiberius was always quick to rebuke those who criticized augustus. shotter suggests that augustus ' s deification obliged tiberius to suppress any open resentment that he might have harbored, coupled with tiberius ' s " extremely conservative " attitude towards religion. also, historian r. shaw - smith points to letters of augustus to tiberius which display affection towards tiberius and high regard for his military merits. shotter states that tiberius focused his anger and criticism on gaius asinius gallus ( for marrying vipsania after augustus forced tiberius to divorce her ), as well as toward the two young caesars, gaius and lucius — instead of augustus, the real architect of his divorce and imperial demotion. legacy augustus created a regime which maintained peace and prosperity in the roman west and the greek east for two centuries. its dominance also laid the foundations of a concept of universal empire in the byzantine empire and the holy roman empires down to their dissolutions in 1453 and 1806, respectively. both his adoptive surname, caesar, and his title augustus became the permanent titles of the rulers of the roman empire for fourteen centuries after his death, in use both at old rome and at new rome. in many languages, caesar became the word for emperor, as in the german kaiser and in the bulgarian and subsequently russian tsar ( sometimes csar or czar ). the cult of divus augustus continued until the state religion of the empire was changed to christianity in 391 by theodosius i. consequently, there are many statues and busts of the first emperor. he had composed an account of his achievements, the res gestae divi augusti, to be inscribed in bronze in front of his mausoleum. copies of the text were inscribed throughout the empire upon his death. the inscriptions in latin featured translations in greek beside it and were inscribed on many public edifice