francium - 223, the only naturally occurring isotope of francium, is the product of the alpha decay of actinium - 227 and can be found in trace amounts in uranium minerals. in a given sample of uranium, there is estimated to be only one francium atom for every 1018 uranium atoms. it has been calculated that there are at most 30 grams of francium in the earth ' s crust at any time, due to its extremely short half - life of 22 minutes. properties physical and chemical the physical and chemical properties of the alkali metals can be readily explained by their having an ns1 valence electron configuration, which results in weak metallic bonding. hence, all the alkali metals are soft and have low densities, melting and boiling points, as well as heats of sublimation, vaporisation, and dissociation. they all crystallise in the body - centered cubic crystal structure, and have distinctive flame colours because their outer s electron is very easily excited. the ns1 configuration also results in the alkali metals having very large atomic and ionic radii, as well as very high thermal and electrical conductivity. their chemistry is dominated by the loss of their lone valence electron in the outermost s - orbital to form the + 1 oxidation state, due to the ease of ionising this electron and the very high second ionisation energy. most of the chemistry has been observed only for the first five members of the group. the chemistry of francium is not well established due to its extreme radioactivity ; thus, the presentation of its properties here is limited. what little is known about francium shows that it is very close in behaviour to caesium, as expected. the physical properties of francium are even sketchier because the bulk element has never been observed ; hence any data that may be found in the literature are certainly speculative extrapolations. the alkali metals are more similar to each other than the elements in any other group are to each other. indeed, the similarity is so great that it is quite difficult to separate potassium, rubidium, and caesium, due to their similar ionic radii ; lithium and sodium are more distinct. for instance, when moving down the table, all known alkali metals show increasing atomic radius, decreasing electronegativity, increasing reactivity, and decreasing melting and boiling points as well as heats of fusion and vaporisation. in general, their densities increase when moving down the table, with the exception that