ahmed iii (, ahmed - i salis ; 30 december 16731 july 1736 ) was sultan of the ottoman empire and a son of sultan mehmed iv ( r. 1648 – 1687 ). his mother was gulnus sultan, originally named evmania voria, who was an ethnic greek. he was born at hacıoglu pazarcık, in dobruja. he succeeded to the throne in 1703 on the abdication of his brother mustafa ii ( 1695 – 1703 ). nevsehirli damat ibrahim pasha and the sultan ' s daughter, fatma sultan ( wife of the former ) directed the government from 1718 to 1730, a period referred to as the tulip era. during the initial days of ahmed iii ' s reign, significant efforts were made to appease the janissaries. however, ahmed ' s effectiveness in dealing with the janissaries who had elevated him to the sultanate was limited. grand vizier corlulu ali pasha, whom ahmed appointed, provided valuable assistance in administrative affairs and implemented new measures for the treasury. he supported ahmed in his struggles against rival factions and provided stability to the government. ahmed was an avid reader, skilled in calligraphy and knowledgeable on history and poetry. early life and education sultan ahmed was born on 30 december 1673. his father was sultan mehmed iv, and his mother was gulnus sultan, originally named evmenia. his birth occurred in hacıoglupazarı, where mehmed stayed to hunt on his return from poland in 1673, while gulnus was pregnant at that time. in 1675, he and his brother, prince mustafa ( future mustafa ii ) were circumcised. during the same ceremony their sisters hatice sultan and fatma sultan were married to musahip mustafa pasha and kara mustafa pasha respectively. the celebrations lasted 20 days. he grew up in the edirne palace. his schooling began during one of the sporadic visits of the court to istanbul, following a courtly ceremony called bad - i basmala, which took place on 9 august 1679 in the istavroz palace. he was brought up in the imperial harem in edirne with a traditional princely education, studying the qur ’ an, the hadiths ( traditions of prophet muhammad ), and the fundamentals of islamic sciences, history, poetry and music under the supervision of private tutors. one of his tutors was chief mufti feyzullah efendi