##crews ) to create thrust in a forward direction. the propeller is usually mounted in front of the power source in tractor configuration but can be mounted behind in pusher configuration. variations of propeller layout include contra - rotating propellers and ducted fans. many kinds of power plant have been used to drive propellers. early airships used man power or steam engines. the more practical internal combustion piston engine was used for virtually all fixed - wing aircraft until world war ii and is still used in many smaller aircraft. some types use turbine engines to drive a propeller in the form of a turboprop or propfan. human - powered flight has been achieved, but has not become a practical means of transport. unmanned aircraft and models have also used power sources such as electric motors and rubber bands. jet aircraft jet aircraft use airbreathing jet engines, which take in air, burn fuel with it in a combustion chamber, and accelerate the exhaust rearwards to provide thrust. different jet engine configurations include the turbojet and turbofan, sometimes with the addition of an afterburner. those with no rotating turbomachinery include the pulsejet and ramjet. these mechanically simple engines produce no thrust when stationary, so the aircraft must be launched to flying speed using a catapult, like the v - 1 flying bomb, or a rocket, for example. other engine types include the motorjet and the dual - cycle pratt & whitney j58. compared to engines using propellers, jet engines can provide much higher thrust, higher speeds and, above about, greater efficiency. they are also much more fuel - efficient than rockets. as a consequence nearly all large, high - speed or high - altitude aircraft use jet engines. rotorcraft some rotorcraft, such as helicopters, have a powered rotary wing or rotor, where the rotor disc can be angled slightly forward so that a proportion of its lift is directed forwards. the rotor may, like a propeller, be powered by a variety of methods such as a piston engine or turbine. experiments have also used jet nozzles at the rotor blade tips. other types of powered aircraft rocket - powered aircraft have occasionally been experimented with, and the messerschmitt me 163 komet fighter even saw action in the second world war. since then, they have been restricted to research aircraft, such as the north american x - 15, which traveled up into space where air - breathing engines cannot work ( rockets carry their own oxidant ). rockets have more often been used as a supplement to the main power plant, typically for