became navarch. the target was argos, which had absorbed corinth into a political union the previous year. in 390 bc he made several successful expeditions into corinthian territory, capturing lechaeum and peiraion. the loss, however, of a battalion ( mora ), destroyed by iphicrates, neutralised these successes, and agesilaus returned to sparta. in 389 bc he conducted a campaign in acarnania, but two years later the peace of antalcidas, warmly supported by agesilaus, put an end to the war, maintaining spartan hegemony over greece and returning the greek cities of asia minor to the achaemenid empire. in this interval, agesilaus declined command over sparta ' s aggression on mantineia, and justified phoebidas ' seizure of the theban cadmea so long as the outcome provided glory to sparta. decline when war broke out afresh with thebes, agesilaus twice invaded boeotia ( in 378 and 377 bc ), although he spent the next five years largely out of action due to an unspecified but apparently grave illness. in the congress of 371 an altercation is recorded between him and the theban general epaminondas, and due to his influence, thebes was peremptorily excluded from the peace, and orders given for agesilaus ' s royal colleague cleombrotus to march against thebes in 371. cleombrotus was defeated and killed at the battle of leuctra and the spartan supremacy overthrown. in 370 agesilaus was engaged in an embassy to mantineia, and reassured the spartans with an invasion of arcadia. he preserved an unwalled sparta against the revolts and conspiracies of helots, perioeci and even other spartans ; and against external enemies, with four different armies led by epaminondas penetrating laconia that same year. asia minor expedition ( 366 bc ) in 366 bc, sparta and athens, dissatisfied with the persian king ' s support of thebes following the embassy of philiscus of abydos, decided to provide careful military support to the opponents of the achaemenid king. athens and sparta provided support for the revolting satraps in the revolt of the satraps, in particular ariobarzanes : sparta sent a force to ariobarzanes under an aging agesilaus, while athens sent a force under tim