a symbol of the city ( not specifically san francisco, but all cities ). ginsberg later acknowledged in various publications and interviews that behind the visions of the francis drake hotel were memories of the moloch of fritz lang ' s film metropolis ( 1927 ) and of the woodcut novels of lynd ward. moloch has subsequently been interpreted as any system of control, including the conformist society of post - world war ii america, focused on material gain, which ginsberg frequently blamed for the destruction of all those outside of societal norms. he also made sure to emphasize that moloch is a part of humanity in multiple aspects, in that the decision to defy socially created systems of control — and therefore go against moloch — is a form of self - destruction. many of the characters ginsberg references in howl, such as neal cassady and herbert huncke, destroyed themselves through excessive substance abuse or a generally wild lifestyle. the personal aspects of howl are perhaps as important as the political aspects. carl solomon, the prime example of a " best mind " destroyed by defying society, is associated with ginsberg ' s schizophrenic mother : the line " with mother finally fucked " comes after a long section about carl solomon, and in part iii, ginsberg says : " i ' m with you in rockland where you imitate the shade of my mother. " ginsberg later admitted that the drive to write howl was fueled by sympathy for his ailing mother, an issue which he was not yet ready to deal with directly. he dealt with it directly with 1959 ' s kaddish, which had its first public reading at a catholic worker friday night meeting, possibly due to its associations with thomas merton. inspiration from mentors and idols ginsberg ' s poetry was strongly influenced by modernism ( most importantly the american style of modernism pioneered by william carlos williams ), romanticism ( specifically william blake and john keats ), the beat and cadence of jazz ( specifically that of bop musicians such as charlie parker ), and his kagyu buddhist practice and jewish background. he considered himself to have inherited the visionary poetic mantle handed down from the english poet and artist william blake, the american poet walt whitman and the spanish poet federico garcia lorca. the power of ginsberg ' s verse, its searching, probing focus, its long and lilting lines, as well as its new world exuberance, all echo the continuity of inspiration that he claimed. he corresponded with william carlos williams, who was then