to. the newcomers brought pottery and agriculture to the islands and are therefore classified as part of the neo - indian period. caquetio chiefdom the area over which the legendary cacique manaure exercised his authority was the coastal region of the current state falcon - zulia at venezuela, including the paraguana peninsula, as well as aruba, curacao and bonaire. the caquetio people had a highly developed process of state formation. they had a chiefdom, which in human evolution is often a precursor to a kingdom, where central leaders — paramount chiefs — controlled multiple subordinate political - administrative units. the emphasis was more on the political and religious alliances between indigenous communities than on the military control or subjugate vast territories. at the head of the caquetio chiefdom was a spiritual leader called diao who had both secular and religious authority in modern terms. he was endowed with powers that could influence nature : a shaman. the diao position was hereditary. by being allowed to marry multiple wives, the diao was able to establish and maintain political alliances with other groups, tribes, or villages. the chiefdom was centralized in its design, but not based on authoritarian or violence - based subjugation. the spanish conquistador interrupted this process of expansion at the time of the european contact ( ad 1499 – 1535 ). political units and governance the caquetio territory consisted of several, and therefore smaller, political units that were under the authority of lower " second - tier chiefs " who were subordinate to the highest authority. how the central authority was exercised over the units is not clear. however, there are reports from the contact period that suggest the diao did not exert his power over the lower units in arbitrary manner. likely there was a form of consultation between the diao and lower leaders. in the 16th century, two sub - units, the guaranos and amuayes, lived on the paraguana peninsula. aruba, which is less than 30 kilometers away from paraguana, was previously connected to one of these units. after the diao and the regional sub - units, such as the mentioned guaranaos an amuayes in paraguana, the village formed the third level of governance in the hierarchy of the chiefdom. aruba had ( not simultaneously ) five villages : three larger ones ceri noca ( santa cruz ), tanki flip ( noord ), and savaneta, and two smaller ones near tanki leendert and park