cotton ; hence the region is also called the cotton belt. between the cotton belt and the tennessee valley is the mineral region, the old land area — a region of resistant rocks — whose soils, also derived from weathering in silu, are of varied fertility, the best coming from the granites, sandstones and limestones, the poorest from the gneisses, schists and slates. north of the mineral region is the cereal belt, embracing the tennessee valley and the counties beyond, whose richest soils are the red clays and dark loams of the river valley ; north of which are less fertile soils, produced by siliceous and sandstone formations. wetumpka meteor crater wetumpka is the home of " alabama ' s greatest natural disaster. " a - wide meteorite hit the area about 80 million years ago. the hills just east of downtown showcase the eroded remains of the wide impact crater that was blasted into the bedrock, with the area labeled the wetumpka crater or astrobleme ( " star - wound " ) for the concentric rings of fractures and zones of shattered rock can be found beneath the surface. in 2002, christian koeberl with the institute of geochemistry university of vienna published evidence and established the site as an internationally recognized impact crater. public lands alabama includes several types of public use lands. these include four national forests and one national preserve within state borders that provide over 25 % of the state ' s public recreation land. land regions alabama state parks alabama public fishing lakes alabama wildlife management areas little river canyon national preserve russell cave national monument national forests conecuh national forest talladega national forest tuskegee national forest william b. bankhead national forest wilderness areas cheaha wilderness dugger mountain wilderness sipsey wilderness national recreation trail pinhoti national recreation trail national wildlife refuge bon secour national wildlife refuge cahaba river national wildlife refuge choctaw national wildlife refuge eufaula national wildlife refuge fern cave national wildlife refuge key cave national wildlife refuge mountain longleaf national wildlife refuge sauta cave national wildlife refuge watercress darter national wildlife refuge wheeler national wildlife refuge see also alabama geography of the united states references external links state of alabama geological survey usgs - tapestry of time - alabama summary of alabama park & recreation sites interactive map of park & recreation sites encyclopedia of alabama : cultural geography encyclopedia of alabama : black belt region in alabama