its proximity to the mediterranean sea aids in moderating the city ' s temperatures. as a result, algiers usually does not see the extreme temperatures that are experienced in the adjacent interior. algiers on average receives roughly of rain per year, the bulk of which is seen between october and april. the precipitation is higher than in most of coastal mediterranean spain, and similar to most of coastal mediterranean france, as opposed to the interior north african semi - arid or arid climate. snow is very rare ; in 2012, the city received of snowfall, its first snowfall in eight years. climate change a 2019 paper published in plos one estimated that under representative concentration pathway 4. 5, a " moderate " scenario of climate change where global warming reaches ~ by 2100, the climate of algiers in the year 2050 would most closely resemble the current climate of perth in australia. the annual temperature would increase by, and the temperature of the warmest month by, while the temperature of the coldest month would be higher. according to climate action tracker, the current warming trajectory appears consistent with, which closely matches representative concentration pathway ( rcp ) 4. 5. moreover, according to the 2022 ipcc sixth assessment report, algiers is one of 12 major african cities ( abidjan, alexandria, algiers, cape town, casablanca, dakar, dar es salaam, durban, lagos, lome, luanda and maputo ) which would be the most severely affected by the future sea level rise. it estimates that they would collectively sustain cumulative damages of u $ 65 billion under rcp 4. 5 and us $ 86. 5 billion for the high - emission scenario rcp 8. 5 by the year 2050. additionally, rcp 8. 5 combined with the hypothetical impact from marine ice sheet instability at high levels of warming would involve up to us $ 137. 5 billion in damages, while the additional accounting for the " low - probability, high - damage events " may increase aggregate risks to $ 187 billion for the " moderate " rcp 4. 5, $ 206 billion for rcp 8. 5 and $ 397 billion under the high - end ice sheet instability scenario. since sea level rise would continue for about 10, 000 years under every scenario of climate change, future costs of sea level rise would only increase, especially without adaptation measures. the casbah is on a list of 10 african world heritage site most threatened by sea level rise. government the city ( and province ) of algiers is composed of 13 administrative districts, sub - divided into 57