any heavy lifting. no stooping or bending over. no special training was required. there are jobs that almost anyone can do. provided employment to immigrants. the gains in productivity allowed ford to increase worker pay from $ 1. 50 per day to $ 5. 00 per day once employees reached three years of service on the assembly line. ford continued on to reduce the hourly work week while continuously lowering the model t price. these goals appear altruistic ; however, it has been argued that they were implemented by ford in order to reduce high employee turnover : when the assembly line was introduced in 1913, it was discovered that " every time the company wanted to add 100 men to its factory personnel, it was necessary to hire 963 " in order to counteract the natural distaste the assembly line seems to have inspired. sociological problems sociological work has explored the social alienation and boredom that many workers feel because of the repetition of doing the same specialized task all day long. karl marx expressed in his theory of alienation the belief that, in order to achieve job satisfaction, workers need to see themselves in the objects they have created, that products should be " mirrors in which workers see their reflected essential nature ". marx viewed labour as a chance for people to externalize facets of their personalities. marxists argue that performing repetitive, specialized tasks causes a feeling of disconnection between what a worker does all day, who they really are, and what they would ideally be able to contribute to society. furthermore, marx views these specialised jobs as insecure, since the worker is expendable as soon as costs rise and technology can replace more expensive human labour. since workers have to stand in the same place for hours and repeat the same motion hundreds of times per day, repetitive stress injuries are a possible pathology of occupational safety. industrial noise also proved dangerous. when it was not too high, workers were often prohibited from talking. charles piaget, a skilled worker at the lip factory, recalled that besides being prohibited from speaking, the semi - skilled workers had only 25 centimeters in which to move. industrial ergonomics later tried to minimize physical trauma. see also modern times, a 1936 film featuring the tramp character ( played by charlie chaplin ) struggling to adapt to assembly line work final offer, a documentary film about the 1984 uaw / caw contract negotiations shows working life on the floor of the gm oshawa ontario car assembly plant ( watch online ) reconfigurable and flexible manufacturing systems, involving post - fordism and lean manufacturing -