##s, but died in orkney on 15 december 1263. the isles now lay at alexander ' s feet, and in 1266 haakon ' s successor concluded the treaty of perth by which he ceded the isle of man and the western isles to scotland in return for a monetary payment. norway retained orkney and shetland until 1469 when they became a dowry for james iii ' s bride, margaret of denmark. death of alexander iii alexander had married margaret, daughter of king henry iii of england and eleanor of provence, on 26 december 1251, when he was ten years old and she was eleven. she died in 1275, after they had had three children. margaret ( 28 february 1261 – 9 april 1283 ), who married king eric ii of norway alexander, prince of scotland ( 21 january 1264 jedburgh – 28 january 1284 lindores abbey ) ; buried in dunfermline abbey david ( 20 march 1272 – june 1281 stirling castle ) ; buried in dunfermline abbey according to the lanercost chronicle, alexander did not spend his decade as a widower alone : " he used never to forbear on account of season nor storm, nor for perils of flood or rocky cliffs, but would visit none too creditably nuns or matrons, virgins or widows as the fancy seized him, sometimes in disguise. " towards the end of alexander ' s reign, the death of all three of his children within a few years made the question of the succession one of pressing importance. in 1284 he induced the estates to recognize as his heir - presumptive his granddaughter margaret, the " maid of norway ". the need for a male heir led him to contract a second marriage to yolande de dreux on 1 november 1285. alexander died in a fall from his horse while riding in the dark to visit the queen at kinghorn in fife on 19 march 1286 because it was her birthday the next day. he had spent the evening at edinburgh castle celebrating his second marriage and overseeing a meeting with royal advisors. he was cautioned against making the journey to fife because of weather conditions, but crossed the forth from dalmeny to inverkeithing anyway. on arriving in inverkeithing, he insisted on not stopping for the night, despite the pleas of the nobles accompanying him and one of the burgesses of the town, alexander le saucier. le saucier ( who was either linked to the king ' s kitchen or the master of the local salt