saint helena, he wrote that the island was " now so barren and forbidding that some persons find it difficult to believe that it was once all green and fertile ". he explained that the soil was protected by the island ' s vegetation ; once that was destroyed, the soil was washed off the steep slopes by heavy tropical rain, leaving " bare rock or sterile clay ". he attributed the " irreparable destruction " to feral goats, introduced in 1513. the island ' s forests were further damaged by the " reckless waste " of the east india company from 1651, which used the bark of valuable redwood and ebony trees for tanning, leaving the wood to rot unused. wallace ' s comments on environment grew more urgent later in his career. in the world of life ( 1911 ) he wrote that people should view nature " as invested with a certain sanctity, to be used by us but not abused, and never to be recklessly destroyed or defaced. " astrobiology wallace ' s 1904 book man ' s place in the universe was the first serious attempt by a biologist to evaluate the likelihood of life on other planets. he concluded that the earth was the only planet in the solar system that could possibly support life, mainly because it was the only one in which water could exist in the liquid phase. his treatment of mars in this book was brief, and in 1907, wallace returned to the subject with the book is mars habitable? to criticise the claims made by the american astronomer percival lowell that there were martian canals built by intelligent beings. wallace did months of research, consulted various experts, and produced his own scientific analysis of the martian climate and atmospheric conditions. he pointed out that spectroscopic analysis had shown no signs of water vapour in the martian atmosphere, that lowell ' s analysis of mars ' s climate badly overestimated the surface temperature, and that low atmospheric pressure would make liquid water, let alone a planet - girding irrigation system, impossible. richard milner comments that wallace " effectively debunked lowell ' s illusionary network of martian canals. " wallace became interested in the topic because his anthropocentric philosophy inclined him to believe that man would be unique in the universe. other activities spiritualism wallace was an enthusiast of phrenology. early in his career, he experimented with hypnosis, then known as mesmerism, managing to hypnotise some of his students in leicester. when he began these experiments, the topic was very controversial : early experiment