prepared to deal with the semiconductor shortage that emerged during the pandemic era and led to increased profitability, with sales of mac computers that included m1 chips rising sharply in 2020 and 2021. it also inspired other companies like tesla, amazon, and meta platforms to pursue a similar path. in april 2022, apple opened an online store that allowed anyone in the us to view repair manuals and order replacement parts for specific recent iphones, although the difference in cost between this method and official repair is anticipated to be minimal. in may 2022, a trademark was filed for realityos, an operating system reportedly intended for virtual and augmented reality headsets, first mentioned in 2017. according to bloomberg, the headset may come out in 2023. further insider reports state that the device uses iris scanning for payment confirmation and signing into accounts. on june 18, 2022, the apple store in towson, maryland became the first to unionize in the u. s., with the employees voting to join the international association of machinists and aerospace workers. on july 7, 2022, apple added lockdown mode to macos 13 and ios 16, as a response to the earlier pegasus revelations ; the mode increases security protections for high - risk users against targeted zero - day malware. apple launched a buy now, pay later service called ' apple pay later ' for its apple wallet users in march 2023. the program allows its users to apply for loans between $ 50 and $ 1, 000 to make online or in - app purchases and then repaying them through four installments spread over six weeks without any interest or fees. products mac the mac is apple ' s family of personal computers. macs are known for their ease of use and distinctive aluminium, minimalist designs. macs have been popular among students, creative professionals, and software engineers. the current lineup consists of the macbook air and macbook pro laptops, and the imac, mac mini, mac studio and mac pro desktop computers. often described as a walled garden, macs use apple silicon chips, run the macos operating system, and include apple software like the safari web browser, imovie for home movie editing, garageband for music creation, and the iwork productivity suite. apple also sells pro apps : final cut pro for video production, logic pro for musicians and producers, and xcode for software developers. apple also sells a variety of accessories for macs, including the pro display xdr, apple studio display, magic mouse, magic track