few properties of francium that have been predicted taking relativity into account are the electron affinity ( 47. 2 kj / mol ) and the enthalpy of dissociation of the fr2 molecule ( 42. 1 kj / mol ). the csfr molecule is polarised as cs + fr−, showing that the 7s subshell of francium is much more strongly affected by relativistic effects than the 6s subshell of caesium. additionally, francium superoxide ( fro2 ) is expected to have significant covalent character, unlike the other alkali metal superoxides, because of bonding contributions from the 6p electrons of francium. nuclear all the alkali metals have odd atomic numbers ; hence, their isotopes must be either odd – odd ( both proton and neutron number are odd ) or odd – even ( proton number is odd, but neutron number is even ). odd – odd nuclei have even mass numbers, whereas odd – even nuclei have odd mass numbers. odd – odd primordial nuclides are rare because most odd – odd nuclei are highly unstable with respect to beta decay, because the decay products are even – even, and are therefore more strongly bound, due to nuclear pairing effects. due to the great rarity of odd – odd nuclei, almost all the primordial isotopes of the alkali metals are odd – even ( the exceptions being the light stable isotope lithium - 6 and the long - lived radioisotope potassium - 40 ). for a given odd mass number, there can be only a single beta - stable nuclide, since there is not a difference in binding energy between even – odd and odd – even comparable to that between even – even and odd – odd, leaving other nuclides of the same mass number ( isobars ) free to beta decay toward the lowest - mass nuclide. an effect of the instability of an odd number of either type of nucleons is that odd - numbered elements, such as the alkali metals, tend to have fewer stable isotopes than even - numbered elements. of the 26 monoisotopic elements that have only a single stable isotope, all but one have an odd atomic number and all but one also have an even number of neutrons. beryllium is the single exception to both rules, due to its low atomic number. all of the alkali metals except lithium and caesium have at least one naturally occurring radioisotope