many vertebrate skeletons for his museum of comparative anatomy, published over 70 research papers, and became famous for his public dissection of the tay whale. from 1822 the royal college of surgeons regulated the teaching of anatomy in medical schools. medical museums provided examples in comparative anatomy, and were often used in teaching. ignaz semmelweis investigated puerperal fever and he discovered how it was caused. he noticed that the frequently fatal fever occurred more often in mothers examined by medical students than by midwives. the students went from the dissecting room to the hospital ward and examined women in childbirth. semmelweis showed that when the trainees washed their hands in chlorinated lime before each clinical examination, the incidence of puerperal fever among the mothers could be reduced dramatically. before the modern medical era, the main means for studying the internal structures of the body were dissection of the dead and inspection, palpation and auscultation of the living. it was the advent of microscopy that opened up an understanding of the building blocks that constituted living tissues. technical advances in the development of achromatic lenses increased the resolving power of the microscope and around 1839, matthias jakob schleiden and theodor schwann identified that cells were the fundamental unit of organization of all living things. study of small structures involved passing light through them and the microtome was invented to provide sufficiently thin slices of tissue to examine. staining techniques using artificial dyes were established to help distinguish between different types of tissue. advances in the fields of histology and cytology began in the late 19th century along with advances in surgical techniques allowing for the painless and safe removal of biopsy specimens. the invention of the electron microscope brought a great advance in resolution power and allowed research into the ultrastructure of cells and the organelles and other structures within them. about the same time, in the 1950s, the use of x - ray diffraction for studying the crystal structures of proteins, nucleic acids and other biological molecules gave rise to a new field of molecular anatomy. equally important advances have occurred in non - invasive techniques for examining the interior structures of the body. x - rays can be passed through the body and used in medical radiography and fluoroscopy to differentiate interior structures that have varying degrees of opaqueness. magnetic resonance imaging, computed tomography, and ultrasound imaging have all enabled examination of internal structures in unprecedented detail to a degree far beyond the imagination of earlier generations. see also anatomical model outline