the analytical engine was a proposed mechanical general - purpose computer designed by english mathematician and computer pioneer charles babbage. it was first described in 1837 as the successor to babbage ' s difference engine, which was a design for a simpler mechanical calculator. the analytical engine incorporated an arithmetic logic unit, control flow in the form of conditional branching and loops, and integrated memory, making it the first design for a general - purpose computer that could be described in modern terms as turing - complete. in other words, the structure of the analytical engine was essentially the same as that which has dominated computer design in the electronic era. the analytical engine is one of the most successful achievements of charles babbage. babbage was never able to complete construction of any of his machines due to conflicts with his chief engineer and inadequate funding. it was not until 1941 that konrad zuse built the first general - purpose computer, z3, more than a century after babbage had proposed the pioneering analytical engine in 1837. design babbage ' s first attempt at a mechanical computing device, the difference engine, was a special - purpose machine designed to tabulate logarithms and trigonometric functions by evaluating finite differences to create approximating polynomials. construction of this machine was never completed ; babbage had conflicts with his chief engineer, joseph clement, and ultimately the british government withdrew its funding for the project. during this project, babbage realised that a much more general design, the analytical engine, was possible. the work on the design of the analytical engine started around 1833. the input, consisting of programs ( " formulae " ) and data, was to be provided to the machine via punched cards, a method being used at the time to direct mechanical looms such as the jacquard loom. for output, the machine would have a printer, a curve plotter, and a bell. the machine would also be able to punch numbers onto cards to be read in later. it employed ordinary base - 10 fixed - point arithmetic. there was to be a store ( that is, a memory ) capable of holding 1, 000 numbers of 50 decimal digits each ( ca. 16. 6 kb ). an arithmetic unit ( the " mill " ) would be able to perform all four arithmetic operations, plus comparisons and optionally square roots. initially ( 1838 ) it was conceived as a difference engine curved back upon itself, in a generally circular layout, with the long store exiting off to one side. later drawings ( 1858 )