##gera ). habitat in areas of its native habitat with mountainous fynbos flowering tends to be suppressed until after bush fires as dense overhead vegetation prevents growth. in more open sandy areas of the western cape, the plant flowers annually. plants tend to be very localized in dense concentrations due to the seeds ' large size and heavy weight. strong winds shake loose the seeds, which fall to ground and immediately start to germinate, aided by the first winter rains. ecology the leaves are produced in the autumn or early spring in warm climates depending on the onset of rain and eventually die down by late spring. the bulb is then dormant until late summer. the plant is not frost - tolerant, nor does it do well in tropical environments since they require a dry resting period between leaf growth and flower spike production. one or two leafless stems arise from the bulb in the dry ground in late summer ( march in its native habitat and august in usda zone 7 ). the plant has a symbiotic relationship with carpenter bees. it is also visited by noctuid moths at night. the relative importance of these insects as pollinators has not yet been established ; however, carpenter bees are thought to be the main pollinators of amaryllis on the cape peninsula. the plant ' s main parasite is the lily borer brithys crini and / or diaphone eumela. cultivation amaryllis belladonna was introduced into cultivation at the beginning of the eighteenth century. it reproduces slowly by either bulb division or seeds and has gradually naturalized from plantings in urban and suburban areas throughout the lower elevations and coastal areas in much of the west coast of the us since these environments mimic their native south african habitat. hardiness zones 6 – 8. it is also naturalized in australia. there is an amaryllis belladonna hybrid which was bred in the 1800s in australia. no one knows the exact species it was crossed with to produce color variations of white, cream, peach, magenta and nearly red hues. the hybrids were crossed back onto the original amaryllis belladonna and with each other to produce naturally seed - bearing crosses that come in a very wide range of flower sizes, shapes, stem heights and intensities of pink. pure white varieties with bright green stems were bred as well. the hybrids are quite distinct in that the many shades of pink also have stripes, veining, darkened edges, white centers and light yellow centers, also setting them apart from the original light pink. in addition, the