telephus a wound that would not heal ; telephus consulted an oracle, who stated that " he that wounded shall heal ". guided by the oracle, he arrived at argos, where achilles healed him in order that he might become their guide for the voyage to troy. according to other reports in euripides ' lost play about telephus, he went to aulis pretending to be a beggar and asked achilles to heal his wound. achilles refused, claiming to have no medical knowledge. alternatively, telephus held orestes for ransom, the ransom being achilles ' aid in healing the wound. odysseus reasoned that the spear had inflicted the wound ; therefore, the spear must be able to heal it. pieces of the spear were scraped off onto the wound and telephus was healed. troilus according to the cypria ( the part of the epic cycle that tells the events of the trojan war before achilles ' wrath ), when the achaeans desired to return home, they were restrained by achilles, who afterwards attacked the cattle of aeneas, sacked neighbouring cities ( like pedasus and lyrnessus, where the greeks capture the queen briseis ) and killed tenes, a son of apollo, as well as priam ' s son troilus in the sanctuary of apollo thymbraios ; however, the romance between troilus and chryseis described in geoffrey chaucer ' s troilus and criseyde and in william shakespeare ' s troilus and cressida is a medieval invention. in dares phrygius ' account of the destruction of troy, the latin summary through which the story of achilles was transmitted to medieval europe, as well as in older accounts, troilus was a young trojan prince, the youngest of king priam ' s and hecuba ' s five legitimate sons ( or according other sources, another son of apollo ). despite his youth, he was one of the main trojan war leaders, a " horse fighter " or " chariot fighter " according to homer. prophecies linked troilus ' fate to that of troy and so he was ambushed in an attempt to capture him. yet achilles, struck by the beauty of both troilus and his sister polyxena, and overcome with lust, directed his sexual attentions on the youth – who, refusing to yield, instead found himself decapitated upon an altar - omphalos of apollo thymbraios. later versions of the