locally on the island. the island was largely submerged during the miocene, leading to the formation of the reefal limestone anguilla formation, which was subsequently tectonically uplifted and covers most of the island today. since the late pleistocene, however, anguilla has undergone tectonic subsidence at a rate of around 1 - 2mm / yr. climate temperature northeastern trade winds keep this tropical island relatively cool and dry. average annual temperature is. july – october is its hottest period, december – february, its coolest. rainfall rainfall averages annually, although the figures vary from season to season and year to year. the island is subject to both sudden tropical storms and hurricanes, which occur in the period from july to november. the island suffered damage in 1995 from hurricane luis and severe flooding from hurricane lenny in 1999. governance political system anguilla is an internally self - governing overseas territory of the united kingdom. its politics take place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic dependency, whereby the premier is the head of government, and of a pluriform multi - party system. a governor is appointed by the british government to represent the king. the united nations committee on decolonization includes anguilla on the united nations list of non - self - governing territories. the territory ' s constitution is the anguilla constitutional order 1 april 1982 ( amended 1990 ). executive power is exercised by the government, with legislative power being vested in both the government and the house of assembly. the judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature. defence as a british overseas territory, the uk is responsible for anguilla ' s military defence, although there are no active garrisons or armed forces present in the territory. since 2020, the royal navy has forward - deployed the offshore patrol vessel hms medway long - term to the caribbean for patrol and sovereignty protection duties. in october 2023, the destroyer hms dauntless ( which had temporarily replaced medway on her normal caribbean tasking ), visited the territory in order to assist local authorities in preparing for the climax of the hurricane season. anguilla had a small marine police force, comprising around 32 personnel, which operated one vt halmatic m160 - class 52 - foot fast patrol boat. policing on the island is the responsibility of the royal anguilla police force. population demographics the majority of residents ( 90. 08 % ) are black, most of whom are the descendants of enslaved people transported from africa. minorities include whites at 3. 74 % and people of mixed