. the presiding judge, the deputy presiding judge and the other counselor judges of the supreme military court are appointed by the president of the republic. the composition, organization, powers and functioning of the supreme military court are established by law. military bands the faa maintains portuguese - style military bands in all three branches and in individual units. the primary band is the 100 - member music band of the presidential security household. the music band of the army command was created on 16 june 1994 and four years later, on 15 august 1998, the national air force created a music band within an artistic brigade. the navy has its own marching band, as well as a small musical group known as banda 10 de julho ( 10th july band ), based at the luanda naval base. foreign deployments the fapla ' s main counterinsurgency effort was directed against unita in the southeast, and its conventional capabilities were demonstrated principally in the undeclared south african border war. the fapla first performed its external assistance mission with the dispatch of 1, 000 to 1, 500 troops to sao tome and principe in 1977 to bolster the socialist regime of president manuel pinto da costa. during the next several years, angolan forces conducted joint exercises with their counterparts and exchanged technical operational visits. the angolan expeditionary force was reduced to about 500 in early 1985. the angolan armed forces were controversially involved in training the armed forces of fellow lusophone states cape verde and guinea - bissau. in the case of the latter, the 2012 guinea - bissau coup d ' etat was cited by the coup leaders as due to angola ' s involvement in trying to " reform " the military in connivance with the civilian leadership. a small number of faa personnel are stationed in the democratic republic of the congo ( kinshasa ). a presence during the unrest in ivory coast, 2010 – 2011, were not officially confirmed. however, the, citing jeune afrique, said that among president gbagbo ' s guards were 92 personnel of president dos santos ' s presidential guard unit. angola is basically interested in the participation of the faa operations of the african union and has formed special units for this purpose. in 2021, the angolan parliament approved integration of faa into southern african development community ( sadc ) ' s mission for peace in cabo delgado, mozambique. angola sent a team of 20 officers to participate. references further reading human rights watch, angola unravels : the rise and fall of the lusaka peace process, october