algae (, ; : alga ) is an informal term for a large and diverse group of photosynthetic, eukaryotic organisms. it is a polyphyletic grouping that includes species from multiple distinct clades. included organisms range from unicellular microalgae, such as chlorella, prototheca and the diatoms, to multicellular forms, such as the giant kelp, a large brown alga which may grow up to in length. most are aquatic and lack many of the distinct cell and tissue types, such as stomata, xylem and phloem that are found in land plants. the largest and most complex marine algae are called seaweeds, while the most complex freshwater forms are the charophyta, a division of green algae which includes, for example, spirogyra and stoneworts. algae that are carried by water are plankton, specifically phytoplankton. algae constitute a polyphyletic group since they do not include a common ancestor, and although their plastids seem to have a single origin, from cyanobacteria, they were acquired in different ways. green algae are examples of algae that have primary chloroplasts derived from endosymbiotic cyanobacteria. diatoms and brown algae are examples of algae with secondary chloroplasts derived from an endosymbiotic red alga. algae exhibit a wide range of reproductive strategies, from simple asexual cell division to complex forms of sexual reproduction. algae lack the various structures that characterize land plants, such as the phyllids ( leaf - like structures ) of bryophytes, rhizoids of non - vascular plants, and the roots, leaves, and other organs found in tracheophytes ( vascular plants ). most are phototrophic, although some are mixotrophic, deriving energy both from photosynthesis and uptake of organic carbon either by osmotrophy, myzotrophy, or phagotrophy. some unicellular species of green algae, many golden algae, euglenids, dinoflagellates, and other algae have become heterotrophs ( also called colorless or apochlorotic algae ), sometimes parasitic, relying entirely on external energy sources and have limited or no photosynthetic apparatus. some other heterotrophic organisms, such as the apicomplexans, are also derived