##vertible affine transformation. the s - box is also chosen to avoid any fixed points ( and so is a derangement ), i. e.,, and also any opposite fixed points, i. e.,. while performing the decryption, the step ( the inverse of ) is used, which requires first taking the inverse of the affine transformation and then finding the multiplicative inverse. the step the step operates on the rows of the state ; it cyclically shifts the bytes in each row by a certain offset. for aes, the first row is left unchanged. each byte of the second row is shifted one to the left. similarly, the third and fourth rows are shifted by offsets of two and three respectively. in this way, each column of the output state of the step is composed of bytes from each column of the input state. the importance of this step is to avoid the columns being encrypted independently, in which case aes would degenerate into four independent block ciphers. the step in the step, the four bytes of each column of the state are combined using an invertible linear transformation. the function takes four bytes as input and outputs four bytes, where each input byte affects all four output bytes. together with, provides diffusion in the cipher. during this operation, each column is transformed using a fixed matrix ( matrix left - multiplied by column gives new value of column in the state ) : matrix multiplication is composed of multiplication and addition of the entries. entries are bytes treated as coefficients of polynomial of order. addition is simply xor. multiplication is modulo irreducible polynomial. if processed bit by bit, then, after shifting, a conditional xor with 1b16 should be performed if the shifted value is larger than ff16 ( overflow must be corrected by subtraction of generating polynomial ). these are special cases of the usual multiplication in. in more general sense, each column is treated as a polynomial over and is then multiplied modulo with a fixed polynomial. the coefficients are displayed in their hexadecimal equivalent of the binary representation of bit polynomials from. the step can also be viewed as a multiplication by the shown particular mds matrix in the finite field. this process is described further in the article rijndael mixcolumns. the in the step, the subkey is combined with the state. for each round, a subkey is derived from the main key using rijndael ' s key schedule ; each subkey is