experienced in a trance. in march olsen became pregnant, and hirsig was called to take care of her ; she miscarried, following which crowley took olsen back to france. hirsig later distanced herself from crowley, who then denounced her. according to crowley, reuss had named him head of the o. t. o. upon his death, but this was challenged by a leader of the german o. t. o., heinrich tranker. tranker called the hohenleuben conference in thuringia, germany, which crowley attended. there, prominent members like karl germer and martha kuntzel championed crowley ' s leadership, but other key figures like albin grau, oskar hopfer, and henri birven backed tranker by opposing it, resulting in a split in the o. t. o. moving to paris, where he broke with olsen in 1926, crowley went through a large number of lovers over the following years, with whom he experimented in sex magic. throughout, he was dogged by poor health, largely caused by his heroin and cocaine addictions. in 1928, crowley was introduced to young englishman israel regardie, who embraced thelema and became crowley ' s secretary for the next three years. that year, crowley also met gerald yorke, who began organising crowley ' s finances but never became a thelemite. he also befriended the journalist tom driberg ; driberg did not accept thelema either. it was here that crowley also published one of his most significant works, magick in theory and practice, which received little attention at the time. in december 1928 crowley met the nicaraguan maria teresa sanchez ( maria teresa ferrari de miramar ). crowley was deported from france by the authorities, who disliked his reputation and feared that he was a german agent. so that she could join him in britain, crowley married sanchez in august 1929. now based in london, mandrake press agreed to publish his autobiography in a limited edition six - volume set, also publishing his novel moonchild and book of short stories the stratagem. mandrake went into liquidation in november 1930, before the entirety of crowley ' s confessions could be published. mandrake ' s owner p. r. stephenson meanwhile wrote the legend of aleister crowley, an analysis of the media coverage surrounding him. berlin and london : 1930 – 1938 in april 1930, crowley moved to berlin, where he took hanni jaegar as his magical partner ; the relationship was troubled