, and the two began discussing their common interest in alchemy. back in london, baker introduced crowley to george cecil jones, baker ' s brother - in - law and a fellow member of the occult society known as the hermetic order of the golden dawn, which had been founded in 1888. crowley was initiated into the outer order of the golden dawn on 18 november 1898 by the group ' s leader, samuel liddell macgregor mathers. the ceremony took place in the golden dawn ' s isis - urania temple held at london ' s mark masons hall, where crowley took the magical motto and name " frater perdurabo ", which he interpreted as " i shall endure to the end ". crowley moved into his own luxury flat at 67 – 69 chancery lane and soon invited a senior golden dawn member, allan bennett, to live with him as his personal magical tutor. bennett taught crowley more about ceremonial magic and the ritual use of drugs, and together they performed the rituals of the goetia, until bennett left for south asia to study buddhism. in november 1899, crowley purchased boleskine house in foyers on the shore of loch ness in scotland. he developed a love of scottish culture, describing himself as the " laird of boleskine ", and took to wearing traditional highland dress, even during visits to london. he continued writing poetry, publishing jezebel and other tragic poems, tales of archais, songs of the spirit, appeal to the american republic, and jephthah in 1898 – 99 ; most gained mixed reviews from literary critics, although jephthah was considered a particular critical success. crowley soon progressed through the lower grades of the golden dawn, and was ready to enter the group ' s inner second order. he was unpopular in the group ; his bisexuality and libertine lifestyle had gained him a bad reputation, and he had developed feuds with some of the members, including w. b. yeats. when the golden dawn ' s london lodge refused to initiate crowley into the second order, he visited mathers in paris, who personally admitted him into the adeptus minor grade. a schism had developed between mathers and the london members of the golden dawn, who were unhappy with his autocratic rule. acting under mathers ' orders, crowley — with the help of his mistress and fellow initiate elaine simpson — attempted to seize the vault of the adepts, a temple space at 36 blythe road in west kensington, from the london