from sugar. today, a soft version is sold under the same name which follows an entirely different recipe. asteroid 274835 aachen, discovered by amateur astronomer erwin schwab in 2009, was named after the city. the official was published by the minor planet center on 8 november 2019 ( ). kammerchor carmina mundi, a professional chamber choir education rwth aachen university, established as polytechnicum in 1870, is one of germany ' s universities of excellence with strong emphasis on technological research, especially for electrical and mechanical engineering, computer sciences, physics, and chemistry. the university clinic attached to the rwth, the klinikum aachen, is the biggest single - building hospital in europe. over time, a host of software and computer industries have developed around the university. it also maintains a botanical garden ( the botanischer garten aachen ). fh aachen, aachen university of applied sciences ( acuas ) was founded in 1971. the acuas offers a classic engineering education in professions such as mechatronics, construction engineering, mechanical engineering or electrical engineering. german and international students are educated in more than 20 international or foreign - oriented programmes and can acquire german as well as international degrees ( bachelor / master ) or doppelabschlusse ( double degrees ). foreign students account for more than 21 % of the student body. the katholische hochschule nordrhein - westfalen – abteilung aachen ( catholic university of applied sciences northrhine - westphalia – aachen department ) offers its some 750 students a variety of degree programmes : social work, childhood education, nursing, and co - operative management. it also has the only programme of study in germany especially designed for mothers. the ( cologne university of music ) is one of the world ' s foremost performing arts schools and one of the largest music institutions for higher education in europe with one of its three campuses in aachen. the aachen campus substantially contributes to the opera / musical theatre master ' s programme by collaborating with the theater aachen and the recently established musical theatre chair through the rheinische opernakademie. the german army ' s technical school ( ausbildungszentrum technik landsysteme ) is in aachen. sports the annual chio ( short for the french term concours hippique international officiel ) is the biggest equestrian meeting of the world and among horsemen is considered to be as prestigious for equitation as the tournament of wimbledon for tennis. aachen hosted the 2006