##a described this salt as forming clear crystals that could be used for cooking and that were essentially rock salt. hammoniacus sal appears in the writings of pliny, although it is not known whether the term is identical with the more modern sal ammoniac ( ammonium chloride ). the fermentation of urine by bacteria produces a solution of ammonia ; hence fermented urine was used in classical antiquity to wash cloth and clothing, to remove hair from hides in preparation for tanning, to serve as a mordant in dying cloth, and to remove rust from iron. it was also used by ancient dentists to wash teeth. in the form of sal ammoniac ( نشادر, nushadir ), ammonia was important to the muslim alchemists. it was mentioned in the book of stones, likely written in the 9th century and attributed to jabir ibn hayyan. it was also important to the european alchemists of the 13th century, being mentioned by albertus magnus. it was also used by dyers in the middle ages in the form of fermented urine to alter the colour of vegetable dyes. in the 15th century, basilius valentinus showed that ammonia could be obtained by the action of alkalis on sal ammoniac. at a later period, when sal ammoniac was obtained by distilling the hooves and horns of oxen and neutralizing the resulting carbonate with hydrochloric acid, the name ' spirit of hartshorn ' was applied to ammonia. gaseous ammonia was first isolated by joseph black in 1756 by reacting sal ammoniac ( ammonium chloride ) with calcined magnesia ( magnesium oxide ). it was isolated again by peter woulfe in 1767, by carl wilhelm scheele in 1770 and by joseph priestley in 1773 and was termed by him ' alkaline air '. eleven years later in 1785, claude louis berthollet ascertained its composition. the haber – bosch process to produce ammonia from the nitrogen in the air was developed by fritz haber and carl bosch in 1909 and patented in 1910. it was first used on an industrial scale in germany during world war i, following the allied blockade that cut off the supply of nitrates from chile. the ammonia was used to produce explosives to sustain war efforts. before the availability of natural gas, hydrogen as a precursor to ammonia production was produced via the electrolysis of water or using the chloralkali process. with the advent of the steel industry in the 20th century, ammonia