bishop of urgell and approving the king ' s constitution on 10 july. he was arrested by the co - prince and bishop justi guitart i vilardebo and their authorities on 20 july and ultimately expelled from spain. from 1936 until 1940, a french military detachment of garde mobile led by well - known colonel rene - jules baulard was garrisoned in andorra to secure the principality against disruption from the spanish civil war and francoist spain and also face the rise of republicanism in the aftermath of the 1933 revolution. during the spanish civil war, the inhabitants of andorra welcomed refugees from both sides, and many of them settled permanently in the country thus contributing to the subsequent economic boom and the entry into the capitalist era of andorra. francoist troops reached the andorran border in the later stages of the war. during world war ii, andorra remained neutral and was an important smuggling route between vichy france and francoist spain. many andorrans criticized the passivity of the general council for impeding both the entry and expulsion of foreigners and refugees, committing economic crimes, reducing the rights of citizens and sympathy with francoism. general council members justified the council ' s political and diplomatic actions as necessary for andorra ' s survival and the protection of its sovereignty. andorra was relatively unscathed by the two world wars and the spanish civil war. certain groups formed to help victims of oppression in nazi - occupied countries, while participating in smuggling to help andorra survive. among the most prominent was the hostal palanques evasion network command, which, in contact with the british mi6, helped almost 400 fugitives, among whom were allied military personnel. the command remained active between 1941 and 1944, although there were struggles with pro - axis informers and gestapo agents in andorra. in the capital city there was a smuggling black market of propaganda, culture and cinematic art not favorable to totalitarian regimes, promulgated in such places as the hotel mirador or the casino hotel, as a meeting place for free french forces and a route for escorting crashed allied pilots out of europe. the network was maintained after the war, when film societies were formed, where movies, music and books censored in franco ' s spain were imported, becoming an anti - censorship attraction for the catalan or foreign public even within andorra. andorran group ( agrupament andorra ), an anti - fascist organization linked to the occitanie ' s french resistance, accused the french representative ( veguer ) of