bolsheviks on 17 july 1918. the animals revolt after jones goes on a drinking binge, returns hungover the following day and neglects them completely. jones is married, but his wife plays no active role in the book. she seems to live with her husband ' s drunkenness, going to bed while he stays up drinking until late into the night. in her only other appearance, she hastily throws a few things into a travel bag and flees when she sees that the animals are revolting. towards the end of the book, napoleon ' s " favourite sow " wears her old sunday dress. mr. frederick – the tough owner of pinchfield farm, a small but well - kept neighbouring farm, who briefly allies with napoleon. animal farm shares land boundaries with pinchfield on one side and foxwood on another, making animal farm a " buffer zone " between the two bickering farmers. the animals of animal farm are terrified of frederick, as rumours abound of him abusing his animals and entertaining himself with cockfighting. napoleon allies with frederick to sell surplus timber that pilkington also sought, but is enraged to learn frederick paid him in counterfeit money. shortly after the swindling, frederick and his men invade animal farm, killing many animals and destroying the windmill. the brief alliance and subsequent invasion may allude to the molotov – ribbentrop pact and operation barbarossa. mr. pilkington – the easy - going but crafty and well - to - do owner of foxwood farm, a large neighbouring farm overgrown with weeds. pilkington is wealthier than frederick and owns more land, but his farm needs care as opposed to frederick ' s smaller but more efficiently run farm. although on bad terms with frederick, pilkington is also concerned about the animal revolution that deposed jones and is worried that this could also happen to him. mr. whymper – a man hired by napoleon to act as the liaison between animal farm and human society. at first, he acquires necessities that cannot be produced on the farm, such as dog biscuits and paraffin wax, but later he procures luxuries like alcohol for the pigs. equines boxer – a loyal, kind, dedicated, extremely strong, hard - working, and respectable cart - horse, although quite naive and gullible. boxer does a large share of the physical labour on the farm. he is shown to hold the belief that " napoleon is always right ". at one point, he challenged sque