branded as outlaws and deprived of their property and, for those who failed to escape, their lives. this decree issued by the triumvirate was motivated in part by a need to raise money to pay the salaries of their troops for the upcoming conflict against caesar ' s assassins, marcus junius brutus and gaius cassius longinus. rewards for their arrest gave incentive for romans to capture those proscribed, while the assets and properties of those arrested were seized by the triumvirs. contemporary roman historians provide conflicting reports as to which triumvir was most responsible for the proscriptions and killing. however, the sources agree that enacting the proscriptions was a means by all three factions to eliminate political enemies. marcus velleius paterculus asserted that octavian tried to avoid proscribing officials whereas lepidus and antony were to blame for initiating them. cassius dio defended octavian as trying to spare as many as possible, whereas antony and lepidus, being older and involved in politics longer, had many more enemies to deal with. this claim was rejected by appian, who maintained that octavian shared an equal interest with lepidus and antony in eradicating his enemies. suetonius said that octavian was reluctant to proscribe officials but did pursue his enemies with more vigor than the other triumvirs. plutarch described the proscriptions as a ruthless and cutthroat swapping of friends and family among antony, lepidus, and octavian. for example, octavian allowed the proscription of his ally cicero, antony the proscription of his maternal uncle lucius julius caesar ( the consul of 64 bc ), and lepidus his brother paullus. battle of philippi and division of territory on 1 january 42 bc, the senate posthumously recognized julius caesar as a divinity of the roman state, divus iulius. octavian was able to further his cause by emphasizing the fact that he was divi filius, " son of the divine ". antony and octavian then sent twenty - eight legions by sea to face the armies of brutus and cassius, who had built their base of power in greece. after two battles at philippi in macedonia in october 42, the caesarian army was victorious and brutus and cassius committed suicide. mark antony later used the examples of these battles as a means to belittle octavian, as both battles were decisively won with the use of antony ' s forces. in