of the tomb of avner ben ner or understanding uzis whims | url = http : / / davidwilder. blogspot. co. il / 1997 / 05 / mystery - of - tomb - of - avner - ben - ner - or. html | website = davidwilder. blogspot. co. il | date = 20 may 1997 | access - date = 6 january 2016 } } < / ref > and eventually arrangements were made to have the site open to the general public on ten days throughout the year corresponding to the ten days that the isaac hall of the cave of the patriarchs is open. in early 2007 new mezuzot were affixed to the entrance of the site. in popular culture 1960, david and goliath ( film ) – abner is portrayed by massimo serato. in this version, abner tries to murder david ( ivica pajer ) when he returns in triumph after killing goliath. however, here abner is slain by king saul ( orson welles ). 1961, a story of david ( film ) – abner is portrayed by welsh actor david davies. 1976, the story of david ( television series ) – younger version of abner is portrayed by israeli actor yehuda efroni. older version of abner is portrayed by british actor brian blessed. 1985, king david ( film ) – abner is portrayed by english actor john castle. king david portrayed by richard gere. 1997, king david ( musical ) – written by tim rice and alan menken. abner is portrayed by american actor timothy shew. 1997, david ( television drama ) – abner is portrayed by richard ashcroft. 2009, kings ( television series ) – abner portrayed by wes studi as general linus abner. the series is set in a multi - ethnic western culture similar to that in the present - day united states, but with characters drawn from the bible. 2012, rei davi ( brazilian television series ) – abner is portrayed by iran malfitano. notes references citations cited sources external links pictures of avner ben ner ' s tomb in hebron tomb of abner page on hebron. com website. david, abraham ( ed. ) ( 1999 ). in zion and jerusalem : the itinerary of rabbi moses basola ( 1521 – 1523 ) c. g. foundation jerusalem project publications of the martin ( szusz ) department of land of israel studies of bar - ilan university