prosecuting attorney who tried death penalty cases, arguing strongly for the death penalty to be imposed. as a young boy, tarrou attended one day of a criminal proceeding in which a man was on trial for his life. however, the idea of capital punishment disgusted him. after he left home before 18, his main interest in life was his opposition to the death penalty, which he regarded as state - sponsored murder. however, years of activism have left him disillusioned. when the plague epidemic is virtually over, tarrou becomes one of its last victims but puts up a heroic struggle before dying. raymond rambert : raymond rambert is a journalist who is visiting oran to research a story on the standards of living in the arab colony of oran. when the plague strikes, he finds himself trapped in a city with which he feels he has no connection. he misses his girlfriend who is in paris and uses all his ingenuity and resourcefulness to persuade the city bureaucracy to allow him to leave. when that fails, he contacts smugglers, who agree to help him escape for a fee of ten thousand francs. however, there is a hitch in the arrangements, and by the time another escape plan is arranged, rambert has changed his mind. he decides to stay in the city and continue to help fight the plague, saying that he would feel ashamed of himself if he pursued a merely private happiness. he now feels that he belongs in oran, and that the plague is everyone ' s business, including his. joseph grand : joseph grand is a fifty - year - old clerk for the city government. he is tall and thin. poorly paid, he lives an austere life, but he is capable of deep affection. in his spare time, grand polishes up his latin, and he is also writing a book, but he is such a perfectionist that he continually rewrites the first sentence and can get no further. one of his problems in life is that he can rarely find the correct words to express what he means. grand tells rieux that he married while still in his teens, but overwork and poverty took their toll ( grand did not receive the career advancement that he had been promised ), and his wife jeanne left him. he tried but failed to write a letter to her, and he still grieves for his loss. grand is a neighbor of cottard, and it is he who calls rieux for help, when cottard tries to commit suicide. when the plague takes a grip