albert of brandenburg ( ; 28 june 149024 september 1545 ) was a german cardinal, elector, archbishop of mainz from 1514 to 1545, and archbishop of magdeburg from 1513 to 1545. through his notorious sale of indulgences, he became the catalyst for martin luther ' s reformation and its staunch opponent. biography career born in colln on the spree, now a central part of berlin, into the ruling house of hohenzollern, albert was the younger son of john cicero, elector of brandenburg and margaret of thuringia. after their father ' s death in 1499, albert ' s older brother joachim i nestor became elector of brandenburg while albert held only the title of a margrave of brandenburg. albert studied at the university of frankfurt ( oder ), and in 1513 became archbishop of magdeburg at the age of 23 and administrator of the diocese of halberstadt. in 1514 he was also elected archbishop of mainz and thus sovereign of the electorate of mainz and archchancellor of the holy roman empire. by electing him, the mainz cathedral chapter hoped for the support of the elector of brandenburg in defending the city of erfurt, which belonged to the archbishopric of mainz, against the expansionist efforts of the neighboring saxon dukes. however, this choice violated the canonical prohibition to hold more than one bishopric. albert also did not meet the requirements for taking over any diocese, since he had not yet reached the age, and he didn ' t have a college degree ; therefore he received a study dispensation in 1513. albert borrowed 20, 000 guilders from jacob fugger to pay the confirmation fee to the roman curia ( see : simony ). in 1514 albert suggested to pope leo x that a special indulgence be announced in his three dioceses as well as in his native diocese of brandenburg and that half of the income should be used for the construction of the new st. peter ' s basilica and half for albert ' s own cash register. the papal bull was issued on 31 march 1515. the indulgence was entrusted to albert in 1517 for publication in saxony and brandenburg. it cost him the considerable sum of ten thousand ducats, and albert employed johann tetzel for the actual preaching of the indulgence. later, martin luther addressed a letter of protest to albert concerning the conduct of tetzel. largely in reaction to tetzel ' s actions, luther wrote his famous ninety - five theses, which led