##ed. centuries of arab migration to the maghreb since the 7th century shifted the demographic scope in algeria. the majority of the population of algeria are arabs ( 75 % to 85 % of the population ). berbers who make up 15 % to 20 % of the population are divided into many groups with varying languages. the largest of these are the kabyles, who live in the kabylie region east of algiers, the chaoui of northeast algeria, the tuaregs in the southern desert and the shenwa people of north algeria. during the colonial period, there was a large ( 10 % in 1960 ) european population who became known as pied - noirs. they were primarily of french, spanish and italian origin. almost all of this population left during the war of independence or immediately after its end. languages modern standard arabic and berber are the official languages. algerian arabic ( darja ) is the language used by the majority of the population. colloquial algerian arabic has some berber loanwords which represent 8 % to 9 % of its vocabulary. berber has been recognised as a " national language " by the constitutional amendment of 8 may 2002. kabyle, the predominant berber language, is taught and is partially co - official ( with a few restrictions ) in parts of kabylie. kabyle has a significant arabic, french, latin, greek, phoenician and punic substratum, and arabic loanwords represent 35 % of the total kabyle vocabulary. in february 2016, the algerian constitution passed a resolution that made berber an official language alongside arabic. although french has no official status in algeria, it has one of the largest francophone populations in the world, and french is widely used in government, media ( newspapers, radio, local television ), and both the education system ( from primary school onwards ) and academia due to algeria ' s colonial history. it can be regarded as a lingua franca of algeria. in 2008, 11. 2 million algerians could read and write in french. an abassa institute study in april 2000 found that 60 % of households could speak and understand french, or 18 million people out of a total of 30 million at the time. following a period during which the algerian government tried to phase out french, in recent decades the government has changed course and reinforced the study of french, and some television programs are broadcast in the language. algeria emerged as a bilingual state after 1962. colloquial algerian arabic is spoken by about 83 % of the population and