free heart and the ability to recite the spells, passwords, and formulae of the book of the dead. in the hall of two truths, the deceased ' s heart was weighed against the shu feather of truth and justice taken from the headdress of the goddess ma ' at. if the heart was lighter than the feather, they could pass on, but if it were heavier they would be devoured by the demon ammit. egyptians also believed that being mummified and put in a sarcophagus ( an ancient egyptian " coffin " carved with complex symbols and designs, as well as pictures and hieroglyphs ) was the only way to have an afterlife. what are referred to as the coffin texts, are inscribed on a coffin and serve as a guide for the challenges in the afterlife. the coffin texts are more or less a duplication of the pyramid texts, which would serve as a guide for egyptian pharaohs or queens in the afterlife. only if the corpse had been properly embalmed and entombed in a mastaba, could the dead live again in the fields of yalu and accompany the sun on its daily ride. due to the dangers the afterlife posed, the book of the dead was placed in the tomb with the body as well as food, jewelry, and ' curses '. they also used the " opening of the mouth ". ancient egyptian civilization was based on religion. the belief in the rebirth after death became the driving force behind funeral practices ; for them, death was a temporary interruption rather than complete cessation of life. eternal life could be ensured by means like piety to the gods, preservation of the physical form through mummification, and the provision of statuary and other funerary equipment. each human consisted of the physical body, the ka, the ba, and the akh. the name and shadow were also living entities. to enjoy the afterlife, all these elements had to be sustained and protected from harm. on 30 march 2010, a spokesman for the egyptian culture ministry claimed it had unearthed a large red granite door in luxor with inscriptions by user, a powerful adviser to the 18th dynasty queen hatshepsut who ruled between 1479 bc and 1458 bc, the longest of any woman. it believes the false door is a ' door to the afterlife '. according to the archaeologists, the door was reused in a structure in roman egypt. ancient greek and roman religions the greek god hades is known in greek mythology as the king of the underworld, a place where