conditions presenting with prominent cerebellar ataxia are amenable to specific treatment and recognition of these disorders is critical. diseases include vitamin e deficiency, abetalipoproteinemia, cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis, niemann – pick type c disease, refsum ' s disease, glucose transporter type 1 deficiency, episodic ataxia type 2, gluten ataxia, glutamic acid decarboxylase ataxia. novel therapies target the rna defects associated with cerebellar disorders, using in particular anti - sense oligonucleotides. the movement disorders associated with ataxia can be managed by pharmacological treatments and through physical therapy and occupational therapy to reduce disability. some drug treatments that have been used to control ataxia include : 5 - hydroxytryptophan ( 5 - htp ), idebenone, amantadine, physostigmine, l - carnitine or derivatives, trimethoprim / sulfamethoxazole, vigabatrin, phosphatidylcholine, acetazolamide, 4 - aminopyridine, buspirone, and a combination of coenzyme q10 and vitamin e. physical therapy requires a focus on adapting activity and facilitating motor learning for retraining specific functional motor patterns. a recent systematic review suggested that physical therapy is effective, but there is only moderate evidence to support this conclusion. the most commonly used physical therapy interventions for cerebellar ataxia are vestibular habituation, frenkel exercises, proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation ( pnf ), and balance training ; however, therapy is often highly individualized and gait and coordination training are large components of therapy. current research suggests that, if a person is able to walk with or without a mobility aid, physical therapy should include an exercise program addressing five components : static balance, dynamic balance, trunk - limb coordination, stairs, and contracture prevention. once the physical therapist determines that the individual is able to safely perform parts of the program independently, it is important that the individual be prescribed and regularly engage in a supplementary home exercise program that incorporates these components to further improve long term outcomes. these outcomes include balance tasks, gait, and individual activities of daily living. while the improvements are attributed primarily to changes in the brain and not just the hip or ankle joints, it is still unknown whether the improvements are