of the west '. as they became established in the city, other christian denominations used converted catholic chapels to conduct their own services. the oldest english - language church congregation in the world outside the united kingdom is found at the begijnhof. regular services there are still offered in english under the auspices of the church of scotland. being calvinists, the huguenots soon integrated into the dutch reformed church, though often retaining their own congregations. some, commonly referred by the moniker ' walloon ', are recognizable today as they offer occasional services in french. in the second half of the 17th century, amsterdam experienced an influx of ashkenazim, jews from central and eastern europe. jews often fled the pogroms in those areas. the first ashkenazis who arrived in amsterdam were refugees from the khmelnytsky uprising occurring in ukraine and the thirty years ' war, which devastated much of central europe. they not only founded their own synagogues, but had a strong influence on the ' amsterdam dialect ' adding a large yiddish local vocabulary. despite an absence of an official jewish ghetto, most jews preferred to live in the eastern part, which used to be the centre of medieval amsterdam. the main street of this jewish neighbourhood was jodenbreestraat. the neighbourhood comprised the waterlooplein and the nieuwmarkt. buildings in this neighbourhood fell into disrepair after the second world war a large section of the neighbourhood was demolished during the construction of the metro system. this led to riots, and as a result the original plans for large - scale reconstruction were abandoned by the government. the neighbourhood was rebuilt with smaller - scale residence buildings on the basis of its original layout. catholic churches in amsterdam have been constructed since the restoration of the episcopal hierarchy in 1853. one of the principal architects behind the city ' s catholic churches, cuypers, was also responsible for the amsterdam centraal station and the. in 1924, the catholic church hosted the international eucharistic congress in amsterdam ; numerous catholic prelates visited the city, where festivities were held in churches and stadiums. catholic processions on the public streets, however, were still forbidden under law at the time. only in the 20th century was amsterdam ' s relation to catholicism normalised, but despite its far larger population size, the episcopal see of the city was placed in the provincial town of haarlem. historically, amsterdam has been predominantly christian, in 1900 christians formed the largest religious group in the city ( 70 % of the population ), dutch reformed church formed 45