work, using a liquid transmitter similar to gray ' s design. vibration of the diaphragm caused a needle to vibrate in the water, varying the electrical resistance in the circuit. when bell spoke the sentence " mr. watson — come here — i want to see you " into the liquid transmitter, watson, listening at the receiving end in an adjoining room, heard the words clearly. although bell was, and still is, accused of stealing the telephone from gray, bell used gray ' s water transmitter design only after bell ' s patent had been granted, and only as a proof of concept scientific experiment, to prove to his own satisfaction that intelligible " articulate speech " ( bell ' s words ) could be electrically transmitted. after march 1876, bell focused on improving the electromagnetic telephone and never used gray ' s liquid transmitter in public demonstrations or commercial use. the question of priority for the variable resistance feature of the telephone was raised by the examiner before he approved bell ' s patent application. he told bell that his claim for the variable resistance feature was also described in gray ' s caveat. bell pointed to a variable resistance device in his previous application in which he described a cup of mercury, not water. he had filed the mercury application at the patent office a year earlier on february 25, 1875, long before elisha gray described the water device. in addition, gray abandoned his caveat, and because he did not contest bell ' s priority, the examiner approved bell ' s patent on march 3, 1876. gray had reinvented the variable resistance telephone, but bell was the first to write down the idea and the first to test it in a telephone. the patent examiner, zenas fisk wilber, later stated in an affidavit that he was an alcoholic who was much in debt to bell ' s lawyer, marcellus bailey, with whom he had served in the civil war. he claimed he showed gray ' s patent caveat to bailey. wilber also claimed ( after bell arrived in washington d. c. from boston ) that he showed gray ' s caveat to bell and that bell paid him $ 100 ( ). bell claimed they discussed the patent only in general terms, although in a letter to gray, bell admitted that he learned some of the technical details. bell denied in an affidavit that he ever gave wilber any money. later developments on march 10, 1876, bell used " the instrument " in boston to call thomas watson who was in another room but out of earshot