, for instance, cs stands for [ tʃ ], sz for [ s ], zs for [ ʒ ], dzs for [ dʒ ] ). a language may represent the same phoneme with two or more different letters or combinations of letters. an example is modern greek which may write the phoneme in six different ways :,,,,, and. a language may spell some words with unpronounced letters that exist for historical or other reasons. for example, the spelling of the thai word for " beer " [ ] retains a letter for the final consonant " r " present in the english word it borrows, but silences it. pronunciation of individual words may change according to the presence of surrounding words in a sentence, for example, in sandhi. different dialects of a language may use different phonemes for the same word. a language may use different sets of symbols or rules for distinct vocabulary items, typically for foreign words, such as in the japanese katakana syllabary is used for foreign words, and there are rules in english for using loanwords from other languages. national languages sometimes elect to address the problem of dialects by associating the alphabet with the national standard. some national languages like finnish, armenian, turkish, russian, serbo - croatian ( serbian, croatian, and bosnian ), and bulgarian have a very regular spelling system with nearly one - to - one correspondence between letters and phonemes. similarly, the italian verb corresponding to ' spell ( out ), ' compitare, is unknown to many italians because spelling is usually trivial, as italian spelling is highly phonemic. in standard spanish, one can tell the pronunciation of a word from its spelling, but not vice versa, as phonemes sometimes can be represented in more than one way, but a given letter is consistently pronounced. french using silent letters, nasal vowels, and elision, may seem to lack much correspondence between the spelling and pronunciation. however, its rules on pronunciation, though complex, are consistent and predictable with a fair degree of accuracy. at the other extreme are languages such as english, where pronunciations mostly have to be memorized as they do not correspond to the spelling consistently. for english, this is because the great vowel shift occurred after the orthography got established and because english has acquired a large number of loanwords at different times, retaining their original spelling at varying levels. however, even english has general, albeit complex, rules that predict pronunciation from spelling. rules like this are