. they are pronounced in adverbial accusative formations, e. g., تقريبا ' almost, approximately ', عادة ' usually '. the taʾ marbutah ending ة is unpronounced, except in construct state nouns, where it sounds as t and in adverbial accusative constructions, e. g., عادة ' usually ', where the entire - tan is pronounced. the masculine singular nisbah ending is pronounced and is unstressed, but plural and feminine singular forms, i. e. when followed by a suffix, still sound as. full endings, including case endings, occur when a clitic object or possessive suffix is added, e. g., ' us / our '. informal short pronunciation this is the pronunciation used by speakers of modern standard arabic in extemporaneous speech, i. e. when producing new sentences rather than reading a prepared text. it is similar to formal short pronunciation except that the rules for dropping final vowels apply even when a clitic suffix is added. basically, short - vowel case and mood endings are never pronounced and certain other changes occur that echo the corresponding colloquial pronunciations. specifically : all the rules for formal short pronunciation apply, except as follows. the past tense singular endings written formally as - tu - ta - ti are pronounced - t - t - ti. but masculine is pronounced in full. unlike in formal short pronunciation, the rules for dropping or modifying final endings are also applied when a clitic object or possessive suffix is added ( e. g., ' us / our ' ). if this produces a sequence of three consonants, then one of the following happens, depending on the speaker ' s native colloquial variety : a short vowel ( e. g., - i - or - - ) is consistently added, either between the second and third or the first and second consonants. or, a short vowel is added only if an otherwise unpronounceable sequence occurs, typically due to a violation of the sonority hierarchy ( e. g., - rtn - is pronounced as a three - consonant cluster, but - trn - needs to be broken up ). or, a short vowel is never added, but consonants like r l m n occurring between two other consonants will be pronounced as a syllabic consonant, as in the english words " butter bottle bottom button ". when a doubled consonant occurs before another consonant, or