music hall and the p & j live. dialect the local dialect of lowland scots is often known as doric and is spoken not just in the city, but across the northeast of scotland. it differs somewhat from other scots dialects : most noticeable are the pronunciation " f " for what is normally written " wh " and " ee " for what in standard english would usually be written " oo " ( scots " ui " ). every year the annual doric festival takes place in aberdeenshire to celebrate the history of the north - east ' s language. media aberdeen is home to scotland ' s oldest newspaper the press and journal, a local and regional newspaper first published in 1747. the press and journal and its sister paper the tabloid evening express are printed six days a week by aberdeen journals. there was one free newspaper, the aberdeen citizen. bbc scotland has a network studio production base in the city ' s beechgrove area, and bbc aberdeen produces the beechgrove potting shed for radio while tern television produces the beechgrove garden. the city is also home to stv north ( formerly grampian television ), which produces the regional news programmes such as stv news at six, as well as local commercials. the station, based at craigshaw business park in tullos, was based at larger studios in queens cross from september 1961 until june 2003. there are three commercial radio stations operating in the city, northsound 1, greatest hits radio north east scotland, and independent station original 106. other radio stations include necr fm ( north - east community radio fm ) dab station, and shmu fm managed by station house media unit which supports community members to run aberdeen ' s full - time community radio station, broadcasting on 99. 8 mhz fm. food the aberdeen region has given its name to a number of dishes, including the aberdeen buttery ( also known as " rowie " ) and aberdeen sausage. in 2015, a study was published in the scotsman which analysed the presence of branded fast food outlets in scotland. of the ten towns and cities analysed, aberdeen was found to have the lowest per capita concentration, with just 0. 12 stores per 1, 000 inhabitants. sport football the first ever recorded game of football, was outlined by teacher david wedderburn in his book " vocabula " written in 1633, during his time teaching at aberdeen grammar school. there are two aberdeen - based football clubs in the spfl, the senior branch of scottish football. aberdeen f. c. (