in melbourne, the group gave three concerts at the sidney myer music bowl with 14, 500 at each including the australian prime minister malcolm fraser and his family. at the first melbourne concert, an additional 16, 000 people gathered outside the fenced - off area to listen to the concert. in adelaide, the group performed one concert at football park in front of 20, 000 people, with another 10, 000 listening outside. during the first of five concerts in perth, there was a bomb scare with everyone having to evacuate the entertainment centre. the trip was accompanied by mass hysteria and unprecedented media attention ( " swedish abba stirs box - office in down under tour... and the media coverage of the quartet rivals that set to cover the upcoming royal tour of australia ", wrote variety ), and is captured on film in abba : the movie, directed by lasse hallstrom. the australian tour and its subsequent abba : the movie produced some abba lore, as well. faltskog ' s blonde good looks had long made her the band ' s " pin - up girl ", a role she disdained. during the australian tour, she performed in a skin - tight white jumpsuit, causing one australian newspaper to use the headline " agnetha ' s bottom tops dull show ". when asked about this at a news conference, she replied : " don ' t they have bottoms in australia? " abba : the album in december 1977, abba followed up arrival with the more ambitious fifth album, abba : the album, released to coincide with the debut of abba : the movie. although the album was less well received by uk reviewers, it did spawn more worldwide hits : " the name of the game " and " take a chance on me ", which both topped the uk charts and racked up impressive sales in most countries, although " the name of the game " was generally the more successful in the nordic countries and down under, while " take a chance on me " was more successful in north america and the german - speaking countries. " the name of the game " was a number two hit in the netherlands, belgium and sweden while also making the top 5 in finland, norway, new zealand and australia, while only peaking at numbers 10, 12 and 15 in mexico, the us and canada. " take a chance on me " was a number one hit in austria, belgium and mexico, made the top 3 in the us, canada, the netherlands, germany and switzerland, while only reaching