new self - governing churches on the canadian and american models. however, the case of john colenso, bishop of natal, reinstated in 1865 by the english judicial committee of the privy council over the heads of the church in south africa, demonstrated acutely that the extension of episcopacy had to be accompanied by a recognised anglican ecclesiology of ecclesiastical authority, distinct from secular power. consequently, at the instigation of the bishops of canada and south africa, the first lambeth conference was called in 1867 ; to be followed by further conferences in 1878 and 1888, and thereafter at ten - year intervals. the various papers and declarations of successive lambeth conferences have served to frame the continued anglican debate on identity, especially as relating to the possibility of ecumenical discussion with other churches. this ecumenical aspiration became much more of a possibility, as other denominational groups rapidly followed the example of the anglican communion in founding their own transnational alliances : the alliance of reformed churches, the ecumenical methodist council, the international congregational council, and the baptist world alliance. theories anglicanism was seen as a middle way, or via media, between two branches of protestantism, lutheranism and reformed christianity. in their rejection of absolute parliamentary authority, the tractarians – and in particular john henry newman – looked back to the writings of 17th - century anglican divines, finding in these texts the idea of the english church as a via media between the protestant and catholic traditions. this view was associated – especially in the writings of edward bouverie pusey – with the theory of anglicanism as one of three " branches " ( alongside the roman catholic church and the orthodox church ) historically arising out of the common tradition of the earliest ecumenical councils. newman himself subsequently rejected his theory of the via media, as essentially historicist and static and hence unable to accommodate any dynamic development within the church. nevertheless, the aspiration to ground anglican identity in the writings of the 17th - century divines and in faithfulness to the traditions of the church fathers reflects a continuing theme of anglican ecclesiology, most recently in the writings of henry robert mcadoo. the tractarian formulation of the theory of the via media between protestantism and roman catholicism was essentially a party platform, and not acceptable to anglicans outside the confines of the oxford movement. however, this theory of the via media was reworked in the ecclesiological writings of frederick denison maurice, in a more dynamic form that became widely influential. both maurice and newman saw the church of england of their day as