preserved are easby abbey in yorkshire, and bayham old abbey in kent. the layout of easby abbey is irregular due to its position on the edge of a steep river bank. the cloister is duly placed on the south side of the church, and the chief buildings occupy their usual positions around it. however, the cloister garth ( quadrangle ), as at chichester, is not rectangular, and thus, all the surrounding buildings are positioned in an awkward fashion. the church follows the plan adopted by the austin canons in their northern abbeys, and has only one aisle to the north of the nave, while the choir is long, narrow and without an aisle. each transept has an aisle to the east, forming three chapels. the church at bayham old abbey had no aisles in the nave or the choir. the latter terminated in a three - sided apse. the church is remarkable for its extreme narrowness in proportion to its length. while the building is long, it is not more than wide. premonstratensian canons did not care to have congregations nor possessions. therefore, they built their churches in the shape of a long room. cistercian abbeys the cistercians, a benedictine reform group, were established at citeaux in 1098 ad by robert of molesme, abbot of molesme, for the purpose of restoring, as far as possible, the literal observance of the rule of saint benedict. la ferte, pontigny, clairvaux, and morimond were the first four abbeys to follow citeaux ' s example and others followed. the monks of citeaux created the well known vineyards of clos - vougeot and romanee in burgundy. the cistercian principle of rigid self - abnegation carried over to the design of the order ' s churches and buildings. the defining architectural characteristic of the cistercian abbeys was extreme simplicity and plainness. only a single, central tower was permitted, and that was usually very low. unnecessary pinnacles and turrets were prohibited. the triforium was omitted. the windows were usually plain and undivided, and it was forbidden to decorate them with stained glass. all needless ornament was proscribed. the crosses were made of wood and the candlesticks of iron. the same principle governed the choice of site for cistercian abbeys in that a most dismal site might be improved by the building of an abbey. the cistercian monasteries were founded in