generally a critique of liberal rights discourses and capitalism. iain hamphsher - monk wrote that " this work [ on the jewish question ] has been cited as evidence for marx ' s supposed anti - semitism, but only the most superficial reading of it could sustain such an interpretation. " david mclellan and francis wheen argue that readers should interpret on the jewish question in the deeper context of marx ' s debates with bruno bauer, author of the jewish question, about jewish emancipation in germany. wheen says that " those critics, who see this as a foretaste of ' mein kampf ', overlook one, essential point : in spite of the clumsy phraseology and crude stereotyping, the essay was actually written as a defense of the jews. it was a retort to bruno bauer, who had argued that jews should not be granted full civic rights and freedoms unless they were baptised as christians ". according to mclellan, marx used the word judentum colloquially, as meaning commerce, arguing that germans must be emancipated from the capitalist mode of production not judaism or jews in particular. mclellan concludes that readers should interpret the essay ' s second half as " an extended pun at bauer ' s expense ". 20th century between 1900 and 1924, approximately 1. 75 million jews migrated to america, the bulk from eastern europe escaping the pogroms. before 1900 american jews had always amounted to less than 1 % of america ' s total population, but by 1930 jews formed about 3. 5 %. this increase, combined with the upward social mobility of some jews, contributed to a resurgence of antisemitism. in the first half of the 20th century, in the us, jews were discriminated against in employment, access to residential and resort areas, membership in clubs and organizations, and in tightened quotas on jewish enrolment and teaching positions in colleges and universities. the lynching of leo frank by a mob of prominent citizens in marietta, georgia, in 1915 turned the spotlight on antisemitism in the united states. the case was also used to build support for the renewal of the ku klux klan which had been inactive since 1870. at the beginning of the 20th century, the beilis trial in russia represented modern incidents of blood - libels in europe. during the russian civil war, close to 50, 000 jews were killed in pogroms. antisemitism in america reached its peak during the interwar period. the pioneer automobile manufacturer henry ford propagated anti