of dog known for its fast speed and its long hair ; it is relatively known in the west. endemic fauna of afghanistan includes the afghan flying squirrel, afghan snowfinch, paradactylodon ( or the " paghman mountain salamander " ), stigmella kasyi, vulcaniella kabulensis, afghan leopard gecko, wheeleria parviflorellus, amongst others. endemic flora include iris afghanica. afghanistan has a wide variety of birds despite its relatively arid climate – an estimated 460 species of which 235 breed within. the forest region of afghanistan has vegetation such as pine trees, spruce trees, fir trees and larches, whereas the steppe grassland regions consist of broadleaf trees, short grass, perennial plants and shrublands. the colder high elevation regions are composed of hardy grasses and small flowering plants. several regions are designated protected areas ; there are three national parks : band - e amir, wakhan and nuristan. afghanistan had a 2018 forest landscape integrity index mean score of 8. 85 / 10, ranking it 15th globally out of 172 countries. demographics the population of afghanistan was estimated at 32. 9 million as of 2019 by the afghanistan statistics and information authority, whereas the un estimates over 38. 0 million. in 1979 the total population was reported to be about 15. 5 million. about 23. 9 % of them are urbanite, 71. 4 % live in rural areas, and the remaining 4. 7 % are nomadic. an additional 3 million or so afghans are temporarily housed in neighboring pakistan and iran, most of whom were born and raised in those two countries. as of 2013, afghanistan was the largest refugee - producing country in the world, a title held for 32 years. the current population growth rate is 2. 37 %, one of the highest in the world outside of africa. this population is expected to reach 82 million by 2050 if current population trends continue. the population of afghanistan increased steadily until the 1980s, when civil war caused millions to flee to other countries such as pakistan. millions have since returned and the war conditions contribute to the country having the highest fertility rate outside africa. afghanistan ' s healthcare has recovered since the turn of the century, causing falls in infant mortality and increases in life expectancy, although it has the lowest life expectance of any country outside africa. this ( along with other factors such as returning refugees ) caused rapid population growth in the 2000s that has only recently started to slow down. the gini coefficient in 2008 was 27. 8. ethnicity