sent the right message about the folly of secession and the continuing capacity for union within the country. " another factor was the desire of secretary of state william seward to frustrate the vice - presidential candidacy of fellow new yorker and former senator daniel s. dickinson, a war democrat, as seward would probably have had to yield his place if another new yorker became vice president. johnson, once he was told by reporters the likely purpose of sickles ' visit, was active on his own behalf, delivering speeches and having his political friends work behind the scenes to boost his candidacy. to sound a theme of unity in 1864, lincoln ran under the banner of the national union party, rather than that of the republicans. at the party ' s convention in baltimore in june, lincoln was easily nominated, although there had been some talk of replacing him with a cabinet officer or one of the more successful generals. after the convention backed lincoln, former secretary of war simon cameron offered a resolution to nominate hamlin, but it was defeated. johnson was nominated for vice president by c. m. allen of indiana with an iowa delegate seconding it. on the first ballot, johnson led with 200 votes to 150 for hamlin and 108 for dickinson. on the second ballot, kentucky switched its vote for johnson, beginning a stampede. johnson was named on the second ballot with 491 votes to hamlin ' s 17 and eight for dickinson ; the nomination was made unanimous. lincoln expressed pleasure at the result, " andy johnson, i think, is a good man. " when word reached nashville, a crowd assembled and the military governor obliged with a speech contending his selection as a southerner meant that the rebel states had not actually left the union. although it was unusual at the time for a national candidate to actively campaign, johnson gave a number of speeches in tennessee, kentucky, ohio, and indiana. he also sought to boost his chances in tennessee while reestablishing civil government by making the loyalty oath even more restrictive, in that voters would now have to swear that they opposed making a settlement with the confederacy. the democratic candidate for president, george mcclellan, hoped to avoid additional bloodshed by negotiation, and so the stricter loyalty oath effectively disenfranchised his supporters. lincoln declined to override johnson, and their ticket took the state by 25, 000 votes. congress refused to count tennessee ' s electoral votes, but lincoln and johnson did not need them, having won in most states that had voted, and easily secured the election. now vice president