##ovator, he would not always follow the absolute letter of the law ; rather he was driven by concerns over humanity and equality, and introduced into roman law many important new principles based upon this notion. in this, the emperor was assisted by five chief lawyers : lucius fulvius aburnius valens, an author of legal treatises ; lucius ulpius marcellus, a prolific writer ; and three others. of these three, the most prominent was lucius volusius maecianus, a former military officer turned by antoninus into a civil procurator, and who, in view of his subsequent career ( discovered on the basis of epigraphical and prosopographical research ), was the emperor ' s most important legal adviser. maecianus would eventually be chosen to occupy various prefectures ( see below ) as well as to conduct the legal studies of marcus aurelius. he was also the author of a large work on fidei commissa ( testamentary trusts ). as a hallmark of the increased connection between jurists and the imperial government, antoninus ' reign also saw the appearance of the institutes of gaius, an elementary legal textbook for beginners. antoninus passed measures to facilitate the enfranchisement of slaves. mostly, he favoured the principle of favor libertatis, giving the putative freedman the benefit of the doubt when the claim to freedom was not clearcut. also, he punished the killing of a slave by their master without previous trial and determined that slaves could be forcibly sold to another master by a proconsul in cases of consistent mistreatment. antoninus upheld the enforcement of contracts for selling of female slaves forbidding their further employment in prostitution. in criminal law, antoninus introduced the important principle that accused persons are not to be treated as guilty before trial, as in the case of the irenarchs ( see above ). it was to antoninus that the christian apologist justin martyr addressed his defense of the christian faith, reminding him of his father ' s ( emperor hadrian ' s ) rule that accusations against christians required proof. antoninus also asserted the principle that the trial was to be held, and the punishment inflicted, in the place where the crime had been committed. he mitigated the use of torture in examining slaves by certain limitations. thus he prohibited the application of torture to children under fourteen years, though this rule had exceptions. however, it must be stressed that antoninus extended, by means of a rescript, the use of