alter the letter ), hi ( with a subdiacritic that compresses the consonant, so it is the same height ), hə or ( where the letter is modified with a kink in the left arm ). canadian aboriginal syllabics in the family known as canadian aboriginal syllabics, which was inspired by the devanagari script of india, vowels are indicated by changing the orientation of the syllabogram. each vowel has a consistent orientation ; for example, inuktitut pi, pu, pa ; ti, tu, ta. although there is a vowel inherent in each, all rotations have equal status and none can be identified as basic. bare consonants are indicated either by separate diacritics, or by superscript versions of the aksharas ; there is no vowel - killer mark. borderline cases vowelled abjads consonantal scripts ( " abjads " ) are normally written without indication of many vowels. however, in some contexts like teaching materials or scriptures, arabic and hebrew are written with full indication of vowels via diacritic marks ( harakat, niqqud ) making them effectively alphasyllabaries. the arabic scripts used for kurdish in iraq and for uyghur in xinjiang, china, as well as the hebrew script of yiddish, are fully vowelled, but because the vowels are written with full letters rather than diacritics ( with the exception of distinguishing between / a / and / o / in the latter ) and there are no inherent vowels, these are considered alphabets, not abugidas. the arabic script used for south azerbaijani generally writes the vowel / æ / ( written as ə in north azerbaijani ) as a diacritic, but writes all other vowels as full letters ( similarly to kurdish and uyghur ). this means that when no vowel diacritics are present ( most of the time ), it technically has an inherent vowel. however, like the phagspa and meroitic scripts whose status as abugidas is controversial ( see below ), all other vowels are written in - line. additionally, the practice of explicitly writing all - but - one vowel does not apply to loanwords from arabic and persian, so the script does not have an inherent vowel for arabic and persian words. the inconsistency of its vowel notation makes it difficult to categorize. phagspa the imperial mongol script called phagspa was derived