##itude. he planned to spread the gospel by the example of his christian labour of healing, rather than through the verbal process of preaching, and believed that this service should be acceptable within any branch of christian teaching. even in his study of medicine, and through his clinical course, schweitzer pursued the ideal of the philosopher - scientist. by extreme application and hard work, he completed his studies successfully at the end of 1911. his medical degree dissertation was another work on the historical jesus, die psychiatrische beurteilung jesu. darstellung und kritik [ the psychiatric evaluation of jesus. description and criticism ] ( published in english in 1948 as the psychiatric study of jesus. exposition and criticism ). he defended jesus ' mental health in it. in june 1912, he married helene bresslau, municipal inspector for orphans and daughter of the jewish pan - germanist historian harry bresslau. in 1912, now armed with a medical degree, schweitzer made a definite proposal to go as a physician to work at his own expense in the paris missionary society ' s mission at lambarene on the ogooue river, in what is now gabon, in africa ( then a french colony ). he refused to attend a committee to inquire into his doctrine, but met each committee member personally and was at last accepted. through concerts and other fund - raising, he was ready to equip a small hospital. in early 1913, he and his wife set off to establish a hospital ( the hopital albert schweitzer ) near an existing mission post. the site was nearly 200 miles ( 14 days by raft ) upstream from the mouth of the ogooue at port gentil ( cape lopez ) ( and so accessible to external communications ), but downstream of most tributaries, so that internal communications within gabon converged towards lambarene. in the first nine months, he and his wife had about 2, 000 patients to examine, some travelling many days and hundreds of kilometres to reach him. in addition to injuries, he was often treating severe sandflea and crawcraw infections, yaws, tropical eating sores, heart disease, tropical dysentery, tropical malaria, sleeping sickness, leprosy, fevers, strangulated hernias, necrosis, abdominal tumours and chronic constipation and nicotine poisoning, while also attempting to deal with deliberate poisonings, fetishism and fear of cannibalism among the mba