gametes make physical contact and fuse to form a zygote. to ensure a successful mating, the development and release of gametes is highly synchronized and regulated ; pheromones may play a key role in these processes. sexual reproduction allows for more variation and provides the benefit of efficient recombinational repair of dna damages during meiosis, a key stage of the sexual cycle. however, sexual reproduction is more costly than asexual reproduction. meiosis has been shown to occur in many different species of algae. numbers the algal collection of the us national herbarium ( located in the national museum of natural history ) consists of approximately 320, 500 dried specimens, which, although not exhaustive ( no exhaustive collection exists ), gives an idea of the order of magnitude of the number of algal species ( that number remains unknown ). estimates vary widely. for example, according to one standard textbook, in the british isles the uk biodiversity steering group report estimated there to be 20, 000 algal species in the uk. another checklist reports only about 5, 000 species. regarding the difference of about 15, 000 species, the text concludes : " it will require many detailed field surveys before it is possible to provide a reliable estimate of the total number of species... " regional and group estimates have been made, as well : 5, 000 – 5, 500 species of red algae worldwide " some 1, 300 in australian seas " 400 seaweed species for the western coastline of south africa, and 212 species from the coast of kwazulu - natal. some of these are duplicates, as the range extends across both coasts, and the total recorded is probably about 500 species. most of these are listed in list of seaweeds of south africa. these exclude phytoplankton and crustose corallines. 669 marine species from california ( us ) 642 in the check - list of britain and ireland and so on, but lacking any scientific basis or reliable sources, these numbers have no more credibility than the british ones mentioned above. most estimates also omit microscopic algae, such as phytoplankton. the most recent estimate suggests 72, 500 algal species worldwide. distribution the distribution of algal species has been fairly well studied since the founding of phytogeography in the mid - 19th century. algae spread mainly by the dispersal of spores analogously to the dispersal of plantae by seeds and spores. this dispersal can be accomplished by air, water, or other organisms. due