him and his brothers not only to write visible speech but to identify any symbol and its accompanying sound. bell became so proficient that he became a part of his father ' s public demonstrations and astounded audiences with his abilities. he could decipher visible speech representing virtually every language, including latin, scottish gaelic, and even sanskrit, accurately reciting written tracts without any prior knowledge of their pronunciation. education as a young child, bell, like his brothers, received his early schooling at home from his father. at an early age, he was enrolled at the royal high school, edinburgh, which he left at the age of 15, having completed only the first four forms. his school record was undistinguished, marked by absenteeism and lacklustre grades. his main interest remained in the sciences, especially biology, while he treated other school subjects with indifference, to the dismay of his father. upon leaving school, bell travelled to london to live with his grandfather, alexander bell, on harrington square. during the year he spent with his grandfather, a love of learning was born, with long hours spent in serious discussion and study. the elder bell took great efforts to have his young pupil learn to speak clearly and with conviction, the attributes that his pupil would need to become a teacher himself. at the age of 16, bell secured a position as a " pupil - teacher " of elocution and music, in weston house academy at elgin, moray, scotland. although he was enrolled as a student in latin and greek, he instructed classes himself in return for board and £10 per session. the following year, he attended the university of edinburgh, joining his older brother melville who had enrolled there the previous year. in 1868, not long before he departed for canada with his family, bell completed his matriculation exams and was accepted for admission to university college london. first experiments with sound his father encouraged bell ' s interest in speech and, in 1863, took his sons to see a unique automaton developed by sir charles wheatstone based on the earlier work of baron wolfgang von kempelen. the rudimentary " mechanical man " simulated a human voice. bell was fascinated by the machine and after he obtained a copy of von kempelen ' s book, published in german, and had laboriously translated it, he and his older brother melville built their own automaton head. their father, highly interested in their project, offered to pay for any supplies and spurred the boys on with the enticement of a "