abner doubleday ( june 26, 1819 – january 26, 1893 ) was a career united states army officer and union major general in the american civil war. he fired the first shot in defense of fort sumter, the opening battle of the war, and had a pivotal role in the early fighting at the battle of gettysburg. gettysburg was his finest hour, but his relief by maj. gen. george g. meade caused lasting enmity between the two men. in san francisco, after the war, he obtained a patent on the cable car railway that still runs there. in his final years in new jersey, he was a prominent member and later president of the theosophical society. in 1908, 15 years after his death, the mills commission declared that doubleday had invented the game of baseball, although doubleday never made such a claim. this claim has been thoroughly debunked by baseball historians. early years doubleday, the son of ulysses f. doubleday and hester donnelly, was born in ballston spa, new york, in a small house on the corner of washington and fenwick streets. as a child, abner was very short. the family all slept in the attic loft of the one - room house. his paternal grandfather, also named abner, had fought in the american revolutionary war. his maternal grandfather thomas donnelly had joined the army at 14 and was a mounted messenger for george washington. his great grandfather peter donnelly was a minuteman. his father, ulysses f., fought in the war of 1812, published newspapers and books, and represented auburn, new york, for four years in the united states congress. abner spent his childhood in auburn and later was sent to cooperstown to live with his uncle and attend a private preparatory high school. he practiced as a surveyor and civil engineer for two years before entering the united states military academy in 1838. he graduated in 1842, 24th in a class of 56 cadets, and was commissioned a brevet second lieutenant in the 3rd u. s. artillery. in 1852, he married mary hewitt of baltimore, the daughter of a local lawyer. early commands and fort sumter doubleday initially served in coastal garrisons and then in the mexican – american war from 1846 to 1848 and the seminole wars from 1856 to 1858. in 1858, he was transferred to fort moultrie in charleston harbor serving under colonel john l. gardner. by the start of the civil war, he was a captain and second in command in the garrison at fort sumter, under major