( right argument : 40 in this case ), which, if said maximum ≥ vector length, is guaranteed to be non - repeating ; thus, generate / create 6 random integers ranging from 1 to 40. this vector is then assigned ( ← ) to the variable x, because it is needed later. this vector is then sorted in ascending order by a monadic function, which has as its right argument everything to the right of it up to the next unbalanced close - bracket or close - parenthesis. the result of is the indices that will put its argument into ascending order. then the output of is used to index the variable x, which we saved earlier for this purpose, thereby selecting its items in ascending sequence. since there is no function to the left of the left - most x to tell apl what to do with the result, it simply outputs it to the display ( on a single line, separated by spaces ) without needing any explicit instruction to do that.? also has a monadic equivalent called roll, which simply returns one random integer between 1 and its sole operand [ to the right of it ], inclusive. thus, a role - playing game program might use the expression? 20 to roll a twenty - sided die. prime numbers the following expression finds all prime numbers from 1 to r. in both time and space, the calculation complexity is ( in big o notation ). ( ~. ×r ) / executed from right to left, this means : iota creates a vector containing integers from 1 to r ( if r = 6 at the start of the program, is 1 2 3 4 5 6 ) drop first element of this vector ( ↓ function ), i. e., 1. so is 2 3 4 5 6 set r to the new vector ( ←, assignment primitive ), i. e., 2 3 4 5 6 the / replicate operator is dyadic ( binary ) and the interpreter first evaluates its left argument ( fully in parentheses ) : generate outer product of r multiplied by r, i. e., a matrix that is the multiplication table of r by r ( °. × operator ), i. e., build a vector the same length as r with 1 in each place where the corresponding number in r is in the outer product matrix ( ∈, set inclusion or element of or epsilon operator ), i. e., 0 0 1 0 1 logically negate ( not ) values in the vector ( change zeros to