in paris, effective the following day on september 3, 1783, when britain signed its treaty with france. john adams, who helped draft the treaty, claimed it represented " one of the most important political events that ever happened on the globe ". ratified respectively by congress and parliament, the final versions were exchanged in paris the following spring. on november 25, the last british troops remaining in the u. s. were evacuated from new york to halifax. aftermath washington expressed astonishment that the americans had won a war against a leading world power, referring to the american victory as " little short of a standing miracle ". the conflict between british subjects with the crown against those with the congress had lasted over eight years from 1775 to 1783. the last uniformed british troops departed their last east coast port cities in savannah, charleston, and new york city, by november 25, 1783, which marked the end of british occupation in the new united states. on april 9, 1783, washington issued orders that he had long waited to give, that " all acts of hostility " were to cease immediately. that same day, by arrangement with washington, general guy carleton issued a similar order to british troops. british troops, however, were not to evacuate until a prisoner of war exchange occurred, an effort that involved much negotiation and would take some seven months to effect. as directed by a congressional resolution of may 26, 1783, all non - commissioned officers and enlisted were furloughed " to their homes " until the " definitive treaty of peace ", when they would be automatically discharged. the u. s. armies were directly disbanded in the field as of washington ' s general orders on monday, june 2, 1783. once the treaty of paris was signed with britain on september 3, 1783, washington resigned as commander - in - chief of the continental army and left to retire at mount vernon. territory the expanse of territory that was now the united states was ceded from its colonial mother country alone. it included millions of sparsely settled acres south of the great lakes line between the appalachian mountains and the mississippi river, much of which was part of canada. the tentative colonial migration west became a flood during the years of the revolutionary war. kentucky county, virginia, for instance, had a 1775 population of 150. by 1790, 15 years later, its population had grown to over 73, 000. britain ' s extended post - war policy for the u. s. continued to try to establish an indian buffer state below the great lakes as late as 1814 during the war of 1812. the formally acquired