then - president mohammed daoud khan, in what is called the saur revolution. the pdpa declared the establishment of the democratic republic of afghanistan, with its first leader named as people ' s democratic party general secretary nur muhammad taraki. this would trigger a series of events that would dramatically turn afghanistan from a poor and secluded ( albeit peaceful ) country to a hotbed of international terrorism. the pdpa initiated various social, symbolic, and land distribution reforms that provoked strong opposition, while also brutally oppressing political dissidents. this caused unrest and quickly expanded into a state of civil war by 1979, waged by guerrilla mujahideen ( and smaller maoist guerrillas ) against regime forces countrywide. it quickly turned into a proxy war as the pakistani government provided these rebels with covert training centers, the united states supported them through pakistan ' s inter - services intelligence ( isi ), and the soviet union sent thousands of military advisers to support the pdpa regime. meanwhile, there was increasingly hostile friction between the competing factions of the pdpa – the dominant khalq and the more moderate parcham. in september 1979, pdpa general secretary taraki was assassinated in an internal coup orchestrated by then - prime minister hafizullah amin, who became the new general secretary of the people ' s democratic party. the situation in the country deteriorated under amin, and thousands of people went missing. displeased with amin ' s government, the soviet army invaded the country in december 1979, heading for kabul and killing amin. a soviet - organized regime, led by parcham ' s babrak karmal but inclusive of both factions ( parcham and khalq ), filled the vacuum. soviet troops in more substantial numbers were deployed to stabilize afghanistan under karmal, marking the beginning of the soviet – afghan war. lasting nine years, the war caused the deaths of between 562, 000 and 2 million afghans, and displaced about 6 million people who subsequently fled afghanistan, mainly to pakistan and iran. heavy air bombardment destroyed many countryside villages, millions of landmines were planted, and some cities such as herat and kandahar were also damaged from bombardment. after the soviet withdrawal, the civil war ensued until the communist regime under people ' s democratic party leader mohammad najibullah collapsed in 1992. the soviet - afghan war had drastic social effects on afghanistan. the militarization of society led to heavily armed police, private bodyguards, openly armed civil defense groups, and other such things becoming the norm in afghanistan for decades