often openly mocked the captain by creating obscene poems and songs about him, which became so popular that the crew began to join in. his disagreements with several colleagues resulted in his being starved almost to death, imprisoned while at sea, and chained like the slaves they carried. he was himself enslaved by the sherbro and forced to work on a plantation in sierra leone near the sherbro river. after several months he came to think of sierra leone as his home, but his father intervened after newton sent him a letter describing his circumstances, and crew from another ship happened to find him. newton claimed the only reason he left sierra leone was because of polly. while aboard the ship greyhound, newton gained notoriety as being one of the most profane men the captain had ever met. in a culture where sailors habitually swore, newton was admonished several times for not only using the worst words the captain had ever heard, but creating new ones to exceed the limits of verbal debauchery. in march 1748, while the greyhound was in the north atlantic, a violent storm came upon the ship that was so rough it swept overboard a crew member who was standing where newton had been moments before. after hours of the crew emptying water from the ship and expecting to be capsized, newton and another mate tied themselves to the ship ' s pump to keep from being washed overboard, working for several hours. after proposing the measure to the captain, newton had turned and said, " if this will not do, then lord have mercy upon us! " newton rested briefly before returning to the deck to steer for the next eleven hours. during his time at the wheel, he pondered his divine challenge. about two weeks later, the battered ship and starving crew landed in lough swilly, ireland. for several weeks before the storm, newton had been reading the christian ' s pattern, a summary of the 15th - century the imitation of christ by thomas a kempis. the memory of his own " lord have mercy upon us! " uttered during a moment of desperation in the storm did not leave him ; he began to ask if he was worthy of god ' s mercy or in any way redeemable. not only had he neglected his faith but directly opposed it, mocking others who showed theirs, deriding and denouncing god as a myth. he came to believe that god had sent him a profound message and had begun to work through him. newton ' s conversion was not immediate, but he contacted polly ' s family and announced his intention to marry her