. the most stable of arsenic ' s isomers is 68mas with a half - life of 111 seconds. chemistry arsenic has a similar electronegativity and ionization energies to its lighter congener phosphorus and accordingly readily forms covalent molecules with most of the nonmetals. though stable in dry air, arsenic forms a golden - bronze tarnish upon exposure to humidity which eventually becomes a black surface layer. when heated in air, arsenic oxidizes to arsenic trioxide ; the fumes from this reaction have an odor resembling garlic. this odor can be detected on striking arsenide minerals such as arsenopyrite with a hammer. it burns in oxygen to form arsenic trioxide and arsenic pentoxide, which have the same structure as the more well - known phosphorus compounds, and in fluorine to give arsenic pentafluoride. arsenic ( and some arsenic compounds ) sublimes upon heating at atmospheric pressure, converting directly to a gaseous form without an intervening liquid state at. the triple point is 3. 63 mpa and. arsenic makes arsenic acid with concentrated nitric acid, arsenous acid with dilute nitric acid, and arsenic trioxide with concentrated sulfuric acid ; however, it does not react with water, alkalis, or non - oxidising acids. arsenic reacts with metals to form arsenides, though these are not ionic compounds containing the as3− ion as the formation of such an anion would be highly endothermic and even the group 1 arsenides have properties of intermetallic compounds. like germanium, selenium, and bromine, which like arsenic succeed the 3d transition series, arsenic is much less stable in the group oxidation state of + 5 than its vertical neighbors phosphorus and antimony, and hence arsenic pentoxide and arsenic acid are potent oxidizers. compounds compounds of arsenic resemble in some respects those of phosphorus which occupies the same group ( column ) of the periodic table. the most common oxidation states for arsenic are : −3 in the arsenides, which are alloy - like intermetallic compounds, + 3 in the arsenites, and + 5 in the arsenates and most organoarsenic compounds. arsenic also bonds readily to itself as seen in the square ions in the mineral skutterudite. in the + 3 oxidation state, arsenic is typically pyramidal owing to the influence of the lone pair of electrons. inorganic compounds one of the simplest arsenic compounds is the trihydride, the highly