promised, which antony viewed as an intentional provocation. octavian and lepidus launched a joint operation against sextus in sicily in 36 bc. despite setbacks for octavian, the naval fleet of sextus pompeius was almost entirely destroyed on 3 september by general agrippa at the naval battle of naulochus. sextus fled to the east with his remaining forces, where he was captured and executed in miletus by one of antony ' s generals the following year. as lepidus and octavian accepted the surrender of pompeius ' s troops, lepidus attempted to claim sicily for himself, ordering octavian to leave. lepidus ' s troops deserted him, however, and defected to octavian since they were weary of fighting and were enticed by octavian ' s promises of money. lepidus surrendered to octavian and was permitted to retain the office of pontifex maximus ( head of the college of priests ) but was ejected from the triumvirate. his public career at an end, he effectively was exiled to a villa at cape circei in italy. the roman dominions were divided between octavian in the west and antony in the east. octavian ensured rome ' s citizens of their rights to property in order to maintain peace and stability in his portion of the empire. this time, he settled his discharged soldiers outside of italy, while also returning 30, 000 slaves to their former roman owners — slaves who had fled to join pompeius ' s army and navy. octavian had the senate grant him, his wife, and his sister tribunal immunity, or sacrosanctitas, in order to ensure his own safety and that of livia and octavia once he returned to rome. war with antony and cleopatra meanwhile, antony ' s campaign turned disastrous against parthia, tarnishing his image as a leader, and the mere 2, 000 legionaries sent by octavian to antony were hardly enough to replenish his forces. on the other hand, cleopatra could restore his army to full strength ; he already was engaged in a romantic affair with her, so he decided to send octavia back to rome. octavian used this to spread propaganda implying that antony was becoming less than roman because he rejected a legitimate roman spouse for an " oriental paramour ". in 36 bc, octavian used a political ploy to make himself look less autocratic and antony more the villain by proclaiming that the civil wars were coming to an end and that