having the largest crowd for a single - day sporting event ( 350, 000 + ). the other major international single - seater racing series is formula 2 ( formerly known as formula 3000 and gp2 series ). regional series include super formula and formula v6 asia ( specifically in asia ), formula renault 3. 5 ( also known as the world series by renault, succession series of world series by nissan ), formula three, formula palmer audi and formula atlantic. in 2009, the fia formula two championship brought about the revival of the f2 series. domestic, or country - specific, series include formula three and formula renault, with the leading introductory series being formula ford. single - seater racing is not limited merely to professional teams and drivers. there exist many amateur racing clubs. in the uk, the major club series are the monoposto racing club, brscc f3 ( formerly clubf3, formerly arp f3 ), formula vee and club formula ford. each series caters to a section of the market, with some primarily providing low - cost racing, while others aim for an authentic experience using the same regulations as the professional series ( brscc f3 ). there are other categories of single - seater racing, including kart racing, which employs a small, low - cost machine on small tracks. many of the current top drivers began their careers in karts. formula ford represents the most popular first open - wheel category for up - and - coming drivers stepping up from karts. the series is still the preferred option, as it has introduced an aero package and slicks, allowing the junior drivers to gain experience in a race car with dynamics closer to f1. the star mazda series is another entry - level series. students at colleges and universities can also take part in single - seater racing through the formula sae competition, which involves designing and building a single - seater car in a multidisciplinary team and racing it at the competition. this also develops other soft skills, such as teamwork, while promoting motorsport and engineering. the world ' s first all - female formula racing team was created in 2006. the group was an assemblage of drivers from different racing disciplines and formed for an mtv reality pilot, which was shot at mazda raceway laguna seca. in december 2005, the fia gave approval to superleague formula racing, which debuted in 2008, whereby the racing teams are owned and run by prominent sports clubs such as a. c. milan and liverpool f. c. after 25 years away