apl ( named after the book a programming language ) is a programming language developed in the 1960s by kenneth e. iverson. its central datatype is the multidimensional array. it uses a large range of special graphic symbols to represent most functions and operators, leading to very concise code. it has been an important influence on the development of concept modeling, spreadsheets, functional programming, and computer math packages. it has also inspired several other programming languages. history mathematical notation a mathematical notation for manipulating arrays was developed by kenneth e. iverson, starting in 1957 at harvard university. in 1960, he began work for ibm where he developed this notation with adin falkoff and published it in his book a programming language in 1962. the preface states its premise : this notation was used inside ibm for short research reports on computer systems, such as the burroughs b5000 and its stack mechanism when stack machines versus register machines were being evaluated by ibm for upcoming computers. iverson also used his notation in a draft of the chapter a programming language, written for a book he was writing with fred brooks, automatic data processing, which would be published in 1963. in 1979, iverson received the turing award for his work on apl. development into a computer programming language as early as 1962, the first attempt to use the notation to describe a complete computer system happened after falkoff discussed with william c. carter his work to standardize the instruction set for the machines that later became the ibm system / 360 family. in 1963, herbert hellerman, working at the ibm systems research institute, implemented a part of the notation on an ibm 1620 computer, and it was used by students in a special high school course on calculating transcendental functions by series summation. students tested their code in hellerman ' s lab. this implementation of a part of the notation was called personalized array translator ( pat ). in 1963, falkoff, iverson, and edward h. sussenguth jr., all working at ibm, used the notation for a formal description of the ibm system / 360 series machine architecture and functionality, which resulted in a paper published in ibm systems journal in 1964. after this was published, the team turned their attention to an implementation of the notation on a computer system. one of the motivations for this focus of implementation was the interest of john l. lawrence who had new duties with science research associates, an educational company bought by ibm in 1964. lawrence asked iverson and his group to help use the