indicator of long range order in a material, where features smaller than the seismic wavelength ( e. g., crystals, cracks, pores, layers, or inclusions ) have a dominant alignment. this alignment leads to a directional variation of elasticity wavespeed. measuring the effects of anisotropy in seismic data can provide important information about processes and mineralogy in the earth ; significant seismic anisotropy has been detected in the earth ' s crust, mantle, and inner core. geological formations with distinct layers of sedimentary material can exhibit electrical anisotropy ; electrical conductivity in one direction ( e. g. parallel to a layer ), is different from that in another ( e. g. perpendicular to a layer ). this property is used in the gas and oil exploration industry to identify hydrocarbon - bearing sands in sequences of sand and shale. sand - bearing hydrocarbon assets have high resistivity ( low conductivity ), whereas shales have lower resistivity. formation evaluation instruments measure this conductivity or resistivity, and the results are used to help find oil and gas in wells. the mechanical anisotropy measured for some of the sedimentary rocks like coal and shale can change with corresponding changes in their surface properties like sorption when gases are produced from the coal and shale reservoirs. the hydraulic conductivity of aquifers is often anisotropic for the same reason. when calculating groundwater flow to drains or to wells, the difference between horizontal and vertical permeability must be taken into account ; otherwise the results may be subject to error. most common rock - forming minerals are anisotropic, including quartz and feldspar. anisotropy in minerals is most reliably seen in their optical properties. an example of an isotropic mineral is garnet. medical acoustics anisotropy is also a well - known property in medical ultrasound imaging describing a different resulting echogenicity of soft tissues, such as tendons, when the angle of the transducer is changed. tendon fibers appear hyperechoic ( bright ) when the transducer is perpendicular to the tendon, but can appear hypoechoic ( darker ) when the transducer is angled obliquely. this can be a source of interpretation error for inexperienced practitioners. materials science and engineering anisotropy, in materials science, is a material ' s directional dependence of a physical property. this is a critical consideration for materials selection in engineering applications. a material with physical properties that are symmetric about an