3, 2014, agassi and sampras squared off for an exhibition in london for the annual world tennis day. this time, it was agassi who came out on top in two straight sets. he returned to the tour in may 2017 in the position of coach to novak djokovic for the french open. agassi announced the end of the partnership on march 31, 2018, stating that there were too many disagreements in the relationship. playing style early in his career, agassi would look to end points quickly by playing first - strike tennis, typically by inducing a weak return with a deep, hard shot, and then playing a winner at an extreme angle. on the rare occasion that he charged the net, agassi liked to take the ball in the air and hit a swinging volley for a winner. his favored groundstroke was his flat, accurate two - handed backhand, hit well cross - court but especially down the line. his forehand was nearly as strong, especially his inside - out to the ad court. agassi ' s strength was in dictating play from the baseline, and he was able to consistently take the ball on the rise. while he was growing up, his father and nick bollettieri trained him in this way. when in control of a point, agassi would often pass up an opportunity to attempt a winner and hit a conservative shot to minimize his errors, and to make his opponent run more. this change to more methodical, less aggressive baseline play was largely initiated by his longtime coach, brad gilbert, in their first year together in 1994. gilbert encouraged agassi to wear out opponents with his deep, flat groundstrokes and to use his fitness to win attrition wars, and noted agassi ' s two - handed backhand down the line as his very best shot. a signature play later in his career was a change - up drop shot to the deuce court after deep penetrating groundstrokes. this would often be followed by a passing shot or lob if the opponent was fast enough to retrieve it. agassi was raised on hardcourts, but found much of his early major - tournament success on the red clay of roland garros, reaching two consecutive finals there early in his career. despite grass being his worst surface, his first major win was at the slick grass of wimbledon in 1992, a tournament that he professed to hating at the time. his strongest surface over the course of his career, was