and aggressive sexuality and both had relationships with mortal lovers. both goddesses were associated with the colors red, white, and gold. michael janda etymologizes aphrodite ' s name as an epithet of eos meaning " she who rises from the foam [ of the ocean ] " and points to hesiod ' s theogony account of aphrodite ' s birth as an archaic reflex of indo - european myth. aphrodite rising out of the waters after cronus defeats uranus as a mytheme would then be directly cognate to the rigvedic myth of indra defeating vrtra, liberating ushas. another key similarity between aphrodite and the indo - european dawn goddess is her close kinship to the greek sky deity, since both of the main claimants to her paternity ( zeus and uranus ) are sky deities. forms and epithets aphrodite ' s most common cultic epithet was ourania, meaning " heavenly ", but this epithet almost never occurs in literary texts, indicating a purely cultic significance. another common name for aphrodite was pandemos ( " for all the folk " ). in her role as aphrodite pandemos, aphrodite was associated with peitho ( ), meaning " persuasion ", and could be prayed to for aid in seduction. the character of pausanias in plato ' s symposium, takes differing cult - practices associated with different epithets of the goddess to claim that ourania and pandemos are, in fact, separate goddesses. he asserts that aphrodite ourania is the celestial aphrodite, born from the sea foam after cronus castrated uranus, and the older of the two goddesses. according to the symposium, aphrodite ourania is the inspiration of male homosexual desire, specifically the ephebic eros, and pederasty. aphrodite pandemos, by contrast, is the younger of the two goddesses : the common aphrodite, born from the union of zeus and dione, and the inspiration of heterosexual desire and sexual promiscuity, the " lesser " of the two loves. paphian ( παφια ), was one of her epithets, after the paphos in cyprus where she had emerged from the sea at her birth. among the neoplatonists and, later, their christian interpreters, ourania is