a good beard, grey eyes. " modern portrayals literature aeneas appears as a character in william shakespeare ' s play troilus and cressida, set during the trojan war. aeneas and dido are the main characters of a 17th - century broadside ballad called " the wandering prince of troy ". the ballad ultimately alters aeneas ' s fate from traveling on years after dido ' s death to joining her as a spirit soon after her suicide. in modern literature, aeneas is the speaker in two poems by allen tate, " aeneas at washington " and " aeneas at new york ". he is a main character in ursula k. le guin ' s lavinia, a re - telling of the last six books of the aeneid told from the point of view of lavinia, daughter of king latinus of latium. aeneas appears in david gemmell ' s troy series as a main heroic character who goes by the name helikaon. in rick riordan ' s book series the heroes of olympus, aeneas is regarded as the first roman demigod, son of venus rather than aphrodite. will adams ' novel city of the lost assumes that much of the information provided by virgil is mistaken, and that the true aeneas and dido did not meet and love in carthage but in a phoenician colony at cyprus, on the site of the modern famagusta. their tale is interspersed with that of modern activists who, while striving to stop an ambitious turkish army general trying to stage a coup, accidentally discover the hidden ruins of dido ' s palace. opera, film and other media aeneas is a title character in henry purcell ' s opera dido and aeneas ( ), and jakob greber ' s ( aeneas in carthage ) ( 1711 ), and one of the principal roles in hector berlioz ' opera les troyens ( ), as well as in metastasio ' s immensely popular opera libretto didone abbandonata. canadian composer james rolfe composed his opera aeneas and dido ( 2007 ; to a libretto by andre alexis ) as a companion piece to purcell ' s opera. despite its many dramatic elements, aeneas ' s story has generated little interest from the film industry. ronald lewis portrayed aeneas in helen of troy, directed by robert wise, as a supporting character, who is a member of the trojan royal family, and a close and loyal friend to paris, and