##s ' s adoptive daughter or niece. they had a daughter, whom they also named pythias. in 343 bc, aristotle was invited by philip ii of macedon to become the tutor to his son alexander. aristotle was appointed as the head of the royal academy of macedon. during aristotle ' s time in the macedonian court, he gave lessons not only to alexander but also to two other future kings : ptolemy and cassander. aristotle encouraged alexander toward eastern conquest, and aristotle ' s own attitude towards persia was unabashedly ethnocentric. in one famous example, he counsels alexander to be " a leader to the greeks and a despot to the barbarians, to look after the former as after friends and relatives, and to deal with the latter as with beasts or plants ". by 335 bc, aristotle had returned to athens, establishing his own school there known as the lyceum. aristotle conducted courses at the school for the next twelve years. while in athens, his wife pythias died and aristotle became involved with herpyllis of stagira. they had a son whom aristotle named after his father, nicomachus. if the suda an uncritical compilation from the middle ages is accurate, he may also have had an eromenos, palaephatus of abydus. this period in athens, between 335 and 323 bc, is when aristotle is believed to have composed many of his works. he wrote many dialogues, of which only fragments have survived. those works that have survived are in treatise form and were not, for the most part, intended for widespread publication ; they are generally thought to be lecture aids for his students. his most important treatises include physics, metaphysics, nicomachean ethics, politics, on the soul and poetics. aristotle studied and made significant contributions to " logic, metaphysics, mathematics, physics, biology, botany, ethics, politics, agriculture, medicine, dance, and theatre. " near the end of his life, alexander and aristotle became estranged over alexander ' s relationship with persia and persians. a widespread tradition in antiquity suspected aristotle of playing a role in alexander ' s death, but the only evidence of this is an unlikely claim made some six years after the death. following alexander ' s death, anti - macedonian sentiment in athens was rekindled. in 322 bc, demophilus and eurymedon the hierophant reportedly denounced aristotle for impiety, prompting him to flee to his mother ' s family