##hari ). clinical practice varies depending on the country. a comparison of the average number of patients treated per hour found significant differences between china ( 10 ) and the united states ( 1. 2 ). chinese herbs are often used. there is a diverse range of acupuncture approaches, involving different philosophies. although various different techniques of acupuncture practice have emerged, the method used in traditional chinese medicine ( tcm ) seems to be the most widely adopted in the us. traditional acupuncture involves needle insertion, moxibustion, and cupping therapy, and may be accompanied by other procedures such as feeling the pulse and other parts of the body and examining the tongue. traditional acupuncture involves the belief that a " life force " ( qi ) circulates within the body in lines called meridians. the main methods practiced in the uk are tcm and western medical acupuncture. the term western medical acupuncture is used to indicate an adaptation of tcm - based acupuncture which focuses less on tcm. the western medical acupuncture approach involves using acupuncture after a medical diagnosis. limited research has compared the contrasting acupuncture systems used in various countries for determining different acupuncture points and thus there is no defined standard for acupuncture points. in traditional acupuncture, the acupuncturist decides which points to treat by observing and questioning the patient to make a diagnosis according to the tradition used. in tcm, the four diagnostic methods are : inspection, auscultation and olfaction, inquiring, and palpation. inspection focuses on the face and particularly on the tongue, including analysis of the tongue size, shape, tension, color and coating, and the absence or presence of teeth marks around the edge. auscultation and olfaction involve listening for particular sounds such as wheezing, and observing body odor. inquiring involves focusing on the " seven inquiries " : chills and fever ; perspiration ; appetite, thirst and taste ; defecation and urination ; pain ; sleep ; and menses and leukorrhea. palpation is focusing on feeling the body for tender " a - shi " points and feeling the pulse. needles the most common mechanism of stimulation of acupuncture points employs penetration of the skin by thin metal needles, which are manipulated manually or the needle may be further stimulated by electrical stimulation ( electroac