##ic emulsifiers primarily include long - chain amines such as imidazolines, amido - amines, and diamines, which acquire a positive charge when an acid is added. anionic emulsifiers are often fatty acids extracted from lignin, tall oil, or tree resin saponified with bases such as naoh, which creates a negative charge. during the storage of bitumen emulsions, bitumen particles sediment, agglomerate ( flocculation ), or fuse ( coagulation ), which leads to a certain instability of the bitumen emulsion. how fast this process occurs depends on the formulation of the bitumen emulsion but also storage conditions such as temperature and humidity. when emulsified bitumen gets into contact with aggregates, emulsifiers lose their effectiveness, the emulsion breaks down, and an adhering bitumen film is formed referred to as ' breaking '. bitumen particles almost instantly create a continuous bitumen film by coagulating and separating from water which evaporates. not each asphalt emulsion reacts as fast as the other when it gets into contact with aggregates. that enables a classification into rapid - setting ( r ), slow - setting ( ss ), and medium - setting ( ms ) emulsions, but also an individual, application - specific optimization of the formulation and a wide field of application ( 1 ). for example, slow - breaking emulsions ensure a longer processing time which is particularly advantageous for fine aggregates ( 1 ). adhesion problems are reported for anionic emulsions in contact with quartz - rich aggregates. they are substituted by cationic emulsions achieving better adhesion. the extensive range of bitumen emulsions is covered insufficiently by standardization. din en 13808 for cationic asphalt emulsions has been existing since july 2005. here, a classification of bitumen emulsions based on letters and numbers is described, considering charges, viscosities, and the type of bitumen. the production process of bitumen emulsions is very complex. two methods are commonly used, the " colloid mill " method and the " high internal phase ratio ( hipr ) " method. in the " colloid mill " method, a rotor moves at high speed within a stator by adding bitumen and a water - emulsifier mixture. the resulting shear forces generate bitumen particles between 5 µm and 10 µm coated with emulsifiers