, and there is no evidence for cases in egyptian. a common pattern in aa languages with case is for the nominative to be marked by - u or - i, and the accusative to be marked by - a. however, the number and types of cases varies across aa and also within the individual branches. some languages in aa have a marked nominative alignment, a feature which may date back to proto - afroasiatic. zygmont frajzyngier states that a general characteristic of case marking in aa languages is that it tends to mark roles such as genitive, dative, locative, etc. rather than the subject and object. a second category, which partially overlaps with case, is the aa linguistic category of " state. " linguists use the term " state " to refer to different things in different languages. in cushitic and semitic, nouns exist in the " free state " or the " construct state ". the construct state is a special, usually reduced form of a noun, which is used when the noun is possessed by another noun ( semitic ) or is modified by an adjective or relative clause ( cushitic ). edward lipinski refers to semitic nouns as having four states : absolute ( free / indeterminate ), construct, determinate, and predicate. coptic and egyptian grammar also refers to nouns having a " free " ( absolute ) state, a " construct state, " and a " pronominal state. " the construct state is used when a noun becomes unstressed as the first element of a compound, whereas the pronominal state is used when the noun has a suffixed possessive pronoun. berber instead contrasts between the " free state " and the " annexed state, " the latter of which is used for a variety of purposes, including for subjects placed after a verb and after certain prepositions. modifiers and agreement there is no strict distinction between adjectives, nouns, and adverbs in afroasaiatic. all branches of afroasiatic have a lexical category of adjectives except for chadic ; some chadic languages do have adjectives, however. in berber languages, adjectives are rare and are mostly replaced by nouns of quality and stative verbs. in different languages, adjectives ( and other modifiers ) must either precede or follow the noun. in most aa languages, numerals precede the noun. in those languages that have adjectives, they can take gender and number