defeat of maximus in 388, that theodosius and ambrose first met. after the massacre of thessalonica in 390, theodosius made an act of public penance at ambrose ' s behest. ambrose was away from court during the events at thessalonica, but after being informed of them, he wrote theodosius a letter. in that still existing letter, ambrose presses for a semi - public demonstration of penitence from the emperor, telling him that, as his bishop, he will not give theodosius communion until it is done. wolf liebeschuetz says " theodosius duly complied and came to church without his imperial robes, until christmas, when ambrose openly admitted him to communion ". formerly, some scholars credited ambrose with having an undue influence over the emperor theodosius i, from this period forward, prompting him toward major anti - pagan legislation beginning in february of 391. however, this interpretation has been heavily disputed since the late - twentieth century. mclynn argues that theodosius ' s anti - pagan legislation was too limited in scope for it to be of interest to the bishop. the fabled encounter at the door of the cathedral in milan, with ambrose as the mitred prelate braced, blocking theodosius from entering, which has sometimes been seen as evidence of ambrose ' dominance over theodosius, has been debunked by modern historians as " a pious fiction ". there was no encounter at the church door. the story is a product of the imagination of theodoret, a historian of the fifth century who wrote of the events of 390 " using his own ideology to fill the gaps in the historical record ". the twenty - first century view is that ambrose was " not a power behind the throne ". the two men did not meet each other frequently, and documents that reveal the relationship between the two are less about personal friendship than they are about negotiations between two formidable leaders of the powerful institutions they represent : the roman state and the italian church. cameron says there is no evidence that ambrose was a significant influence on the emperor. for centuries after his death, theodosius was regarded as a champion of christian orthodoxy who decisively stamped out paganism. this view was recorded by theodoret, who is recognized as an unreliable historian, in the century following their deaths. theodosius ' s predecessors constantine ( ), constantius ( ), and valens had all been semi - arians. therefore, it fell to the orthodox theodosius to receive