anxiety is agony, dread, terror, or even apprehension. in positive psychology, anxiety is described as the mental state that results from a difficult challenge for which the subject has insufficient coping skills. fear and anxiety can be differentiated into four domains : ( 1 ) duration of emotional experience, ( 2 ) temporal focus, ( 3 ) specificity of the threat, and ( 4 ) motivated direction. fear is short - lived, present - focused, geared towards a specific threat, and facilitating escape from threat. on the other hand, anxiety is long - acting, future - focused, broadly focused towards a diffuse threat, and promoting excessive caution while approaching a potential threat and interferes with constructive coping. joseph e. ledoux and lisa feldman barrett have both sought to separate automatic threat responses from additional associated cognitive activity within anxiety. symptoms anxiety can be experienced with long, drawn - out daily symptoms that reduce quality of life, known as chronic ( or generalized ) anxiety, or it can be experienced in short spurts with sporadic, stressful panic attacks, known as acute anxiety. symptoms of anxiety can range in number, intensity, and frequency, depending on the person. however, most people do not suffer from chronic anxiety. anxiety can induce several psychological pains ( e. g. depression ) or mental disorders, and may lead to self - harm or suicide ( for which dedicated hotlines exist ). the behavioral effects of anxiety may include withdrawal from situations which have provoked anxiety or negative feelings in the past. other effects may include changes in sleeping patterns, changes in habits, increase or decrease in food intake, and increased motor tension ( such as foot tapping ). the emotional effects of anxiety may include " feelings of apprehension or dread, trouble concentrating, feeling tense or jumpy, anticipating the worst, irritability, restlessness, watching ( and waiting ) for signs ( and occurrences ) of danger, and, feeling like your mind ' s gone blank " as well as " nightmares / bad dreams, obsessions about sensations, deja vu, a trapped - in - your - mind feeling, and feeling like everything is scary. " it may include a vague experience and feeling of helplessness. the cognitive effects of anxiety may include thoughts about suspected dangers, such as fear of dying : " you may... fear that the chest pains are a deadly heart attack or that the shooting pains in your head are the result of a tumor or an aneurysm. you feel an intense fear when you think of dying, or you may think of it more often than normal