alpha is used to denote the area underneath a normal curve in statistics to denote significance level when proving null and alternative hypotheses. in ethology, it is used to name the dominant individual in a group of animals. in aerodynamics, the letter is used as a symbol for the angle of attack of an aircraft and the word " alpha " is used as a synonym for this property. in mathematical logic, α is sometimes used as a placeholder for ordinal numbers. the proportionality operator " " ( in unicode : u + 221d ) is sometimes mistaken for alpha. the uppercase letter alpha is not generally used as a symbol because it tends to be rendered identically to the uppercase latin a. international phonetic alphabet in the international phonetic alphabet, the letter ɑ, which looks similar to the lower - case alpha, represents the open back unrounded vowel. history and symbolism origin the phoenician alphabet was adopted for greek in the early 8th century bc, perhaps in euboea. the majority of the letters of the phoenician alphabet were adopted into greek with much the same sounds as they had had in phoenician, but ʼaleph, the phoenician letter representing the glottal stop, was adopted as representing the vowel ; similarly, he and are phoenician consonants that became greek vowels, epsilon and omicron, respectively. plutarch plutarch, in moralia, presents a discussion on why the letter alpha stands first in the alphabet. ammonius asks plutarch what he, being a boeotian, has to say for cadmus, the phoenician who reputedly settled in thebes and introduced the alphabet to greece, placing alpha first because it is the phoenician name for ox — which, unlike hesiod, the phoenicians considered not the second or third, but the first of all necessities. " nothing at all, " plutarch replied. he then added that he would rather be assisted by lamprias, his own grandfather, than by dionysus ' grandfather, i. e. cadmus. for lamprias had said that the first articulate sound made is " alpha ", because it is very plain and simple — the air coming off the mouth does not require any motion of the tongue — and therefore this is the first sound that children make. according to plutarch ' s natural order of attribution of the vowels to the planets,