display included moon dust from apollo 11 and flags, including the one of the soviet union, taken along by apollo 11. the rice - sized particles were four small pieces of moon soil weighing about 50 mg and were enveloped in a clear acrylic button about as big as a united states half dollar coin. this acrylic button magnified the grains of lunar dust. nixon gave the apollo 11 lunar sample displays as goodwill gifts in 1970. experiment results the passive seismic experiment ran until the command uplink failed on august 25, 1969. the downlink failed on december 14, 1969., the lunar laser ranging experiment remains operational. armstrong ' s camera armstrong ' s hasselblad camera was thought to be lost or left on the moon surface. lm memorabilia in 2015, after armstrong died in 2012, his widow contacted the national air and space museum to inform them she had found a white cloth bag in one of armstrong ' s closets. the bag contained various items, which should have been left behind in the lunar module, including the 16mm data acquisition camera that had been used to capture images of the first moon landing. the camera is currently on display at the national air and space museum. anniversary events 40th anniversary on july 15, 2009, life. com released a photo gallery of previously unpublished photos of the astronauts taken by life photographer ralph morse prior to the apollo 11 launch. from july 16 to 24, 2009, nasa streamed the original mission audio on its website in real time 40 years to the minute after the events occurred. it is in the process of restoring the video footage and has released a preview of key moments. in july 2010, air - to - ground voice recordings and film footage shot in mission control during the apollo 11 powered descent and landing was re - synchronized and released for the first time. the john f. kennedy presidential library and museum set up an adobe flash website that rebroadcasts the transmissions of apollo 11 from launch to landing on the moon. on july 20, 2009, armstrong, aldrin, and collins met with us president barack obama at the white house. " we expect that there is, as we speak, another generation of kids out there who are looking up at the sky and are going to be the next armstrong, collins, and aldrin ", obama said. " we want to make sure that nasa is going to be there for them when they want to take their journey. " on august 7, 2009, an act of congress awarded the three astronauts a congressional gold medal, the highest