have the power to summon his malign, hair - covered ghost - much to the horror of james ’ s unfortunate protagonist, mr. james denton. music josquin des prez composed the motet " absalon, fili mi " on the occasion of the death of juan borgia ( absalon being a further alternative spelling ). nicholas gombert composed the two - part, eight - voice motet " lugebat david absalon ". heinrich schutz ( 1585 – 1672 ) composed " fili mi, absalon " as part of his sinfoniae sacrae, op. 6. the single verse, 2 samuel 18 : 33, regarding david ' s grief at the loss of his son ( " and the king was much moved, and went up to the chamber over the gate, and wept : and as he went, thus he said, o my son absalom, my son, my son absalom! would god i had died for thee, o absalom, my son, my son! " ), is the inspiration for the text of several pieces of choral music, usually entitled when david heard ( such as those by renaissance composers thomas tomkins and thomas weelkes, or modern composers eric whitacre, joshua shank, and norman dinerstein ). this verse is also used in " david ' s lamentation " by william billings, first published in 1778. leonard cohen ' s poem " prayer for sunset " compares the setting sun to the raving absalom, and asks whether another joab will arrive tomorrow night to kill absalom again. " absalom, absalom " is a song on the 1996 compass cd making light of it by singer / songwriter pierce pettis, incorporating several elements of the biblical narrative. the australian composer nigel butterley set the verse in his 2008 choral work " beni avshalom ", commissioned by the sydney chamber choir. during the finale of the song " distant early warning " by canadian band rush, geddy lee sings, " absalom, absalom, absalom " ; lyrics written by drummer neil peart. david olney ' s 2000 cd omar ' s blues includes the song " absalom ". the song depicts david grieving over the death of his son. the story of absalom is referred to several places in folk singer adam arcuragi ' s song " always almost crying ". the san francisco – based band om mentions abs