cabinet from 1928 to 1930 and briefly in 1932 – 1933, but the great depression made proposed reforms impossible. the forcefully - introduced and illegal communist regime dissolved the party in 1947 ( along with other historical parties such as the national liberal party ), but it reformed in 1989 after they fell from power. the reformed party, which also incorporated elements of christian democracy in its ideology, governed romania as part of the romanian democratic convention ( cdr ) between 1996 and 2000. serbia in serbia, nikola pasic ( 1845 – 1926 ) and his people ' s radical party dominated serbian politics after 1903. the party also monopolized power in yugoslavia from 1918 to 1929. during the dictatorship of the 1930s, the prime minister was from that party. ukraine in ukraine, the radical party of oleh lyashko has promised to purify the country of oligarchs " with a pitchfork ". the party advocates a number of traditional left - wing positions ( a progressive tax structure, a ban on agricultural land sale and eliminating the illegal land market, a tenfold increase in budget spending on health, setting up primary health centres in every village ) and mixes them with strong nationalist sentiments. united kingdom in land law the heyday of english, irish ( and thus welsh ) agrarianism was to 1603, led by the tudor royal advisors, who sought to maintain a broad pool of agricultural commoners from which to draw military men, against the interests of larger landowners who sought enclosure ( meaning complete private control of common land, over which by custom and common law lords of the manor always enjoyed minor rights ). the heyday was eroded by hundreds of acts of parliament to expressly permit enclosure, chiefly from 1650 to the 1810s. politicians standing strongly as reactionaries to this included the levellers, those anti - industrialists ( luddites ) going beyond opposing new weaving technology and, later, radicals such as william cobbett. a high level of net national or local self - sufficiency has a strong base in campaigns and movements. in the 19th century such empowered advocates included peelites and most conservatives. the 20th century saw the growth or start of influential non - governmental organisations, such as the national farmers ' union of england and wales, campaign for rural england, friends of the earth ( ewni ) and of the england wales, scottish and northern irish political parties prefixed by and focussed on green politics. the 21st century has seen decarbonisation already in electricity markets. following protests and charitable lobbying local food has seen growing market share, sometimes backed