##ine, a chaste girl who outdid all her fellow athletes in both the palaestra and the race. out of envy, the other athletes murdered her, but athena took pity in her and transformed her dead body into a myrtle, a plant thereafter as favoured by her as the olive was. an almost exact story was said about another girl, elaea, who transformed into an olive, athena ' s sacred tree. patron of heroes according to pseudo - apollodorus ' s bibliotheca, athena advised argos, the builder of the argo, the ship on which the hero jason and his band of argonauts sailed, and aided in the ship ' s construction. pseudo - apollodorus also records that athena guided the hero perseus in his quest to behead medusa. she and hermes, the god of travelers, appeared to perseus after he set off on his quest and gifted him with tools he would need to kill the gorgon. athena gave perseus a polished bronze shield to view medusa ' s reflection rather than looking at her directly and thereby avoid being turned to stone. hermes gave him an adamantine scythe to cut off medusa ' s head. when perseus swung his blade to behead medusa, athena guided it, allowing his scythe to cut it clean off. according to pindar ' s thirteenth olympian ode, athena helped the hero bellerophon tame the winged horse pegasus by giving him a bit. in ancient greek art, athena is frequently shown aiding the hero heracles. she appears in four of the twelve metopes on the temple of zeus at olympia depicting heracles ' s twelve labors, including the first, in which she passively watches him slay the nemean lion, and the tenth, in which she is shown actively helping him hold up the sky. she is presented as his " stern ally ", but also the " gentle... acknowledger of his achievements. " artistic depictions of heracles ' s apotheosis show athena driving him to mount olympus in her chariot and presenting him to zeus for his deification. in aeschylus ' s tragedy orestes, athena intervenes to save orestes from the wrath of the erinyes and presides over his trial for the murder of his mother clytemnestra. when half the jury votes to acquit and the other half votes to convict, athena casts the deciding vote to acquit ore