toward religion, but they fall short of convincing. however, if one presupposes that god is in fact a knowable, loving person, as an experiment, and then lives according that religion, he or she will suddenly come face to face with experiences previously unknown. one ' s life becomes full, meaningful, and fearless in the face of death. it does not defy reason but exceeds it. because god has been experienced through love, the orders of prayer, fellowship, and devotion now matter. they create order within one ' s life, continually renewing the " missing piece " that had previously felt lost. they empower one to be compassionate and humble, not small - minded or arrogant. no truth should be denied outright, but all should be questioned. science reveals an ever - growing vision of our universe that should not be discounted due to bias toward older understandings. reason is to be trusted and cultivated. to believe in god is not to forego reason or to deny scientific facts, but to step into the unknown and discover the fullness of life. demographics demographic research services normally do not differentiate between various types of non - religious respondents, so agnostics are often classified in the same category as atheists or other non - religious people. a 2010 survey published in encyclopædia britannica found that the non - religious people or the agnostics made up about 9. 6 % of the world ' s population. a november – december 2006 poll published in the financial times gives rates for the united states and five european countries. the rates of agnosticism in the united states were at 14 %, while the rates of agnosticism in the european countries surveyed were considerably higher : italy ( 20 % ), spain ( 30 % ), great britain ( 35 % ), germany ( 25 % ), and france ( 32 % ). a study conducted by the pew research center found that about 16 % of the world ' s people, the third largest group after christianity and islam, have no religious affiliation. according to a 2012 report by the pew research center, agnostics made up 3. 3 % of the us adult population. in the u. s. religious landscape survey, conducted by the pew research center, 55 % of agnostic respondents expressed " a belief in god or a universal spirit ", whereas 41 % stated that they thought that they felt a tension " being non - religious in a society where most people are religious ". according to the 2021 australian bureau of statistics, 38