in 1919, during the azerbaijan democratic republic, a documentary the celebration of the anniversary of azerbaijani independence was filmed on the first anniversary of azerbaijan ' s independence from russia, 27 may, and premiered in june 1919 at several theatres in baku. after the soviet power was established in 1920, nariman narimanov, chairman of the revolutionary committee of azerbaijan, signed a decree nationalizing azerbaijan ' s cinema. this also influenced the creation of azerbaijani animation. in 1991, after azerbaijan gained its independence from the soviet union, the first baku international film festival east - west was held in baku. in december 2000, the former president of azerbaijan, heydar aliyev, signed a decree proclaiming 2 august to be the professional holiday of filmmakers of azerbaijan. today azerbaijani filmmakers are again dealing with issues similar to those faced by cinematographers prior to the establishment of the soviet union in 1920. once again, both choices of content and sponsorship of films are largely left up to the initiative of the filmmaker. television there are three state - owned television channels : aztv, idman tv and medeniyyet tv. there is one public channel and 6 private channels : ictimai television, space tv, lider tv, azad azerbaijan tv,, and arb. human rights the constitution of azerbaijan claims to guarantee freedom of speech, but this is denied in practice. after several years of decline in press and media freedom, in 2014, the media environment in azerbaijan deteriorated rapidly under a governmental campaign to silence any opposition and criticism, even while the country led the committee of ministers of the council of europe ( may – november 2014 ). spurious legal charges and impunity in violence against journalists have remained the norm. all foreign broadcasts are banned in the country. according to the 2013 freedom house freedom of the press report, azerbaijan ' s press freedom status is " not free ", and azerbaijan ranks 177th out of 196 countries. christianity is officially recognized. all religious communities are required to register to be allowed to meet, under the risk of imprisonment. this registration is often denied. " racial discrimination contributes to the country ' s lack of religious freedom, since many of the christians are ethnic armenian or russian, rather than azeri muslim ". radio free europe / radio liberty and voice of america are banned in azerbaijan. discrimination against lgbt people in azerbaijan is widespread. during the last few years, three journalists were killed and several prosecuted in trials described as unfair by international human rights organizations. azerbaijan had the biggest number of journalists imprisoned in europe in 2015, according to the