he also collaborated with other scientists on additional projects including the bose – einstein statistics, the einstein refrigerator and others. there is some evidence from einstein ' s writings that he collaborated with his first wife, mileva maric. in 13 december 1900, a first article on capillarity signed only under his name was submitted. the decision to publish only under his name seems to have been mutual, but the exact reason is unknown. 1905 – annus mirabilis papers the annus mirabilis papers are four articles pertaining to the photoelectric effect ( which gave rise to quantum theory ), brownian motion, the special theory of relativity, and e = mc2 that einstein published in the annalen der physik scientific journal in 1905. these four works contributed substantially to the foundation of modern physics and changed views on space, time, and matter. the four papers are : statistical mechanics thermodynamic fluctuations and statistical physics einstein ' s first paper submitted in 1900 to annalen der physik was on capillary attraction. it was published in 1901 with the title " folgerungen aus den capillaritatserscheinungen ", which translates as " conclusions from the capillarity phenomena ". two papers he published in 1902 – 1903 ( thermodynamics ) attempted to interpret atomic phenomena from a statistical point of view. these papers were the foundation for the 1905 paper on brownian motion, which showed that brownian movement can be construed as firm evidence that molecules exist. his research in 1903 and 1904 was mainly concerned with the effect of finite atomic size on diffusion phenomena. theory of critical opalescence einstein returned to the problem of thermodynamic fluctuations, giving a treatment of the density variations in a fluid at its critical point. ordinarily the density fluctuations are controlled by the second derivative of the free energy with respect to the density. at the critical point, this derivative is zero, leading to large fluctuations. the effect of density fluctuations is that light of all wavelengths is scattered, making the fluid look milky white. einstein relates this to rayleigh scattering, which is what happens when the fluctuation size is much smaller than the wavelength, and which explains why the sky is blue. einstein quantitatively derived critical opalescence from a treatment of density fluctuations, and demonstrated how both the effect and rayleigh scattering originate from the atomistic constitution of matter. special relativity einstein ' s " " ( " on the electrodynamics of moving bodies " ) was received on 30 june 1905 and