or long. long ( geminate ) consonants are normally written doubled in latin transcription ( i. e. bb, dd, etc. ), reflecting the presence of the arabic diacritic mark, which indicates doubled consonants. in actual pronunciation, doubled consonants are held twice as long as short consonants. this consonant lengthening is phonemically contrastive : ' he accepted ' vs. ' he kissed '. syllable structure arabic has two kinds of syllables : open syllables ( cv ) and ( cvv ) — and closed syllables ( cvc ), ( cvvc ) and ( cvcc ). the syllable types with two morae ( units of time ), i. e. cvc and cvv, are termed heavy syllables, while those with three morae, i. e. cvvc and cvcc, are superheavy syllables. superheavy syllables in classical arabic occur in only two places : at the end of the sentence ( due to pausal pronunciation ) and in words such as ' hot ', ' stuff, substance ', ' they disputed with each other ', where a long occurs before two identical consonants. a former short vowel between the consonants has been lost. in less formal pronunciations of modern standard arabic, superheavy syllables are common at the end of words or before clitic suffixes such as ' us, our ', due to the deletion of final short vowels. in surface pronunciation, every vowel must be preceded by a consonant ( which may include the glottal stop ). there are no cases of hiatus within a word, where two vowels occur next to each other, without an intervening consonant. some words do have an underlying vowel at the beginning, such as the definite article al - or words such as ' he bought ', ' meeting '. when actually pronounced, one of three things happens : if the word occurs after another word ending in a consonant, there is a smooth transition from final consonant to initial vowel, e. g., ' meeting '. if the word occurs after another word ending in a vowel, the initial vowel of the word is elided, e. g., ' house of the director '. if the word occurs at the beginning of an utterance, a glottal stop is added onto the beginning, e. g., ' the house is... '. stress word stress is not phonemically contrastive in standard arabic. it bears a strong relationship to vowel length. the basic rules for modern standard arabic are : a final