and fear is a reaction to current events. these feelings may cause physical symptoms, such as a fast heart rate and shakiness. there are a number of anxiety disorders : including generalized anxiety disorder, specific phobia, social anxiety disorder, separation anxiety disorder, agoraphobia, panic disorder, and selective mutism. the disorder differs by what results in the symptoms. people often have more than one anxiety disorder. anxiety disorders are caused by a complex combination of genetic and environmental factors. to be diagnosed, symptoms typically need to be present for at least six months, be more than would be expected for the situation, and decrease a person ' s ability to function in their daily lives. other problems that may result in similar symptoms include hyperthyroidism, heart disease, caffeine, alcohol, or cannabis use, and withdrawal from certain drugs, among others. without treatment, anxiety disorders tend to remain. treatment may include lifestyle changes, counselling, and medications. counselling is typically with a type of cognitive behavioral therapy. medications, such as antidepressants or beta blockers, may improve symptoms. a 2023 review found that regular physical activity is effective for reducing anxiety. about 12 % of people are affected by an anxiety disorder in a given year and between 12 – 30 % are affected at some point in their life. they occur about twice as often in women than they do in men, and generally begin before the age of 25. the most common are specific phobia which affects nearly 12 % and social anxiety disorder which affects 10 % at some point in their life. they affect those between the ages of 15 and 35 the most and become less common after the age of 55. rates appear to be higher in the united states and europe. short - and long - term anxiety anxiety can be either a short - term " state " or a long - term " trait. " whereas trait anxiety represents worrying about future events, anxiety disorders are a group of mental disorders characterized by feelings of anxiety and fears. four ways to be anxious in his book anxious : the modern mind in the age of anxiety joseph ledoux examines four experiences of anxiety through a brain - based lens : in the presence of an existing or imminent external threat, you worry about the event and its implications for your physical and / or psychological well - being. when a threat signal occurs, it signifies either that danger is present or near in space and time or that it might be coming in the future. nonconscious threats processing by the brain activates defensive survival