biblical commentators, including ramban ( nachmanides ), menachem recanti and rabbenu bachya. among the many volumes of yitzchak luria, most of which come down from the pen of his primary disciple, chaim vital, are insights explaining issues related to reincarnation. his shaar hagilgulim, " the gates of reincarnation ", is a book devoted exclusively to the subject of reincarnation in judaism. rabbi naftali silberberg of the rohr jewish learning institute notes that " many ideas that originate in other religions and belief systems have been popularized in the media and are taken for granted by unassuming jews. " christianity mainstream christianity professes belief in the nicene creed, and english versions of the nicene creed in current use include the phrase : " we look for the resurrection of the dead, and the life of the world to come. " when questioned by the sadducees about the resurrection of the dead ( in a context relating to who one ' s spouse would be if one had been married several times in life ), jesus said that marriage will be irrelevant after the resurrection as the resurrected will be like the angels in heaven. jesus also maintained that the time would come when the dead would hear the voice of the son of god, and all who were in the tombs would come out ; those who have heard his " [ commandments ] and believes in the one who sent [ him ] " to the resurrection of life, but those who do not to the resurrection of condemnation. the book of enoch describes sheol as divided into four compartments for four types of the dead : the faithful saints who await resurrection in paradise, the merely virtuous who await their reward, the wicked who await punishment, and the wicked who have already been punished and will not be resurrected on judgment day. the book of enoch is considered apocryphal by most denominations of christianity and all denominations of judaism. the book of 2 maccabees gives a clear account of the dead awaiting a future resurrection and judgment in addition to prayers and offerings for the dead to remove the burden of sin. the author of luke recounts the story of lazarus and the rich man, which shows people in hades awaiting the resurrection either in comfort or torment. the author of the book of revelation writes about god and the angels versus satan and demons in an epic battle at the end of times when all souls are judged. there is mention of ghostly bodies of past prophets, and the transfi