with satisfaction by darwin as he included a quotation from schopenhauer in his descent of man. this has also been noted about freud ' s concepts of the libido and the unconscious mind, and evolutionary psychology in general. political and social thought politics schopenhauer ' s politics were an echo of his system of ethics, which he elucidated in detail in his die beiden grundprobleme der ethik ( the two essays on the freedom of the will and on the basis of morality ). in occasional political comments in his parerga and paralipomena and manuscript remains, schopenhauer described himself as a proponent of limited government. schopenhauer shared the view of thomas hobbes on the necessity of the state and state action to check the innate destructive tendencies of our species. he also defended the independence of the legislative, judicial and executive branches of power, and a monarch as an impartial element able to practise justice ( in a practical and everyday sense, not a cosmological one ). he declared that monarchy is " natural to man in almost the same way as it is to bees and ants, to cranes in flight, to wandering elephants, to wolves in a pack in search of prey, and to other animals ". intellect in monarchies, he writes, always has " much better chances against stupidity, its implacable and ever - present foe, than it has in republics ; but this is a great advantage. " on the other hand, schopenhauer disparaged republicanism as being " as unnatural to man as it is unfavorable to higher intellectual life and thus to the arts and sciences ". by his own admission, schopenhauer did not give much thought to politics, and several times he wrote proudly of how little attention he paid " to political affairs of [ his ] day ". in a life that spanned several revolutions in french and german government, and a few continent - shaking wars, he maintained his position of " minding not the times but the eternities ". he wrote many disparaging remarks about germany and the germans. a typical example is : " for a german it is even good to have somewhat lengthy words in his mouth, for he thinks slowly, and they give him time to reflect. " punishment the state, schopenhauer claimed, punishes criminals to prevent future crimes. it places " beside every possible motive for committing a wrong a more powerful motive for leaving it undone,