) employ selenocysteine as the catalytic moiety in their active sites. pyrrolysine and selenocysteine are encoded via variant codons. for example, selenocysteine is encoded by stop codon and secis element. n - formylmethionine ( which is often the initial amino acid of proteins in bacteria, mitochondria, and chloroplasts ) is generally considered as a form of methionine rather than as a separate proteinogenic amino acid. codon – trna combinations not found in nature can also be used to " expand " the genetic code and form novel proteins known as alloproteins incorporating non - proteinogenic amino acids. non - proteinogenic amino acids aside from the 22 proteinogenic amino acids, many non - proteinogenic amino acids are known. those either are not found in proteins ( for example carnitine, gaba, levothyroxine ) or are not produced directly and in isolation by standard cellular machinery. for example, hydroxyproline, is synthesised from proline. another example is selenomethionine ). non - proteinogenic amino acids that are found in proteins are formed by post - translational modification. such modifications can also determine the localization of the protein, e. g., the addition of long hydrophobic groups can cause a protein to bind to a phospholipid membrane. examples : the carboxylation of glutamate allows for better binding of calcium cations, hydroxyproline, generated by hydroxylation of proline, is a major component of the connective tissue collagen. hypusine in the translation initiation factor eif5a, contains a modification of lysine. some non - proteinogenic amino acids are not found in proteins. examples include 2 - aminoisobutyric acid and the neurotransmitter gamma - aminobutyric acid. non - proteinogenic amino acids often occur as intermediates in the metabolic pathways for standard amino acids – for example, ornithine and citrulline occur in the urea cycle, part of amino acid catabolism ( see below ). a rare exception to the dominance of α - amino acids in biology is the β - amino acid beta alanine ( 3 - aminopropanoic acid ), which is used in plants and microorganisms in the synthesis of pantothenic acid ( vitamin b