the trojan hero aeneas, aphrodite tried to rescue him, but diomedes injured her as well. apollo then enveloped aeneas in a cloud to protect him. he repelled the attacks diomedes made on him and gave the hero a stern warning to abstain from attacking a god. aeneas was then taken to pergamos, a sacred spot in troy, where he was healed. after the death of sarpedon, a son of zeus, apollo rescued the corpse from the battlefield as per his father ' s wish and cleaned it. he then gave it to sleep ( hypnos ) and death ( thanatos ). apollo had also once convinced athena to stop the war for that day, so that the warriors can relieve themselves for a while. the trojan hero hector ( who, according to some, was the god ' s own son by hecuba ) was favored by apollo. when he got severely injured, apollo healed him and encouraged him to take up his arms. during a duel with achilles, when hector was about to lose, apollo hid hector in a cloud of mist to save him. when the greek warrior patroclus tried to get into the fort of troy, he was stopped by apollo. encouraging hector to attack patroclus, apollo stripped the armour of the greek warrior and broke his weapons. patroclus was eventually killed by hector. at last, after hector ' s fated death, apollo protected his corpse from achilles ' attempt to mutilate it by creating a magical cloud over the corpse, shielding it from the rays of the sun. apollo held a grudge against achilles throughout the war because achilles had murdered his son tenes before the war began and brutally assassinated his son troilus in his own temple. not only did apollo save hector from achilles, he also tricked achilles by disguising himself as a trojan warrior and driving him away from the gates. he foiled achilles ' attempt to mutilate hector ' s dead body. finally, apollo caused achilles ' death by guiding an arrow shot by paris into achilles ' heel. in some versions, apollo himself killed achilles by taking the disguise of paris. apollo helped many trojan warriors, including agenor, polydamas, glaucus in the battlefield. though he greatly favored the trojans, apollo was bound to follow the orders of zeus and served his father loyally during the war. nurturer of the young apollo kourotrophos is the god who nurtures and protects children and the young