nature of myth and time. in the voice that thunders, he reveals the commercial pressure placed upon him during the decade - long drought which preceded strandloper to ' forsake " literature ", and become instead a " popular " writer, cashing in on my established name by producing sequels to, and making series of, the earlier books '. garner feared that " making series... would render sterile the existing work, the life that produced it, and bring about my artistic and spiritual death " and felt unable to comply. garner ' s novel thursbitch was published in 2003. the novel boneland was published in 2012, nominally completing a trilogy begun some 50 years earlier with the weirdstone of brisingamen. in august 2018, garner published his only set of memoirs, where shall we run to?, which describes his childhood during the second world war. the novel treacle walker was published in october 2021 and nominated to the shortlist for the 2022 booker prize. personal life with his first wife ann cook he had three children. in 1972, he married for a second time, this time to griselda greaves, a teacher and critic with whom he had two children. in a 2014 interview conducted with mike pitts for british archaeology magazine, garner stated that " i don ' t have anything to do with the literary world. i avoid writers. i don ' t like them. most of my close personal friends are professional archaeologists. " literary style although garner ' s early work is often labelled as " children ' s literature ", garner himself rejects such a description, informing one interviewer that " i certainly have never written for children " but that instead, he has always written purely for himself. neil philip, in his critical study of garner ' s work ( 1981 ), commented that up until that point " everything alan garner has published has been published for children ", although he went on to relate that " it may be that garner ' s is a case " where the division between children ' s and adults ' literature is " meaningless " and that his fiction is instead " enjoyed by a type of person, no matter what their age. " he said " an adult point of view would not give me the ability to be as fresh in my vision as a child ' s point of view, because the child is still discovering the universe and many adults are not. " philip offered the opinion that the " essence of his work " was " the struggle to render the complex in simple, bare terms ; to couch the