a combined attack by medes, persians, scythians and their own babylonian relations. the last assyrian city to fall was harran in southeast anatolia. this city was the birthplace of the last king of babylon, the assyrian nabonidus and his son and regent belshazzar. much of the region then fell to the short - lived iran - based median empire, with the babylonians and scythians briefly appropriating some territory. cimmerian and scythian invasions from the late 8th century bce, a new wave of indo - european - speaking raiders entered northern and northeast anatolia : the cimmerians and scythians. the cimmerians overran phrygia and the scythians threatened to do the same to urartu and lydia, before both were finally checked by the assyrians. early greek presence the north - western coast of anatolia was inhabited by greeks of the achaean / mycenaean culture from the 20th century bce, related to the greeks of southeastern europe and the aegean. beginning with the bronze age collapse at the end of the 2nd millennium bce, the west coast of anatolia was settled by ionian greeks, usurping the area of the related but earlier mycenaean greeks. over several centuries, numerous ancient greek city - states were established on the coasts of anatolia. greeks started western philosophy on the western coast of anatolia ( pre - socratic philosophy ). classical anatolia in classical antiquity, anatolia was described by the ancient greek historian herodotus and later historians as divided into regions that were diverse in culture, language, and religious practices. the northern regions included bithynia, paphlagonia, and pontus ; to the west were mysia, lydia, and caria ; and lycia, pamphylia, and cilicia belonged to the southern shore. there were also several inland regions : phrygia, cappadocia, pisidia, and galatia. languages spoken included the late surviving anatolic languages, isaurian, and pisidian, greek in western and coastal regions, phrygian spoken until the 7th century ce, local variants of thracian in the northwest, the galatian variant of gaulish in galatia until the 6th century ce, cappadocian in the homonymous region, armenian in the east, and kartvelian languages in the northeast. anatolia is known as the birthplace of minted coinage ( as opposed to unminted coinage, which first