and could result in falls. as cerebellar ataxia becomes severe, great assistance and effort are needed to stand and walk. dysarthria, an impairment with articulation, may also be present and is characterized by " scanning " speech that consists of slower rate, irregular rhythm, and variable volume. also, slurring of speech, tremor of the voice, and ataxic respiration may occur. cerebellar ataxia could result with incoordination of movement, particularly in the extremities. overshooting ( or hypermetria ) occurs with finger - to - nose testing and heel to shin testing ; thus, dysmetria is evident. impairments with alternating movements ( dysdiadochokinesia ), as well as dysrhythmia, may also be displayed. tremor of the head and trunk ( titubation ) may be seen in individuals with cerebellar ataxia. dysmetria is thought to be caused by a deficit in the control of interaction torques in multijoint motion. interaction torques are created at an associated joint when the primary joint is moved. for example, if a movement required reaching to touch a target in front of the body, flexion at the shoulder would create a torque at the elbow, while extension of the elbow would create a torque at the wrist. these torques increase as the speed of movement increases and must be compensated and adjusted for to create coordinated movement. this may, therefore, explain decreased coordination at higher movement velocities and accelerations. dysfunction of the vestibulocerebellum ( flocculonodular lobe ) impairs balance and the control of eye movements. this presents itself with postural instability, in which the person tends to separate his / her feet upon standing, to gain a wider base and to avoid titubation ( bodily oscillations tending to be forward - backward ones ). the instability is, therefore, worsened when standing with the feet together, regardless of whether the eyes are open or closed. this is a negative romberg ' s test, or more accurately, it denotes the individual ' s inability to carry out the test, because the individual feels unstable even with open eyes. dysfunction of the spinocerebellum ( vermis and associated areas near the midline ) presents itself with a wide - based " drunken sailor " gait ( called truncal ataxia ), characterised by uncertain starts and stops, lateral