##heism of charles bradlaugh as an open - ended spiritual exploration. in why i am an agnostic ( ) he claims that agnosticism is " the very reverse of atheism ". bertrand russell bertrand russell ( 1872 – 1970 ) declared why i am not a christian in 1927, a classic statement of agnosticism. he calls upon his readers to " stand on their own two feet and look fair and square at the world with a fearless attitude and a free intelligence ". in 1939, russell gave a lecture on the existence and nature of god, in which he characterized himself as an atheist. he said : however, later in the same lecture, discussing modern non - anthropomorphic concepts of god, russell states : in russell ' s 1947 pamphlet, am i an atheist or an agnostic? ( subtitled a plea for tolerance in the face of new dogmas ), he ruminates on the problem of what to call himself : in his 1953 essay, what is an agnostic? russell states : later in the essay, russell adds : leslie weatherhead in 1965, christian theologian leslie weatherhead ( 1893 – 1976 ) published the christian agnostic, in which he argues : although radical and unpalatable to conventional theologians, weatherhead ' s agnosticism falls far short of huxley ' s, and short even of weak agnosticism : united states robert g. ingersoll robert g. ingersoll ( 1833 – 1899 ), an illinois lawyer and politician who evolved into a well - known and sought - after orator in 19th - century america, has been referred to as the " great agnostic ". in an 1896 lecture titled why i am an agnostic, ingersoll related why he was an agnostic : in the conclusion of the speech he simply sums up the agnostic position as : in 1885, ingersoll explained his comparative view of agnosticism and atheism as follows : bernard iddings bell canon bernard iddings bell ( 1886 – 1958 ), a popular cultural commentator, episcopal priest, and author, lauded the necessity of agnosticism in beyond agnosticism : a book for tired mechanists, calling it the foundation of " all intelligent christianity ". agnosticism was a temporary mindset in which one rigorously questioned the truths of the age, including the way in which one believed god. his view of robert ingersoll and thomas paine was that they were not denouncing true christianity but rather " a gross perversion of it