the country ' s economy. the transport sector in the country includes roads, railways, aviation, and maritime transport. azerbaijan is also an important economic hub in the transportation of raw materials. the baku – tbilisi – ceyhan pipeline ( btc ) became operational in may 2006 and extends more than through the territories of azerbaijan, georgia, and turkey. the btc is designed to transport up to 50 million tons of crude oil annually and carries oil from the caspian sea oilfields to global markets. the south caucasus pipeline, also stretching through the territory of azerbaijan, georgia, and turkey, became operational at the end of 2006 and offers additional gas supplies to the european market from the shah deniz gas field. shah deniz is expected to produce up to 296 billion cubic meters of natural gas per year. azerbaijan also plays a major role in the eu - sponsored silk road project. in 2002, the azerbaijani government established the ministry of transport with a broad range of policy and regulatory functions. in the same year, the country became a member of the vienna convention on road traffic. priorities are upgrading the transport network and improving transportation services to better facilitate the development of other sectors of the economy. the 2012 construction of kars – tbilisi – baku railway was meant to improve transportation between asia and europe by connecting the railways of china and kazakhstan in the east to the european railway system in the west via turkey. in 2010 broad - gauge railways and electrified railways stretched for and respectively. by 2010, there were 35 airports and one heliport. science and technology in the 21st century, a new oil and gas boom helped improve the situation in azerbaijan ' s science and technology sectors. the government launched a campaign aimed at modernization and innovation. the government estimates that profits from the information technology and communication industry will grow and become comparable to those from oil production. azerbaijan has a large and steadily growing internet sector, mostly uninfluenced by the financial crisis of 2007 – 2008 ; rapid growth is forecast for at least five more years. azerbaijan was ranked 89th in the global innovation index in 2023. the country has also been making progress in developing its telecoms sector. the ministry of communications & information technologies ( mcit ) and an operator through its role in aztelekom are both policy - makers and regulators. public payphones are available for local calls and require the purchase of a token from the telephone exchange or some shops and kiosks. tokens allow a call of indefinite duration., there were 1, 397, 000 main telephone lines and 1, 48