as quickly as possible ". rothbard proposed that state universities be seized by the students and faculty under the homestead principle. rothbard also supported the expropriation of nominally " private property " if it is the result of state - initiated force such as businesses that receive grants and subsidies. rothbard further proposed that businesses who receive at least 50 % of their funding from the state be confiscated by the workers, writing : " what we libertarians object to, then, is not government per se but crime, what we object to is unjust or criminal property titles ; what we are for is not ' private ' property per se but just, innocent, non - criminal private property ". similarly, karl hess wrote that " libertarianism wants to advance principles of property but that it in no way wishes to defend, willy nilly, all property which now is called private... much of that property is stolen. much is of dubious title. all of it is deeply intertwined with an immoral, coercive state system ". by accepting an axiomatic definition of private property and property rights, anarcho - capitalists deny the legitimacy of a state on principle. hans - hermann hoppe argues : anarchists view capitalism as an inherently authoritarian and hierarchical system and seek the abolishment of private property. there is disagreement between anarchists and anarcho - capitalists as the former generally rejects anarcho - capitalism as a form of anarchism and considers anarcho - capitalism a contradiction in terms, while the latter holds that the abolishment of private property would require expropriation which is " counterproductive to order " and would require a state. common property as opposed to anarchists, most anarcho - capitalists reject the commons. however, some of them propose that non - state public or community property can also exist in an anarcho - capitalist society. for anarcho - capitalists, what is important is that it is " acquired " and transferred without help or hindrance from what they call the " compulsory state ". deontological anarcho - capitalists believe that the only just and most economically beneficial way to acquire property is through voluntary trade, gift, or labor - based original appropriation, rather than through aggression or fraud. anarcho - capitalists state that there could be cases where common property may develop in a lockean natural rights framework. anarcho - capitalists make the example of a number of private businesses which may arise in an