cast alchemy into a new form, rejecting some of agrippa ' s occultism and moving away from chrysopoeia. paracelsus pioneered the use of chemicals and minerals in medicine and wrote, " many have said of alchemy, that it is for the making of gold and silver. for me such is not the aim, but to consider only what virtue and power may lie in medicines. " his hermetical views were that sickness and health in the body relied on the harmony of man the microcosm and nature the macrocosm. he took an approach different from those before him, using this analogy not in the manner of soul - purification but in the manner that humans must have certain balances of minerals in their bodies, and that certain illnesses of the body had chemical remedies that could cure them. iatrochemistry refers to the pharmaceutical applications of alchemy championed by paracelsus. john dee ( 13 july 1527 – december, 1608 ) followed agrippa ' s occult tradition. although better known for angel summoning, divination, and his role as astrologer, cryptographer, and consultant to queen elizabeth i, dee ' s alchemical monas hieroglyphica, written in 1564 was his most popular and influential work. his writing portrayed alchemy as a sort of terrestrial astronomy in line with the hermetic axiom as above so below. during the 17th century, a short - lived " supernatural " interpretation of alchemy became popular, including support by fellows of the royal society : robert boyle and elias ashmole. proponents of the supernatural interpretation of alchemy believed that the philosopher ' s stone might be used to summon and communicate with angels. entrepreneurial opportunities were common for the alchemists of renaissance europe. alchemists were contracted by the elite for practical purposes related to mining, medical services, and the production of chemicals, medicines, metals, and gemstones. rudolf ii, holy roman emperor, in the late 16th century, famously received and sponsored various alchemists at his court in prague, including dee and his associate edward kelley. king james iv of scotland, julius, duke of brunswick - luneburg, henry v, duke of brunswick - luneburg, augustus, elector of saxony, julius echter von mespelbrunn, and maurice, landgrave of hesse - kassel all contracted alchemists. john ' s son arthur dee worked as a court physician to michael i of