. consolidation of arms production following his appointment as minister of armaments, speer was in control of armaments production solely for the army. he coveted control of the production of armaments for the luftwaffe and kriegsmarine as well. he set about extending his power and influence with unexpected ambition. his close relationship with hitler provided him with political protection, and he was able to outwit and outmaneuver his rivals in the regime. hitler ' s cabinet was dismayed at his tactics, but, regardless, he was able to accumulate new responsibilities and more power. by july 1943, he had gained control of armaments production for the luftwaffe and kriegsmarine. in august 1943, he took control of most of the ministry of economics, to become, in admiral donitz ' s words, " europe ' s economic dictator ". his formal title was changed on 2 september 1943, to " reich minister for armaments and war production ". he had become one of the most powerful people in nazi germany. speer and his hand - picked director of submarine construction otto merker believed that the shipbuilding industry was being held back by outdated methods, and revolutionary new approaches imposed by outsiders would dramatically improve output. this belief proved incorrect, and speer and merker ' s attempt to build the kriegsmarines new generation of submarines, the type xxi and type xxiii, as prefabricated sections at different facilities rather than at single dockyards contributed to the failure of this strategically important program. the designs were rushed into production, and the completed submarines were crippled by flaws which resulted from the way they had been constructed. while dozens of submarines were built, few ever entered service. in december 1943, speer visited organisation todt workers in lapland, where he seriously damaged his knee and was incapacitated for several months. he was under the dubious care of professor karl gebhardt at a medical clinic called hohenlychen where patients " mysteriously failed to survive ". in mid - january 1944, speer had a lung embolism and fell seriously ill. concerned about retaining power, he did not appoint a deputy and continued to direct work of the armaments ministry from his bedside. speer ' s illness coincided with the allied " big week ", a series of bombing raids on the german aircraft factories that were a devastating blow to aircraft production. his political rivals used the opportunity to undermine his authority and damage his reputation with hitler. he lost hitler ' s unconditional support and began to lose power