" of one being " ( the athanasian creed is less often used but is a more overtly anti - arian statement on the trinity ). the focus of the council of nicaea was the nature of the son of god and his precise relationship to god the father ( see paul of samosata and the synods of antioch ). arius taught that jesus christ was divine / holy and was sent to earth for the salvation of mankind but that jesus christ was not equal to god the father ( infinite, primordial origin ) in rank and that god the father and the son of god were not equal to the holy spirit. under arianism, christ was instead not consubstantial with god the father since both the father and the son under arius were made of " like " essence or being ( see homoiousia ) but not of the same essence or being ( see homoousia ). in the arian view, god the father is a deity and is divine and the son of god is not a deity but divine ( i, the lord, am deity alone. ) god the father sent jesus to earth for salvation of mankind. ousia is essence or being, in eastern christianity, and is the aspect of god that is completely incomprehensible to mankind and human perception. it is all that subsists by itself and which has not its being in another, god the father and god the son and god the holy spirit all being uncreated. according to the teaching of arius, the preexistent logos and thus the incarnate jesus christ was a begotten being ; only the son was directly begotten by god the father, before ages, but was of a distinct, though similar, essence or substance from the creator. his opponents argued that this would make jesus less than god and that this was heretical. much of the distinction between the differing factions was over the phrasing that christ expressed in the new testament to express submission to god the father. the theological term for this submission is kenosis. this ecumenical council declared that jesus christ was true god, co - eternal and consubstantial ( i. e., of the same substance ) with god the father. constantine is believed to have exiled those who refused to accept the nicaean creed — arius himself, the deacon euzoios, and the libyan bishops theonas of marmarica and secundus of ptolemais — and also the bishops who signed the creed but