kaisar ( caesar ) and received the newly created title of panhypersebastos ( " honoured above all " ), and remained loyal to both alexios and john. pretenders and rebels apart from all of his external enemies, a host of rebels also sought to overthrow alexios from the imperial throne, thereby posing another major threat to his reign. due to the troubled times the empire was enduring, he had by far the greatest number of rebellions against him of all the byzantine emperors. these included : pre first crusade raictor, a byzantine monk who claimed to be the emperor michael vii. he presented himself to robert guiscard who used him as a pretext to launch his invasion of the byzantine empire. a conspiracy in 1084 involving several senators and officers of the army. this was uncovered before too many followers were enlisted. in order to conceal the importance of the conspiracy, alexios merely banished the wealthiest plotters and confiscated their estates. tzachas, a seljuq turkic emir who assumed the title of emperor in 1092. constantine humbertopoulos, who had assisted alexios in gaining the throne in 1081 conspired against him in 1091 with an armenian called ariebes. john komnenos, alexios ' nephew, governor of dyrrachium, accused of a conspiracy by theophylact of bulgaria. theodore gabras, the quasi - independent governor of trebizond and his son gregory. michael taronites, the brother - in - law of alexios. nikephoros diogenes, the son of emperor romanos iv. pseudo - leo diogenes, an impostor who assumed the identity of another of romanos ' sons, leo diogenes. karykes, the leader of a revolt in crete. rhapsomates, who tried to create an independent kingdom in cyprus. post first crusade salomon, a senator of great wealth who in 1106 engaged in a plot with four brothers of the anemas family. gregory taronites, another governor of trebizond. the illegitimate descendant of a bulgarian prince named aron formed a plot in 1107 to murder alexios as he was encamped near thessalonica. the presence of the empress irene and her attendants, however, made the execution of the plot difficult. in an attempt to have her return to constantinople, the conspirators produced pamphlets that mocked and slandered the empress, and left them in her tent