' s iep is not only recommended, it is required ( koch, 2017 ). these devices help students both with and without disabilities access the curriculum in a way they were previously unable to ( koch, 2017 ). occupational therapists play an important role in educating students, parents and teachers about the assistive technology they may interact with. assistive technology in this area is broken down into low, mid, and high tech categories. low tech encompasses equipment that is often low cost and does not include batteries or requires charging. examples include adapted paper and pencil grips for writing or masks and color overlays for reading. mid tech supports used in the school setting include the use of handheld spelling dictionaries and portable word processors used to keyboard writing. high tech supports involve the use of tablet devices and computers with accompanying software. software supports for writing include the use of auditory feedback while keyboarding, word prediction for spelling, and speech to text. supports for reading include the use of text to speech ( tts ) software and font modification via access to digital text. limited supports are available for math instruction and mostly consist of grid based software to allow younger students to keyboard equations and auditory feedback of more complex equations using mathml and daisy. computer accessibility one of the largest problems that affect disabled people is discomfort with prostheses. an experiment performed in massachusetts utilized 20 people with various sensors attached to their arms. the subjects tried different arm exercises, and the sensors recorded their movements. all of the data helped engineers develop new engineering concepts for prosthetics. assistive technology may attempt to improve the ergonomics of the devices themselves such as dvorak and other alternative keyboard layouts, which offer more ergonomic layouts of the keys. assistive technology devices have been created to enable disabled people to use modern touch screen mobile computers such as the ipad, iphone and ipod touch. the pererro is a plug and play adapter for ios devices which uses the built in apple voiceover feature in combination with a basic switch. this brings touch screen technology to those who were previously unable to use it. apple, with the release of ios 7 had introduced the ability to navigate apps using switch control. switch access could be activated either through an external bluetooth connected switch, single touch of the screen, or use of right and left head turns using the device ' s camera. additional accessibility features include the use of assistive touch which allows a user to access multi - touch gestures through pre - programmed onscreen buttons. for users with physical disabilities a large