north devon shore. alfred at once hurried westward and raised the siege of exeter. the fate of the other place is not recorded. the force under hastein set out to march up the thames valley, possibly with the idea of assisting their friends in the west. they were met by a large force under the three great ealdormen of mercia, wiltshire and somerset and forced to head off to the north - west, being finally overtaken and blockaded at buttington. ( some identify this with buttington tump at the mouth of the river wye, others with buttington near welshpool. ) an attempt to break through the english lines failed. those who escaped retreated to shoebury. after collecting reinforcements, they made a sudden dash across england and occupied the ruined roman walls of chester. the english did not attempt a winter blockade but contented themselves with destroying all the supplies in the district. early in 894 or 895 lack of food obliged the danes to retire once more to essex. at the end of the year, the danes drew their ships up the river thames and the river lea and fortified themselves north of london. a frontal attack on the danish lines failed but later in the year, alfred saw a means of obstructing the river to prevent the egress of the danish ships. the danes realised that they were outmanoeuvred, struck off north - westwards and wintered at cwatbridge near bridgnorth. the next year, 896 ( or 897 ), they gave up the struggle. some retired to northumbria, some to east anglia. those who had no connections in england returned to the continent. military reorganisation the germanic tribes who invaded britain in the fifth and sixth centuries relied upon the unarmoured infantry supplied by their tribal levy, or fyrd, and it was upon this system that the military power of the several kingdoms of early anglo - saxon england depended. the fyrd was a local militia in the anglo - saxon shire in which all freemen had to serve ; those who refused military service were subject to fines or loss of their land. according to the law code of king ine of wessex, issued in, wessex ' s history of failures preceding alfred ' s success in 878 emphasised to him that the traditional system of battle he had inherited played to the danes ' advantage. while the anglo - saxons and the danes attacked settlements for plunder, they employed different tactics. in their raids the anglo - saxons traditionally preferred to attack head -