crimes. possible examples of defenses, mitigating circumstances, or failures of proof that may be raised in response to an assault charge include : lack of intent : a defendant could argue that since they were drunk, they could not form the specific intent to commit assault. this defense would most likely fail, however, since only involuntary intoxication is accepted as a defense in most american jurisdictions. mutual consent : a defendant could also argue that they were engaged in mutually consensual behavior. for example, boxers who are fighting in an organized boxing match and do not significantly deviate from the rules of the sport cannot be charged with assault. state laws laws on assault vary by state. since each state has its own criminal laws, there is no universal assault law. acts classified as assault in one state may be classified as battery, menacing, intimidation, reckless endangerment, etc. in another state. assault is often subdivided into two categories, simple assault and aggravated assault. simple assault involves an intentional act that causes another person to be in reasonable fear of an imminent battery. simple assault may also involve an attempt to cause harm to another person, where that attempt does not succeed. simple assault is typically classified as a misdemeanor offense, unless the victim is a member of a protected class, such as being a law enforcement officer. even as a misdemeanor, an assault conviction may still result in incarceration and in a criminal record. aggravated assault involves more serious actions, such as an assault that is committed with the intent to cause a serious bodily injury, or an assault that is committed with a deadly weapon such as a firearm. aggravated assault is typically classified as a felony offense. modern american statutes may define assault as including : an attempt to cause or purposely, knowingly, or recklessly causing bodily injury to another negligently causing bodily injury to another with a dangerous weapon ( assault with a deadly weapon ). causing bodily harm by reckless operation of a motor vehicle ( vehicular assault ). threatening another in a menacing manner. knowingly causing physical contact with another person knowing the other person will regard the contact as offensive or provocative causing stupor, unconsciousness or physical injury by intentionally administering a drug or controlled substance without consent purposely or knowingly causing reasonable apprehension of bodily injury in another any act which is intended to place another in fear of immediate physical contact which will be painful, injurious, insulting, or offensive, coupled with the apparent ability to execute the act. in some states, consent is a complete defense