travel when writing her 1934 novel murder on the orient express. the pera palace hotel in istanbul, the eastern terminus of the railway, claims the book was written there and maintains christie ' s room as a memorial to the author. christie and mallowan first lived in cresswell place in chelsea, and later in sheffield terrace, holland park, kensington. both properties are now marked by blue plaques. in 1934, they bought winterbrook house in winterbrook, a hamlet near wallingford. this was their main residence for the rest of their lives and the place where christie did much of her writing. this house also bears a blue plaque. christie led a quiet life despite being known in wallingford ; from 1951 to 1976 she served as president of the local amateur dramatic society. the couple acquired the greenway estate in devon as a summer residence in 1938 ; it was given to the national trust in 2000. christie frequently stayed at abney hall, cheshire, which was owned by her brother - in - law, james watts, and based at least two stories there : a short story, " the adventure of the christmas pudding ", in the story collection of the same name and the novel after the funeral. one christie compendium notes that " abney became agatha ' s greatest inspiration for country - house life, with all its servants and grandeur being woven into her plots. the descriptions of the fictional chimneys, stonygates, and other houses in her stories are mostly abney hall in various forms. " during world war ii, christie moved to london and lived in a flat at the isokon in hampstead, whilst working in the pharmacy at university college hospital ( uch ), london, where she updated her knowledge of poisons. her later novel the pale horse was based on a suggestion from harold davis, the chief pharmacist at uch. in 1977, a thallium poisoning case was solved by british medical personnel who had read christie ' s book and recognised the symptoms she described. the british intelligence agency mi5 investigated christie after a character called major bletchley appeared in her 1941 thriller n or m?, which was about a hunt for a pair of deadly fifth columnists in wartime england. mi5 was concerned that christie had a spy in britain ' s top - secret codebreaking centre, bletchley park. the agency ' s fears were allayed when christie told her friend, the codebreaker dilly knox, " i was stuck there on my way by train from oxford to london