israel, sending messengers throughout the whole territory, and saul, a herdsman at this time, responded by raising an army which decisively defeated nahash and his cohorts at bezek. the strangely cruel terms given by nahash for surrender were explained by josephus as being the usual practice of nahash. a more complete explanation came to light with the discovery of the dead sea scrolls : although not present in either the septuagint or masoretic text, an introductory passage, preceding this narrative, was found in a copy of the books of samuel among the scrolls found in cave 4 : this eventually led to an alliance with saul. under his command, the israelites relieved the siege and defeated the ammonite king, eventually resulting in the formation of the israelite kingdom. during the reign of king david, the ammonites humiliated david ' s messengers, and hired the aramean armies to attack israel. this eventually ended in a war and a year - long siege of rabbah, the capital of ammon. the war ended with all the ammonite cities being conquered and plundered, and the inhabitants being killed or put to forced labor at david ' s command. according to both and, naamah was an ammonite. she was the only wife of king solomon to be mentioned by name in the tanakh as having borne a child. she was the mother of solomon ' s successor, rehoboam. when the arameans of damascus city - state deprived the kingdom of israel of their possessions east of the jordan, the ammonites became allies of ben - hadad, and a contingent of 1, 000 of them served as allies of syria in the great battle of the arameans and assyrians at qarqar in 854 bc in the reign of shalmaneser iii. the ammonites, moabites and meunim formed a coalition against jehoshaphat of judah. the coalition later was thrown to confusion, with the armies slaughtering one another. they were subdued and paid tribute to jotham. after submitting to tiglath - pileser iii they were generally tributary to the neo - assyrian empire, but had joined in the general uprising that took place under sennacherib ; but they submitted and they became tributary in the reign of esar - haddon. their hostility to judah is shown in their joining the chaldeans to destroy it. their cruelty is denounced by the prophet amos and their destruction ( with their return in