- curve measurements can also be made by gbo ; when collected over a long period of time it allows an estimate of the rotational period, the pole orientation ( sometimes ), and a rough estimate of the asteroid ' s shape. spectral data ( both visible - light and near - infrared spectroscopy ) gives information about the object ' s composition, used to classify the observed asteroids. such observations are limited as they provide information about only the thin layer on the surface ( up to several micrometers ). as planetologist patrick michel writes : mid - to thermal - infrared observations, along with polarimetry measurements, are probably the only data that give some indication of actual physical properties. measuring the heat flux of an asteroid at a single wavelength gives an estimate of the dimensions of the object ; these measurements have lower uncertainty than measurements of the reflected sunlight in the visible - light spectral region. if the two measurements can be combined, both the effective diameter and the geometric albedo — the latter being a measure of the brightness at zero phase angle, that is, when illumination comes from directly behind the observer — can be derived. in addition, thermal measurements at two or more wavelengths, plus the brightness in the visible - light region, give information on the thermal properties. the thermal inertia, which is a measure of how fast a material heats up or cools off, of most observed asteroids is lower than the bare - rock reference value but greater than that of the lunar regolith ; this observation indicates the presence of an insulating layer of granular material on their surface. moreover, there seems to be a trend, perhaps related to the gravitational environment, that smaller objects ( with lower gravity ) have a small regolith layer consisting of coarse grains, while larger objects have a thicker regolith layer consisting of fine grains. however, the detailed properties of this regolith layer are poorly known from remote observations. moreover, the relation between thermal inertia and surface roughness is not straightforward, so one needs to interpret the thermal inertia with caution. near - earth asteroids that come into close vicinity of the planet can be studied in more details with radar ; it provides information about the surface of the asteroid ( for example can show the presence of craters and boulders ). such observations were conducted by the arecibo observatory in puerto rico ( 305 meter dish ) and goldstone observatory in california ( 70 meter dish ). radar observations can also be used for accurate determination of the orbital and rotational dynamics of observed objects. space - based observations both space