##sius were far from a true doctrine of trinity, which developed later, historically speaking. guido m. berndt and roland steinacher state clearly that the beliefs of arius were acceptable ( " not especially unusual " ) to a huge number of orthodox clergy ; this is the reason why such a major conflict was able to develop inside the church, since arius ' s theology received widespread sympathy ( or at least was not considered to be overly controversial ) and could not be dismissed outright as individual heresy. homoian arianism arianism had several different variants, including eunomianism and homoian arianism. homoian arianism is associated with acacius and eudoxius. homoian arianism avoided the use of the word ousia to describe the relation of father to son, and described these as " like " each other. hanson lists twelve creeds that reflect the homoian faith : the second sirmian creed of 357 the creed of nice ( constantinople ) 360 the creed put forward by acacius at seleucia, 359 the rule of faith of ulfilas the creed uttered by ulfilas on his deathbed, 383 the creed attributed to eudoxius the creed of auxentius of milan, 364 the creed of germinius professed in correspondence with ursacius of singidunum and valens of mursa palladius ' s rule of faith three credal statements found in fragments, subordinating the son to the father struggles with orthodoxy first council of nicaea in 321, arius was denounced by a synod at alexandria for teaching a heterodox view of the relationship of jesus to god the father. because arius and his followers had great influence in the schools of alexandria — counterparts to modern universities or seminaries — their theological views spread, especially in the eastern mediterranean. by 325, the controversy had become significant enough that the emperor constantine called an assembly of bishops, the first council of nicaea, which condemned arius ' s doctrine and formulated the original nicene creed of 325. the nicene creed ' s central term, used to describe the relationship between the father and the son, is homoousios ( ), or consubstantiality, meaning " of the same substance " or " of one being " ( the athanasian creed is less often used but is a more overtly anti - arian statement on the trinity ). the focus of the council of nicaea was the nature of the son of god and his precise