rebuilding efforts on barbuda that were estimated to cost at least $ 100 million, the government announced plans to revoke a century - old law of communal land ownership by allowing residents to buy land ; a move that has been criticised as promoting " disaster capitalism ". geography limestone formations, rather than volcanic activity, have had the most impact on the topography of both antigua and barbuda, which are both relatively low - lying islands. boggy peak, also known as mt. obama from 2008 to 2016, is the highest point on both antigua and barbuda. it is the remnant of a volcanic crater and rises a total of 402 meters. boggy peak is located in the southwest of antigua ( 1, 319 feet ). both of these islands have very irregularly shaped coastlines that are dotted with beaches, lagoons, and natural harbors. there are reefs and shoals that surround the islands on all sides. because of the low amount of rainfall, there are not many streams. on neither of these islands can sufficient quantities of fresh groundwater be found. redonda is a small, uninhabited island located about 40 kilometers ( 25 miles ) to the south - west of antigua. redonda is a rocky island. cities and villages the most populous cities in antigua and barbuda are mostly on antigua, being saint john ' s, all saints, piggotts, and liberta. the most populous city on barbuda is codrington. it is estimated that 25 % of the population lives in an urban area, which is much lower than the international average of 55 %. islands antigua and barbuda consists mostly of its two namesake islands, antigua, and barbuda. other than that, antigua and barbuda ' s biggest islands are guiana island and long island off the coast of antigua, and redonda island, which is far from both of the main islands. climate rainfall averages per year, with the amount varying widely from season to season. in general the wettest period is between september and november. the islands generally experience low humidity and recurrent droughts. temperatures average, with a range from to in the winter to from to in the summer and autumn. the coolest period is between december and february. hurricanes strike on an average of once a year, including the powerful category 5 hurricane irma, on 6 september 2017, which damaged 95 % of the structures on barbuda. some 1, 800 people were evacuated to antigua. an estimate published by time indicated that over $ 100 million would be required