estimates at long. each premaxilla ( the bones that formed the tip of the snout ) held five teeth with d - shaped cross - sections, and each maxilla ( the main tooth - bearing bones in the upper jaw ) had between 14 and 17 teeth ; the number of teeth does not exactly correspond to the size of the bone. each dentary ( the tooth - bearing bone of the lower jaw ) had between 14 and 17 teeth, with an average count of 16. the teeth became shorter, narrower, and more curved toward the back of the skull. all of the teeth had saw - like edges. they were shed easily, and were replaced continually, making them common fossils. its skull was light, robust and equipped with dozens of sharp, serrated teeth. the skull had a pair of horns above and in front of the eyes. these horns were composed of extensions of the lacrimal bones, and varied in shape and size. there were also lower paired ridges running along the top edges of the nasal bones that led into the horns. the horns were probably covered in a keratin sheath and may have had a variety of functions, including acting as sunshades for the eyes, being used for display, and being used in combat against other members of the same species ( although they were fragile ). there was a ridge along the back of the skull roof for muscle attachment, as is also seen in tyrannosaurids. inside the lacrimal bones were depressions that may have held glands, such as salt glands. within the maxillae were sinuses that were better developed than those of more basal theropods such as ceratosaurus and marshosaurus ; they may have been related to the sense of smell, perhaps holding something like jacobson ' s organs. the roof of the braincase was thin, perhaps to improve thermoregulation for the brain. the skull and lower jaws had joints that permitted motion within these units. in the lower jaws, the bones of the front and back halves loosely articulated, permitting the jaws to bow outward and increasing the animal ' s gape. the braincase and frontals may also have had a joint. postcranial skeleton allosaurus had nine vertebrae in the neck, 14 in the back, and five in the sacrum supporting the hips. the number of tail vertebrae is unknown and varied with individual size ; james madsen estimated about 50, while gregory s. paul considered that to be too many and suggested 45 or less. there were hollow spaces in the neck