this cladogram shows the placement of asparagales within the orders of lilianae sensu chase & reveal ( monocots ) based on molecular phylogenetic evidence. the lilioid monocot orders are bracketed, namely petrosaviales, dioscoreales, pandanales, liliales and asparagales. these constitute a paraphyletic assemblage, that is groups with a common ancestor that do not include all direct descendants ( in this case commelinids as the sister group to asparagales ) ; to form a clade, all the groups joined by thick lines would need to be included. while acorales and alismatales have been collectively referred to as " alismatid monocots " ( basal or early branching monocots ), the remaining clades ( lilioid and commelinid monocots ) have been referred to as the " core monocots ". the relationship between the orders ( with the exception of the two sister orders ) is pectinate, that is diverging in succession from the line that leads to the commelinids. numbers indicate crown group ( most recent common ancestor of the sampled species of the clade of interest ) divergence times in mya ( million years ago ). subdivision a phylogenetic tree for the asparagales, generally to family level, but including groups which were recently and widely treated as families but which are now reduced to subfamily rank, is shown below. the tree shown above can be divided into a basal paraphyletic group, the ' lower asparagales ( asparagoids ) ', from orchidaceae to asphodelaceae, and a well - supported monophyletic group of ' core asparagales ' ( higher asparagoids ), comprising the two largest families, amaryllidaceae sensu lato and asparagaceae sensu lato. two differences between these two groups ( although with exceptions ) are : the mode of microsporogenesis and the position of the ovary. the ' lower asparagales ' typically have simultaneous microsporogenesis ( i. e. cell walls develop only after both meiotic divisions ), which appears to be an apomorphy within the monocots, whereas the ' core asparagales ' have reverted to successive microsporogenesis ( i. e. cell walls develop after each division ). the ' lower asparagales ' typically have an