relationship. the sprachbund hypothesis instead of a common genetic origin, clauson, doerfer, and shcherbak proposed ( in 1956 – 1966 ) that turkic, mongolic, and tungusic languages form a sprachbund : a set of languages with similarities due to convergence through intensive borrowing and long contact, rather than common origin. asya pereltsvaig further observed in 2011 that, in general, genetically related languages and families tend to diverge over time : the earlier forms are more similar than modern forms. however, she claims that an analysis of the earliest written records of mongolic and turkic languages shows the opposite, suggesting that they do not share a common traceable ancestor, but rather have become more similar through language contact and areal effects. hypothesis about the original homeland the prehistory of the peoples speaking the " altaic " languages is largely unknown. whereas for certain other language families, such as the speakers of indo - european, uralic, and austronesian, it is possible to frame substantial hypotheses, in the case of the proposed altaic family much remains to be done. some scholars have hypothesised a possible uralic and altaic homeland in the central asian steppes. chaubey and van driem propose that the dispersal of ancient altaic language communities is reflected by the early holocene dissemination of haplogroup c2 ( m217 ) : " if the paternal lineage c2 ( m217 ) is correlated with altaic linguistic affinity, as appears to be the case for turkic, mongolic and tungusic, then japanese is no father tongue, and neither is korean. this y - chromosomal haplogroup accounts for 11 % of korean paternal lineages, and the frequency of the lineage is even more reduced in japan. yet this molecular marker may still be a tracer for the introduction of altaic language to the archipelago, where the paternal lineage has persisted, albeit in a frequency of just 6 %. " according to juha janhunen, the ancestral languages of turkic, mongolic, tungusic, korean, and japanese were spoken in a relatively small area comprising present - day north korea, southern manchuria, and southeastern mongolia. however janhunen is sceptical about an affiliation of japanese to altaic, while andras rona - tas remarked that a relationship between altaic and japanese, if it ever existed, must be more remote than the relationship of any two of the indo - european languages. ramsey stated that