of austroasiatic origin have been noticed in lepcha, suggesting a sino - tibetan superstrate laid over an austroasiatic substrate. blench ( 2013 ) calls this branch " rongic " based on the lepcha autonym rong. other languages with proposed austroasiatic substrata are : jiamao, based on evidence from the register system of jiamao, a hlai language ( thurgood 1992 ). jiamao is known for its highly aberrant vocabulary in relation to other hlai languages. kerinci : van reijn ( 1974 ) notes that kerinci, a malayic language of central sumatra, shares many phonological similarities with austroasiatic languages, such as sesquisyllabic word structure and vowel inventory. john peterson ( 2017 ) suggests that " pre - munda " ( " proto - " in regular terminology ) languages may have once dominated the eastern indo - gangetic plain, and were then absorbed by indo - aryan languages at an early date as indo - aryan spread east. peterson notes that eastern indo - aryan languages display many morphosyntactic features similar to those of munda languages, while western indo - aryan languages do not. writing systems other than latin - based alphabets, many austroasiatic languages are written with the khmer, thai, lao, and burmese alphabets. vietnamese divergently had an indigenous script based on chinese logographic writing. this has since been supplanted by the latin alphabet in the 20th century. the following are examples of past - used alphabets or current alphabets of austroasiatic languages. chu nom khmer alphabet khom script ( used for a short period in the early 20th century for indigenous languages in laos ) old mon script mon script pahawh hmong was once used to write khmu, under the name " pahawh khmu " tai le ( palaung, blang ) tai tham ( blang ) ol chiki alphabet ( santali alphabet ) mundari bani ( mundari alphabet ) warang citi ( ho alphabet ) ol onal ( bhumij alphabet ) sorang sompeng alphabet ( sora alphabet ) external relations austric languages austroasiatic is an integral part of the controversial austric hypothesis, which also includes the austronesian languages, and in some proposals also the kra – dai languages and the hmong – mien languages. hmong - mien several lexical resemblances are