##ian, though at some point ( at least by the 9th century bc ) it and most of the contemporary semitic abjads had begun to overload a few of the consonant symbols with a secondary function as vowel markers, called matres lectionis. this practice was at first rare and limited in scope but became increasingly common and more developed in later times. addition of vowels in the 9th century bc the greeks adapted the phoenician script for use in their own language. the phonetic structure of the greek language created too many ambiguities when vowels went unrepresented, so the script was modified. they did not need letters for the guttural sounds represented by aleph, he, heth or ayin, so these symbols were assigned vocalic values. the letters waw and yod were also adapted into vowel signs ; along with he, these were already used as matres lectionis in phoenician. the major innovation of greek was to dedicate these symbols exclusively and unambiguously to vowel sounds that could be combined arbitrarily with consonants ( as opposed to syllabaries such as linear b which usually have vowel symbols but cannot combine them with consonants to form arbitrary syllables ). abugidas developed along a slightly different route. the basic consonantal symbol was considered to have an inherent " a " vowel sound. hooks or short lines attached to various parts of the basic letter modify the vowel. in this way, the south arabian abjad evolved into the ge ' ez abugida of ethiopia between the 5th century bc and the 5th century ad. similarly, the brahmi abugida of the indian subcontinent developed around the 3rd century bc ( from the aramaic abjad, it has been hypothesized ). the other major family of abugidas, canadian aboriginal syllabics, was initially developed in the 1840s by missionary and linguist james evans for the cree and ojibwe languages. evans used features of devanagari script and pitman shorthand to create his initial abugida. later in the 19th century, other missionaries adapted evans ' s system to other canadian aboriginal languages. canadian syllabics differ from other abugidas in that the vowel is indicated by rotation of the consonantal symbol, with each vowel having a consistent orientation. abjads and the structure of semitic languages the abjad form of writing is well - adapted to the morphological structure of the semitic languages it was developed to write. this is because words in semitic languages