college : gary snyder, philip whalen, and lew welch. in 1959, along with poets john kelly, bob kaufman, a. d. winans, and william margolis, ginsberg was one of the founders of the beatitude poetry magazine. wally hedrick — a painter and co - founder of the six gallery — approached ginsberg in mid - 1955 and asked him to organize a poetry reading at the six gallery. at first, ginsberg refused, but once he had written a rough draft of " howl, " he changed his " fucking mind, " as he put it. ginsberg advertised the event as " six poets at the six gallery. " one of the most important events in beat mythos, known simply as " the six gallery reading " took place on october 7, 1955. the event, in essence, brought together the east and west coast factions of the beat generation. of more personal significance to ginsberg, the reading that night included the first public presentation of " howl, " a poem that brought worldwide fame to ginsberg and to many of the poets associated with him. an account of that night can be found in kerouac ' s novel the dharma bums, describing how change was collected from audience members to buy jugs of wine, and ginsberg reading passionately, drunken, with arms outstretched. ginsberg ' s principal work, " howl, " is well known for its opening line : " i saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness, starving hysterical naked [... ]. " " howl " was considered scandalous at the time of its publication, because of the rawness of its language. shortly after its 1956 publication by san francisco ' s city lights bookstore, it was banned for obscenity. the ban became a cause celebre among defenders of the first amendment, and was later lifted, after judge clayton w. horn declared the poem to possess redeeming artistic value. ginsberg and shig murao, the city lights manager who was jailed for selling " howl, " became lifelong friends. biographical references in " howl " ginsberg claimed at one point that all of his work was an extended biography ( like kerouac ' s duluoz legend ). " howl " is not only a biography of ginsberg ' s experiences before 1955, but also a history of the beat generation. ginsberg also later claimed that at the core of " howl " were his unresolved emotions about his schizophrenic mother. though " ka