arable land ( from the, " able to be ploughed " ) is any land capable of being ploughed and used to grow crops. alternatively, for the purposes of agricultural statistics, the term often has a more precise definition : a more concise definition appearing in the eurostat glossary similarly refers to actual rather than potential uses : " land worked ( ploughed or tilled ) regularly, generally under a system of crop rotation ". in britain, arable land has traditionally been contrasted with pasturable land such as heaths, which could be used for sheep - rearing but not as farmland. arable land is vulnerable to land degradation and some types of un - arable land can be enriched to create useful land. climate change and biodiversity loss, are driving pressure on arable land. by country according to the food and agriculture organization of the united nations, in 2013, the world ' s arable land amounted to 1. 407 billion hectares, out of a total of 4. 924 billion hectares of land used for agriculture. arable land ( hectares per person ) non - arable land agricultural land that is not arable according to the fao definition above includes : meadows and pasturesland used as pasture and grazed range, and those natural grasslands and sedge meadows that are used for hay production in some regions. permanent cropland that produces crops from woody vegetation, e. g. orchard land, vineyards, coffee plantations, rubber plantations, and land producing nut trees ; other non - arable land includes land that is not suitable for any agricultural use. land that is not arable, in the sense of lacking capability or suitability for cultivation for crop production, has one or more limitationsa lack of sufficient freshwater for irrigation, stoniness, steepness, adverse climate, excessive wetness with the impracticality of drainage, excessive salts, or a combination of these, among others. although such limitations may preclude cultivation, and some will in some cases preclude any agricultural use, large areas unsuitable for cultivation may still be agriculturally productive. for example, united states nrcs statistics indicate that about 59 percent of us non - federal pasture and unforested rangeland is unsuitable for cultivation, yet such land has value for grazing of livestock. in british columbia, canada, 41 percent of the provincial agricultural land reserve area is unsuitable for the production of cultivated crops, but is suitable for uncultivated production of forage usable by grazing livestock. similar examples can be found in many rangeland