organic matter which may enhance the solubility of arsenic compounds. as a result, the adsorption of arsenic is reduced and dissolved arsenic accumulates in groundwater. that is why the arsenic content is higher in reducing environments than in oxidizing environments. the presence of sulfur is another factor that affects the transformation of arsenic in natural water. arsenic can precipitate when metal sulfides form. in this way, arsenic is removed from the water and its mobility decreases. when oxygen is present, bacteria oxidize reduced sulfur to generate energy, potentially releasing bound arsenic. redox reactions involving fe also appear to be essential factors in the fate of arsenic in aquatic systems. the reduction of iron oxyhydroxides plays a key role in the release of arsenic to water. so arsenic can be enriched in water with elevated fe concentrations. under oxidizing conditions, arsenic can be mobilized from pyrite or iron oxides especially at elevated ph. under reducing conditions, arsenic can be mobilized by reductive desorption or dissolution when associated with iron oxides. the reductive desorption occurs under two circumstances. one is when arsenate is reduced to arsenite which adsorbs to iron oxides less strongly. the other results from a change in the charge on the mineral surface which leads to the desorption of bound arsenic. some species of bacteria catalyze redox transformations of arsenic. dissimilatory arsenate - respiring prokaryotes ( darp ) speed up the reduction of as ( v ) to as ( iii ). darp use as ( v ) as the electron acceptor of anaerobic respiration and obtain energy to survive. other organic and inorganic substances can be oxidized in this process. chemoautotrophic arsenite oxidizers ( cao ) and heterotrophic arsenite oxidizers ( hao ) convert as ( iii ) into as ( v ). cao combine the oxidation of as ( iii ) with the reduction of oxygen or nitrate. they use obtained energy to fix produce organic carbon from co2. hao cannot obtain energy from as ( iii ) oxidation. this process may be an arsenic detoxification mechanism for the bacteria. equilibrium thermodynamic calculations predict that as ( v ) concentrations should be greater than as ( iii ) concentrations in all but strongly reducing conditions, i. e. where so42− reduction is occurring. however, abiotic redox reactions of arsenic are