##in and beornrad were all related by blood. in his life of st willibrord, alcuin writes that wilgils, called a paterfamilias, had founded an oratory and church at the mouth of the humber, which had fallen into alcuin ' s possession by inheritance. because in early anglo - latin writing paterfamilias ( " head of a family, householder " ) usually referred to a ( " churl " ), donald a. bullough suggests that alcuin ' s family was of ( " churlish " ) status : i. e., free but subordinate to a noble lord, and that alcuin and other members of his family rose to prominence through beneficial connections with the aristocracy. if so, alcuin ' s origins may lie in the southern part of what was formerly known as deira. york the young alcuin came to the cathedral church of york during the golden age of archbishop ecgbert and his brother, the northumbrian king eadberht. ecgbert had been a disciple of the venerable bede, who urged him to raise york to an archbishopric. king eadberht and archbishop ecgbert oversaw the re - energising and reorganisation of the english church, with an emphasis on reforming the clergy and on the tradition of learning that bede had begun. ecgbert was devoted to alcuin, who thrived under his tutelage. the york school was renowned as a centre of learning in the liberal arts, literature, and science, as well as in religious matters. from here, alcuin drew inspiration for the school he would lead at the frankish court. he revived the school with the trivium and quadrivium disciplines, writing a codex on the trivium, while his student hraban wrote one on the quadrivium. alcuin graduated to become a teacher during the 750s. his ascendancy to the headship of the york school, the ancestor of st peter ' s school, began after aelbert became archbishop of york in 767. around the same time, alcuin became a deacon in the church. he was never ordained a priest. though no real evidence shows that he took monastic vows, he lived as if he had. in 781, king elfwald sent alcuin to rome to petition the pope for official confirmation of york ' s status as an archbishopric and to confirm the