the rabbis say, became his snare and his stumbling - block. " by his long hair the nazirite entangled the people to rebel against his father, and by it he himself became entangled, to fall a victim to his pursuers ". and again, elsewhere : " by his vile stratagem he deceived and stole three hearts, that of his father, of the elders, and finally of the whole nation of israel, and for this reason three darts were thrust into his heart to end his treacherous life ". more striking is the following : " did one ever hear of an oak - tree having a heart? and yet in the oak - tree in whose branches absalom was caught, we read that upon its heart he was held up still alive while the darts were thrust through him. this is to show that when a man becomes so heartless as to make war against his own father, nature itself takes on a heart to avenge the deed. " " the knowledge that a part of absalom ' s following sided with him in secret, - - that, though he was pursued by his son, his friends remained true to him, - - somewhat consoled david in his distress. he thought that in these circumstances, if the worst came to the worst, absalom would at least feel pity for him. at first, however, the despair of david knew no bounds. he was on the point of worshipping an idol, when his friend hushai the archite approached him, saying : " the people will wonder that such a king should serve idols. " david replied : " should a king such as i am be killed by his own son? it is better for me to serve idols than that god should be held responsible for my misfortune, and his name thus be desecrated. " hushai reproached him : " why didst thou marry a captive? " " there is no wrong in that, " replied david, " it is permitted according to the law. " thereupon hushai : " but thou didst disregard the connection between the passage permitting it and the one that follows almost immediately after it in the scriptures, dealing with the disobedient and rebellious son, the natural issue of such a marriage. " absalom ' s end was beset with terrors. when he was caught in the branches of the oak - tree, he was about to sever his hair with a sword stroke, but suddenly he saw hell yawning beneath him