. varieties varieties of asl are found throughout the world. there is little difficulty in comprehension among the varieties of the united states and canada. mutual intelligibility among those asl varieties is high, and the variation is primarily lexical. for example, there are three different words for english about in canadian asl ; the standard way, and two regional variations ( atlantic and ontario ). variation may also be phonological, meaning that the same sign may be signed in a different way depending on the region. for example, an extremely common type of variation is between the handshapes / 1 /, / l /, and / 5 / in signs with one handshape. there is also a distinct variety of asl used by the black deaf community. black asl evolved as a result of racially segregated schools in some states, which included the residential schools for the deaf. black asl differs from standard asl in vocabulary, phonology, and some grammatical structure. while african american english ( aae ) is generally viewed as more innovating than standard english, black asl is more conservative than standard asl, preserving older forms of many signs. black sign language speakers use more two - handed signs than in mainstream asl, are less likely to show assimilatory lowering of signs produced on the forehead ( e. g. know ) and use a wider signing space. modern black asl borrows a number of idioms from aae ; for instance, the aae idiom " i feel you " is calqued into black asl. asl is used internationally as a lingua franca, and a number of closely related sign languages derived from asl are used in many different countries. even so, there have been varying degrees of divergence from standard asl in those imported asl varieties. bolivian sign language is reported to be a dialect of asl, no more divergent than other acknowledged dialects. on the other hand, it is also known that some imported asl varieties have diverged to the extent of being separate languages. for example, malaysian sign language, which has asl origins, is no longer mutually comprehensible with asl and must be considered its own language. for some imported asl varieties, such as those used in west africa, it is still an open question how similar they are to american asl. when communicating with hearing english speakers, asl - speakers often use what is commonly called pidgin signed english ( pse ) or '