sacrum supporting the hips. the number of tail vertebrae is unknown and varied with individual size ; james madsen estimated about 50, while gregory s. paul considered that to be too many and suggested 45 or less. there were hollow spaces in the neck and anterior back vertebrae. such spaces, which are also found in modern theropods ( that is, the birds ), are interpreted as having held air sacs used in respiration. the rib cage was broad, giving it a barrel chest, especially in comparison to less derived theropods like ceratosaurus. allosaurus had gastralia ( belly ribs ), but these are not common findings, and they may have ossified poorly. in one published case, the gastralia show evidence of injury during life. a furcula ( wishbone ) was also present, but has only been recognized since 1996 ; in some cases furculae were confused with gastralia. the ilium, the main hip bone, was massive, and the pubic bone had a prominent foot that may have been used for both muscle attachment and as a prop for resting the body on the ground. madsen noted that in about half of the individuals from the cleveland - lloyd dinosaur quarry, independent of size, the pubes had not fused to each other at their foot ends. he suggested that this was a sexual characteristic, with females lacking fused bones to make egg - laying easier. this proposal has not attracted further attention, however. the forelimbs of allosaurus were short in comparison to the hindlimbs ( only about 35 % the length of the hindlimbs in adults ) and had three fingers per hand, tipped with large, strongly curved and pointed claws. the arms were powerful, and the forearm was somewhat shorter than the upper arm ( 1 : 1. 2 ulna / humerus ratio ). the wrist had a version of the semilunate carpal also found in more derived theropods like maniraptorans. of the three fingers, the innermost ( or thumb ) was the largest, and diverged from the others. the phalangeal formula is 2 - 3 - 4 - 0 - 0, meaning that the innermost finger ( phalange ) has two bones, the next has three, and the third finger has four. the legs were not as long or suited for speed as those of tyrannosaurids, and the claws of the toes were less developed and more hoof - like than those of earlier theropods. each