##n bitstrings of length n. the uniform probability distribution on the space of these bitstrings assigns exactly equal weight 2−n to each string of length n. theorem : with the uniform probability distribution on the space of bitstrings of length n, the probability that a string is incompressible by c is at least 1 − 2−c + 1 + 2−n. to prove the theorem, note that the number of descriptions of length not exceeding n − c is given by the geometric series : 1 + 2 + 22 +... + 2n − c = 2n−c + 1 − 1. there remain at least 2n − 2n−c + 1 + 1 bitstrings of length n that are incompressible by c. to determine the probability, divide by 2n. chaitin ' s incompleteness theorem by the above theorem ( ), most strings are complex in the sense that they cannot be described in any significantly " compressed " way. however, it turns out that the fact that a specific string is complex cannot be formally proven, if the complexity of the string is above a certain threshold. the precise formalization is as follows. first, fix a particular axiomatic system s for the natural numbers. the axiomatic system has to be powerful enough so that, to certain assertions a about complexity of strings, one can associate a formula fa in s. this association must have the following property : if fa is provable from the axioms of s, then the corresponding assertion a must be true. this " formalization " can be achieved based on a godel numbering. theorem : there exists a constant l ( which only depends on s and on the choice of description language ) such that there does not exist a string s for which the statementk ( s ) ≥ l ( as formalized in s ) can be proven within s. proof idea : the proof of this result is modeled on a self - referential construction used in berry ' s paradox. we firstly obtain a program which enumerates the proofs within s and we specify a procedure p which takes as an input an integer l and prints the strings x which are within proofs within s of the statement k ( x ) ≥ l. by then setting l to greater than the length of this procedure p, we have that the required length of a program to print x as stated in k ( x ) ≥ l as being at least l is then less than the amount l since