bigger american hit, but a small label like playboy records did not have the distribution resources to meet the demand for the single from retailers and radio programmers. " ring ring " in 1973, the band and their manager stig anderson decided to have another try at melodifestivalen, this time with the song " ring ring ". the studio sessions were handled by michael b. tretow, who experimented with a " wall of sound " production technique that became a distinctive new sound thereafter associated with abba. stig anderson arranged an english translation of the lyrics by neil sedaka and phil cody and they thought this would be a success. however, on 10 february 1973, the song came third in melodifestivalen ; thus it never reached the eurovision song contest itself. nevertheless, the group released their debut studio album, also called ring ring. the album did well and the " ring ring " single was a hit in many parts of europe and also in south africa. however, stig anderson felt that the true breakthrough could only come with a uk or us hit. when agnetha faltskog gave birth to her daughter linda in 1973, she was replaced for a short period by inger brundin on a trip to west germany. official naming in 1973, stig anderson, tired of unwieldy names, started to refer to the group privately and publicly as abba ( a palindrome ). at first, this was a play on words, as abba is also the name of a well - known fish - canning company in sweden, and itself an abbreviation. however, since the fish - canners were unknown outside sweden, anderson came to believe the name would work in international markets. a competition to find a suitable name for the group was held in a gothenburg newspaper and it was officially announced in the summer that the group were to be known as " abba ". the group negotiated with the canners for the rights to the name. fred bronson reported for billboard that faltskog told him in a 1988 interview that " [ abba ] had to ask permission and the factory said, ' o. k., as long as you don ' t make us feel ashamed for what you ' re doing. " abba " is an acronym formed from the first letters of each group member ' s first name : agnetha, bjorn, benny, anni - frid, although there has never been any official confirmation of who each letter in the sequence refers to.