that bodies move towards their natural resting places ; metal boats can float if they displace enough water ; floating depends in archimedes ' scheme on the mass and volume of the object, not, as aristotle thought, its elementary composition. aristotle ' s writings on motion remained influential until the early modern period. john philoponus ( in late antiquity ) and galileo ( in early modern period ) are said to have shown by experiment that aristotle ' s claim that a heavier object falls faster than a lighter object is incorrect. a contrary opinion is given by carlo rovelli, who argues that aristotle ' s physics of motion is correct within its domain of validity, that of objects in the earth ' s gravitational field immersed in a fluid such as air. in this system, heavy bodies in steady fall indeed travel faster than light ones ( whether friction is ignored, or not ), and they do fall more slowly in a denser medium. newton ' s " forced " motion corresponds to aristotle ' s " violent " motion with its external agent, but aristotle ' s assumption that the agent ' s effect stops immediately it stops acting ( e. g., the ball leaves the thrower ' s hand ) has awkward consequences : he has to suppose that surrounding fluid helps to push the ball along to make it continue to rise even though the hand is no longer acting on it, resulting in the medieval theory of impetus. four causes aristotle suggested that the reason for anything coming about can be attributed to four different types of simultaneously active factors. his term aitia is traditionally translated as " cause ", but it does not always refer to temporal sequence ; it might be better translated as " explanation ", but the traditional rendering will be employed here. material cause describes the material out of which something is composed. thus the material cause of a table is wood. it is not about action. it does not mean that one domino knocks over another domino. the formal cause is its form, i. e., the arrangement of that matter. it tells one what a thing is, that a thing is determined by the definition, form, pattern, essence, whole, synthesis or archetype. it embraces the account of causes in terms of fundamental principles or general laws, as the whole ( i. e., macrostructure ) is the cause of its parts, a relationship known as the whole - part causation. plainly put, the formal cause is the idea in the mind of the sculptor that brings the sculpture into being. a simple example of the formal