andrey andreyevich markov ( 14 june 1856 – 20 july 1922 ) was a russian mathematician best known for his work on stochastic processes. a primary subject of his research later became known as the markov chain. he was also a strong, close to master - level chess player. markov and his younger brother vladimir andreevich markov ( 1871 – 1897 ) proved the markov brothers ' inequality. his son, another andrey andreyevich markov ( 1903 – 1979 ), was also a notable mathematician, making contributions to constructive mathematics and recursive function theory. biography andrey markov was born on 14 june 1856 in russia. he attended the st. petersburg grammar school, where some teachers saw him as a rebellious student. in his academics he performed poorly in most subjects other than mathematics. later in life he attended saint petersburg imperial university ( now saint petersburg state university ). among his teachers were yulian sokhotski ( differential calculus, higher algebra ), konstantin posse ( analytic geometry ), yegor zolotarev ( integral calculus ), pafnuty chebyshev ( number theory and probability theory ), aleksandr korkin ( ordinary and partial differential equations ), mikhail okatov ( mechanism theory ), osip somov ( mechanics ), and nikolai budajev ( descriptive and higher geometry ). he completed his studies at the university and was later asked if he would like to stay and have a career as a mathematician. he later taught at high schools and continued his own mathematical studies. in this time he found a practical use for his mathematical skills. he figured out that he could use chains to model the alliteration of vowels and consonants in russian literature. he also contributed to many other mathematical aspects in his time. he died at age 66 on 20 july 1922. timeline in 1877, markov was awarded a gold medal for his outstanding solution of the problem about integration of differential equations by continued fractions with an application to the equation. during the following year, he passed the candidate ' s examinations, and he remained at the university to prepare for a lecturer ' s position. in april 1880, markov defended his master ' s thesis " on the binary square forms with positive determinant ", which was directed by aleksandr korkin and yegor zolotarev. four years later in 1884, he defended his doctoral thesis titled " on certain applications of the algebraic continuous fractions ". his pedagogical work began after the defense of his master ' s thesis in autumn 1880. as