solve this issue, people always use optical character recognition technology accompanied with text - to - speech software. braille and braille technology braille is a system of raised dots formed into units called braille cells. a full braille cell is made up of six dots, with two parallel rows of three dots, but other combinations and quantities of dots represent other letters, numbers, punctuation marks, or words. people can then use their fingers to read the code of raised dots. assistive technology using braille is called braille technology. braille translator a braille translator is a computer program that can translate inkprint into braille or braille into inkprint. a braille translator can be an app on a computer or be built into a website, a smartphone, or a braille device. braille embosser a braille embosser is, simply put, a printer for braille. instead of a standard printer adding ink onto a page, the braille embosser imprints the raised dots of braille onto a page. some braille embossers combine both braille and ink so the documents can be read with either sight or touch. refreshable braille display a refreshable braille display or braille terminal is an electro - mechanical device for displaying braille characters, usually by means of round - tipped pins raised through holes in a flat surface. computer users who cannot use a computer monitor use it to read a braille output version of the displayed text. desktop video magnifier desktop video magnifiers are electronic devices that use a camera and a display screen to perform digital magnification of printed materials. they enlarge printed pages for those with low vision. a camera connects to a monitor that displays real - time images, and the user can control settings such as magnification, focus, contrast, underlining, highlighting, and other screen preferences. they come in a variety of sizes and styles ; some are small and portable with handheld cameras, while others are much larger and mounted on a fixed stand. screen magnification software a screen magnifier is software that interfaces with a computer ' s graphical output to present enlarged screen content. it allows users to enlarge the texts and graphics on their computer screens for easier viewing. similar to desktop video magnifiers, this technology assists people with low vision. after the user loads the software into their computer ' s memory, it serves as a kind of " computer magnifying glass ". wherever