collections, which filled not only his four - story townhouse, but also a nearby storage unit, as " andy ' s stuff ". the true extent of his collections was not discovered until after his death, when the andy warhol museum in pittsburgh took in 641 boxes of his " stuff ". warhol ' s collections included a coca - cola memorabilia sign, and 19th century paintings along with airplane menus, unpaid invoices, pizza dough, pornographic pulp novels, newspapers, stamps, supermarket flyers, and cookie jars, among other eccentricities. it also included significant works of art, such as george bellows ' s miss bentham. one of his main collections was his wigs. warhol owned more than 40 and felt very protective of his hairpieces, which were sewn by a new york wig - maker from hair imported from italy. in 1985, a girl snatched warhol ' s wig off his head. it was later discovered in warhol ' s diary entry for that day that he wrote : " i don ' t know what held me back from pushing her over the balcony. " in 1960, he had bought a drawing of a light bulb by jasper johns. another item found in warhol ' s boxes at the museum in pittsburgh was a mummified human foot from ancient egypt. the curator of anthropology at carnegie museum of natural history felt that warhol most likely found it at a flea market. warhol collected many books, with more than 1, 200 titles in his collection. of these, 139 titles have been publicly identified through a 1988 sotheby ' s auction catalog, the andy warhol collection and can be viewed online. his book collection reflects his eclectic taste and interests, and includes books written by and about some of his acquaintances and friends. some of the titles in his collection include the two mrs. grenvilles : a novel by dominick dunne, artists in uniform by max eastman, andrews ' diseases of the skin : clinical dermatology by george clinton andrews, d. v. by diana vreeland, blood of a poet by jean cocteau, watercolours by francesco clemente, little world, hello! by jimmy savo, hidden faces by salvador dali, and the dinah shore cookbook. legacy in 2002, the us postal service issued an 18 - cent stamp commemorating warhol. designed by richard sheaff of scottsdale, arizona, the stamp was unveiled at a ceremony at the andy warhol museum and features warhol ' s painting " self - portrait