late april 1840, alcott moved to the town of concord urged by emerson. he rented a home for $ 50 a year within walking distance of emerson ' s house. he named it dove cottage. a supporter of his philosophies, emerson offered to help alcott with his writing. this proved a difficult task. for example, after several revisions of the essay " psyche " ( alcott ' s account of how he educated his daughters ), emerson deemed it unpublishable. alcott also wrote a series patterned after the work of german writer johann wolfgang von goethe which was published in the transcendentalists ' journal, the dial. emerson had written to margaret fuller, then editor, that alcott ' s so - called " orphic sayings " might " pass muster & even pass for just & great ", but they were widely mocked as silly and unintelligible. fuller herself disliked them, but did not want to hurt alcott ' s feelings. the following example appeared in the first issue : with financial support from emerson, and leaving his family in the care of his brother junius, alcott departed concord for a visit to england on may 8, 1842. there he met admirers charles lane and henry c. wright, supporters of alcott house, an experimental school outside london based on alcott ' s temple school methods. the two men followed alcott back to the united states and, in an early communitarian experiment, lane and his son moved in with the alcotts. persuaded in part by lane ' s abolitionist views, alcott took a stand against president tyler ' s plan to annex texas as a slave territory and refused to pay his poll tax. abby may wrote in her journal on january 17, 1843, " a day of some excitement, as mr. alcott refused to pay his town tax... after waiting some time to be committed [ to jail ], he was told it was paid by a friend. thus we were spared the affliction of his absence and the triumph of suffering for his principles. " the incident inspired henry david thoreau, whose similar protest against the $ 1. 50 poll tax led to a night in jail and his essay " civil disobedience ". fruitlands lane and alcott collaborated on a major expansion of their educational theories into a utopian society. alcott, however, was still in debt and could not purchase the land needed for their planned community. in a letter, lane wrote, " i do not see anyone