##nius of rhodes ' s argonautica and later summarized in the bibliotheca of pseudo - apollodorus tells how, when the women of the island of lemnos refused to sacrifice to aphrodite, the goddess cursed them to stink horribly so that their husbands would never have sex with them. instead, their husbands started having sex with their thracian slave - girls. in anger, the women of lemnos murdered the entire male population of the island, as well as all the thracian slaves. when jason and his crew of argonauts arrived on lemnos, they mated with the sex - starved women under aphrodite ' s approval and repopulated the island. from then on, the women of lemnos never disrespected aphrodite again. in euripides ' s tragedy hippolytus, which was first performed at the city dionysia in 428 bc, theseus ' s son hippolytus worships only artemis, the goddess of virginity, and refuses to engage in any form of sexual contact. aphrodite is infuriated by his prideful behavior and, in the prologue to the play, she declares that, by honoring only artemis and refusing to venerate her, hippolytus has directly challenged her authority. aphrodite therefore causes hippolytus ' s stepmother, phaedra, to fall in love with him, knowing hippolytus will reject her. after being rejected, phaedra commits suicide and leaves a suicide note to theseus telling him that she killed herself because hippolytus attempted to rape her. theseus prays to poseidon to kill hippolytus for his transgression. poseidon sends a wild bull to scare hippolytus ' s horses as he is riding by the sea in his chariot, causing the horses to bolt and smash the chariot against the cliffs, dragging hippolytus to a bloody death across the rocky shoreline. the play concludes with artemis vowing to kill aphrodite ' s own mortal beloved ( presumably adonis ) in revenge. glaucus of corinth angered aphrodite by refusing to let his horses for chariot racing mate, since doing so would hinder their speed. during the chariot race at the funeral games of king pelias, aphrodite drove his horses mad and they tore him apart. polyphonte was a young woman who chose a virginal