specific systems, such as the nervous or respiratory systems. the major anatomy textbook, gray ' s anatomy, has been reorganized from a systems format to a regional format, in line with modern teaching methods. a thorough working knowledge of anatomy is required by physicians, especially surgeons and doctors working in some diagnostic specialties, such as histopathology and radiology. academic anatomists are usually employed by universities, medical schools or teaching hospitals. they are often involved in teaching anatomy, and research into certain systems, organs, tissues or cells. invertebrate anatomy invertebrates constitute a vast array of living organisms ranging from the simplest unicellular eukaryotes such as paramecium to such complex multicellular animals as the octopus, lobster and dragonfly. they constitute about 95 % of the animal species. by definition, none of these creatures has a backbone. the cells of single - cell protozoans have the same basic structure as those of multicellular animals but some parts are specialized into the equivalent of tissues and organs. locomotion is often provided by cilia or flagella or may proceed via the advance of pseudopodia, food may be gathered by phagocytosis, energy needs may be supplied by photosynthesis and the cell may be supported by an endoskeleton or an exoskeleton. some protozoans can form multicellular colonies. metazoans are a multicellular organism, with different groups of cells serving different functions. the most basic types of metazoan tissues are epithelium and connective tissue, both of which are present in nearly all invertebrates. the outer surface of the epidermis is normally formed of epithelial cells and secretes an extracellular matrix which provides support to the organism. an endoskeleton derived from the mesoderm is present in echinoderms, sponges and some cephalopods. exoskeletons are derived from the epidermis and is composed of chitin in arthropods ( insects, spiders, ticks, shrimps, crabs, lobsters ). calcium carbonate constitutes the shells of molluscs, brachiopods and some tube - building polychaete worms and silica forms the exoskeleton of the microscopic diatoms and radiolaria. other invertebrates may have no rigid structures but the epidermis may secrete a variety of surface coatings such as the pinacoderm of sponges, the gelatinous cuticle of cnida