crossover storyline " civil war ", in which the superhero community is split over whether to conform to the federal government ' s new superhuman registration act. this knowledge was erased from the world with the event of the four - part, crossover story arc, " one more day ", written partially by j. michael straczynski and illustrated by joe quesada, running through the amazing spider - man # 544 – 545 ( nov. - dec. 2007 ), friendly neighborhood spider - man no. 24 ( nov. 2007 ) and the sensational spider - man no. 41 ( dec. 2007 ), the final issues of those two titles. here, the demon mephisto makes a faustian bargain with parker and mary jane, offering to save parker ' s dying aunt may if the couple will allow their marriage to have never existed, rewriting that portion of their pasts. this story arc marked the end of straczynski ' s work on the title. following this, marvel made the amazing spider - man the company ' s sole spider - man title, increasing its frequency of publication to three issues monthly, and inaugurating the series with a sequence of " back to basics " story arcs under the banner of " brand new day ". parker now exists in a changed world where he and mary jane had never married, and parker has no memory of being married to her, with domino effect differences in their immediate world. the most notable of these revisions to spider - man continuity are the return of harry osborn, whose death in the spectacular spider - man no. 200 ( may 1993 ) is erased ; and the reestablishment of spider - man ' s secret identity, with no one except mary jane able to recall that parker is spider - man ( although he soon reveals his secret identity to the new avengers and the fantastic four ). under the banner of brand new day, marvel tried to only use newly created villains instead of relying on older ones. characters like mister negative and overdrive both in free comic book day 2007 spider - man ( july 2007 ), menace in no. 549 ( march 2008 ), ana and sasha kravinoff in no. 565 ( september 2008 ) and no. 567 ( october 2008 ) respectively, and several more were introduced. the alternating regular writers were initially dan slott, bob gale, marc guggenheim, and zeb wells, joined by a rotation of artists that included steve mcniven, salvador larroca, phil jimenez, barry kitson, chris