at the time of claudius ' marriage to agrippina the younger, who wanted to connect himself to the lineage of augustus by evoking agrippina ' s image. coins and inscriptions cannot act as a method of discerning her age, because her hairstyle remains unchanged in all the representations. the easiest phase of portraits to identify are those dating to the time of caligula, when a fair abundance of coins were minted with an image of his mother on them. it is a posthumous portrait of her with idealized features. in the phase following claudius ' marriage, her features are made to more closely resemble those of her daughter. the goal was to strengthen agrippina the younger ' s connection with her mother. finally, the portraits of her dating to the time of tiberius are still idealized, but not as much as those from the period of caligula ' s reign. images of agrippina from this period are the most lifelike. cultural depictions agrippina is one of the few women from the roman imperial period whose story was recounted in later centuries as an example of moral character. her journey to deposit the ashes of her husband was popular with eighteenth century painters, including william turner, gavin hamilton, and benjamin west whose painting agrippina landing at brundisium with the ashes of germanicus ( 1768 ) began the trend. she is also remembered in de mulieribus claris, a collection of biographies of historical and mythological women by the florentine author giovanni boccaccio, composed in 136162. it is notable as the first collection devoted exclusively to biographies of women in western literature. other notable works of which include : agrippina mourning over the ashes of germanicus ( 1775 ), an etching by scottish painter alexander runciman. the caesars ( 1968 ), a television series by philip mackie for granada tv. she was played by caroline blakiston. i, claudius ( 1976 ), a television series by jack pulman for the bbc. she was played by fiona walker. see also julio - claudian family tree gaius silius notes references bibliography external links 10s bc births 33 deaths 1st - century bc roman women 1st - century roman women ancient roman women in warfare burials at the mausoleum of augustus children of marcus vipsanius agrippa deaths by starvation germanicus julio - claudian dynasty vipsanii agrippae women in 1st - century warfare year of birth uncertain