been the closest friend and confidant of muhammad throughout his life, being beside muhammad at every major event. it was abu bakr ' s wisdom that muhammad always honored. abu bakr is regarded among the best of muhammad ' s followers ; as umar ibn al - khattab stated, " if the faith of abu bakr was weighed against the faith of the people of the earth, the faith of abu bakr would outweigh the others. " shia view shia muslims believe that ali ibn abi talib was supposed to assume the leadership, and that he had been publicly and unambiguously appointed by muhammad as his successor at ghadir khumm. it is also believed that abu bakr and umar conspired to take over power in the muslim nation after muhammad ' s death, in a coup d ' etat against ali. most twelver shia ( as the main branch of shia islam, with 85 % of all shias ) have a negative view of abu bakr because, after muhammad ' s death, abu bakr refused to grant muhammad ' s daughter, fatimah, the lands of the village of fadak which she claimed her father had given to her as a gift before his death. he refused to accept the testimony of her witnesses, so she claimed the land would still belong to her as inheritance from her deceased father. however, abu bakr replied by saying that muhammad had told him that the prophets of god do not leave as inheritance any worldly possessions and on this basis he refused to give her the lands of fadak. however, as sayed ali asgher razwy notes in his book a restatement of the history of islam & muslims, muhammad inherited a maid servant, five camels, and ten sheep. shia muslims believe that prophets can receive inheritance, and can pass on inheritance to others as well. in addition, shias claim that muhammad had given fadak to fatimah during his lifetime, and fadak was therefore a gift to fatimah, not inheritance. this view has also been supported by the abbasid ruler al - ma ' mun. twelvers also accuse abu bakr of participating in the burning of the house of ali and fatima. the twelver shia believe that abu bakr sent khalid ibn walid to crush those who were in favour of ali ' s caliphate ( see ridda wars ). the twelver shia strongly refute the idea that abu bakr or umar were instrumental in the collection or preservation of the quran, claiming that they