involving appreciable boron – boron bonding involving deltahedral structures, and are thermally unstable due to the alkali metals having a very high vapour pressure at elevated temperatures. this makes direct synthesis problematic because the alkali metals do not react with boron below 700 °c, and thus this must be accomplished in sealed containers with the alkali metal in excess. furthermore, exceptionally in this group, reactivity with boron decreases down the group : lithium reacts completely at 700 °c, but sodium at 900 °c and potassium not until 1200 °c, and the reaction is instantaneous for lithium but takes hours for potassium. rubidium and caesium borides have not even been characterised. various phases are known, such as lib10, nab6, nab15, and kb6. under high pressure the boron – boron bonding in the lithium borides changes from following wade ' s rules to forming zintl anions like the rest of group 13. compounds with the group 14 elements lithium and sodium react with carbon to form acetylides, li2c2 and na2c2, which can also be obtained by reaction of the metal with acetylene. potassium, rubidium, and caesium react with graphite ; their atoms are intercalated between the hexagonal graphite layers, forming graphite intercalation compounds of formulae mc60 ( dark grey, almost black ), mc48 ( dark grey, almost black ), mc36 ( blue ), mc24 ( steel blue ), and mc8 ( bronze ) ( m = k, rb, or cs ). these compounds are over 200 times more electrically conductive than pure graphite, suggesting that the valence electron of the alkali metal is transferred to the graphite layers ( e. g. ). upon heating of kc8, the elimination of potassium atoms results in the conversion in sequence to kc24, kc36, kc48 and finally kc60. kc8 is a very strong reducing agent and is pyrophoric and explodes on contact with water. while the larger alkali metals ( k, rb, and cs ) initially form mc8, the smaller ones initially form mc6, and indeed they require reaction of the metals with graphite at high temperatures around 500 °c to form. apart from this, the alkali metals are such strong reducing agents that they can even reduce buckminsterfullerene to produce solid fullerides mnc60 ; sodium, potassium, rubidium,