##te− is known as a ligand in cobalt complexes. all trihalides of arsenic ( iii ) are well known except the astatide, which is unknown. arsenic pentafluoride ( asf5 ) is the only important pentahalide, reflecting the lower stability of the + 5 oxidation state ; even so, it is a very strong fluorinating and oxidizing agent. ( the pentachloride is stable only below −50 °c, at which temperature it decomposes to the trichloride, releasing chlorine gas. ) alloys arsenic is used as the group 5 element in the iii - v semiconductors gallium arsenide, indium arsenide, and aluminium arsenide. the valence electron count of gaas is the same as a pair of si atoms, but the band structure is completely different which results in distinct bulk properties. other arsenic alloys include the ii - v semiconductor cadmium arsenide. organoarsenic compounds a large variety of organoarsenic compounds are known. several were developed as chemical warfare agents during world war i, including vesicants such as lewisite and vomiting agents such as adamsite. cacodylic acid, which is of historic and practical interest, arises from the methylation of arsenic trioxide, a reaction that has no analogy in phosphorus chemistry. cacodyl was the first organometallic compound known ( even though arsenic is not a true metal ) and was named from the greek κακωδια " stink " for its offensive odor ; it is very poisonous. occurrence and production arsenic comprises about 1. 5 ppm ( 0. 00015 % ) of the earth ' s crust, and is the 53rd most abundant element. typical background concentrations of arsenic do not exceed 3 ng / m3 in the atmosphere ; 100 mg / kg in soil ; 400 μg / kg in vegetation ; 10 μg / l in freshwater and 1. 5 μg / l in seawater. minerals with the formula mass and mas2 ( m = fe, ni, co ) are the dominant commercial sources of arsenic, together with realgar ( an arsenic sulfide mineral ) and native ( elemental ) arsenic. an illustrative mineral is arsenopyrite ( feass ), which is structurally related to iron pyrite. many minor as - containing minerals are known. arsenic also occurs in various organic forms in the environment. in 2014, china was the top producer of white arsenic with almost 70 %