this article considers transport in armenia. railways total in common carrier service ; does not include industrial lines broad gauge 825 km of gauge ( 825 km electrified ) ( 1995 ) there is no service south of yerevan. city with metro system : yerevan international links azerbaijan - closed - same gauge georgia - yes - same gauge iran - via azerbaijan - closed - break of gauge - / turkey - closed - break of gauge - / most of the cross - border lines are currently closed due to political problems. however, there are daily inbound and outbound trains connecting tbilisi and yerevan. departing from yerevan railway station trains connect to both tbilisi and batumi. from neighboring georgia, trains depart to yerevan from tbilisi railway station. within armenia, new electric trains connect passengers from yerevan to armenia ' s second - largest city of gyumri. the new trains run four times a day and the journey takes approximately two hours. there is also discussion to establish a rail link between yerevan and tehran. armenia is pursuing funding from the asian development bank to launch the construction of this infrastructure project. the completion of the project could establish a major commodities transit corridor and would serve as the shortest transportation route between europe and the persian gulf. in june 2019, iranian president hassan rouhani backed this project and stated that “ we want the persian gulf and the gulf of oman to be connected to the black sea, and one of the ways to make this happen is through iran, armenia and georgia. ” metros the capital city of armenia, yerevan, is serviced by the yerevan metro. the system was launched in 1981, and like most former soviet metros, its stations are very deep ( 20 – 70 meters underground ) and intricately decorated with national motifs. the metro runs on a 13. 4 kilometers ( 8. 3 mi ) line and currently serves 10 active stations. trains run every five minutes from 6 : 30 a. m. until 11 p. m. local amt time. as of 2017, the annual ridership of the metro is 16. 2 million passengers. free wi - fi is available at all stations and some trains. buses international connections land borders are open with both georgia and iran. yerevan central bus station, also known as kilikia bus station is the main bus terminal in yerevan with buses connecting to both internal and international destinations. there are daily bus connections between yerevan and tbilisi and yerevan and tehran. approximately three times daily, buses depart from yerevan central bus station to stepanakert, the capital of the partially recognized state of artsakh. there are