andre - marie ampere (,, ; 20 january 177510 june 1836 ) was a french physicist and mathematician who was one of the founders of the science of classical electromagnetism, which he referred to as " electrodynamics ". he is also the inventor of numerous applications, such as the solenoid ( a term coined by him ) and the electrical telegraph. as an autodidact, ampere was a member of the french academy of sciences and professor at the ecole polytechnique and the college de france. the si unit of measurement of electric current, the ampere, is named after him. his name is also one of the 72 names inscribed on the eiffel tower. early life andre - marie ampere was born on 20 january 1775 to jean - jacques ampere, a prosperous businessman, and jeanne antoinette desutieres - sarcey ampere, during the height of the french enlightenment. he spent his childhood and adolescence at the family property at poleymieux - au - mont - d ' or near lyon. jean - jacques ampere, a successful merchant, was an admirer of the philosophy of jean - jacques rousseau, whose theories of education ( as outlined in his treatise emile ) were the basis of ampere ' s education. rousseau believed that young boys should avoid formal schooling and pursue instead a " direct education from nature. " ampere ' s father actualized this ideal by allowing his son to educate himself within the walls of his well - stocked library. french enlightenment masterpieces such as georges - louis leclerc, comte de buffon ' s histoire naturelle, generale et particuliere ( begun in 1749 ) and denis diderot and jean le rond d ' alembert ' s encyclopedie ( volumes added between 1751 and 1772 ) thus became ampere ' s schoolmasters. the young ampere, however, soon resumed his latin lessons, which enabled him to master the works of leonhard euler and daniel bernoulli. french revolution in addition, ampere used his access to the latest books to begin teaching himself advanced mathematics at age 12. in later life ampere claimed that he knew as much about mathematics and science when he was eighteen as ever he knew, but as a polymath, his reading embraced history, travels, poetry, philosophy, and the natural sciences. his mother was a devout catholic, so ampere was also initiated into the catholic faith along with enlightenment science. the french revolution ( 1789 – 99 )