proved u. s. victory in the space race to demonstrate spaceflight superiority, by fulfilling a national goal proposed in 1961 by president john f. kennedy, " before this decade is out, of landing a man on the moon and returning him safely to the earth. " background in the late 1950s and early 1960s, the united states was engaged in the cold war, a geopolitical rivalry with the soviet union. on october 4, 1957, the soviet union launched sputnik 1, the first artificial satellite. this surprise success fired fears and imaginations around the world. it demonstrated that the soviet union had the capability to deliver nuclear weapons over intercontinental distances, and challenged american claims of military, economic, and technological superiority. this precipitated the sputnik crisis, and triggered the space race to prove which superpower would achieve superior spaceflight capability. president dwight d. eisenhower responded to the sputnik challenge by creating the national aeronautics and space administration ( nasa ), and initiating project mercury, which aimed to launch a man into earth orbit. but on april 12, 1961, soviet cosmonaut yuri gagarin became the first person in space, and the first to orbit the earth. nearly a month later, on may 5, 1961, alan shepard became the first american in space, completing a 15 - minute suborbital journey. after being recovered from the atlantic ocean, he received a congratulatory telephone call from eisenhower ' s successor, john f. kennedy. since the soviet union had higher lift capacity launch vehicles, kennedy chose, from among options presented by nasa, a challenge beyond the capacity of the existing generation of rocketry, so that the us and soviet union would be starting from a position of equality. a crewed mission to the moon would serve this purpose. on may 25, 1961, kennedy addressed the united states congress on " urgent national needs " and declared : on september 12, 1962, kennedy delivered another speech before a crowd of about 40, 000 people in the rice university football stadium in houston, texas. a widely quoted refrain from the middle portion of the speech reads as follows : in spite of that, the proposed program faced the opposition of many americans and was dubbed a " moondoggle " by norbert wiener, a mathematician at the massachusetts institute of technology. the effort to land a man on the moon already had a name : project apollo. when kennedy met with nikita khrushchev, the premier of the soviet union in june 1961, he proposed making the moon landing a joint project,