the eastern mediterranean against several different major greek kingdoms. they resulted in roman control or influence over the eastern mediterranean basin, including the aegean, in addition to their hegemony in the western mediterranean after the punic wars. during roman rule, the land around the aegean sea fell under the provinces of achaea, macedonia, thracia, asia and creta et cyrenica ( island of crete ) medieval period the fall of the western roman empire allowed its successor state, the byzantine empire, to continue roman control over the aegean sea. however, their territory would later be threatened by the early muslim conquests initiated by muhammad in the 7th century. although the rashidun caliphate did not manage to obtain land along the coast of the aegean sea, its conquest of the eastern anatolian peninsula as well as egypt, the levant, and north africa left the byzantine empire weakened. the umayyad caliphate expanded the territorial gains of the rashidun caliphate, conquering much of north africa, and threatened the byzantine empire ' s control of western anatolia, where it meets the aegean sea. during the 820s, crete was conquered by a group of berbers andalusians exiles led by abu hafs umar al - iqritishi, and it became an independent islamic state. the byzantine empire launched a campaign that took most of the island back in 842 and 843 under theoktistos, but the reconquest was not completed and was soon reversed. later attempts by the byzantine empire to recover the island were without success. for the approximately 135 years of its existence, the emirate of crete was one of the major foes of byzantium. crete commanded the sea lanes of the eastern mediterranean and functioned as a forward base and haven for muslim corsair fleets that ravaged the byzantine - controlled shores of the aegean sea. crete returned to byzantine rule under nikephoros phokas, who launched a huge campaign against the emirate of crete in 960 to 961. meanwhile, the bulgarian empire threatened byzantine control of northern greece and the aegean coast to the south. under presian i and his successor boris i, the bulgarian empire managed to obtain a small portion of the northern aegean coast. simeon i of bulgaria led bulgaria to its greatest territorial expansion, and managed to conqueror much of the northern and western coasts of the aegean. the byzantines later regained control. the second bulgarian empire achieved similar success along, again, the northern and western coasts, under ivan asen ii of bulgaria. the seljuq turks, under the