leading figure in the mexican revolution. as part of the liberation army of the south, his group of revolutionaries fought on behalf of the mexican peasants, whom they saw as exploited by the landowning classes. zapata published plan of ayala, which called for significant land reforms and land redistribution in mexico as part of the revolution. zapata was killed and his forces crushed over the course of the revolution, but his political ideas lived on in the form of zapatismo. zapatismo would form the basis for neozapatismo, the ideology of the zapatista army of national liberation. known as ejercito zapatista de liberacion nacional or ezln in spanish, ezln is a far - left libertarian socialist political and militant group that emerged in the state of chiapas in southmost mexico in 1994. ezln and neozapatismo, as explicit in their name, seek to revive the agrarian socialist movement of zapata, but fuse it with new elements such as a commitment to indigenous rights and community - level decision making. subcommander marcos, a leading member of the movement, argues that the peoples ' collective ownership of the land was and is the basis for all subsequent developments the movement sought to create :... when the land became property of the peasants... when the land passed into the hands of those who work it... [ this was ] the starting point for advances in government, health, education, housing, nutrition, women ’ s participation, trade, culture, communication, and information... [ it was ] recovering the means of production, in this case, the land, animals, and machines that were in the hands of large property owners. ” maoism maoism, the far - left ideology of mao zedong and his followers, places a heavy emphasis on the role of peasants in its goals. in contrast to other marxist schools of thought which normally seek to acquire the support of urban workers, maoism sees the peasantry as key. believing that " political power grows out of the barrel of a gun ", maoism saw the chinese peasantry as the prime source for a marxist vanguard because it possessed two qualities : ( i ) they were poor, and ( ii ) they were a political blank slate ; in mao ' s words, “ a clean sheet of paper has no blotches, and so the newest and most beautiful words can be written on it ”. during the chinese civil war and the second sino - japanese