person can take the form of a preta or hungry ghost – and remains in an earth - bound state interminably – until certain ceremonies are done to liberate them. this mythological part is extensively elaborated in the hindu puranas especially in the garuda purana. the upanishads are the first scriptures in hinduism which explicitly mention about afterlife, the bhagavad gita, a famous hindu script, says that just as a man discards his old clothes and wears new ones ; similarly the atman discards the old body and takes on a new one. in hinduism, the belief is that the body is nothing but a shell, the consciousness inside is immutable and indestructible and takes on different lives in a cycle of birth and death. the end of this cycle is called mukti ( sanskrit : मकति ) and staying finally with the ultimate reality forever ; is moksha ( sanskrit : मोकष ) or liberation. the ( diverse ) views of modern hinduism in part differ significantly from the historical vedic religion. jainism jainism also believes in the afterlife. they believe that the soul takes on a body form based on previous karmas or actions performed by that soul through eternity. jains believe the soul is eternal and that the freedom from the cycle of reincarnation is the means to attain eternal bliss. sikhism the essential doctrine of sikhism is to experience the divine through simple living, meditation, and contemplation while being alive. sikhism also has the belief of being in union with god while living. accounts of afterlife are considered to be aimed at the popular prevailing views of the time so as to provide a referential framework without necessarily establishing a belief in the afterlife. thus while it is also acknowledged that living the life of a householder is above the metaphysical truth, sikhism can be considered agnostic to the question of an afterlife. some scholars also interpret the mention of reincarnation to be naturalistic akin to the biogeochemical cycles. but if one analyses the sikh scriptures carefully, one may find that on many occasions the afterlife and the existence of heaven and hell are mentioned and criticised in guru granth sahib and in dasam granth as non true man made ideas, so from that it can be concluded that sikhism does not believe in the existence of heaven and hell ; however, heaven and hell are created to temporarily reward and punish, and one will then take birth again until one merges in god. according to the sikh scriptures