deficiency states ( low levels of vitamin d, b2, b12, folic acid ), gastrointestinal diseases ( celiac disease, non - celiac gluten sensitivity, inflammatory bowel disease ), heart diseases, blood diseases ( anemia ), cerebral vascular accidents ( transient ischemic attack, stroke ), and brain degenerative diseases ( parkinson ' s disease, dementia, multiple sclerosis, huntington ' s disease ), among others. substance - induced several drugs can cause or worsen anxiety, whether in intoxication, withdrawal or as side effect. these include alcohol, tobacco, sedatives ( including prescription benzodiazepines ), opioids ( including prescription pain killers and illicit drugs like heroin ), stimulants ( such as caffeine, cocaine and amphetamines ), hallucinogens, and inhalants. while many often report self - medicating anxiety with these substances, improvements in anxiety from drugs are usually short - lived ( with worsening of anxiety in the long term, sometimes with acute anxiety as soon as the drug effects wear off ) and tend to be exaggerated. acute exposure to toxic levels of benzene may cause euphoria, anxiety, and irritability lasting up to 2 weeks after the exposure. psychological poor coping skills ( e. g., rigidity / inflexible problem solving, denial, avoidance, impulsivity, extreme self - expectation, negative thoughts, affective instability, and inability to focus on problems ) are associated with anxiety. anxiety is also linked and perpetuated by the person ' s own pessimistic outcome expectancy and how they cope with feedback negativity. temperament ( e. g., neuroticism ) and attitudes ( e. g. pessimism ) have been found to be risk factors for anxiety. cognitive distortions such as overgeneralizing, catastrophizing, mind reading, emotional reasoning, binocular trick, and mental filter can result in anxiety. for example, an overgeneralized belief that something bad " always " happens may lead someone to have excessive fears of even minimally risky situations and to avoid benign social situations due to anticipatory anxiety of embarrassment. in addition, those who have high anxiety can also create future stressful life events. together, these findings suggest that anxious thoughts can lead to anticipatory anxiety as well as stressful events, which in turn cause more anxiety. such