original series episode " what are little girls made of? " the abbreviation " andy ", coined as a pejorative by writer philip k. dick in his novel do androids dream of electric sheep?, has seen some further usage, such as within the tv series total recall 2070. while the term " android " is used in reference to human - looking robots in general ( not necessarily male - looking humanoid robots ), a robot with a female appearance can also be referred to as a gynoid. besides one can refer to robots without alluding to their sexual appearance by calling them anthrobots ( a portmanteau of anthropos and robot ; see anthrobotics ) or anthropoids ( short for anthropoid robots ; the term humanoids is not appropriate because it is already commonly used to refer to human - like organic species in the context of science fiction, futurism and speculative astrobiology ). authors have used the term android in more diverse ways than robot or cyborg. in some fictional works, the difference between a robot and android is only superficial, with androids being made to look like humans on the outside but with robot - like internal mechanics. in other stories, authors have used the word " android " to mean a wholly organic, yet artificial, creation. other fictional depictions of androids fall somewhere in between. eric g. wilson, who defines an android as a " synthetic human being ", distinguishes between three types of android, based on their body ' s composition : the mummy type – made of " dead things " or " stiff, inanimate, natural material ", such as mummies, puppets, dolls and statues the golem type – made from flexible, possibly organic material, including golems and homunculi the automaton type – made from a mix of dead and living parts, including automatons and robots although human morphology is not necessarily the ideal form for working robots, the fascination in developing robots that can mimic it can be found historically in the assimilation of two concepts : simulacra ( devices that exhibit likeness ) and automata ( devices that have independence ). projects several projects aiming to create androids that look, and, to a certain degree, speak or act like a human being have been launched or are underway. japan japanese robotics have been leading the field since the 1970s. waseda university initiated the wabot project in 1967, and in 1972 completed the wabot - 1, the first android, a