meanwhile wrote the legend of aleister crowley, an analysis of the media coverage surrounding him. berlin and london : 1930 – 1938 in april 1930, crowley moved to berlin, where he took hanni jaegar as his magical partner ; the relationship was troubled. in september he went to lisbon in portugal to meet the poet fernando pessoa. there, he decided to fake his own death, doing so with pessoa ' s help at the boca do inferno rock formation. he then returned to berlin, where he reappeared three weeks later at the opening of his art exhibition at the gallery neumann - nierendorf. crowley ' s paintings fitted with the fashion for german expressionism ; few of them sold, but the press reports were largely favourable. in august 1931, he took bertha busch as his new lover ; they had a violent relationship, and often physically assaulted one another. he continued to have affairs with both men and women while in the city, and met with famous people like aldous huxley and alfred adler. after befriending him, in january 1932 he took the communist gerald hamilton as a lodger, through whom he was introduced to many figures within the berlin far left ; it is possible that he was operating as a spy for british intelligence at this time, monitoring the communist movement. crowley left busch and returned to london, where he took pearl brooksmith as his new scarlet woman. undergoing further nasal surgery, it was here in 1932 that he was invited to be guest of honour at foyles ' literary luncheon, also being invited by harry price to speak at the national laboratory of psychical research. in need of money, he launched a series of court cases against people whom he believed to have libelled him, some of which proved successful. he gained much publicity for his lawsuit against constable and co for publishing nina hamnett ' s laughing torso ( 1932 ) — a book he claimed libelled him by referring to his occult practice as black magic — but lost the case. the court case added to crowley ' s financial problems, and in february 1935 he was declared bankrupt. during the hearing, it was revealed that crowley had been spending three times his income for several years. crowley developed a friendship with deidre patricia doherty ; she offered to bear his child, who was born in may 1937. named randall gair, crowley nicknamed him aleister ataturk. he died in a car accident in 2002 at the age of 65. crowley continued to socialize with friends, holding curry parties in which he cooked particularly spicy food