##hers designed for metal fires are effective, depriving the fire of oxygen and cooling the alkali metal. experiments are usually conducted using only small quantities of a few grams in a fume hood. small quantities of lithium may be disposed of by reaction with cool water, but the heavier alkali metals should be dissolved in the less reactive isopropanol. the alkali metals must be stored under mineral oil or an inert atmosphere. the inert atmosphere used may be argon or nitrogen gas, except for lithium, which reacts with nitrogen. rubidium and caesium must be kept away from air, even under oil, because even a small amount of air diffused into the oil may trigger formation of the dangerously explosive peroxide ; for the same reason, potassium should not be stored under oil in an oxygen - containing atmosphere for longer than 6 months. ions the bioinorganic chemistry of the alkali metal ions has been extensively reviewed. solid state crystal structures have been determined for many complexes of alkali metal ions in small peptides, nucleic acid constituents, carbohydrates and ionophore complexes. lithium naturally only occurs in traces in biological systems and has no known biological role, but does have effects on the body when ingested. lithium carbonate is used as a mood stabiliser in psychiatry to treat bipolar disorder ( manic - depression ) in daily doses of about 0. 5 to 2 grams, although there are side - effects. excessive ingestion of lithium causes drowsiness, slurred speech and vomiting, among other symptoms, and poisons the central nervous system, which is dangerous as the required dosage of lithium to treat bipolar disorder is only slightly lower than the toxic dosage. its biochemistry, the way it is handled by the human body and studies using rats and goats suggest that it is an essential trace element, although the natural biological function of lithium in humans has yet to be identified. sodium and potassium occur in all known biological systems, generally functioning as electrolytes inside and outside cells. sodium is an essential nutrient that regulates blood volume, blood pressure, osmotic equilibrium and ph ; the minimum physiological requirement for sodium is 500 milligrams per day. sodium chloride ( also known as common salt ) is the principal source of sodium in the diet, and is used as seasoning and preservative, such as for pickling and jerky ; most of it comes from processed foods. the dietary reference intake for sodium is 1. 5 grams per day, but most people