program or server carries out an exhaustive search of a database of words, to produce a list containing every possible combination of words or phrases from the input word or phrase using a jumble algorithm. some programs ( such as lexpert ) restrict to one - word answers. many anagram servers ( for example, the words oracle ) can control the search results, by excluding or including certain words, limiting the number or length of words in each anagram, or limiting the number of results. anagram solvers are often banned from online anagram games. the disadvantage of computer anagram solvers, especially when applied to multi - word anagrams, is their poor understanding of the meaning of the words they are manipulating. they usually cannot filter out meaningful or appropriate anagrams from large numbers of nonsensical word combinations. some servers attempt to improve on this using statistical techniques that try to combine only words that appear together often. this approach provides only limited success since it fails to recognize ironic and humorous combinations. some anagrammatists indicate the method they used. anagrams constructed without the aid of a computer are noted as having been done " manually " or " by hand " ; those made by utilizing a computer may be noted " by machine " or " by computer ", or may indicate the name of the computer program ( using anagram genius ). there are also a few " natural " instances : english words unconsciously created by switching letters around. the french chaise longue ( " long chair " ) became the american " chaise lounge " by metathesis ( transposition of letters and / or sounds ). it has also been speculated that the english " curd " comes from the latin crudus ( " raw " ). similarly, the ancient english word for bird was " brid ". notable anagrammatists the french king louis xiii had a man named thomas billon appointed as his royal anagrammatist with an annual salary of 1200 pounds. among contemporary anagrammers, anu garg, created an internet anagram server in 1994 together with the satirical anagram - based newspaper the anagram times. mike keith has anagrammed the complete text of moby dick. he, along with richard brodie, has published the anagrammed bible that includes anagrammed version of many books of the bible. popular television personality dick cavett is known for his anagrams of famous celebrities such as alec guinness and spiro agnew. anagram animation an animated anagram displays the