, located in the preliminary section of the worcester chronicle, help shape alfred ’ s understanding of the anglo - saxon past. chapter eight of the history, which narrates the ‘ monarchy of england ’, begins with the rule of king æthelstan. more decisively than with any other chronicler of the time, alfred presents the kingdom of england as beginning with the rule of king æthelstan, a view which can be directly linked to alfred ’ s worcester source. that alfred had access in beverley c. 1150 to an independently circulating copy of the genealogical tables and accounts, extends our knowledge of the reach of worcester historical writing at the time. use of the durham hr in the history is also important. roughly thirty percent of thehistory derives from the hr and as this material is taken from a version of the hr which predates its sole surviving manuscript witness – contained in corpus christi college cambridge, ms 139 – which may have reached its present form by c. 1180, [ 19 ] rare evidence for the textual development of the hr during the twelfth century is provided. use of the durham hr also casts light on the interests and outlook of a secular historical writer of the time. much of the hr ’ s important ecclesiastical matter is omitted but story - telling episodes of a more worldly nature are rarely passed over. we are reminded in alfred ’ s reception of the hr, that the interests and mindset of members the secular church of beverley were very different to the community of monks in the cathedral priory of durham. sources the history of alfred of beverley, ed. j. p. t. slevin, trans. l. lockyer, boydell medieval texts ( woodbridge, 2023 ) abb. hab aluredi beverlacensis annales, sive historia de gestis regum britanniae libris ix, ed. thomas hearne ( oxford, 1716 ) beverley minster fasti, ed. r. t. w mcdermid, yorkshire archaeological record series, vol. cxlix ( huddersfield, 1990 ), pp. 17, 18, 113. abb. bmf descriptive catalogue of material relating to the history of britain and ireland, ed. t. d. hardy, rolls series, ii ( 1865 ), pp. 169 - 74 early yorkshire charters, vols i - iii, ed. w. farrer ( edinburgh, 1914 - 16 ) ; vols iv - xii, ed. c. t. clay. yorkshire archaeological record series, extra series