the employment of the " corps des ponts " for the rest of his life. religious formation fresnel ' s parents were roman catholics of the jansenist sect, characterized by an extreme augustinian view of original sin. religion took first place in the boys ' home - schooling. in 1802, his mother said : augustin remained a jansenist. he regarded his intellectual talents as gifts from god, and considered it his duty to use them for the benefit of others. according to his fellow engineer alphonse duleau, who helped to nurse him through his final illness, fresnel saw the study of nature as part of the study of the power and goodness of god. he placed virtue above science and genius. in his last days he prayed for " strength of soul, " not against death alone, but against " the interruption of discoveries … of which he hoped to derive useful applications. " jansenism is considered heretical by the roman catholic church, and grattan - guinness suggests this is why fresnel never gained a permanent academic teaching post ; his only teaching appointment was at the athenee in the winter of 1819 – 20. the article on fresnel in the catholic encyclopedia does not mention his jansenism, but describes him as " a deeply religious man and remarkable for his keen sense of duty. " engineering assignments fresnel was initially posted to the western departement of vendee. there, in 1811, he anticipated what became known as the solvay process for producing soda ash, except that recycling of the ammonia was not considered. that difference may explain why leading chemists, who learned of his discovery through his uncle leonor, eventually thought it uneconomic. about 1812, fresnel was sent to nyons, in the southern departement of drome, to assist with the imperial highway that was to connect spain and italy. it is from nyons that we have the first evidence of his interest in optics. on 15 may 1814, while work was slack due to napoleon ' s defeat, fresnel wrote a " p. s. " to his brother leonor, saying in part : as late as 28 december he was still waiting for information, but he had received biot ' s memoir by 10 february 1815. ( the institut de france had taken over the functions of the french academie des sciences and other academies in 1795. in 1816 the academie des sciences regained its name and autonomy, but remained part of the institute. ) in march 1815, perce