various experimental broths that have been allowed to be cooked from simple chemicals. this is because nucleotides are far more difficult to synthesize chemically than amino acids. " for a chronological order, it suggests that there must have been a ' protein world ' or at least a ' polypeptide world ', possibly later followed by the ' rna world ' and the ' dna world '. codon – amino acids mappings may be the biological information system at the primordial origin of life on earth. while amino acids and consequently simple peptides must have formed under different experimentally probed geochemical scenarios, the transition from an abiotic world to the first life forms is to a large extent still unresolved. reactions amino acids undergo the reactions expected of the constituent functional groups. peptide bond formation as both the amine and carboxylic acid groups of amino acids can react to form amide bonds, one amino acid molecule can react with another and become joined through an amide linkage. this polymerization of amino acids is what creates proteins. this condensation reaction yields the newly formed peptide bond and a molecule of water. in cells, this reaction does not occur directly ; instead, the amino acid is first activated by attachment to a transfer rna molecule through an ester bond. this aminoacyl - trna is produced in an atp - dependent reaction carried out by an aminoacyl trna synthetase. this aminoacyl - trna is then a substrate for the ribosome, which catalyzes the attack of the amino group of the elongating protein chain on the ester bond. as a result of this mechanism, all proteins made by ribosomes are synthesized starting at their n - terminus and moving toward their c - terminus. however, not all peptide bonds are formed in this way. in a few cases, peptides are synthesized by specific enzymes. for example, the tripeptide glutathione is an essential part of the defenses of cells against oxidative stress. this peptide is synthesized in two steps from free amino acids. in the first step, gamma - glutamylcysteine synthetase condenses cysteine and glutamate through a peptide bond formed between the side chain carboxyl of the glutamate ( the gamma carbon of this side chain ) and the amino group of the cysteine. this dipeptide is then condensed with glycine by glutathione syntheta