name from alfred vogt to alfred elton van vogt. to his friends in the california science fiction community, he was known as " van ". method and themes van vogt systematized his writing method, using scenes of 800 words or so where a new complication was added or something resolved. several of his stories hinge on temporal conundra, a favorite theme. he stated that he acquired many of his writing techniques from three books : narrative technique by thomas uzzell, the only two ways to write a story by john gallishaw, and twenty problems of the fiction writer by gallishaw. he also claimed many of his ideas came from dreams ; throughout his writing life he arranged to be awakened every 90 minutes during his sleep period so he could write down his dreams. van vogt was also always interested in the idea of all - encompassing systems of knowledge ( akin to modern meta - systems ). the characters in his very first story used a system called " nexialism " to analyze the alien ' s behavior. around this time, he became particularly interested in the general semantics of alfred korzybski. he subsequently wrote a novel merging these overarching themes, the world of a, originally serialized in astounding in 1945. a ( often rendered as null - a ), or non - aristotelian logic, refers to the capacity for, and practice of, using intuitive, inductive reasoning ( compare fuzzy logic ), rather than reflexive, or conditioned, deductive reasoning. the novel recounts the adventures of an individual living in an apparent utopia, where those with superior brainpower make up the ruling class... though all is not as it seems. a sequel, the players of a ( later re - titled the pawns of null - a ) was serialized in 1948 – 49. at the same time, in his fiction, van vogt was consistently sympathetic to absolute monarchy as a form of government. this was the case, for instance, in the weapon shop series, the mixed men series, and in single stories such as " heir apparent " ( 1945 ), whose protagonist was described as a " benevolent dictator ". these sympathies were the subject of much critical discussion during van vogt ' s career, and afterwards. van vogt published " enchanted village " in the july 1950 issue of other worlds science stories. it was reprinted in over 20 collections or anthologies, and appeared many times in translation. dianetics and fix - ups ( 1950 – 1961 ) in 1950