##n ' s film i shot andy warhol ( 1996 ), and by david bowie in julian schnabel ' s film basquiat ( 1996 ). bowie recalled how meeting warhol in real life helped him in the role, and recounted his early meetings with him : warhol appears as a character in michael daugherty ' s opera jackie o ( 1997 ). actor mark bringleson makes a brief cameo as warhol in austin powers : international man of mystery ( 1997 ). many films by avant - garde cineast jonas mekas have caught the moments of warhol ' s life. sean gregory sullivan depicted warhol in the film 54 ( 1998 ). guy pearce portrayed warhol in the film factory girl ( 2007 ) about edie sedgwick ' s life. actor greg travis portrays warhol in a brief scene from the film watchmen ( 2009 ). comedian conan o ' brien portrayed warhol in the film weird : the al yankovic story ( 2022 ). in the movie highway to hell a group of andy warhols are part of the good intentions paving company where good - intentioned souls are ground into pavement. in the film men in black 3 ( 2012 ) andy warhol turns out to really be undercover mib agent w ( played by bill hader ). warhol is throwing a party at the factory in 1969, where he is looked up by mib agents k and j ( j from the future ). agent w is desperate to end his undercover job ( " i ' m so out of ideas i ' m painting soup cans and bananas, for christ sakes! ", " you gotta fake my death, okay? i can ' t listen to sitar music anymore. " and " i can ' t tell the women from the men. " ). andy warhol ( portrayed by tom meeten ) is one of main characters of the 2012 british television show noel fielding ' s luxury comedy. the character is portrayed as having robot - like mannerisms. in the 2017 feature the billionaire boys club cary elwes portrays warhol in a film based on the true story about ron levin ( portrayed by kevin spacey ) a friend of warhol ' s who was murdered in 1986. in september 2016, it was announced that jared leto would portray the title character in warhol, an upcoming american biographical drama film produced by michael de luca and written by terence winter, based on the book warhol : the biography by victor bockris. documentaries absolut warhola (