when it comes to foreign languages among the populace, many are able to speak or understand hindustani ( urdu - hindi ), partly due to returning afghan refugees from pakistan and the popularity of bollywood films respectively. english is also understood by some of the population, and has been gaining popularity as of the 2000s. some afghans retain some ability in russian, which was taught in public schools during the 1980s. religion the cia estimated in 2009 that 99. 7 % of the afghan population was muslim and most are thought to adhere to the sunni hanafi school. according to pew research center, as much as 90 % are of the sunni denomination, 7 % shia and 3 % non - denominational. the cia factbook variously estimates up to 89. 7 % sunni or up to 15 % shia. afghan sikhs and hindus are also found in certain major cities ( namely kabul, jalalabad, ghazni, kandahar ) accompanied by gurdwaras and mandirs. according to deutsche welle in september 2021, 250 remain in the country after 67 were evacuated to india. there was a small jewish community in afghanistan, living mainly in herat and kabul. over the years, this small community was forced to leave due to decades of warfare and religious persecution. by the end of the twentieth century, nearly the entire community had emigrated to israel and the united states, with one known exception, herat - born zablon simintov. he remained for years, being the caretaker of the only remaining afghan synagogue. he left the country for the us after the second taliban takeover. a woman who left shortly after him has since been identified as the likely last jew in afghanistan. afghan christians, who number 500 – 8, 000, practice their faith secretly due to intense societal opposition, and there are no public churches. urbanization as estimated by the cia world factbook, 26 % of the population was urbanized as of 2020. this is one of the lowest figures in the world ; in asia it is only higher than cambodia, nepal and sri lanka. urbanization has increased rapidly, particularly in the capital kabul, due to returning refugees from pakistan and iran after 2001, internally displaced people, and rural migrants. urbanization in afghanistan is different from typical urbanization in that it is centered on just a few cities. the only city with over a million residents is its capital, kabul, located in the east of the country. the other large cities are located generally in the " ring " around the central highlands, namely kandahar in the south