blockade of the south ' s trade. he suspended habeas corpus in maryland and elsewhere, and averted british intervention by defusing the trent affair. in 1863, he issued the emancipation proclamation, which declared the slaves in the states " in rebellion " to be free. it also directed the army and navy to " recognize and maintain the freedom of such persons ", and to receive them " into the armed service of the united states. " lincoln pressured border states to outlaw slavery, and he promoted the thirteenth amendment to the u. s. constitution, which abolished slavery, except as punishment for a crime. lincoln managed his own successful re - election campaign. he sought to heal the war - torn nation through reconciliation. on april 14, 1865, just five days after the war ' s end at appomattox, he was attending a play at ford ' s theatre in washington, d. c., with his wife, mary, when he was fatally shot by confederate sympathizer john wilkes booth. lincoln is remembered as a martyr and a national hero for his wartime leadership and for his efforts to preserve the union and abolish slavery. lincoln is often ranked in both popular and scholarly polls as the greatest president in american history. family and childhood early life abraham lincoln was born on february 12, 1809, the second child of thomas lincoln and nancy hanks lincoln, in a log cabin on sinking spring farm near hodgenville, kentucky. he was a descendant of samuel lincoln, an englishman who migrated from hingham, norfolk, to its namesake, hingham, massachusetts, in 1638. the family then migrated west, passing through new jersey, pennsylvania, and virginia. lincoln was also a descendant of the harrison family of virginia ; his paternal grandfather and namesake, captain abraham lincoln and wife bathsheba ( nee herring ) moved the family from virginia to jefferson county, kentucky. the captain was killed in an indian raid in 1786. his children, including eight - year - old thomas, abraham ' s father, witnessed the attack. thomas then worked at odd jobs in kentucky and tennessee before the family settled in hardin county, kentucky, in the early 1800s. lincoln ' s mother nancy lincoln is widely assumed to be the daughter of lucy hanks. thomas and nancy married on june 12, 1806, in washington county, and moved to elizabethtown, kentucky. they had three children : sarah, abraham, and thomas, who died as an infant. thomas lincoln bought or leased farms in kentucky before losing all but of his land in court