denouncing god as a myth. he came to believe that god had sent him a profound message and had begun to work through him. newton ' s conversion was not immediate, but he contacted polly ' s family and announced his intention to marry her. her parents were hesitant as he was known to be unreliable and impetuous. they knew he was profane too but allowed him to write to polly, and he set to begin to submit to authority for her sake. he sought a place on a slave ship bound for africa, and newton and his crewmates participated in most of the same activities he had written about before ; the only immorality from which he was able to free himself was profanity. after a severe illness his resolve was renewed, yet he retained the same attitude towards slavery as was held by his contemporaries. newton continued in the slave trade through several voyages where he sailed the coasts of africa, now as a captain, and procured slaves being offered for sale in larger ports, transporting them to north america. in between voyages, he married polly in 1750, and he found it more difficult to leave her at the beginning of each trip. after three shipping voyages in the slave trade, newton was promised a position as ship ' s captain with cargo unrelated to slavery. but at the age of thirty, he collapsed and never sailed again. olney curate working as a customs agent in liverpool starting in 1756, newton began to teach himself latin, greek, and theology. he and polly immersed themselves in the church community, and newton ' s passion was so impressive that his friends suggested he become a priest in the church of england. he was turned down by john gilbert, archbishop of york, in 1758, ostensibly for having no university degree, although the more likely reasons were his leanings toward evangelism and tendency to socialise with methodists. newton continued his devotions, and after being encouraged by a friend, he wrote about his experiences in the slave trade and his conversion. william legge, 2nd earl of dartmouth, impressed with his story, sponsored newton for ordination by john green, bishop of lincoln, and offered him the curacy of olney, buckinghamshire, in 1764. olney hymns olney was a village of about 2, 500 residents whose main industry was making lace by hand. the people were mostly illiterate and many of them were poor. newton ' s preaching was unique in that he shared many of his own experiences from the pulpit ; many clergy preached from a distance, not admitting any intimacy with