amines can be formed by the reaction of ammonia with alkyl halides or with alcohols. the resulting − group is also nucleophilic so secondary and tertiary amines are often formed. when such multiple substitution is not desired, an excess of ammonia helps minimise it. for example, methylamine is prepared by the reaction of ammonia with chloromethane or with methanol. in both cases, dimethylamine and trimethylamine are co - produced. ethanolamine is prepared by a ring - opening reaction with ethylene oxide, and when the reaction is allowed to go further it produces diethanolamine and triethanolamine. the reaction of ammonia with 2 - bromopropanoic acid has been used to prepare racemic alanine in 70 % yield. amides can be prepared by the reaction of ammonia with carboxylic acid derivatives. for example, ammonia reacts with formic acid ( hcooh ) to yield formamide ( ) when heated. acyl chlorides are the most reactive, but the ammonia must be present in at least a twofold excess to neutralise the hydrogen chloride formed. esters and anhydrides also react with ammonia to form amides. ammonium salts of carboxylic acids can be dehydrated to amides by heating to 150 – 200 °c as long as no thermally sensitive groups are present. the hydrogen in ammonia is susceptible to replacement by a myriad of substituents. when dry ammonia gas is heated with metallic sodium it converts to sodamide,. with chlorine, monochloramine is formed. pentavalent ammonia is known as λ5 - amine, nitrogen pentahydride, or more commonly, ammonium hydride. this crystalline solid is only stable under high pressure and decomposes back into trivalent ammonia ( λ3 - amine ) and hydrogen gas at normal conditions. this substance was once investigated as a possible solid rocket fuel in 1966. ammonia as a ligand ammonia can act as a ligand in transition metal complexes. it is a pure σ - donor, in the middle of the spectrochemical series, and shows intermediate hard – soft behaviour ( see also ecw model ). its relative donor strength toward a series of acids, versus other lewis bases, can be illustrated by c - b plots. for historical reasons, ammonia is named ammine in the nomenclature of coordination compounds. some notable ammine complexes include tetraamminediaquaco