jobs? the history and future of workplace automation " ( 2015 ) 29 ( 3 ) journal of economic perspectives 3. boden, margaret, mind as machine, oxford university press, 2006. cukier, kenneth, " ready for robots? how to think about the future of ai ", foreign affairs, vol. 98, no. 4 ( july / august 2019 ), pp. 192 – 98. george dyson, historian of computing, writes ( in what might be called " dyson ' s law " ) that " any system simple enough to be understandable will not be complicated enough to behave intelligently, while any system complicated enough to behave intelligently will be too complicated to understand. " ( p. 197. ) computer scientist alex pentland writes : " current ai machine - learning algorithms are, at their core, dead simple stupid. they work, but they work by brute force. " ( p. 198. ) domingos, pedro, " our digital doubles : ai will serve our species, not control it ", scientific american, vol. 319, no. 3 ( september 2018 ), pp. 88 – 93. gertner, jon. ( 2023 ) " wikipedia ' s moment of truth : can the online encyclopedia help teach a. i. chatbots to get their facts right — without destroying itself in the process? " new york times magazine ( july 18, 2023 ) online hughes - castleberry, kenna, " a murder mystery puzzle : the literary puzzle cain ' s jawbone, which has stumped humans for decades, reveals the limitations of natural - language - processing algorithms ", scientific american, vol. 329, no. 4 ( november 2023 ), pp. 81 – 82. " this murder mystery competition has revealed that although nlp ( natural - language processing ) models are capable of incredible feats, their abilities are very much limited by the amount of context they receive. this [... ] could cause [ difficulties ] for researchers who hope to use them to do things such as analyze ancient languages. in some cases, there are few historical records on long - gone civilizations to serve as training data for such a purpose. " ( p. 82. ) johnston, john ( 2008 ) the allure of machinic life : cybernetics, artificial life, and the new ai, mit press. gary marcus, " artificial confidence : even the newest, buzziest systems of artificial general intelligence are stymmied by the same old problems ", scientific american,