the alismatales ( alismatids ) are an order of flowering plants including about 4, 500 species. plants assigned to this order are mostly tropical or aquatic. some grow in fresh water, some in marine habitats. perhaps the most important food crop in the order is the corm of the taro plant, colocasia esculenta. description the alismatales comprise herbaceous flowering plants of often aquatic and marshy habitats, and the only monocots known to have green embryos other than the amaryllidaceae. they also include the only marine angiosperms growing completely submerged, the seagrasses. the flowers are usually arranged in inflorescences, and the mature seeds lack endosperm. both marine and freshwater forms include those with staminate flowers that detach from the parent plant and float to the surface. there they can pollinate carpellate flowers floating on the surface via long pedicels. in others, pollination occurs underwater, where pollen may form elongated strands, increasing chance of success. most aquatic species have a totally submerged juvenile phase, and flowers are either floating or emerge above the water ' s surface. vegetation may be totally submersed, have floating leaves, or protrude from the water. collectively, they are commonly known as " water plantain ". taxonomy the alismatales contain about 165 genera in 13 families, with a cosmopolitan distribution. phylogenetically, they are basal monocots, diverging early in evolution relative to the lilioid and commelinid monocot lineages. together with the acorales, the alismatales are referred to informally as the alismatid monocots. early systems the cronquist system ( 1981 ) places the alismatales in subclass alismatidae, class liliopsida [ = monocotyledons ] and includes only three families as shown : alismataceae butomaceae limnocharitaceae cronquist ' s subclass alismatidae conformed fairly closely to the order alismatales as defined by apg, minus the araceae. the dahlgren system places the alismatales in the superorder alismatanae in the subclass liliidae [ = monocotyledons ] in the class magnoliopsida [ = angiosperms ] with the following families included : alismataceae aponogetonaceae butomaceae hydrocharitaceae limnocharitaceae in