arminius. the thirty - nine articles of religion ( finalised in 1571 ), were sufficiently ambiguous that they were compatible with either arminian or calvinistic interpretations. arminianism in the church of england was fundamentally an expression of negation of calvinism, and only some theologians held to classical arminianism, but for the rest they were either semi - pelagian or pelagian. in this specific context, contemporary historians prefer to use the term " proto - arminians " rather than " arminians " to designate the leanings of divines who didn ' t follow classical arminianism. english arminianism was represented by arminian puritans such as john goodwin or high anglican arminians such as jeremy taylor and henry hammond. anglican arminians of the 17th century such as william laud fought calvinist puritans. they actually saw arminianism in terms of a state church, idea that was completely alien to the views of arminius. this position became particularly evident under the reign ( 1625 – 1649 ) of charles i of england. following the english civil war ( 1642 – 1651 ) charles ii of england, who tolerated the presbyterians, re - instituted arminian thought in the church of england. it was dominant there after the restoration ( 1660 ) for some fifty years. baptists the debate between calvin ' s followers and arminius ' s followers is characteristic of post - reformation church history. the emerging baptist movement in 17th - century england, for example, was a microcosm of the historic debate between calvinists and arminians. the first baptists — called " general baptists " because of their confession of a " general " or unlimited atonement — were arminians. the baptist movement originated with thomas helwys, who left his mentor john smyth ( who had moved into shared belief and other distinctives of the dutch waterlander mennonites of amsterdam ) and returned to london to start the first english baptist church in 1611. later general baptists such as john griffith, samuel loveday, and thomas grantham defended a reformed arminian theology that reflected the arminianism of arminius. the general baptists encapsulated their arminian views in numerous confessions, the most influential of which was the standard confession of 1660. in the 1640s the particular baptists were formed, diverging strongly from arminian doctrine and embracing the strong calvinism of the presbyterians and independents. their robust calvinism was publicized in such confessions as the