an assembly line is a manufacturing process ( often called a progressive assembly ) in which parts ( usually interchangeable parts ) are added as the semi - finished assembly moves from workstation to workstation where the parts are added in sequence until the final assembly is produced. by mechanically moving the parts to the assembly work and moving the semi - finished assembly from work station to work station, a finished product can be assembled faster and with less labor than by having workers carry parts to a stationary piece for assembly. assembly lines are common methods of assembling complex items such as automobiles and other transportation equipment, household appliances and electronic goods. workers in charge of the works of assembly line are called assemblers. concepts assembly lines are designed for the sequential organization of workers, tools or machines, and parts. the motion of workers is minimized to the extent possible. all parts or assemblies are handled either by conveyors or motorized vehicles such as forklifts, or gravity, with no manual trucking. heavy lifting is done by machines such as overhead cranes or forklifts. each worker typically performs one simple operation unless job rotation strategies are applied. according to henry ford : designing assembly lines is a well - established mathematical challenge, referred to as an assembly line balancing problem. in the simple assembly line balancing problem the aim is to assign a set of tasks that need to be performed on the workpiece to a sequence of workstations. each task requires a given task duration for completion. the assignment of tasks to stations is typically limited by two constraints : ( 1 ) a precedence graph which indicates what other tasks need to be completed before a particular task can be initiated ( e. g. not putting in a screw before drilling the hole ) and ( 2 ) a cycle time which restricts the sum of task processing times which can be completed at each workstation before the work - piece is moved to the next station by the conveyor belt. major planning problems for operating assembly lines include supply chain integration, inventory control and production scheduling. simple example consider the assembly of a car : assume that certain steps in the assembly line are to install the engine, install the hood, and install the wheels ( in that order, with arbitrary interstitial steps ) ; only one of these steps can be done at a time. in traditional production, only one car would be assembled at a time. if engine installation takes 20 minutes, hood installation takes five minutes, and wheels installation takes 10 minutes, then a car can be produced every 35 minutes. in an assembly line, car assembly is split