time, the film starred james stewart and doris day, who sang the theme song " que sera, sera ", which won the academy award for best original song and became a big hit. they play a couple whose son is kidnapped to prevent them from interfering with an assassination. as in the 1934 film, the climax takes place at the royal albert hall. the wrong man ( 1956 ), hitchcock ' s final film for warner bros., is a low - key black - and - white production based on a real - life case of mistaken identity reported in life magazine in 1953. this was the only film of hitchcock to star henry fonda, playing a stork club musician mistaken for a liquor store thief, who is arrested and tried for robbery while his wife ( vera miles ) emotionally collapses under the strain. hitchcock told truffaut that his lifelong fear of the police attracted him to the subject and was embedded in many scenes. while directing episodes for alfred hitchcock presents during the summer of 1957, hitchcock was admitted to hospital for hernia and gallstones, and had to have his gallbladder removed. following a successful surgery, he immediately returned to work to prepare for his next project. vertigo ( 1958 ) again starred james stewart, with kim novak and barbara bel geddes. he had wanted vera miles to play the lead, but she was pregnant. he told oriana fallaci : " i was offering her a big part, the chance to become a beautiful sophisticated blonde, a real actress. we ' d have spent a heap of dollars on it, and she has the bad taste to get pregnant. i hate pregnant women, because then they have children. " in vertigo, stewart plays scottie, a former police investigator suffering from acrophobia, who becomes obsessed with a woman he has been hired to shadow ( novak ). scottie ' s obsession leads to tragedy, and this time hitchcock did not opt for a happy ending. some critics, including donald spoto and roger ebert, agree that vertigo is the director ' s most personal and revealing film, dealing with the pygmalion - like obsessions of a man who moulds a woman into the person he desires. vertigo explores more frankly and at greater length his interest in the relation between sex and death, than any other work in his filmography. vertigo contains a camera technique developed by irmin roberts, commonly referred to as a dolly zoom, which has been copied by many filmmakers. the film premiered at the san sebastian international film festival, and