weakly bound compounds, even though it was not the first. it is stable up to 17 kelvins ( −256 °c ). the metastable dication, which is valence - isoelectronic with carbonyl fluoride and phosgene, was observed in 2010. argon - 36, in the form of argon hydride ( argonium ) ions, has been detected in interstellar medium associated with the crab nebula supernova ; this was the first noble - gas molecule detected in outer space. solid argon hydride ( ar ( h2 ) 2 ) has the same crystal structure as the mgzn2 laves phase. it forms at pressures between 4. 3 and 220 gpa, though raman measurements suggest that the h2 molecules in ar ( h2 ) 2 dissociate above 175 gpa. production argon is extracted industrially by the fractional distillation of liquid air in a cryogenic air separation unit ; a process that separates liquid nitrogen, which boils at 77. 3 k, from argon, which boils at 87. 3 k, and liquid oxygen, which boils at 90. 2 k. about 700, 000 tonnes of argon are produced worldwide every year. applications argon has several desirable properties : argon is a chemically inert gas. argon is the cheapest alternative when nitrogen is not sufficiently inert. argon has low thermal conductivity. argon has electronic properties ( ionization and / or the emission spectrum ) desirable for some applications. other noble gases would be equally suitable for most of these applications, but argon is by far the cheapest. argon is inexpensive, since it occurs naturally in air and is readily obtained as a byproduct of cryogenic air separation in the production of liquid oxygen and liquid nitrogen : the primary constituents of air are used on a large industrial scale. the other noble gases ( except helium ) are produced this way as well, but argon is the most plentiful by far. the bulk of argon applications arise simply because it is inert and relatively cheap. industrial processes argon is used in some high - temperature industrial processes where ordinarily non - reactive substances become reactive. for example, an argon atmosphere is used in graphite electric furnaces to prevent the graphite from burning. for some of these processes, the presence of nitrogen or oxygen gases might cause defects within the material. argon is used in some types of arc