historical series of scenes around the outside that lauded his achievements, of which the lower parts remain. the outside of the temple was decorated with scenes of the battle of kadesh. his list of pharaohs, similar to that of seti i, formerly stood here ; the fragments were removed by the french consul and sold to the british museum. umm el qa ' ab the royal necropolises of the earliest dynasties were placed about a mile into the great desert plain, in a place now known as umm el qa ' ab " the mother of pots " because of the shards remaining from all of the devotional objects left by religious pilgrims. the earliest burial is about inside, a pit lined with brick walls and originally roofed with timber and matting. other tombs also built before menes are. the probable tomb of menes is of the latter size. afterwards, the tombs increased in size and complexity. the tomb - pit was surrounded by chambers to hold offerings, the sepulchre being a great wooden chamber in the midst of the brick - lined pit. rows of small pits, tombs for the servants of the pharaoh, surrounded the royal chamber, many dozens of such burials being usual. some of the offerings included sacrificed animals, such as the asses found in the tomb of merneith. evidence of human sacrifice exists in the early tombs, such as the 118 servants in the tomb of merneith, but this practice was changed later into symbolic offerings. by the end of the second dynasty the type of tomb constructed changed to a long passage with chambers on either side, the royal burial being in the middle of the length. the greatest of these tombs with its dependencies, covered a space of over, however it is possible for this to have been several tombs which abutted one another during construction ; the egyptians had no means of mapping the positioning of the tombs. the contents of the tombs have been nearly destroyed by successive plunderers ; but enough remained to show that rich jewellery was placed on the mummies, a profusion of vases of hard and valuable stones from the royal table service stood about the body, the store - rooms were filled with great jars of wine, perfumed ointments, and other supplies, and tablets of ivory and of ebony were engraved with a record of the yearly annals of the reigns. the seals of various officials, of which over 200 varieties have been found, give an insight into the public arrangements. a cemetery for private persons was put into use during the first dynasty, with some pit - tombs