editions of the latin vulgate, as sacred and canonical. " the whole of the books in question, with the exception of 1 esdras and 2 esdras and the prayer of manasseh, were declared canonical at trent. the protestants, in comparison, were diverse in their opinion of the deuterocanon early on. some considered them divinely inspired, others rejected them. lutherans and anglicans retained the books as christian intertestamental readings and a part of the bible ( in a section called " apocrypha " ), but no doctrine should be based on them. john wycliffe, a 14th - century christian humanist, had declared in his biblical translation that " whatever book is in the old testament besides these twenty - five shall be set among the apocrypha, that is, without authority or belief. " nevertheless, his translation of the bible included the apocrypha and the epistle of the laodiceans. martin luther did not class apocryphal books as being scripture, but in the german luther bible ( 1534 ) the apocrypha are published in a separate section from the other books, although the lutheran and anglican lists are different. anabaptists use the luther bible, which contains the intertestamental books ; amish wedding ceremonies include " the retelling of the marriage of tobias and sarah in the apocrypha ". the fathers of anabaptism, such as menno simons, quoted " them [ the apocrypha ] with the same authority and nearly the same frequency as books of the hebrew bible " and the texts regarding the martyrdoms under antiochus iv in 1 maccabees and 2 maccabees are held in high esteem by the anabaptists, who faced persecution in their history. in reformed editions ( like the westminster ), readers were warned that these books were not " to be any otherwise approved or made use of than other human writings ". a milder distinction was expressed elsewhere, such as in the " argument " introducing them in the geneva bible, and in the sixth article of the church of england, where it is said that " the other books the church doth read for example of life and instruction of manners, " though not to establish doctrine. among some nonconformists, the term apocryphal began to take on extra or altered connotations : not just of dubious authenticity, but having spurious or false content, protestants, being