and other scholars have since debunked the doubleday - cooperstown myth, which nonetheless remains powerful in the american imagination because of the efforts of major league baseball and the hall of fame in cooperstown. " at his death, doubleday left many letters and papers, none of which describe baseball or give any suggestion that he considered himself a prominent person in the evolution of the game, and his new york times obituary did not mention the game at all. chairman mills himself, who had been a civil war colleague of doubleday and a member of the honor guard for doubleday ' s body as it lay in state in new york city, never recalled hearing doubleday describe his role as the inventor. doubleday was a cadet at west point in the year of the alleged invention and his family had moved away from cooperstown the prior year. furthermore, the primary testimony to the commission that connected baseball to doubleday was that of abner graves, whose credibility is questionable ; a few years later, he shot his wife to death and was committed to an institution for the criminally insane for the rest of his life. part of the confusion could stem from there being another man by the same name in cooperstown in 1839. despite the lack of solid evidence linking doubleday to the origins of baseball, cooperstown, new york, became the new home of what is today the national baseball hall of fame and museum in 1937. there may have been some relationship to baseball as a national sport and abner doubleday. while the modern rules of baseball were formulated in new york during the 1840s, it was the scattering of new yorkers exposed to these rules throughout the country, that spread not only baseball, but also the " new york rules ", thereby harmonizing the rules, and being a catalyst for its growth. doubleday was a high - ranking officer, whose duties included seeing to provisions for the us army fighting throughout the south and border states. for the morale of the men, he is said to have provisioned balls and bats for the men. namesakes and honors doubleday ' s men, admirers, and the state of new york erected a monument to him at gettysburg. there is a obelisk monument at arlington national cemetery where he is buried. doubleday field is a 9, 791 - seat baseball stadium named for abner doubleday, located in cooperstown, new york, near the baseball hall of fame. it hosted the annual hall of fame game, an exhibition game between two major league teams that was played from 1940 until