being sold as feedstock to nearby oil refineries and petrochemical plants. non - upgraded crude bitumen canadian bitumen does not differ substantially from oils such as venezuelan extra - heavy and mexican heavy oil in chemical composition, and the real difficulty is moving the extremely viscous bitumen through oil pipelines to the refinery. many modern oil refineries are extremely sophisticated and can process non - upgraded bitumen directly into products such as gasoline, diesel fuel, and refined asphalt without any preprocessing. this is particularly common in areas such as the us gulf coast, where refineries were designed to process venezuelan and mexican oil, and in areas such as the us midwest where refineries were rebuilt to process heavy oil as domestic light oil production declined. given the choice, such heavy oil refineries usually prefer to buy bitumen rather than synthetic oil because the cost is lower, and in some cases because they prefer to produce more diesel fuel and less gasoline. by 2015 canadian production and exports of non - upgraded bitumen exceeded that of synthetic crude oil at over per day, of which about 65 % was exported to the united states. because of the difficulty of moving crude bitumen through pipelines, non - upgraded bitumen is usually diluted with natural - gas condensate in a form called dilbit or with synthetic crude oil, called synbit. however, to meet international competition, much non - upgraded bitumen is now sold as a blend of multiple grades of bitumen, conventional crude oil, synthetic crude oil, and condensate in a standardized benchmark product such as western canadian select. this sour, heavy crude oil blend is designed to have uniform refining characteristics to compete with internationally marketed heavy oils such as mexican mayan or arabian dubai crude. radioactive waste encapsulation matrix bitumen was used starting in the 1960s as a hydrophobic matrix aiming to encapsulate radioactive waste such as medium - activity salts ( mainly soluble sodium nitrate and sodium sulfate ) produced by the reprocessing of spent nuclear fuels or radioactive sludges from sedimentation ponds. bituminised radioactive waste containing highly radiotoxic alpha - emitting transuranic elements from nuclear reprocessing plants have been produced at industrial scale in france, belgium and japan, but this type of waste conditioning has been abandoned because operational safety issues ( risks of fire, as occurred in a bituminisation plant at tokai works in japan ) and long - term stability problems related to their geological disposal in deep rock formations. one