safe procedure, a 2013 review stated that the reports of infection transmission increased significantly in the prior decade, including those of mycobacterium. although it is recommended that practitioners of acupuncture use disposable needles, the reuse of sterilized needles is still permitted. it is also recommended that thorough control practices for preventing infection be implemented and adapted. english - language a 2013 systematic review of the english - language case reports found that serious adverse events associated with acupuncture are rare, but that acupuncture is not without risk. between 2000 and 2011 the english - language literature from 25 countries and regions reported 294 adverse events. the majority of the reported adverse events were relatively minor, and the incidences were low. for example, a prospective survey of 34, 000 acupuncture treatments found no serious adverse events and 43 minor ones, a rate of 1. 3 per 1000 interventions. another survey found there were 7. 1 % minor adverse events, of which 5 were serious, amid 97, 733 acupuncture patients. the most common adverse effect observed was infection ( e. g. mycobacterium ), and the majority of infections were bacterial in nature, caused by skin contact at the needling site. infection has also resulted from skin contact with unsterilized equipment or with dirty towels in an unhygienic clinical setting. other adverse complications included five reported cases of spinal cord injuries ( e. g. migrating broken needles or needling too deeply ), four brain injuries, four peripheral nerve injuries, five heart injuries, seven other organ and tissue injuries, bilateral hand edema, epithelioid granuloma, pseudolymphoma, argyria, pustules, pancytopenia, and scarring due to hot - needle technique. adverse reactions from acupuncture, which are unusual and uncommon in typical acupuncture practice, included syncope, galactorrhoea, bilateral nystagmus, pyoderma gangrenosum, hepatotoxicity, eruptive lichen planus, and spontaneous needle migration. a 2013 systematic review found 31 cases of vascular injuries caused by acupuncture, three causing death. two died from pericardial tamponade and one was from an aortoduodenal fistula. the same review found vascular injuries were rare, bleeding and pseudoaneurysm were most prevalent. a 2011 systematic review ( without restriction in time or language ),