##nnium ( element 119 ) is predicted to be the next alkali metal after francium and behave much like their lighter congeners ; however, it is also predicted to differ from the lighter alkali metals in some properties. its chemistry is predicted to be closer to that of potassium or rubidium instead of caesium or francium. this is unusual as periodic trends, ignoring relativistic effects would predict ununennium to be even more reactive than caesium and francium. this lowered reactivity is due to the relativistic stabilisation of ununennium ' s valence electron, increasing ununennium ' s first ionisation energy and decreasing the metallic and ionic radii ; this effect is already seen for francium. this assumes that ununennium will behave chemically as an alkali metal, which, although likely, may not be true due to relativistic effects. the relativistic stabilisation of the 8s orbital also increases ununennium ' s electron affinity far beyond that of caesium and francium ; indeed, ununennium is expected to have an electron affinity higher than all the alkali metals lighter than it. relativistic effects also cause a very large drop in the polarisability of ununennium. on the other hand, ununennium is predicted to continue the trend of melting points decreasing going down the group, being expected to have a melting point between 0 °c and 30 °c. the stabilisation of ununennium ' s valence electron and thus the contraction of the 8s orbital cause its atomic radius to be lowered to 240 pm, very close to that of rubidium ( 247 pm ), so that the chemistry of ununennium in the + 1 oxidation state should be more similar to the chemistry of rubidium than to that of francium. on the other hand, the ionic radius of the uue + ion is predicted to be larger than that of rb +, because the 7p orbitals are destabilised and are thus larger than the p - orbitals of the lower shells. ununennium may also show the + 3 and + 5 oxidation states, which are not seen in any other alkali metal, in addition to the + 1 oxidation state that is characteristic of the other alkali metals and is also the main oxidation state of all the known alkali metals : this is because of the destabilisation