with hints of what the despairing citizens might accomplish, he laughed and gave his celebrated answer : " the thicker the hay, the easier mowed! " after much bargaining, the famine - stricken citizens agreed to pay a ransom of 5, 000 pounds of gold, 30, 000 pounds of silver, 4, 000 silken tunics, 3, 000 hides dyed scarlet, and 3, 000 pounds of pepper. alaric also recruited some 40, 000 freed gothic slaves. thus ended alaric ' s first siege of rome. failed agreement with the western romans, alaric sets up his own emperor after having provisionally agreed to the terms offered by alaric for lifting the blockade, honorius recanted ; historian a. d. lee highlights that one of the points of contention for the emperor was alaric ' s expectation of being named head of the roman army, a post honorius was not prepared to grant to alaric. when this title was not bestowed onto alaric, he proceeded to not only " besiege rome again in late 409, but also to proclaim a leading senator, priscus attalus, as a rival emperor, from whom alaric then received the appointment " he desired. meanwhile, alaric ' s newly appointed " emperor " attalus, who seems not to have understood the limits of his power or his dependence on alaric, failed to take alaric ' s advice and lost the grain supply in africa to a pro - honorian comes africae, heraclian. then, sometime in 409, attalus — accompanied by alaric — marched on ravenna and after receiving unprecedented terms and concessions from the legitimate emperor honorius, refused him and instead demanded that honorius be deposed and exiled. fearing for his safety, honorius made preparations to flee to ravenna when ships carrying 4, 000 troops arrived from constantinople, restoring his resolve. now that honorius no longer felt the need to negotiate, alaric ( regretting his choice of puppet emperor ) deposed attalus, perhaps to re - open negotiations with ravenna. sack of rome negotiations with honorius might have succeeded had it not been for another intervention by sarus, of the amal family, and therefore a hereditary enemy of alaric and his house. he attacked alaric ' s men. why sarus, who had been in imperial service for years under stilicho, acted at this moment remains a mystery, but alaric interpreted this attack as directed by ravenna and as bad faith from honor