and come and join the dance, which expressed the two women ' s experiences in the barnard and columbia beat community. through his association with elise cowen, ginsberg discovered that they shared a mutual friend, carl solomon, to whom he later dedicated his most famous poem " howl. " this poem is considered an autobiography of ginsberg up to 1955, and a brief history of the beat generation through its references to his relationship to other beat artists of that time. the " blake vision " in 1948, in an apartment in east harlem, ginsberg experienced an auditory hallucination while masturbating and reading the poetry of william blake, which he later referred to as his " blake vision ". ginsberg claimed to have heard the voice of god — also described as the " voice of the ancient of days " — or of blake himself reading " ah! sun - flower ", " the sick rose " and " the little girl lost ". the experience lasted several days, with him believing that he had witnessed the interconnectedness of the universe ; ginsberg recounted that after looking at latticework on the fire escape of the apartment and then at the sky, he intuited that one had been crafted by human beings, while the other had been crafted by itself. he explained that this hallucination was not inspired by drug use, but said he sought to recapture the feeling of interconnectedness later with various drugs. san francisco renaissance ginsberg moved to san francisco during the 1950s. before howl and other poems was published in 1956 by city lights, he worked as a market researcher. in 1954, in san francisco, ginsberg met peter orlovsky ( 1933 – 2010 ), with whom he fell in love and who remained his lifelong partner. selections from their correspondence have been published. also in san francisco, ginsberg met members of the san francisco renaissance ( james broughton, robert duncan, madeline gleason and kenneth rexroth ) and other poets who would later be associated with the beat generation in a broader sense. ginsberg ' s mentor william carlos williams wrote an introductory letter to san francisco renaissance figurehead kenneth rexroth, who then introduced ginsberg into the san francisco poetry scene. there, ginsberg also met three budding poets and zen enthusiasts who had become friends at reed college : gary snyder, philip whalen, and lew welch. in 1959, along with poets john kelly, bob kaufman, a. d. winans, and william margolis, ginsberg was one of the founders of the beatitude poetry