1861, davis appointed several generals to defend confederate lines from the mississippi river east to the allegheny mountains. aged 58 when the war began, johnson was old by army standards. he came east to offer his service for the confederacy without having been promised anything, merely hoping for an assignment. the most sensitive, and in many ways, the most crucial areas, along the mississippi river and in western tennessee along the tennessee and the cumberland rivers were placed under the command of maj. gen. leonidas polk and brig. gen. gideon j. pillow. the latter had initially been in command in tennessee as that state ' s top general. their impolitic occupation of columbus, kentucky, on september 3, 1861, two days before johnston arrived in the confederacy ' s capital of richmond, virginia, after his cross - country journey, drove kentucky from its stated neutrality. the majority of kentuckians allied with the u. s. camp. polk and pillow ' s action gave u. s. brig. gen. ulysses s. grant an excuse to take control of the strategically located town of paducah, kentucky, without raising the ire of most kentuckians and the pro - u. s. majority in the state legislature. confederate command in western theater on september 10, 1861, johnston was assigned to command the huge area of the confederacy west of the allegheny mountains, except for coastal areas. he became commander of the confederacy ' s western armies in the area often called the western department or western military department. johnston ' s appointment as a full general by his friend and admirer jefferson davis had already been confirmed by the confederate senate on august 31, 1861. the appointment had been backdated to rank from may 30, 1861, making him the second - highest - ranking general in the confederate states army. only adjutant general and inspector general samuel cooper ranked ahead of him. after his appointment, johnston immediately headed for his new territory. he was permitted to call on arkansas, tennessee, and mississippi governors for new troops. however, politics largely stifled this authority, especially concerning mississippi. on september 13, 1861, johnston ordered brig. gen. felix zollicoffer with 4, 000 men to occupy cumberland gap in kentucky to block u. s. troops from coming into eastern tennessee. the kentucky legislature had voted to side with the united states after the occupation of columbus by polk. by september 18, johnston had brig. gen. simon bolivar buckner with another 4, 000 men blocking the railroad route to tennessee at bowling green, kentucky. johnston had fewer than