, a tavern with a broad beer selection and a menu of smørrebrød and other danish dishes. in aarhus, new nordic can be experienced at kahler villa dining, hærværk and domestic, but local produce can be had at many places, especially at the twice - weekly food markets in frederiksbjerg. aarhus and central denmark region was selected as european region of gastronomy in 2017. the city ( and municipality ) is a member of the delice network, an international non - profit organization nurturing and facilitating knowledge exchange in gastronomy. appraised high - end restaurants serving international gourmet cuisine include frederikshøj, substans, gastrome, det glade vanvid, nordisk spisehus, restaurant varna, restaurant et, gast, brasserie belli, møf. restaurants in aarhus were the first in provincial denmark to receive michelin stars since 2015, when michelin inspectors ventured outside copenhagen for the first time. vendors of street food are numerous throughout the centre, often selling from small trailers on permanent locations formally known as pølsevogne ( lit. sausage wagons ), traditionally serving a danish variety of hot dogs, sausages and other fast food. there are increasingly more outlets inspired by other cultural flavours such as sushi, kebab and currywurst. the city centre is packed with cafes, especially along the river and the latin quarter. some of them also include an evening restaurant, such as cafe casablanca, cafe carlton, cafe cross and gyngen. aarhus street food and aarhus central food market are two indoor food courts from 2016 in the city centre, comprising a variety of street food restaurants, cafes and bars. aarhus has a robust and diverse nightlife. the action tends to concentrate in the inner city, with the pedestrianised riverside, frederiksgade, the latin quarter, and jægergardsgade on frederiksbjerg as the most active centres at night, but things are stirring elsewhere around the city too. the nightlife scene offers everything from small joints with cheap alcohol and a homely atmosphere to fashionable nightclubs serving champagne and cocktails or small and large music venues with bars, dance floors and lounges. a short selection of well - established places where you can have a drink and socialise, include the fashionable lounge and night club kupe at the harbourfront, the relaxed ris ras filliongongong offering waterpipes and an award - winning beer