in many ways, bi - cultural. today, national traditions are well preserved in the country despite western influences, including globalized consumer culture. some of the main elements of the azerbaijani culture are : music, literature, folk dances and art, cuisine, architecture, cinematography and novruz bayram. the latter is derived from the traditional celebration of the new year in the ancient iranian religion of zoroastrianism. novruz is a family holiday. the profile of azerbaijan ' s population consists, as stated above, of azerbaijanis, as well as other nationalities or ethnic groups, compactly living in various areas of the country. azerbaijani national and traditional dresses are the chokha and papakhi. there are radio broadcasts in russian, georgian, kurdish, lezgian and talysh languages, which are financed from the state budget. some local radio stations in balakan and khachmaz organize broadcasts in avar and tat. in baku several newspapers are published in russian, kurdish ( dengi kurd ), lezgian ( samur ) and talysh languages. jewish society " sokhnut " publishes the newspaper aziz. music and folk dances music of azerbaijan builds on folk traditions that reach back nearly a thousand years. for centuries azerbaijani music has evolved under the badge of monody, producing rhythmically diverse melodies. azerbaijani music has a branchy mode system, where chromatization of major and minor scales is of great importance. among national musical instruments there are 14 string instruments, eight percussion instruments and six wind instruments. according to the grove dictionary of music and musicians, " in terms of ethnicity, culture and religion the azerbaijani are musically much closer to iran than turkey. " mugham, meykhana and ashiq art are among the many musical traditions of azerbaijan. mugham is usually a suite with poetry and instrumental interludes. when performing mugham, the singers have to transform their emotions into singing and music. in contrast to the mugham traditions of central asian countries, azerbaijani mugham is more free - form and less rigid ; it is often compared to the improvised field of jazz. unesco proclaimed the azerbaijani mugham tradition a masterpiece of the oral and intangible heritage of humanity on 7 november 2003. meykhana is a kind of traditional azerbaijani distinctive folk unaccompanied song, usually performed by several people improvising on a particular subject. ashiq combines poetry, storytelling, dance, and vocal and instrumental music into a traditional performance art that stands as a symbol of azerbaijani