son up as a sacrifice in the land of moriah. the patriarch traveled three days until he came to the mount that god told him of. he then commanded the servants to remain while he and isaac proceeded alone into the mount. isaac carried the wood upon which he would be sacrificed. along the way, isaac asked his father where the animal for the burnt offering was, to which abraham replied " god will provide himself a lamb for a burnt offering ". just as abraham was about to sacrifice his son, he was interrupted by the angel of the lord, and he saw behind him a " ram caught in a thicket by his horns ", which he sacrificed instead of his son. the place was later named as jehovah - jireh. for his obedience he received another promise of numerous descendants and abundant prosperity. after this event, abraham went to beersheba. later years sarah died, and abraham buried her in the cave of the patriarchs ( the " cave of machpelah " ), near hebron which he had purchased along with the adjoining field from ephron the hittite. after the death of sarah, abraham took another wife, a concubine named keturah, by whom he had six sons : zimran, jokshan, medan, midian, ishbak, and shuah. according to the bible, reflecting the change of his name to " abraham " meaning " a father of many nations ", abraham is considered to be the progenitor of many nations mentioned in the bible, among others the israelites, ishmaelites, edomites, amalekites, kenizzites, midianites and assyrians, and through his nephew lot he was also related to the moabites and ammonites. abraham lived to see his son marry rebekah, and to see the birth of his twin grandsons jacob and esau. he died at age 175, and was buried in the cave of machpelah by his sons isaac and ishmael. historicity and origins of the narrative historicity in the early and middle 20th century, leading archaeologists such as william f. albright and g. ernest wright and biblical scholars such as albrecht alt and john bright believed that the patriarchs and matriarchs were either real individuals or believable composites of people who lived in the " patriarchal age ", the 2nd millennium bce. but, in the 1970s, new arguments concerning israel ' s past and the biblical texts challenged