church of hagia sophia and from there appealed to the populace. his actions provoked a riot, which resulted in the deposition of andronikos i and the proclamation of isaac as emperor. alexios was now closer to the imperial throne than ever before. reign by 1190 alexios had returned to the court of his younger brother, from whom he received the elevated title of sebastokrator. in march 1195 while isaac ii was away hunting in thrace, alexios was acclaimed as emperor by the troops with the covert support of his wife euphrosyne doukaina kamatera. alexios captured isaac at stagira in macedonia, put out his eyes, and thenceforth kept him a close prisoner, despite having previously been redeemed by alexios from captivity at antioch and showered with honours. to compensate for this crime and to solidify his position as emperor, alexios had to scatter money so lavishly as to empty his treasury, and to allow such licence to the officers of the army as to leave the empire practically defenceless. these actions inevitably led to the financial ruin of the state. at christmas 1196, holy roman emperor henry vi attempted to force alexios to pay him a tribute of 5, 000 pounds ( later negotiated down to 1, 600 pounds ) of gold or face invasion. alexios gathered the money by plundering imperial tombs at the church of the holy apostles and heavily taxing the people through the alamanikon. because of henry ' s death in september 1197, the gold was never dispatched. the empress euphrosyne tried in vain to sustain his credit and his court ; vatatzes, the favourite instrument in her attempts at reform, was assassinated by the emperor ' s orders. in the east the empire was overrun by the seljuk turks ; from the north, the kingdom of hungary and the rebellious bulgarians and vlachs descended unchecked to ravage the balkan provinces of the empire, sometimes penetrating as far as greece, while alexios squandered the public treasure on his palaces and gardens and attempted to deal with the crisis through diplomatic means. the emperor ' s attempts to bolster the empire ' s defences by special concessions to pronoiai ( notables ) in the frontier zone backfired, as the latter increased their regional autonomy. byzantine authority survived, but in a much weakened state. in 1197, local lord dobromir chrysos established himself in the region of vardar macedonia, defying the imperial