can be approximated by a 2 - level system at low temperatures, this calculation is fairly simple. this premise can be applied to dark clouds, regions suspected of having extremely low temperatures and possible sites for future star formation. detections of ammonia in dark clouds show very narrow linesindicative not only of low temperatures, but also of a low level of inner - cloud turbulence. line ratio calculations provide a measurement of cloud temperature that is independent of previous co observations. the ammonia observations were consistent with co measurements of rotation temperatures of ≈10 k. with this, densities can be determined, and have been calculated to range between 104 and 105 cm−3 in dark clouds. mapping of gives typical clouds sizes of 0. 1 pc and masses near 1 solar mass. these cold, dense cores are the sites of future star formation. uc hii regions ultra - compact hii regions are among the best tracers of high - mass star formation. the dense material surrounding uchii regions is likely primarily molecular. since a complete study of massive star formation necessarily involves the cloud from which the star formed, ammonia is an invaluable tool in understanding this surrounding molecular material. since this molecular material can be spatially resolved, it is possible to constrain the heating / ionising sources, temperatures, masses, and sizes of the regions. doppler - shifted velocity components allow for the separation of distinct regions of molecular gas that can trace outflows and hot cores originating from forming stars. extragalactic detection ammonia has been detected in external galaxies, and by simultaneously measuring several lines, it is possible to directly measure the gas temperature in these galaxies. line ratios imply that gas temperatures are warm ( ≈50 k ), originating from dense clouds with sizes of tens of parsecs. this picture is consistent with the picture within our milky way galaxyhot dense molecular cores form around newly forming stars embedded in larger clouds of molecular material on the scale of several hundred parsecs ( giant molecular clouds ; gmcs ). see also notes references works cited further reading external links international chemical safety card 0414 ( anhydrous ammonia ), ilo. org. international chemical safety card 0215 ( aqueous solutions ), ilo. org. emergency response to ammonia fertiliser releases ( spills ) for the minnesota department of agriculture. ammoniaspills. org national institute for occupational safety and health – ammonia page, cdc. gov niosh pocket guide to chemical hazards – ammonia, cdc. gov ammonia, video bases ( chemistry ) foul