significance during the 1980s and 1990s. although they had originally censored some of his books and ideas, china ' s government cited him along with franklin roosevelt and bill gates as being among the westerners who had most influenced their country. the third wave along with a video documentary based on it became best - sellers in china and were widely distributed to schools. the video ' s success inspired the marketing of videos on related themes in the late 1990s by infowars, whose name is derived from the term coined by toffler in the book. toffler ' s influence on asian thinkers was summed up in an article in daedalus, published by the american academy of arts & sciences : u. s. house speaker newt gingrich publicly lauded his ideas about the future, and urged members of congress to read toffler ' s book, creating a new civilization ( 1995 ). others, such as aol founder steve case, cited toffler ' s the third wave as a formative influence on his thinking, which inspired him to write the third wave : an entrepreneur ' s vision of the future in 2016. case said that toffler was a " real pioneer in helping people, companies and even countries lean into the future. " in 1980, ted turner founded cnn, which he said was inspired by toffler ' s forecasting the end of the dominance of the three main television networks. turner ' s company, turner broadcasting, published toffler ' s creating a new civilization in 1995. shortly after the book was released, the former soviet president mikhail gorbachev hosted the global governance conference in san francisco with the theme, toward a new civilization, which was attended by dozens of world figures, including the tofflers, george h. w. bush, margaret thatcher, carl sagan, abba eban and turner with his then - wife, actress jane fonda. mexican billionaire carlos slim was influenced by his works, and became a friend of the writer. global marketer j. d. power also said he was inspired by toffler ' s works. since the 1960s, people had tried to make sense out of the effect of new technologies and social change, a problem which made toffler ' s writings widely influential beyond the confines of scientific, economic, and public policy. his works and ideas have been subject to various criticisms, usually with the same argumentation used against futurology : that foreseeing the future is nigh impossible. techno music pioneer juan atkins cites toffler