acoustics is a branch of physics that deals with the study of mechanical waves in gases, liquids, and solids including topics such as vibration, sound, ultrasound and infrasound. a scientist who works in the field of acoustics is an acoustician while someone working in the field of acoustics technology may be called an acoustical engineer. the application of acoustics is present in almost all aspects of modern society with the most obvious being the audio and noise control industries. hearing is one of the most crucial means of survival in the animal world and speech is one of the most distinctive characteristics of human development and culture. accordingly, the science of acoustics spreads across many facets of human society — music, medicine, architecture, industrial production, warfare and more. likewise, animal species such as songbirds and frogs use sound and hearing as a key element of mating rituals or for marking territories. art, craft, science and technology have provoked one another to advance the whole, as in many other fields of knowledge. robert bruce lindsay ' s " wheel of acoustics " is a well accepted overview of the various fields in acoustics. history etymology the word " acoustic " is derived from the greek word ακουστικος ( akoustikos ), meaning " of or for hearing, ready to hear " and that from ακουστος ( akoustos ), " heard, audible ", which in turn derives from the verb ακουω ( akouo ), " i hear ". the latin synonym is " sonic ", after which the term sonics used to be a synonym for acoustics and later a branch of acoustics. frequencies above and below the audible range are called " ultrasonic " and " infrasonic ", respectively. early research in acoustics in the 6th century bc, the ancient greek philosopher pythagoras wanted to know why some combinations of musical sounds seemed more beautiful than others, and he found answers in terms of numerical ratios representing the harmonic overtone series on a string. he is reputed to have observed that when the lengths of vibrating strings are expressible as ratios of integers ( e. g. 2 to 3, 3 to 4 ), the tones produced will be harmonious, and the smaller the integers the more harmonious the sounds. for example, a string of a certain length would sound particularly harmonious with a string of twice the length ( other factors being equal ). in modern parlance, if a string sounds the note c when plucked,