of ginsberg ' s experiences before 1955, but also a history of the beat generation. ginsberg also later claimed that at the core of " howl " were his unresolved emotions about his schizophrenic mother. though " kaddish " deals more explicitly with his mother, " howl " in many ways is driven by the same emotions. " howl " chronicles the development of many important friendships throughout ginsberg ' s life. he begins the poem with " i saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness ", which sets the stage for ginsberg to describe cassady and solomon, immortalizing them into american literature. this madness was the " angry fix " that society needed to function — madness was its disease. in the poem, ginsberg focused on " carl solomon! i ' m with you in rockland ", and, thus, turned solomon into an archetypal figure searching for freedom from his " straightjacket ". though references in most of his poetry reveal much about his biography, his relationship to other members of the beat generation, and his own political views, " howl, " his most famous poem, is still perhaps the best place to start. to paris and the " beat hotel ", tangier and india in 1957, ginsberg surprised the literary world by abandoning san francisco. after a spell in morocco, he and peter orlovsky joined gregory corso in paris. corso introduced them to a shabby lodging house above a bar at 9 rue git - le - cœur that was to become known as the beat hotel. they were soon joined by burroughs and others. it was a productive, creative time for all of them. there, ginsberg began his epic poem " kaddish ", corso composed bomb and marriage, and burroughs ( with help from ginsberg and corso ) put together naked lunch from previous writings. this period was documented by the photographer harold chapman, who moved in at about the same time, and took pictures constantly of the residents of the " hotel " until it closed in 1963. during 1962 – 1963, ginsberg and orlovsky travelled extensively across india, living half a year at a time in calcutta ( now kolkata ) and benares ( varanasi ). on his road to india he stayed two months in athens ( august 29, 1961 - october 31, 1961 ) where he visited various cites such as delphi, mycines, crete, and then he continued his journey to israel, kenya and finally india. also during