and sarah were siblings. in response, god told abimelech that he did indeed have a blameless heart and that is why he continued to exist. however, should he not return the wife of abraham back to him, god would surely destroy abimelech and his entire household. abimelech was informed that abraham was a prophet who would pray for him. early next morning, abimelech informed his servants of his dream and approached abraham inquiring as to why he had brought such great guilt upon his kingdom. abraham stated that he thought there was no fear of god in that place, and that they might kill him for his wife. then abraham defended what he had said as not being a lie at all : " and yet indeed she is my sister ; she is the daughter of my father, but not the daughter of my mother ; and she became my wife. " abimelech returned sarah to abraham, and gave him gifts of sheep, oxen, and servants ; and invited him to settle wherever he pleased in abimelech ' s lands. further, abimelech gave abraham a thousand pieces of silver to serve as sarah ' s vindication before all. abraham then prayed for abimelech and his household, since god had stricken the women with infertility because of the taking of sarah. after living for some time in the land of the philistines, abimelech and phicol, the chief of his troops, approached abraham because of a dispute that resulted in a violent confrontation at a well. abraham then reproached abimelech due to his philistine servant ' s aggressive attacks and the seizing of abraham ' s well. abimelech claimed ignorance of the incident. then abraham offered a pact by providing sheep and oxen to abimelech. further, to attest that abraham was the one who dug the well, he also gave abimelech seven ewes for proof. because of this sworn oath, they called the place of this well : beersheba. after abimelech and phicol headed back to philistia, abraham planted a tamarisk grove in beersheba and called upon " the name of the, the everlasting god. " isaac as had been prophesied in mamre the previous year, sarah became pregnant and bore a son to abraham, on the first anniversary of the covenant of circumcision. abraham was " an hundred years old ", when his son