very robust. within apatosaurinae, the scapula of apatosaurus louisae is intermediate in morphology between those of a. ajax and brontosaurus excelsus. the arm bones are stout, so the humerus of apatosaurus resembles that of camarasaurus, as well as brontosaurus. however, the humeri of brontosaurus and a. ajax are more similar to each other than they are to a. louisae. in 1936, charles gilmore noted that previous reconstructions of apatosaurus forelimbs erroneously proposed that the radius and ulna could cross ; in life they would have remained parallel. apatosaurus had a single large claw on each forelimb, a feature shared by all sauropods more derived than shunosaurus. the first three toes had claws on each hindlimb. the phalangeal formula is 2 - 1 - 1 - 1 - 1, meaning the innermost finger ( phalanx ) on the forelimb has two bones and the next has one. the single manual claw bone ( ungual ) is slightly curved and squarely truncated on the anterior end. the pelvic girdle includes the robust ilia, and the fused ( co - ossified ) pubes and ischia. the femora of apatosaurus are very stout and represent some of the most robust femora of any member of sauropoda. the tibia and fibula bones are different from the slender bones of diplodocus but are nearly indistinguishable from those of camarasaurus. the fibula is longer and slenderer than the tibia. the foot of apatosaurus has three claws on the innermost digits ; the digit formula is 3 - 4 - 5 - 3 - 2. the first metatarsal is the stoutest, a feature shared among diplodocids. discovery and species initial discovery the first apatosaurus fossils were discovered by arthur lakes, a local miner, and his friend henry c. beckwith in the spring of 1877 in morrison, a town in the eastern foothills of the rocky mountains in jefferson county, colorado. arthur lakes wrote to othniel charles marsh, professor of paleontology at yale university, and edward drinker cope, paleontologist based in philadelphia, about the discovery until eventually collecting several fossils and sending them to both paleontologists. marsh named atlantosaurus montanus based on some of the fossils sent and hired lakes to collect the rest of the