the northeastern hindu kush mountain range, in and around the badakhshan province of afghanistan, is in a geologically active area where earthquakes may occur almost every year. they can be deadly and destructive, causing landslides in some parts or avalanches during the winter. in june 2022, a destructive 5. 9 earthquake struck near the border with pakistan, killing at least 1, 150 people and sparking fears of a major humanitarian crisis. on 7 october 2023, a 6. 3 magnitude earthquake struck northwest of herat, killing over 2, 400 people according to government officials. climate afghanistan has a continental climate with harsh winters in the central highlands, the glaciated northeast ( around nuristan ), and the wakhan corridor, where the average temperature in january is below and can reach, and hot summers in the low - lying areas of the sistan basin of the southwest, the jalalabad basin in the east, and the turkestan plains along the amu river in the north, where temperatures average over in july and can go over. the country is generally arid in the summers, with most rainfall falling between december and april. the lower areas of northern and western afghanistan are the driest, with precipitation more common in the east. although proximate to india, afghanistan is mostly outside the monsoon zone, except the nuristan province which occasionally receives summer monsoon rain. biodiversity several types of mammals exist throughout afghanistan. snow leopards, siberian tigers and brown bears live in the high elevation alpine tundra regions. the marco polo sheep exclusively live in the wakhan corridor region of north - east afghanistan. foxes, wolves, otters, deer, wild sheep, lynx and other big cats populate the mountain forest region of the east. in the semi - desert northern plains, wildlife include a variety of birds, hedgehogs, gophers, and large carnivores such as jackals and hyenas. gazelles, wild pigs and jackals populate the steppe plains of the south and west, while mongoose and cheetahs exist in the semi - desert south. marmots and ibex also live in the high mountains of afghanistan, and pheasants exist in some parts of the country. the afghan hound is a native breed of dog known for its fast speed and its long hair ; it is relatively known in the west. endemic fauna of afghanistan includes the afghan flying squirrel, afghan snowfinch, paradactylodon ( or the " paghman mountain salaman