when a violent scuffle erupted between umar and the chief of the banu sa ' ida, sa ' d ibn ubadah. this may indicate that the choice of abu bakr may not have been unanimous, with emotions running high as a result of the disagreement. abu bakr was near - universally accepted as head of the muslim community ( under the title of caliph ) as a result of saqifah, though he did face contention because of the rushed nature of the event. several companions, most prominent among them being ali ibn abi talib, initially refused to acknowledge his authority. among shi ' ites, it is also argued that ali had previously been appointed as muhammad ' s heir, with the election being seen as in contravention to the latter ' s wishes. abu bakr later sent umar to confront ali, resulting in an altercation which may have involved violence. however, after six months the group made peace with abu bakr and ali offered him his allegiance. reign after assuming the office of caliph, abu bakr ' s first address was as follows : abu bakr ' s reign lasted for 27 months, during which he crushed the rebellion of the arab tribes throughout the arabian peninsula in the successful ridda wars. in the last months of his rule, he sent khalid ibn al - walid on conquests against the sassanid empire in mesopotamia and against the byzantine empire in syria. this would set in motion a historical trajectory ( continued later on by umar and uthman ibn affan ) that in just a few short decades would lead to one of the largest empires in history. he had little time to pay attention to the administration of state, though state affairs remained stable during his caliphate. on the advice of umar and abu ubaidah ibn al - jarrah, he agreed to draw a salary from the state treasury and discontinue his cloth trade. ridda wars troubles emerged soon after abu bakr ' s succession, with several arab tribes launching revolts, threatening the unity and stability of the new community and state. these insurgencies and the caliphate ' s responses to them are collectively referred to as the ridda wars ( " wars of apostasy " ). the opposition movements came in two forms. one type challenged the political power of the nascent caliphate as well as the religious authority of islam with the acclamation of rival ideologies, headed by political leaders who claimed the mantle of prophethood in the manner that muhammad had done. these rebellions include : that of