are differences in the rules from state to state. in practice only a dedicated minority regularly attend meetings. many members are only active during election campaigns. the members and unions elect delegates to state and territory conferences ( usually held annually, although more frequent conferences are often held ). these conferences decide policy, and elect state or territory executives, a state or territory president ( an honorary position usually held for a one - year term ), and a state or territory secretary ( a full - time professional position ). however, act labor directly elects its president. the larger branches also have full - time assistant secretaries and organisers. in the past the ratio of conference delegates coming from the branches and affiliated unions has varied from state to state, however under recent national reforms at least 50 % of delegates at all state and territory conferences must be elected by branches. in some states it also contests local government elections or endorses local candidates. in others it does not, preferring to allow its members to run as non - endorsed candidates. the process of choosing candidates is called preselection. candidates are preselected by different methods in the various states and territories. in some they are chosen by ballots of all party members, in others by panels or committees elected by the state conference, in still others by a combination of these two. the state and territory labor branches are the following : country labor the country labor party, commonly known as country labor, was an affiliated organisation of the labor party. although not expressly defined, country labor operated mainly within rural new south wales, and was mainly seen as an extension of the new south wales branch that operates in rural electorates. country labor was used as a designation by candidates contesting elections in rural areas. the country labor party was registered as a separate party in new south wales, and was also registered with the australian electoral commission ( aec ) for federal elections. it did not have the same status in other states and, consequently, that designation could not be used on the ballot paper. the creation of a separation designation for rural candidates was first suggested at the june 1999 alp state conference in new south wales. in may 2000, following labor ' s success at the 2000 benalla by - election in victoria, kim beazley announced that the alp intended to register a separate " country labor party " with the aec ; this occurred in october 2000. the country labor designation was most frequently used in new south wales. according to the alp ' s financial statements for the 2015 – 16 financial year, nsw country