love for ourselves is the exemplar of love for others. considering that " the love with which a man loves himself is the form and root of friendship " he quotes aristotle that " the origin of friendly relations with others lies in our relations to ourselves ",. aquinas concluded that though we are not bound to love others more than ourselves, we naturally seek the common good, the good of the whole, more than any private good, the good of a part. however, he thought we should love god more than ourselves and our neighbours, and more than our bodily life — since the ultimate purpose of loving our neighbour is to share in eternal beatitude : a more desirable thing than bodily well - being. in coining the word " altruism ", as stated above, comte was probably opposing this thomistic doctrine, which is present in some theological schools within catholicism. the aim and focus of christian life is a life that glorifies god, with obeying christ ' s command to treat others equally, caring for them and understanding eternity in heaven is what jesus resurrection at calvary was all about. many biblical authors draw a strong connection between love of others and love of god. states that for one to love god one must love his fellowman, and that hatred of one ' s fellowman is the same as hatred of god. thomas jay oord has argued in several books that altruism is but one possible form of love. an altruistic action is not always a loving action. oord defines altruism as acting for the other ' s good, and he agrees with feminists who note that sometimes love requires acting for one ' s own good when the other ' s demands undermine overall well - being. german philosopher max scheler distinguishes two ways in which the strong can help the weak. one way is a sincere expression of christian love, " motivated by a powerful feeling of security, strength, and inner salvation, of the invincible fullness of one ' s own life and existence ". another way is merely " one of the many modern substitutes for love,... nothing but the urge to turn away from oneself and to lose oneself in other people ' s business ". at its worst, scheler says, " love for the small, the poor, the weak, and the oppressed is really disguised hatred, repressed envy, an impulse to detract, etc., directed against the opposite phenomena : wealth, strength, power, largesse. " islam in islam, "