##burgh to 65 % from westhill. average gross weekly earnings ( for full - time employees employed in workplaces in aberdeenshire in 2011 ) are £572. 60. this is lower than the scottish average by £2. 10 and a fall of 2. 6 % on the 2010 figure. the average gross weekly pay of people resident in aberdeenshire is much higher, at £741. 90, as many people commute out of aberdeenshire, principally into aberdeen city. total employment ( excluding farm data ) in aberdeenshire is estimated at 93, 700 employees ( business register and employment survey 2009 ). the majority of employees work within the service sector, predominantly in public administration, education and health. almost 19 % of employment is within the public sector. aberdeenshire ' s economy remains closely linked to aberdeen city ' s and the north sea oil industry, with many employees in oil - related jobs. the average monthly unemployment ( claimant count ) rate for aberdeenshire in 2011 was 1. 5 %. this is lower than the average rate of aberdeen city ( 2. 3 % ), scotland ( 4. 2 % ) and the uk ( 3. 8 % ). major industries energy – there are significant energy - related infrastructure, presence and expertise in aberdeenshire. peterhead is an important centre for the energy industry. peterhead port includes an extensive new quay with an adjacent laydown area at smith quay, is a major support location for north sea oil and gas exploration and production and the fast - growing global sub - sea sector. the gas terminal at st fergus handles around 15 % of the uk ' s natural gas requirements, and the peterhead power station is looking to host britain ' s first carbon capture and storage power generation project. there are numerous offshore wind turbines near the coast. fishing – aberdeenshire is scotland ' s foremost fishing area. in 2010, catches landed at aberdeenshire ' s ports accounted for over half the total fish landings in scotland and almost 45 % in the uk. along with aberdeen city, peterhead and fraserburgh ports provide much employment in these sectors. the river deeis also rich in salmon. agriculture – aberdeenshire is rich in arable land, with an estimated 9, 000 people employed in the sector, and is best known for rearing livestock, mainly cattle. sheep are important in the higher ground. tourism – this sector continues to grow, with a range of sights to be seen in the area. from the lively cairngorm mountain range to the bustling fishing ports on the northeast coast, aberdeen