return and vengeance of alexander, and so sent for aid to thebes, whose policy it was to put a check on any neighbour who might otherwise become too formidable. thebes accordingly dispatched pelopidas to the aid of thessaly. on arrival of pelopidas at larissa, whence according to diodorus, he dislodged the macedonian garrison, alexander presented himself and offered submission. when pelopidas expressed indignation at the tales of alexander ' s profligacy and cruelty, alexander took alarm and fled. these events appear to refer to the early part of 368 bc. in the summer of that year pelopidas was again sent into thessaly, in consequence of fresh complaints against alexander. accompanied by ismenias, he went merely as a negotiator, without any military force, and was seized by alexander and thrown into prison. the scholar william mitford suggested that pelopidas was taken prisoner in battle, but the language of demosthenes hardly supports such an inference. the thebans sent a large army into thessaly to rescue pelopidas, but they could not keep the field against the superior cavalry of alexander, who, aided by auxiliaries from athens, pursued them with great slaughter. the destruction of the whole theban army is said to only have been averted by the ability of epaminondas, who was serving in the campaign, but not as general. in 367 bc, alexander carried out a massacre of the citizens of scotussa. a fresh theban expedition into thessaly, under epaminondas resulted, according to plutarch, in a three - year truce and the release of prisoners, including pelopidas. during the next three years, alexander seemed to renew his attempts to subdue the states of thessaly, especially magnesia and phthiotis, for upon the expiry of the truce, in 364 bc, they again applied to thebes for protection from him. the theban army under pelopidas is said to have been dismayed by an eclipse on 13 july 364 bc, and pelopidas, leaving the bulk of his army behind, entered thessaly at the head of three hundred volunteer horsemen and some mercenaries. at cynoscephalae, the thebans defeated alexander, but pelopidas was killed. this was closely followed by another theban victory under malcites and diogito