the gods. in the afterlife, recognized ancestral spirits moved through and influenced the world, though neglected spirits would return to the living world and cause misfortune. prosperity of family in the afterlife would depend on prayers and offerings left by living descendants ; this often led to ainu parents teaching their children to look after them in the afterlife ( ainu, everyculture ). institutions most hokkaido ainu, and some other ainu, are members of an umbrella group called the hokkaido ainu association. the organization changed its name to hokkaido utari association in 1961, due to the fact that the word ainu was often used in a derogatory manner by the non - ainu ethnic japanese. it was changed back to the hokkaido ainu association in 2009 after the passing of the new law regarding the ainu. the organization was originally controlled by the government to speed ainu assimilation and integration into the japanese nation - state. it now is run exclusively by ainu and operates mostly independently of the government. other key institutions include the foundation for research and promotion of ainu culture ( frpac ), established by the japanese government after enactment of the ainu culture law in 1997 ; the hokkaido university center for ainu and indigenous studies established in 2007 ; and various museums and cultural centers. ainu people living in tokyo have also developed a vibrant political and cultural community. since late 2011, the ainu have developed cultural exchange and cooperation with the sami people of northern europe. both the sami and the ainu participate in the organization for arctic indigenous peoples and the sami research office in lapland ( finland ). currently, there are several ainu museums and cultural parks. the most famous are : national ainu museum kawamura kaneto ainu museum ainu kotan ainu folklore museum hokkaido museum of northern peoples ethnic rights legal action on 27 march, 1997, the sapporo district court decided a landmark case that, for the first time in japanese history, recognized the right of the ainu people to enjoy their distinct culture and traditions. the case arose because of a 1978 government plan to build two dams in the saru river watershed in southern hokkaido. the dams were part of a series of development projects under the second national development plan that were intended to industrialize the north of japan. the planned location for one of the dams was across the valley floor near nibutani village, the home of a large community of ainu people and an important center of ainu culture and history. when the government commenced construction on the dam in the early 1980s,