lumiere was published in installments in 1825 and 1828. the wave theory was adopted by fraunhofer in the early 1820s and by franz ernst neumann in the 1830s, and then began to find favor in german textbooks. the economy of assumptions under the wave theory was emphasized by william whewell in his history of the inductive sciences, first published in 1837. in the corpuscular system, " every new class of facts requires a new supposition, " whereas in the wave system, a hypothesis devised in order to explain one phenomenon is then found to explain or predict others. in the corpuscular system there is " no unexpected success, no happy coincidence, no convergence of principles from remote quarters " ; but in the wave system, " all tends to unity and simplicity. " hence, in 1850, when foucault and fizeau found by experiment that light travels more slowly in water than in air, in accordance with the wave explanation of refraction and contrary to the corpuscular explanation, the result came as no surprise. lighthouses and the fresnel lens fresnel was not the first person to focus a lighthouse beam using a lens. that distinction apparently belongs to the london glass - cutter thomas rogers, whose first lenses, 53cm in diameter and 14cm thick at the center, were installed at the old lower lighthouse at portland bill in 1789. further samples were installed in about half a dozen other locations by 1804. but much of the light was wasted by absorption in the glass. nor was fresnel the first to suggest replacing a convex lens with a series of concentric annular prisms, to reduce weight and absorption. in 1748, count buffon proposed grinding such prisms as steps in a single piece of glass. in 1790, the marquis de condorcet suggested that it would be easier to make the annular sections separately and assemble them on a frame ; but even that was impractical at the time. these designs were intended not for lighthouses, but for burning glasses. brewster, however, proposed a system similar to condorcet ' s in 1811, and by 1820 was advocating its use in british lighthouses. meanwhile, on 21 june 1819, fresnel was " temporarily " seconded by the commission des phares ( commission of lighthouses ) on the recommendation of arago ( a member of the commission since 1813 ), to review possible improvements in lighthouse illumination. the commission had been established by napoleon in 1811 and placed under the corps des ponts — fresnel