the messagepad is a discontinued series of personal digital assistant devices developed by apple computer for the newton platform in 1993. some electronic engineering and the manufacture of apple ' s messagepad devices was undertaken in japan by sharp. the devices are based on the arm 610 risc processor and all featured handwriting recognition software and were developed and marketed by apple. the devices run newton os. history the development of the newton messagepad first began with apple ' s former senior vice president of research and development, jean - louis gassee ; his team included steve capps, co - writer of macos finder, and an employed engineer named steve sakoman. the development of the newton messagepad operated in secret until it was eventually revealed to the apple board of directors in late 1990. when gassee resigned from his position due to a significant disagreement with the board, seeing how his employer was treated, sakoman also stopped developing the messagepad on march 2, 1990. bill atkinson, an apple executive responsible for the company ' s lisa graphical interface, invited steve capps, john sculley, andy hertzfeld, susan kare, and marc porat to a meeting on march 11, 1990. there, they brainstormed a way of saving the messagepad. sculley suggested adding new features, including libraries, museums, databases, or institutional archives features, allowing customers to navigate through various window tabs or opened galleries / stacks. the board later approved his suggestion ; he then gave newton it is official and full backing. the first messagepad was unveiled by sculley on the 29th of may 1992 at the summer consumer electronics show ( ces ) in chicago. sculley caved in to pressure to unveil the product early because the newton did not officially ship for another 14 months on august 2, 1993, starting at a price of. over 50, 000 units were sold by late november 1993. details screen and input with the messagepad 120 with newton os 2. 0, the newton keyboard by apple became available, which can also be used via the dongle on newton devices with a newton interconnect port, most notably the apple messagepad 2000 / 2100 series, as well as the apple emate 300. newton devices featuring newton os 2. 1 or higher can be used with the screen turned horizontally ( " landscape " ) as well as vertically ( " portrait " ). a change of a setting rotates the contents of the display by 90, 180 or 270 degrees. handwriting recognition still works properly with the