simulated by a turing - complete system. authors who assert this thesis include minsky ( 1967 ), savage ( 1987 ), and gurevich ( 2000 ) : turing machines can define computational processes that do not terminate. the informal definitions of algorithms generally require that the algorithm always terminates. this requirement renders the task of deciding whether a formal procedure is an algorithm impossible in the general case — due to a major theorem of computability theory known as the halting problem. typically, when an algorithm is associated with processing information, data can be read from an input source, written to an output device and stored for further processing. stored data are regarded as part of the internal state of the entity performing the algorithm. in practice, the state is stored in one or more data structures. for some of these computational processes, the algorithm must be rigorously defined : and specified in the way it applies in all possible circumstances that could arise. this means that any conditional steps must be systematically dealt with, case by case ; the criteria for each case must be clear ( and computable ). because an algorithm is a precise list of precise steps, the order of computation is always crucial to the functioning of the algorithm. instructions are usually assumed to be listed explicitly, and are described as starting " from the top " and going " down to the bottom " — an idea that is described more formally by flow of control. so far, the discussion on the formalization of an algorithm has assumed the premises of imperative programming. this is the most common conception — one that attempts to describe a task in discrete, " mechanical " means. associated with this conception of formalized algorithms is the assignment operation, which sets the value of a variable. it derives from the intuition of " memory " as a scratchpad. an example of such an assignment can be found below. for some alternate conceptions of what constitutes an algorithm, see functional programming and logic programming. expressing algorithms algorithms can be expressed in many kinds of notation, including natural languages, pseudocode, flowcharts, drakon - charts, programming languages or control tables ( processed by interpreters ). natural language expressions of algorithms tend to be verbose and ambiguous, and are rarely used for complex or technical algorithms. pseudocode, flowcharts, drakon - charts and control tables are structured ways to express algorithms that avoid many of the ambiguities common in the statements based on natural language. programming languages are primarily intended for expressing algorithms in a form that can be executed by a computer, but