ambiorix joined catuvolcus in the winter of 54 bc in an uprising against the roman forces under quintus titurius sabinus and lucius aurunculeius cotta. resisting the romans because a drought had disrupted his grain supply, caesar was forced to winter his legions among the rebellious belgic tribes. roman troops led by sabinus and cotta were wintering among the eburones when they were attacked by them, led by ambiorix and cativolcus. ambiorix deceived the romans, telling them the attack was made without his consent, and further advised them to flee as a large germanic force was preparing to cross the rhine. trusting ambiorix, sabinus and cotta ' s troops left the next morning. a short distance from their camp, the roman troops were ambushed by the eburones and massacred. elsewhere, another roman force under quintus tullius cicero, younger brother of the orator marcus, were wintering amongst the nervii. leading a coalition of rebellious belgic tribes, ambiorix surrounded cicero ' s camp. after a long while, a roman messenger was finally able to slip through the belgic lines and get word of the uprising to caesar. mobilizing his legions, caesar immediately marched to cicero ' s aid. as they approached the besieged roman camp, the belgae moved to engage caesar ' s troops. vastly outnumbered, caesar ordered his troops to appear confused and frightened, and they successfully lured the belgae to attack them on ground favourable to the romans. caesar ' s forces launched a fierce counterattack, and soon put the belgae to flight. later, caesar ' s troops entered cicero ' s camp to find most of the men wounded. meanwhile, indutiomarus, a leader of the treveri, began to harass labienus ' s camp daily, eventually provoking labienus to send out his cavalry with specific orders to kill indutiomarus. they did so, and routed the remnants of indutiomarus ' s army. caesar personally remained in gaul for the remainder of winter due to the renewed gallic threat. caesar ' s revenge when the roman senate heard what had happened, caesar swore to destroy all the belgic tribes. ambiorix had killed fifteen cohorts. a belgic attack on cicero, then stationed with a legion in the territory of the nervii, failed due to the timely appearance of caesar. the roman campaigns against