early centuries ad, but it remained restricted to the status of a variant used alongside the noncursive. by contrast, the cursive developed out of the nabataean alphabet in the same period soon became the standard for writing arabic, evolving into the arabic alphabet as it stood by the time of the early spread of islam. the development of cursive versions of aramaic also led to the creation of the syriac, palmyrene and mandaic alphabets, which formed the basis of the historical scripts of central asia, such as the sogdian and mongolian alphabets. the old turkic script is generally considered to have its ultimate origins in aramaic, in particular via the pahlavi or sogdian alphabets, as suggested by v. thomsen, or possibly via kharosthi ( cf., issyk inscription ). brahmi script was also possibly derived or inspired by aramaic. brahmic family of scripts includes devanagari. languages using the alphabet today, biblical aramaic, jewish neo - aramaic dialects and the aramaic language of the talmud are written in the modern - hebrew alphabet ( distinguished from the old hebrew script ). in classical jewish literature, the name given to the modern - hebrew script was " ashurit " ( the ancient assyrian script ), a script now known widely as the aramaic script. it is believed that during the period of assyrian dominion that aramaic script and language received official status. syriac and christian neo - aramaic dialects are today written in the syriac alphabet, which script has superseded the more ancient assyrian script and now bears its name. mandaic is written in the mandaic alphabet. the near - identical nature of the aramaic and the classical hebrew alphabets caused aramaic text to be typeset mostly in the standard hebrew script in scholarly literature. maaloula in maaloula, one of few surviving communities in which a western aramaic dialect is still spoken, an aramaic institute was established in 2007 by damascus university that teaches courses to keep the language alive. the institute ' s activities were suspended in 2010 amidst fears that the square aramaic alphabet used in the program too closely resembled the square script of the hebrew alphabet and all the signs with the square aramaic script were taken down. the program stated that they would instead use the more distinct syriac alphabet, although use of the aramaic alphabet has continued to some degree. al jazeera arabic also broadcast a program about western neo - aramaic and the villages in which it is spoken with the square script still in use. letters in aramaic writing, waw and