". alissa nutting argues that women are not acknowledged as perpetrators of sex crimes because society does not accept that women have an autonomous sexuality of their own. marriage and the age of consent the age at which a person can be legally married can differ from the age of consent. in jurisdictions where the marriageable age is lower than the age of consent, those laws usually override the age of consent laws in the case of a married couple where one or both partners are below the age of consent. some jurisdictions prohibit all sex outside of marriage irrespective of age, as in the case of yemen. prostitution in many countries, there are specific laws dealing with child prostitution. pornography and " jailbait " images in some countries, states, or other jurisdictions, the age of consent may be lower than the age at which a person can appear in pornographic images and films. in many jurisdictions, the minimum age for participation and even viewing such material is 18. as such, in some jurisdictions, films and images showing individuals under the age of 18, but above the age of consent, that meet the legal definition of child pornography are prohibited despite the fact that the sexual acts depicted are legal to engage in otherwise under that jurisdiction ' s age of consent laws. in those cases, it is only the filming of the sex act that is the crime as the act itself would not be considered a sex crime. for example, in the united states under federal law it is a crime to film minors below 18 in sexual acts, even in states where the age of consent is below 18. in those states, charges such as child pornography can be used to prosecute someone having sex with a minor, who could not otherwise be prosecuted for statutory rape, provided they filmed or photographed the act. jailbait images can be differentiated from child pornography, as they do not feature minors before the onset of puberty, nor do they contain nudity. the images are, however, usually sexualized, often featuring tween or young teenagers in bikinis, skirts, underwear or lingerie. whether or not these images are legal is debated. when questioned regarding their legality legal analyst jeffrey toobin stated he thought it was not illegal, though legal expert sunny hostin was more skeptical, describing jailbait images as " borderline " child pornography which may be illegal. health the human immune system continues to develop after puberty. the age of exposure has an influence upon if the immune system can fend off infections in general, and this is also true in the case