and politics. subjects for makers episodes have included oprah winfrey, hillary clinton, sheryl sandberg, martha stewart, indra nooyi, lena dunham and ellen degeneres. on march 15, 2012, aol announced the acquisition of hipster, a mobile photo - sharing app, for an undisclosed amount. on april 9, 2012, aol announced a deal to sell 800 patents to microsoft for $ 1. 056 billion. the deal included a perpetual license for aol to use the patents. in april, aol took several steps to expand its ability to generate revenue through online video advertising. the company announced that it would offer gross rating point ( grp ) guarantee for online video, mirroring the television - ratings system and guaranteeing audience delivery for online - video advertising campaigns bought across its properties. this announcement came just days before the digital content newfront ( dcnf ) a two - week event held by aol, google, hulu, microsoft, vevo and yahoo to showcase the participating sites ' digital video offerings. the dcnf was conducted in advance of the traditional television upfronts in the hope of diverting more advertising money into the digital space. on april 24, the company launched the aol on network, a single website for its video output. in february 2013, aol reported its fourth quarter revenue of $ 599. 5 million, its first growth in quarterly revenue in eight years. in august 2013, armstrong announced that patch media would scale back or sell hundreds of its local news sites. not long afterward, layoffs began, with up to 500 out of 1, 100 positions initially impacted. on january 15, 2014, patch media was spun off, and majority ownership was held by hale global. by the end of 2014, aol controlled 0. 74 % of the global advertising market, well behind industry leader google ' s 31. 4 %. on january 23, 2014, aol acquired gravity, a software startup that tracked users ' online behavior and tailored ads and content based on their interests, for $ 83 million. the deal, which included approximately 40 gravity employees and the company ' s personalization technology, was armstrong ' s fourth - largest deal since taking command in 2009. later that year, aol acquired vidible, a company that developed technology to help websites run video content from other publishers, and help video publishers sell their content to these websites. the deal, which was announced december 1, 2014, was reportedly worth roughly $ 50 million. on