pharmacy was nationalized, and the family fled to the city of yevpatoria in crimea, which was initially under the control of the white army during the russian civil war. after graduating high school there in june 1921, she returned with her family to petrograd ( as saint petersburg was then named ), where they faced desperate conditions, occasionally nearly starving. when russian universities were opened to women after the revolution, rand was among the first to enroll at petrograd state university. at 16, she began her studies in the department of social pedagogy, majoring in history. she was one of many bourgeois students purged from the university shortly before graduating. after complaints from a group of visiting foreign scientists, many purged students, including rand, were reinstated. she completed her studies at the renamed leningrad state university in october 1924. she then studied for a year at the state technicum for screen arts in leningrad. for an assignment, rand wrote an essay about the polish actress pola negri ; it became her first published work. by this time, she had decided her professional surname for writing would be rand, and she adopted the first name ayn ( pronounced ). in late 1925, rand was granted a visa to visit relatives in chicago. she arrived in new york city on february 19, 1926. intent on staying in the united states to become a screenwriter, she lived for a few months with her relatives learning english before leaving for hollywood, california. in hollywood, a chance meeting with director cecil b. demille led to work as an extra in his film the king of kings and a subsequent job as a junior screenwriter. while working on the king of kings, she met the aspiring actor frank o ' connor ; they married on april 15, 1929. she became a permanent american resident in july 1929 and an american citizen on march 3, 1931. she tried to bring her parents and sisters to the united states, but they could not obtain permission to emigrate. early fiction rand ' s first literary success was the sale of her screenplay red pawn to universal studios in 1932, although it was never produced. her courtroom drama night of january 16th, first staged in hollywood in 1934, reopened successfully on broadway in 1935. each night, a jury was selected from members of the audience ; based on its vote, one of two different endings would be performed. rand and o ' connor moved to new york city in december 1934 so she could handle revisions for the broadway production. her first novel, the semi - autobiographical we