gram. because of the definition of the unified atomic mass unit, each carbon - 12 atom has an atomic mass of exactly 12 da, and so a mole of carbon - 12 atoms weighs exactly 0. 012 kg. shape and size atoms lack a well - defined outer boundary, so their dimensions are usually described in terms of an atomic radius. this is a measure of the distance out to which the electron cloud extends from the nucleus. this assumes the atom to exhibit a spherical shape, which is only obeyed for atoms in vacuum or free space. atomic radii may be derived from the distances between two nuclei when the two atoms are joined in a chemical bond. the radius varies with the location of an atom on the atomic chart, the type of chemical bond, the number of neighboring atoms ( coordination number ) and a quantum mechanical property known as spin. on the periodic table of the elements, atom size tends to increase when moving down columns, but decrease when moving across rows ( left to right ). consequently, the smallest atom is helium with a radius of 32 pm, while one of the largest is caesium at 225 pm. when subjected to external forces, like electrical fields, the shape of an atom may deviate from spherical symmetry. the deformation depends on the field magnitude and the orbital type of outer shell electrons, as shown by group - theoretical considerations. aspherical deviations might be elicited for instance in crystals, where large crystal - electrical fields may occur at low - symmetry lattice sites. significant ellipsoidal deformations have been shown to occur for sulfur ions and chalcogen ions in pyrite - type compounds. atomic dimensions are thousands of times smaller than the wavelengths of light ( 400 – 700 nm ) so they cannot be viewed using an optical microscope, although individual atoms can be observed using a scanning tunneling microscope. to visualize the minuteness of the atom, consider that a typical human hair is about 1 million carbon atoms in width. a single drop of water contains about 2 sextillion ( ) atoms of oxygen, and twice the number of hydrogen atoms. a single carat diamond with a mass of contains about 10 sextillion ( 1022 ) atoms of carbon. if an apple were magnified to the size of the earth, then the atoms in the apple would be approximately the size of the original apple. radioactive decay every element has one or more isotopes that have unstable nuclei that are subject to radioactive decay, causing the nucleus to emit particles or electromagnetic radiation. radioactivity can occur