of elements with atomic numbers greater than 82 are radioactive, although the radioactivity of element 83 ( bismuth ) is so slight as to be practically negligible. about 339 nuclides occur naturally on earth, of which 251 ( about 74 % ) have not been observed to decay, and are referred to as " stable isotopes ". only 90 nuclides are stable theoretically, while another 161 ( bringing the total to 251 ) have not been observed to decay, even though in theory it is energetically possible. these are also formally classified as " stable ". an additional 35 radioactive nuclides have half - lives longer than 100 million years, and are long - lived enough to have been present since the birth of the solar system. this collection of 286 nuclides are known as primordial nuclides. finally, an additional 53 short - lived nuclides are known to occur naturally, as daughter products of primordial nuclide decay ( such as radium from uranium ), or as products of natural energetic processes on earth, such as cosmic ray bombardment ( for example, carbon - 14 ). for 80 of the chemical elements, at least one stable isotope exists. as a rule, there is only a handful of stable isotopes for each of these elements, the average being 3. 1 stable isotopes per element. twenty - six " monoisotopic elements " have only a single stable isotope, while the largest number of stable isotopes observed for any element is ten, for the element tin. elements 43, 61, and all elements numbered 83 or higher have no stable isotopes. stability of isotopes is affected by the ratio of protons to neutrons, and also by the presence of certain " magic numbers " of neutrons or protons that represent closed and filled quantum shells. these quantum shells correspond to a set of energy levels within the shell model of the nucleus ; filled shells, such as the filled shell of 50 protons for tin, confers unusual stability on the nuclide. of the 251 known stable nuclides, only four have both an odd number of protons and odd number of neutrons : hydrogen - 2 ( deuterium ), lithium - 6, boron - 10, and nitrogen - 14. ( tantalum - 180m is odd - odd and observationally stable, but is predicted to decay with a very long half - life. ) also, only four naturally occurring, radioactive odd - odd nuclides have a half - life