abrupt break as initially appears. the basic elements of nature ( water, air, fire, earth ) which the first greek philosophers believed made up the universe in fact represent the primordial forces imagined in earlier ways of thinking. their collision produced what the mythical tradition had called cosmic harmony. in the old cosmogonies – hesiod ( 8th – 7th century bc ) and pherecydes ( 6th century bc ) – zeus establishes his order in the world by destroying the powers which were threatening this harmony ( the titans ). anaximander claimed that the cosmic order is not monarchic but geometric, and that this causes the equilibrium of the earth, which is lying in the centre of the universe. this is the projection on nature of a new political order and a new space organized around a centre which is the static point of the system in the society as in nature. in this space there is isonomy ( equal rights ) and all the forces are symmetrical and transferable. the decisions are now taken by the assembly of demos in the agora which is lying in the middle of the city. the same rational way of thought led him to introduce the abstract apeiron ( indefinite, infinite, boundless, unlimited ) as an origin of the universe, a concept that is probably influenced by the original chaos ( gaping void, abyss, formless state ) from which everything else appeared in the mythical greek cosmogony. it also takes notice of the mutual changes between the four elements. origin, then, must be something else unlimited in its source, that could create without experiencing decay, so that genesis would never stop. apeiron the refutation attributed to hippolytus of rome ( i, 5 ), and the later 6th century byzantine philosopher simplicius of cilicia, attribute to anaximander the earliest use of the word apeiron ( " infinite " or " limitless " ) to designate the original principle. he was the first philosopher to employ, in a philosophical context, the term arche ( ), which until then had meant beginning or origin. " that anaximander called this something by the name of is the natural interpretation of what theophrastos says ; the current statement that the term was introduced by him appears to be due to a misunderstanding. " and " hippolytos, however, is not an independent authority, and the only question is what theophrastos wrote. " for him, it became no longer a mere point in time, but a