wish, but then she went back on her word and refused him. apollo in anger turned her into a man. female counterparts artemis artemis as the sister of apollo, is thea apollousa, that is, she as a female divinity represented the same idea that apollo did as a male divinity. in the pre - hellenic period, their relationship was described as the one between husband and wife, and there seems to have been a tradition which actually described artemis as the wife of apollo. however, this relationship was never sexual but spiritual, which is why they both are seen being unmarried in the hellenic period. artemis, like her brother, is armed with a bow and arrows. she is the cause of sudden deaths of women. she also is the protector of the young, especially girls. though she has nothing to do with oracles, music or poetry, she sometimes led the female chorus on olympus while apollo sang. the laurel ( daphne ) was sacred to both. artemis daphnaia had her temple among the lacedemonians, at a place called hypsoi. apollo daphnephoros had a temple in eretria, a " place where the citizens are to take the oaths ". in later times when apollo was regarded as identical with the sun or helios, artemis was naturally regarded as selene or the moon. hecate hecate, the goddess of witchcraft and magic, is the chthonic counterpart of apollo. they both are cousins, since their mothers - leto and asteria - are sisters. one of apollo ' s epithets, hecatos, is the masculine form of hecate, and both names mean " working from afar ". while apollo presided over the prophetic powers and magic of light and heaven, hecate presided over the prophetic powers and magic of night and chthonian darkness. if hecate is the " gate - keeper ", apollo agyieus is the " door - keeper ". hecate is the goddess of crossroads and apollo is the god and protector of streets. the oldest evidence found for hecate ' s worship is at apollo ' s temple in miletos. there, hecate was taken to be apollo ' s sister counterpart in the absence of artemis. hecate ' s lunar nature makes her the goddess of the waning moon and contrasts and complements, at the same time, apollo ' s solar nature. athena as a deity of knowledge and great power, apollo was seen being the male counterpart of athena. being zeus ' favorite children, they were