the real numbers are uniquely picked out ( up to isomorphism ) by the properties of a dedekind complete ordered field, meaning that any nonempty set of real numbers with an upper bound has a least upper bound. however, expressing these properties as axioms requires the use of second - order logic. the lowenheim – skolem theorems tell us that if we restrict ourselves to first - order logic, any axiom system for the reals admits other models, including both models that are smaller than the reals and models that are larger. some of the latter are studied in non - standard analysis. role in mathematical logic deductive systems and completeness a deductive system consists of a set of logical axioms, a set of non - logical axioms, and a set of rules of inference. a desirable property of a deductive system is that it be complete. a system is said to be complete if, for all formulas, that is, for any statement that is a logical consequence of there actually exists a deduction of the statement from. this is sometimes expressed as " everything that is true is provable ", but it must be understood that " true " here means " made true by the set of axioms ", and not, for example, " true in the intended interpretation ". godel ' s completeness theorem establishes the completeness of a certain commonly used type of deductive system. note that " completeness " has a different meaning here than it does in the context of godel ' s first incompleteness theorem, which states that no recursive, consistent set of non - logical axioms of the theory of arithmetic is complete, in the sense that there will always exist an arithmetic statement such that neither nor can be proved from the given set of axioms. there is thus, on the one hand, the notion of completeness of a deductive system and on the other hand that of completeness of a set of non - logical axioms. the completeness theorem and the incompleteness theorem, despite their names, do not contradict one another. further discussion early mathematicians regarded axiomatic geometry as a model of physical space, and obviously, there could only be one such model. the idea that alternative mathematical systems might exist was very troubling to mathematicians of the 19th century and the developers of systems such as boolean algebra made elaborate efforts to derive them from traditional arithmetic. galois showed just before his untimely death that these efforts were largely wasted. ultimately, the abstract parallels