at levels of 50 to 260 kg per hectare in topsoil in areas where mulch use dates back more than 10 years, which confirms that mulching is a major source of both microplastic and macroplastic soil contamination. agricultural plastics, especially plastic films, are not easy to recycle because of high contamination levels ( up to 40 – 50 % by weight contamination by pesticides, fertilizers, soil and debris, moist vegetation, silage juice water, and uv stabilizers ) and collection difficulties. therefore, they are often buried or abandoned in fields and watercourses or burned. these disposal practices lead to soil degradation and can result in contamination of soils and leakage of microplastics into the marine environment as a result of precipitation run - off and tidal washing. in addition, additives in residual plastic film ( such as uv and thermal stabilizers ) may have deleterious effects on crop growth, soil structure, nutrient transport and salt levels. there is a risk that plastic mulch will deteriorate soil quality, deplete soil organic matter stocks, increase soil water repellence and emit greenhouse gases. microplastics released through fragmentation of agricultural plastics can absorb and concentrate contaminants capable of being passed up the trophic chain. disciplines agricultural economics agricultural economics is economics as it relates to the " production, distribution and consumption of [ agricultural ] goods and services ". combining agricultural production with general theories of marketing and business as a discipline of study began in the late 1800s, and grew significantly through the 20th century. although the study of agricultural economics is relatively recent, major trends in agriculture have significantly affected national and international economies throughout history, ranging from tenant farmers and sharecropping in the post - american civil war southern united states to the european feudal system of manorialism. in the united states, and elsewhere, food costs attributed to food processing, distribution, and agricultural marketing, sometimes referred to as the value chain, have risen while the costs attributed to farming have declined. this is related to the greater efficiency of farming, combined with the increased level of value addition ( e. g. more highly processed products ) provided by the supply chain. market concentration has increased in the sector as well, and although the total effect of the increased market concentration is likely increased efficiency, the changes redistribute economic surplus from producers ( farmers ) and consumers, and may have negative implications for rural communities. national government policies, such as taxation, subsidies, tariffs and others,