largest producer. thailand is the largest exporter. shrimp farming has changed from its traditional, small - scale form in southeast asia into a global industry. technological advances have led to ever higher densities per unit area, and broodstock is shipped worldwide. virtually all farmed shrimp are penaeids ( i. e., shrimp of the family penaeidae ), and just two species of shrimp, the pacific white shrimp and the giant tiger prawn, account for about 80 % of all farmed shrimp. these industrial monocultures are very susceptible to disease, which has decimated shrimp populations across entire regions. increasing ecological problems, repeated disease outbreaks, and pressure and criticism from both nongovernmental organizations and consumer countries led to changes in the industry in the late 1990s and generally stronger regulations. in 1999, governments, industry representatives, and environmental organizations initiated a program aimed at developing and promoting more sustainable farming practices through the seafood watch program. freshwater prawn farming shares many characteristics with, including many problems with, marine shrimp farming. unique problems are introduced by the developmental lifecycle of the main species, the giant river prawn. the global annual production of freshwater prawns ( excluding crayfish and crabs ) in 2007 was about 460, 000 tonnes, exceeding 1. 86 billion dollars. additionally, china produced about 370, 000 tonnes of chinese river crab. in addition astaciculture is the freshwater farming of crayfish ( mostly in the us, australia, and europe ). molluscs aquacultured shellfish include various oyster, mussel, and clam species. these bivalves are filter and / or deposit feeders, which rely on ambient primary production rather than inputs of fish or other feed. as such, shellfish aquaculture is generally perceived as benign or even beneficial. depending on the species and local conditions, bivalve molluscs are either grown on the beach, on longlines, or suspended from rafts and harvested by hand or by dredging. in may 2017 a belgian consortium installed the first of two trial mussel farms on a wind farm in the north sea. abalone farming began in the late 1950s and early 1960s in japan and china. since the mid - 1990s, this industry has become increasingly successful. overfishing and poaching have reduced wild populations to the extent that farmed abalone now supplies most abalone meat. sustainably farmed molluscs can be certified by seafood watch and other organizations, including the world wildlife fund ( wwf