and robert p. murphy, each of whom is associated with the mises institute and some of them also with academic institutions. according to murphy, a " truce between ( for lack of better terms ) the gmu austro - libertarians and the auburn austro - libertarians " was signed around 2011. influence many theories developed by " first wave " austrian economists have long been absorbed into mainstream economics. these include carl menger ' s theories on marginal utility, friedrich von wieser ' s theories on opportunity cost and eugen bohm von bawerk ' s theories on time preference, as well as menger and bohm - bawerk ' s criticisms of marxian economics. former american federal reserve chairman alan greenspan said that the founders of the austrian school " reached far into the future from when most of them practiced and have had a profound and, in my judgment, probably an irreversible effect on how most mainstream economists think in this country ". in 1987, nobel laureate james m. buchanan told an interviewer : " i have no objections to being called an austrian. hayek and mises might consider me an austrian but, surely some of the others would not ". currently, universities with a significant austrian presence are george mason university, new york university, grove city college, loyola university new orleans, monmouth college, and auburn university in the united states ; king juan carlos university in spain ; and universidad francisco marroquin in guatemala. austrian economic ideas are also promoted by privately funded organizations such as the mises institute and the cato institute. theory the austrian school theorizes that the subjective choices of individuals including individual knowledge, time, expectation and other subjective factors cause all economic phenomena. austrians seek to understand the economy by examining the social ramifications of individual choice, an approach called methodological individualism. it differs from other schools of economic thought, which have focused on aggregate variables, equilibrium analysis and societal groups rather than individuals. in the 20th and 21st centuries, economists with a methodological lineage to the early austrian school developed many diverse approaches and theoretical orientations. ludwig von mises organized his version of the subjectivist approach, which he called " praxeology ", in a book published in english as human action in 1949. in it, mises stated that praxeology could be used to deduce a priori theoretical economic truths and that deductive economic thought experiments could yield conclusions which follow irrefutably from the underlying assumptions. he wrote that conclusions could not be inferred from empirical