of radio astronomy was grote reber, an amateur astronomer who constructed the first purpose built radio telescope in the late 1930s to follow up on the discovery of radio wavelength emissions from space by karl jansky. non - visual amateur astronomy includes the use of infrared filters on conventional telescopes, and also the use of radio telescopes. some amateur astronomers use home - made radio telescopes, while others use radio telescopes that were originally built for astronomical research but have since been made available for use by amateurs. the one - mile telescope is one such example. common tools amateur astronomers use a range of instruments to study the sky, depending on a combination of their interests and resources. methods include simply looking at the night sky with the naked eye, using binoculars, and using a variety of optical telescopes of varying power and quality, as well as additional sophisticated equipment, such as cameras, to study light from the sky in both the visual and non - visual parts of the spectrum. to further improve studying the visual and non - visual part of the spectrum, amateur astronomers go to rural areas to get away from light pollution. commercial telescopes are available, new and used, but it is also common for amateur astronomers to build ( or commission the building of ) their own custom telescopes. some people even focus on amateur telescope making as their primary interest within the hobby of amateur astronomy. although specialized and experienced amateur astronomers tend to acquire more specialized and more powerful equipment over time, relatively simple equipment is often preferred for certain tasks. binoculars, for instance, although generally of lower power than the majority of telescopes, also tend to provide a wider field of view, which is preferable for looking at some objects in the night sky. recent models of iphones have introduced a “ night mode ” option when taking pictures as well, that allows you to increase exposure, which is a period of time the picture is being taken for. this optimizes focus on light in the frame which is why it is used primarily at night. amateur astronomers also use star charts that, depending on experience and intentions, may range from simple planispheres through to detailed charts of very specific areas of the night sky. a range of astronomy software is available and used by amateur astronomers, including software that generates maps of the sky, software to assist with astrophotography, observation scheduling software, and software to perform various calculations pertaining to astronomical phenomena. amateur astronomers often like to keep records of their observations, which usually takes the form of an observing log. observing logs typically record details about which objects were observed and when, as well