least 16 of the 18 provinces. education although by law education in angola is compulsory and free for eight years, the government reports that a percentage of pupils are not attending due to a lack of school buildings and teachers. pupils are often responsible for paying additional school - related expenses, including fees for books and supplies. in 1999, the gross primary enrollment rate was 74 per cent and in 1998, the most recent year for which data are available, the net primary enrollment rate was 61 per cent. gross and net enrollment ratios are based on the number of pupils formally registered in primary school and therefore do not necessarily reflect actual school attendance. there continue to be significant disparities in enrollment between rural and urban areas. in 1995, 71. 2 per cent of children ages 7 to 14 years were attending school. it is reported that higher percentages of boys attend school than girls. during the angolan civil war ( 1975 – 2002 ), nearly half of all schools were reportedly looted and destroyed, leading to current problems with overcrowding. the ministry of education recruited 20, 000 new teachers in 2005 and continued to implement teacher training. teachers tend to be underpaid, inadequately trained and overworked ( sometimes teaching two or three shifts a day ). some teachers may reportedly demand payment or bribes directly from their pupils. other factors, such as the presence of landmines, lack of resources and identity papers, and poor health prevent children from regularly attending school. although budgetary allocations for education were increased in 2004, the education system in angola continues to be extremely under - funded. according to estimates by the unesco institute for statistics, the adult literacy rate in 2011 was 70. 4 %. by 2015, this had increased to 71. 1 %. 82. 9 % of men and 54. 2 % of women are literate as of 2001. since independence from portugal in 1975, a number of angolan students continued to be admitted every year at high schools, polytechnical institutes and universities in portugal and brazil through bilateral agreements ; in general, these students belong to the elites. in september 2014, the angolan ministry of education announced an investment of 16 million euros in the computerisation of over 300 classrooms across the country. the project also includes training teachers at a national level, " as a way to introduce and use new information technologies in primary schools, thus reflecting an improvement in the quality of teaching ". in 2010, the angolan government started building the angolan media libraries network, distributed throughout several provinces in the country to facilitate the people '