the 7th and 2nd centuries bc. influenced by the aquitanian, basque and iberian languages, the locals developed some current toponyms. early writings and documents relating to this group of people goes back to the second century bc by the greek writer polybius in his histories during the punic wars. some of the most significant remains of this era are the castle of the roc d ' enclar ( part of the early marca hispanica ), l ' anxiu in les escaldes and roc de l ' oral in encamp. the presence of roman influence is recorded from the 2nd century bce to the 5th century ce. the places with the most roman presence are in camp vermell ( red field ) in sant julia de loria, and in some places in encamp, as well as in the roc d ' enclar. people continued trading, mainly with wine and cereals, with the roman cities of urgellet ( the present - day la seu d ' urgell ) and all across segre through the via romana strata ceretana ( also known as strata confluetana ). visigoths and carolingians : the legend of charlemagne after the fall of the roman empire, andorra came under the influence of the visigoths, the kingdom of toledo, and the diocese of urgell. the visigoths remained in the valleys for 200 years, during which time christianity spread. when the muslim empire of al - andalus replaced the ruling visigoths in most of the iberian peninsula, andorra was sheltered from these arab invaders by the franks. tradition holds that charles the great ( charlemagne ) granted a charter to the andorran people for a contingent of 5, 000 soldiers under the command of marc almugaver, in return for fighting against the moors near porte - puymorens ( cerdanya ). andorra remained part of the frankish marca hispanica, the buffer zone between the frankish empire and the muslim territories, andorra being part of the territory ruled by the count of urgell and eventually the bishop of the diocese of urgell. tradition also holds that it was guaranteed by the son of charlemagne, louis the pious, writing the carta de poblament or a local municipal charter. in 988, count borrell ii of urgell gave the andorran valleys to the diocese of urgell in exchange for land in cerdanya. since then, the bishop of urgell, based in seu d ' urgell