preservation and apostasy of man wesley fully accepted the arminian view that genuine christians could apostatize and lose their salvation, as his famous sermon " a call to backsliders " clearly demonstrates. harper summarizes as follows : " the act of committing sin is not in itself ground for the loss of salvation [... ] the loss of salvation is much more related to experiences that are profound and prolonged. wesley sees two primary pathways that could result in a permanent fall from grace : unconfessed sin and the actual expression of apostasy. " wesley believed that such apostasy was not irremediable. when talking about those who have made " shipwreck " of their faith, ( 1 tim 1 : 19 ) wesley claims that " not one, or a hundred only, but i am persuaded, several thousands [... ] innumerable are the instances [... ] of those who had fallen but now stand upright. " christian perfection one issue that typifies wesleyan arminianism is christian perfection. according to wesley ' s teaching, christians could attain a state of practical perfection, meaning a lack of all voluntary sin by the empowerment of the holy spirit, in this life. christian perfection ( or entire sanctification ), according to wesley, is " purity of intention, dedicating all the life to god " and " the mind which was in christ, enabling us to walk as christ walked. " it is " loving god with all our heart, and our neighbor as ourselves ". it is " a restoration not only to the favour, but likewise to the image of god, " our " being filled with the fullness of god ". wesley was clear that christian perfection did not imply perfection of bodily health or an infallibility of judgment. it also does not mean we no longer violate the will of god, for involuntary transgressions remain. perfected christians remain subject to temptation, and have continued need to pray for forgiveness and holiness. it is not an absolute perfection but a perfection in love. furthermore, wesley did not teach a salvation by perfection, but rather says that, " even perfect holiness is acceptable to god only through jesus christ. " other variations corporate view of election the majority arminian view is that election is individual and based on god ' s foreknowledge of faith. according to the corporate election view, god never chose individuals to elect to salvation, but rather he chose to elect the believing church to salvation. jesus was the only