shah and provided a princely dowry in land holdings in the mahallat region. king fath ali shah also appointed hasan ali shah as governor of qumm and bestowed upon him the honorific of " aga khan ". thus did the title of " aga khan " enter the family. hasan ali shah become known as aga khan mahallati, and the title of aga khan was inherited by his successors. aga khan i ' s mother later moved to india where she died in 1851. until fath ali shah ' s death in 1834, the imam hasan ali shah enjoyed a quiet life and was held in high esteem at the qajar court. governorship of kerman soon after the accession of muhammad shah qajar to the throne of his grandfather, fath ali shah, the imam hasan ali shah was appointed governor of kerman in 1835. at the time, kerman was held by the rebellious sons of shuja al - saltana, a pretender to the qajar throne. the area was also frequently raided by the afghans. hasan ali shah managed to restore order in kerman, as well as in bam and narmashir, which were also held by rebellious groups. hasan ali shah sent a report of his success to tehran, but did not receive any material appreciation for his achievements. despite the service he rendered to the qajar government, hasan ali shah was dismissed from the governorship of kerman in 1837, less than two years after his arrival there, and was replaced by firuz mirza nusrat al - dawla, a younger brother of muhammad shah qajar. refusing to accept his dismissal, hasan ali shah withdrew with his forces to the citadel at bam. along with his two brothers, he made preparations to resist the government forces that were sent against him. he was besieged at bam for some fourteen months. when it was clear that continuing the resistance was of little use, hasan ali shah sent one of his brothers to shiraz in order to speak to the governor of fars to intervene on his behalf and arrange for safe passage out of kerman. with the governor having interceded, hasan ali shah surrendered and emerged from the citadel of bam only to be double - crossed. he was seized and his possessions were plundered by the government troops. hasan ali shah and his dependents were sent to kerman and remained as prisoners there for eight months. he was eventually allowed to go to tehran near the end of 1838 - 39 where he was able to present his case before the shah. the