deny the possibility of falling away ". after the death of arminius in 1609, his followers wrote a remonstrance ( 1610 ) based quite literally on their leader ' s " declaration of sentiments " ( 1607 ) which expressed prudence on the possibility of apostasy. in particular, its fifth article expressed the necessity of further study on the possibility of apostasy. sometime between 1610 and the official proceeding of the synod of dort ( 1618 ), the remonstrants became fully persuaded in their minds that the scriptures taught that a true believer was capable of falling away from faith and perishing eternally as an unbeliever. they formalized their views in " the opinion of the remonstrants " ( 1618 ) which was their official stand during the synod of dort. picirilli remarks : " ever since that early period, then, when the issue was being examined again, arminians have taught that those who are truly saved need to be warned against apostasy as a real and possible danger. " they later expressed this same view in the remonstrant confession ( 1621 ). forgivability of apostasy stanglin points out that arminius held that if the apostasy came from " malicious " sin, then it was forgivable. if it came from " rejection " it was not. following arminius, the remonstrants believed that, though possible, apostasy was not in general irremediable. however, other classical arminians as the free will baptists have taught that apostasy is irremediable. wesleyan arminianism john wesley thoroughly agreed with the vast majority of what arminius himself taught. wesleyan arminianism is classical arminianism with the addition of wesleyan perfectionism. here are mentioned some positions on specific issues within wesleyan arminianism : nature of the atonement steven harper proposed that wesley ' s atonement is a hybrid of the penal substitution theory and the governmental theory. however, theologians as robert picirilli, roger olson and darren cushman wood consider that the view of wesley concerning atonement is by penal substitution. wesleyan arminians have historically adopted either penal or governmental theory of the atonement. preservation and apostasy of man wesley fully accepted the arminian view that genuine christians could apostatize and lose their salvation, as his famous sermon " a call to backsliders " clearly demonstrates. harper summarizes as follows : "