the empirically determined shear modulus for the cubic material and its ( isotropic ) equivalent : the latter expression is known as the zener ratio,, where refers to elastic constants in voigt ( vector - matrix ) notation. for an isotropic material, the ratio is one. limitation of the zener ratio to cubic materials is waived in the tensorial anisotropy index at that takes into consideration all the 27 components of the fully anisotropic stiffness tensor. it is composed of two major parts and, the former referring to components existing in cubic tensor and the latter in anisotropic tensor so that this first component includes the modified zener ratio and additionally accounts for directional differences in the material, which exist in orthotropic material, for instance. the second component of this index covers the influence of stiffness coefficients that are nonzero only for non - cubic materials and remains zero otherwise. fiber - reinforced or layered composite materials exhibit anisotropic mechanical properties, due to orientation of the reinforcement material. in many fiber - reinforced composites like carbon fiber or glass fiber based composites, the weave of the material ( e. g. unidirectional or plain weave ) can determine the extent of the anisotropy of the bulk material. the tunability of orientation of the fibers allows for application - based designs of composite materials, depending on the direction of stresses applied onto the material. amorphous materials such as glass and polymers are typically isotropic. due to the highly randomized orientation of macromolecules in polymeric materials, polymers are in general described as isotropic. however, mechanically gradient polymers can be engineered to have directionally dependent properties through processing techniques or introduction of anisotropy - inducing elements. researchers have built composite materials with aligned fibers and voids to generate anisotropic hydrogels, in order to mimic hierarchically ordered biological soft matter. 3d printing, especially fused deposition modeling, can introduce anisotropy into printed parts. this is due to the fact that fdm is designed to extrude and print layers of thermoplastic materials. this creates materials that are strong when tensile stress is applied in parallel to the layers and weak when the material is perpendicular to the layers. microfabrication anisotropic etching techniques ( such as deep reactive - ion etching ) are used in microfabrication processes to create well defined microscopic features with a high aspect ratio. these features are