##code the factors into the dimensional vector. the one - hot encoding function is defined such that the - th entry of is the vector is the concatenation of all of the above vectors for all. thus,. in order to obtain a fully general - way interaction anova we must also concatenate every additional interaction term in the vector and then add an intercept term. let that vector be. with this notation in place, we now have the exact connection with linear regression. we simply regress response against the vector. however, there is a concern about identifiability. in order to overcome such issues we assume that the sum of the parameters within each set of interactions is equal to zero. from here, one can use f - statistics or other methods to determine the relevance of the individual factors. example we can consider the 2 - way interaction example where we assume that the first factor has 2 levels and the second factor has 3 levels. define if and if, i. e. is the one - hot encoding of the first factor and is the one - hot encoding of the second factor. with that, where the last term is an intercept term. for a more concrete example suppose that then, see also anova on ranks anova - simultaneous component analysis analysis of covariance ( ancova ) analysis of molecular variance ( amova ) analysis of rhythmic variance ( anorva ) expected mean squares explained variation linear trend estimation mixed - design analysis of variance multivariate analysis of covariance ( mancova ) permutational analysis of variance variance decomposition footnotes notes references pre - publication chapters are available on - line. cohen, jacob ( 1988 ). statistical power analysis for the behavior sciences ( 2nd ed. ). routledge cox, david r. ( 1958 ). planning of experiments. reprinted as freedman, david a. ( 2005 ). statistical models : theory and practice, cambridge university press. lehmann, e. l. ( 1959 ) testing statistical hypotheses. john wiley & sons. moore, david s. & mccabe, george p. ( 2003 ). introduction to the practice of statistics ( 4e ). w h freeman & co. rosenbaum, paul r. ( 2002 ). observational studies ( 2nd ed. ). new york : springer - verlag. further reading cox, david r. & reid, nancy m. ( 2000 ). the theory of design of experiments. ( chapman & hall / crc ). freedman, david a. ; pisani