threatens to kill odysseus ' infant son telemachus. odysseus is forced to stop acting mad in order to save his son and joined the assembled greek forces. preparing to depart from aulis, a port in boeotia, agamemnon ' s army incurs the wrath of the goddess artemis, although the myths give various reasons for this. in aeschylus ' play agamemnon, artemis is angry for she predicts that so many young men will die at troy, whereas in sophocles ' electra, agamemnon has slain an animal sacred to artemis, and subsequently boasts that he is her equal in hunting. misfortunes, including a plague and a lack of wind, prevent the army from sailing. finally, the prophet calchas announces that the wrath of the goddess can only be propitiated by the sacrifice of agamemnon ' s daughter iphigenia. classical dramatizations differ on how willing either father or daughter are to this fate ; some include such trickery as claiming she was to be married to achilles, but agamemnon does eventually sacrifice iphigenia. her death appeases artemis and the greek army set out for troy. several alternatives to the human sacrifice have been presented in greek mythology. other sources, such as iphigenia at aulis, say that agamemnon is prepared to kill his daughter but that artemis accepts a deer in her place and whisks her away to tauris in the crimean peninsula. however, this version is widely considered to be the work of an interpolator, and not euripides himself. hesiod says she became the goddess hecate. during the war, but before the events of the iliad, odysseus contrives a plan to get revenge on palamedes for threatening his son ’ s life. by forging a letter from priam, king of the trojans, and caching some gold in palamedes tent, odysseus has palamedes accused of treason and agamemnon orders him to be stoned to death. the iliad. the iliad tells the story of the quarrel between agamemnon and achilles in the final year of the war. in book one, following one of the achaean army ' s raids, chryseis, daughter of chryses, one of apollo ' s priests, is taken as a war prize by agamemnon. chrys