published in small booklets, such as yum, yum, yum ( about food ), ho, ho, ho ( about christmas ) and shoes, shoes, shoes. his most artistically acclaimed book of drawings is probably a gold book, compiled of sensitive drawings of young men. a gold book is so named because of the gold leaf that decorates its pages. in april 2012 a sketch of 1930s singer rudy vallee claimed to have been drawn by andy warhol was found at a las vegas garage sale. the image was said to have been drawn when andy was nine or 10. various authorities have challenged the image ' s authenticity. sculpture : warhol ' s most famous sculpture is probably his brillo boxes, silkscreened ink on wood replicas of the large, branded cardboard boxes used to hold 24 packages of brillo soap pads. the original brillo design was by commercial artist james harvey. warhol ' s sculpture was part of a series of " grocery carton " works that also included heinz ketchup and campbell ' s tomato juice cases. other famous works include the silver clouds — helium filled, silver mylar, pillow - shaped balloons. a silver cloud was included in the traveling exhibition air art ( 1968 – 1969 ) curated by willoughby sharp. clouds was also adapted by warhol for avant - garde choreographer merce cunningham ' s dance piece rainforest ( 1968 ). audio : at one point warhol carried a portable recorder with him wherever he went, taping everything everybody said and did. he referred to this device as his " wife ". some of these tapes were the basis for his literary work. another audio - work of warhol ' s was his invisible sculpture, a presentation in which burglar alarms would go off when entering the room. warhol ' s cooperation with the musicians of the velvet underground was driven by an expressed desire to become a music producer. time capsules : in 1973, warhol began saving ephemera from his daily life — correspondence, newspapers, souvenirs, childhood objects, even used plane tickets and food — which was sealed in plain cardboard boxes dubbed time capsules. by the time of his death, the collection grew to include 600, individually dated " capsules ". the boxes are now housed at the andy warhol museum. television : andy warhol dreamed of a television special about a favorite subject of hisnothingthat he would call the nothing special. later in his career he did create two cable television shows, andy warhol ' s tv in 1982