tempering religious antisemitism, a combination of growing nationalism, the rise of eugenics, and resentment at the socio - economic success of the jews led to the newer, and more virulent, racist antisemitism. according to william nichols, religious antisemitism may be distinguished from modern antisemitism based on racial or ethnic grounds. " the dividing line was the possibility of effective conversion... a jew ceased to be a jew upon baptism. " however, with racial antisemitism, " now the assimilated jew was still a jew, even after baptism... from the enlightenment onward, it is no longer possible to draw clear lines of distinction between religious and racial forms of hostility towards jews... once jews have been emancipated and secular thinking makes its appearance, without leaving behind the old christian hostility towards jews, the new term antisemitism becomes almost unavoidable, even before explicitly racist doctrines appear. " in the early 19th century, a number of laws enabling the emancipation of the jews were enacted in western european countries. the old laws restricting them to ghettos, as well as the many laws that limited their property rights, rights of worship and occupation, were rescinded. despite this, traditional discrimination and hostility to jews on religious grounds persisted and was supplemented by racial antisemitism, encouraged by the work of racial theorists such as joseph arthur de gobineau and particularly his essay on the inequality of the human race of 1853 – 1855. nationalist agendas based on ethnicity, known as ethnonationalism, usually excluded the jews from the national community as an alien race. allied to this were theories of social darwinism, which stressed a putative conflict between higher and lower races of human beings. such theories, usually posited by northern europeans, advocated the superiority of white aryans to semitic jews. political antisemitism william brustein defines political antisemitism as hostility toward jews based on the belief that jews seek national or world power. yisrael gutman characterizes political antisemitism as tending to " lay responsibility on the jews for defeats and political economic crises " while seeking to " exploit opposition and resistance to jewish influence as elements in political party platforms. " derek j. penslar wrote, " political antisemitism identified the jews as responsible for all the anxiety - provoking social forces that characterized modernity. " according to viktor karady, political antisemitism became widespread after the