convincing him of his death. he then addressed those who had gathered at the mosque, saying, " if anyone worships muhammad, muhammad is dead. if anyone worships god, god is alive, immortal ", thus putting an end to any idolising impulse in the population. he then concluded with verses from the quran : " ( o muhammad ) verily you will die, and they also will die. " ( ), " muhammad is no more than an apostle ; and indeed many apostles have passed away, before him, if he dies or is killed, will you then turn back on your heels? and he who turns back on his heels, not the least harm will he do to allah and allah will give reward to those who are grateful. " ( ) saqifa in the immediate aftermath of the death of muhammad, a gathering of the ansar ( natives of medina ) took place in the saqifah ( courtyard ) of the banu sa ' ida clan. the general belief at the time was that the purpose of the meeting was for the ansar to decide on a new leader of the muslim community among themselves, with the intentional exclusion of the muhajirun ( migrants from mecca ), though this has later become the subject of debate. nevertheless, abu bakr and umar, upon learning of the meeting, became concerned of a potential coup and hastened to the gathering. upon arriving, abu bakr addressed the assembled men with a warning that an attempt to elect a leader outside of muhammad ' s own tribe, the quraysh, would likely result in dissension, as only they can command the necessary respect among the community. he then took umar and abu ubaidah, by the hand and offered them to the ansar as potential choices. habab ibn mundhir, a veteran from the battle of badr, countered with his own suggestion that the quraysh and the ansar choose a leader each from among themselves, who would then rule jointly. the group grew heated upon hearing this proposal and began to argue amongst themselves. the orientalist william muir gives the following observation of the situation : umar hastily took abu bakr ' s hand and swore his own allegiance to the latter, an example followed by the gathered men. the meeting broke up when a violent scuffle erupted between umar and the chief of the banu sa ' ida, sa ' d ibn ubadah. this may indicate that the choice of abu bakr may not have been unanimous, with emotions running high as a