- posten publishes jp aarhus, a section dedicated to news in and around aarhus, and hosted a free cityguide website from 2010 to 2016. the copenhagen - based media company of politiken, also publishes several free local papers once a week in parts of denmark and sweden. in aarhus, they publish a total of five local newspapers ; aarhus midt, aarhus nord, aarhus vest, aarhus syd and aarhus onsdag. aarhus onsdag ( aarhus wednesday ) is financed completely by advertisements and available in both paperform and online. it was bought from arhus stiftstidende in june 2017, but has been published for many years previous. danmarks radio has a large department in aarhus with over 200 employees. it runs the dr østjylland radio programme, provides local contributions to dr p4, and produces local regional television programmes. in 1999, tv 2 moved its jutland headquarters from randers to skejby in northern aarhus. the station broadcasts regional news and current affairs television and radio programmes. since 2012, it has run its own tv channel, tv 2 østjylland. aarhus has its own local tv channel tvaarhus, transmitting since 1984. after an agreement on 1 july 2014, tvaarhus can be watched by 130, 000 households in aarhus, making it the largest cable - transmitted local tv channel in denmark. with over 1, 700 students, the danish school of media and journalism ( danmarks medie - og journalisthøjskole ) is the country ' s largest and oldest school of journalism. the school works closely with aarhus university, where the first journalism course was established in 1946. in 2004, the two institutions established the centre for university studies in journalism, which offers master ' s courses. international relations aarhus is home to 32 consulates : aarhus practices twinning on the municipal level. for the twin towns, see twin towns of aarhus municipality. notable people citations notes references publications further reading external links aarhus kommune official municipal and city portal visit aarhus official tourist site cities and towns in the central denmark region cities and towns in aarhus municipality municipal seats of the central denmark region municipal seats of denmark port cities and towns in denmark viking age populated places