gas chromatography and in electrospray ionization mass spectrometry ; it is the gas of choice for the plasma used in icp spectroscopy. argon is preferred for the sputter coating of specimens for scanning electron microscopy. argon gas is also commonly used for sputter deposition of thin films as in microelectronics and for wafer cleaning in microfabrication. medical use cryosurgery procedures such as cryoablation use liquid argon to destroy tissue such as cancer cells. it is used in a procedure called " argon - enhanced coagulation ", a form of argon plasma beam electrosurgery. the procedure carries a risk of producing gas embolism and has resulted in the death of at least one patient. blue argon lasers are used in surgery to weld arteries, destroy tumors, and correct eye defects. argon has also been used experimentally to replace nitrogen in the breathing or decompression mix known as argox, to speed the elimination of dissolved nitrogen from the blood. lighting incandescent lights are filled with argon, to preserve the filaments at high temperature from oxidation. it is used for the specific way it ionizes and emits light, such as in plasma globes and calorimetry in experimental particle physics. gas - discharge lamps filled with pure argon provide lilac / violet light ; with argon and some mercury, blue light. argon is also used for blue and green argon - ion lasers. miscellaneous uses argon is used for thermal insulation in energy - efficient windows. argon is also used in technical scuba diving to inflate a dry suit because it is inert and has low thermal conductivity. argon is used as a propellant in the development of the variable specific impulse magnetoplasma rocket ( vasimr ). compressed argon gas is allowed to expand, to cool the seeker heads of some versions of the aim - 9 sidewinder missile and other missiles that use cooled thermal seeker heads. the gas is stored at high pressure. argon - 39, with a half - life of 269 years, has been used for a number of applications, primarily ice core and ground water dating. also, potassium – argon dating and related argon - argon dating are used to date sedimentary, metamorphic, and igneous rocks. argon has been used by athletes as a doping agent to simulate hypoxic conditions. in 2014, the world anti - doping