him a controversial figure during the conservative 1950s, and a significant figure in the 1960s. in the mid - 1950s, no reputable publishing company would even consider publishing howl. at the time, such " sex talk " employed in howl was considered by some to be vulgar or even a form of pornography, and could be prosecuted under law. ginsberg used phrases such as " cocksucker ", " fucked in the ass ", and " cunt " as part of the poem ' s depiction of different aspects of american culture. numerous books that discussed sex were banned at the time, including lady chatterley ' s lover. the sex that ginsberg described did not portray the sex between heterosexual married couples, or even longtime lovers. instead, ginsberg portrayed casual sex. for example, in howl, ginsberg praises the man " who sweetened the snatches of a million girls. " ginsberg used gritty descriptions and explicit sexual language, pointing out the man " who lounged hungry and lonesome through houston seeking jazz or sex or soup. " in his poetry, ginsberg also discussed the then - taboo topic of homosexuality. the explicit sexual language that filled howl eventually led to an important trial on first amendment issues. ginsberg ' s publisher was brought up on charges for publishing pornography, and the outcome led to a judge going on record dismissing charges, because the poem carried " redeeming social importance, " thus setting an important legal precedent. ginsberg continued to broach controversial subjects throughout the 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s. from 1970 to 1996, ginsberg had a long - term affiliation with pen american center with efforts to defend free expression. when explaining how he approached controversial topics, he often pointed to herbert huncke : he said that when he first got to know huncke in the 1940s, ginsberg saw that he was sick from his heroin addiction, but at the time heroin was a taboo subject and huncke was left with nowhere to go for help. role in vietnam war protests ginsberg was a signer of the anti - war manifesto " a call to resist illegitimate authority ", circulated among draft resistors in 1967 by members of the radical intellectual collective resist. other signers and resist members included mitchell goodman, henry braun, denise levertov, noam chomsky, william sloane coffin, dwight macdonald, robert lowell, and norman mailer. in 1968, ginsberg signed the " writers and editors war tax protest " pledge, vowing to refuse tax payments in protest against the vietnam war, and later became