c. 635 bce and ending in 585 bce. life and reign alyattes was the son of the king sadyattes of lydia and his sister and queen, lyde of lydia, both the children of the king ardys of lydia. alyattes ascended to the kingship of lydia during period of severe crisis : during the 7th century bce, the cimmerians, a nomadic people from the eurasian steppe who had invaded western asia, attacked lydia several times but had been repelled by alyattes ' s great - grandfather, gyges. in 644 bce, the cimmerians, led by their king lygdamis, attacked lydia for the third time. the lydians were defeated, sardis was sacked, and gyges was killed, following which he was succeeded by his son ardys. in 637 bce, during the seventh regnal year of ardys, the thracian treres tribe who had migrated across the thracian bosporus and invaded anatolia, under their king kobos, and in alliance with the cimmerians and the lycians, attacked lydia. they defeated the lydians again and for a second time sacked the lydian capital of sardis, except for its citadel. it is probable that ardys was killed during this cimmerian attack or was deposed in 637 bc for being unable to protect lydia from the cimmerian attacks, and ardys ' s son and successor sadyattes might have also been either killed during another cimmerian attack in 653 bce or deposed that year for his inability to successfully protect lydia from the cimmerian incursions. alyattes thus succeeded his father sadyattes amidst extreme turmoil in 635 bce. initial relations with the ionians alyattes started his reign by continuing the hostilities with the ionian city of miletus started by sadyattes. alyattes ' s war with miletus consisted largely of a series of raids to capture the milesians ' harvest of grain, which were severely lacking in the lydian core regions. these hostilities lasted until alyattes ' s sixth year ( c. 630 bce ), when he finally made peace with the city ' s tyrant thrasybulus, and a treaty of friendship as well as one of military alliance was concluded between lydia and miletus whereby, since miletus lacked auriferous and other metallurgic resources while cereals were scarce in lydia, trade of lydian metal in