though they appear distinct, are in - themselves not distinct. appearances are entirely subordinated to the principle of sufficient reason. the egoistic individual who focuses his aims on his own interests has to deal with empirical laws as well as he can. what is relevant for ethics are individuals who can act against their own self - interest. if we take a man who suffers when he sees his fellow men living in poverty and consequently uses a significant part of his income to support their needs instead of his own pleasures, then the simplest way to describe this is that he makes less distinction between himself and others than is usually made. regarding how things appear to us, the egoist asserts a gap between two individuals, but the altruist experiences the sufferings of others as his own. in the same way a compassionate man cannot hurt animals, though they appear as distinct from himself. what motivates the altruist is compassion. the suffering of others is for him not a cold matter to which he is indifferent, but he feels connectiveness to all beings. compassion is thus the basis of morality. eternal justice schopenhauer calls the principle through which multiplicity appears the principium individuationis. when we behold nature we see that it is a cruel battle for existence. individual manifestations of the will can maintain themselves only at the expense of others — the will, as the only thing that exists, has no other option but to devour itself to experience pleasure. this is a fundamental characteristic of the will, and cannot be circumvented. unlike temporal or human justice, which requires time to repay an evil deed and " has its seat in the state, as requiting and punishing ", eternal justice " rules not the state but the world, is not dependent upon human institutions, is not subject to chance and deception, is not uncertain, wavering, and erring, but infallible, fixed, and sure ". eternal justice is not retributive, because retribution requires time. there are no delays or reprieves. instead, punishment is tied to the offence, " to the point where the two become one.... tormenter and tormented are one. the [ tormenter ] errs in that he believes he is not a partaker in the suffering ; the [ tormented ], in that he believes he is not a partaker in the guilt. " suffering is the moral outcome of our attachment to pleasure. schopenhauer deemed that this truth was expressed by the