to be published in the prestigious bibliotheque de la pleiade. he left france for africa in 1942 and lived in tunis from december 1942 until it was re - taken by french, british and american forces in may 1943 and he was able to travel to algiers where he stayed until the end of world war ii. in 1947, he received the nobel prize in literature " for his comprehensive and artistically significant writings, in which human problems and conditions have been presented with a fearless love of truth and keen psychological insight ". he devoted much of his last years to publishing his journal. gide died in paris on 19 february 1951. the roman catholic church placed his works on the index of forbidden books in 1952. gide ' s life as a writer gide ' s biographer alan sheridan summed up gide ' s life as a writer and an intellectual : " gide ' s fame rested ultimately, of course, on his literary works. but, unlike many writers, he was no recluse : he had a need of friendship and a genius for sustaining it. " but his " capacity for love was not confined to his friends : it spilled over into a concern for others less fortunate than himself. " writings andre gide ' s writings spanned many genres – " as a master of prose narrative, occasional dramatist and translator, literary critic, letter writer, essayist, and diarist, andre gide provided twentieth - century french literature with one of its most intriguing examples of the man of letters. " but as gide ' s biographer alan sheridan points out, " it is the fiction that lies at the summit of gide ' s work. " " here, as in the oeuvre as a whole, what strikes one first is the variety. here, too, we see gide ' s curiosity, his youthfulness, at work : a refusal to mine only one seam, to repeat successful formulas... the fiction spans the early years of symbolism, to the " comic, more inventive, even fantastic " pieces, to the later " serious, heavily autobiographical, first - person narratives "... in france gide was considered a great stylist in the classical sense, " with his clear, succinct, spare, deliberately, subtly phrased sentences. " gide ' s surviving letters run into the thousands. but it is the journal that sheridan calls " the pre - eminently gidean mode of expression. " " his first novel emerged from gide ' s