dialects. classification arabic is usually classified as a central semitic language. linguists still differ as to the best classification of semitic language sub - groups. the semitic languages changed significantly between proto - semitic and the emergence of central semitic languages, particularly in grammar. innovations of the central semitic languages — all maintained in arabic — include : the conversion of the suffix - conjugated stative formation ( jalas - ) into a past tense. the conversion of the prefix - conjugated preterite - tense formation ( yajlis - ) into a present tense. the elimination of other prefix - conjugated mood / aspect forms ( e. g., a present tense formed by doubling the middle root, a perfect formed by infixing a after the first root consonant, probably a jussive formed by a stress shift ) in favor of new moods formed by endings attached to the prefix - conjugation forms ( e. g., - u for indicative, - a for subjunctive, no ending for jussive, - an or - anna for energetic ). the development of an internal passive. there are several features which classical arabic, the modern arabic varieties, as well as the safaitic and hismaic inscriptions share which are unattested in any other central semitic language variety, including the dadanitic and taymanitic languages of the northern hejaz. these features are evidence of common descent from a hypothetical ancestor, proto - arabic. the following features of proto - arabic can be reconstructed with confidence : negative particles * ; * to classical arabic g - passive participle prepositions and adverbs,,,, a subjunctive in - - demonstratives leveling of the - allomorph of the feminine ending complementizer and subordinator the use of - to introduce modal clauses independent object pronoun in vestiges of nunation on the other hand, several arabic varieties are closer to other semitic languages and maintain features not found in classical arabic, indicating that these varieties cannot have developed from classical arabic. thus, arabic vernaculars do not descend from classical arabic : classical arabic is a sister language rather than their direct ancestor. history old arabic arabia had a wide variety of semitic languages in antiquity. in the southwest, various central semitic languages both belonging to and outside the ancient south arabian family ( e. g. southern thamudic ) were spoken. it is believed that the ancestors of the modern south arabian languages ( non - central semitic languages ) were spoken in southern arabia