alexander iii ( ; 10 march 18451 november 1894 ) was emperor of russia, king of congress poland and grand duke of finland from 13 march 1881 until his death in 1894. he was highly reactionary in domestic affairs and reversed some of the liberal reforms of his father, alexander ii. this policy is known in russia as " counter - reforms " ( ). under the influence of konstantin pobedonostsev ( 1827 – 1907 ), he opposed any socio - economic moves that limited his autocratic rule. during his reign, russia fought no major wars as well. he therefore came to be known as " the peacemaker " ( ), with that laudatory title enduring into the 21st century among historians ( as the tsar ’ - mirotvorets ). outside of politics, alexander was additionally known for his striking appearance, with an american historian later noting how he stood out as being a " tall, heavy - set man, of enormous muscular strength. " alexander ' s major foreign policy achievement was helping forge the russo - french alliance and thus directing a major shift in the international relations of russian society that endured for decades. his political legacy represented a direct challenge to the european cultural order set forth by german statesman otto von bismarck, intermingling russian influences with the shifting balances of power. alexander ' s long, multifaceted legacy has been commemorated in public installations across multiple nations. a notable example outside of russia is the, an ornate arch bridge spanning the seine in paris, france. that installation has received mass attention for over a century. personality grand duke alexander alexandrovich was born on 10 march 1845 at the winter palace in saint petersburg, russian empire, the second son and third child of tsesarevich alexander ( future alexander ii ) and his first wife maria alexandrovna ( nee princess marie of hesse and by rhine ). he was born during the reign of his grandfather nicholas i. in disposition, alexander bore little resemblance to his soft - hearted, liberal father, and still less to his refined, philosophic, sentimental, chivalrous, yet cunning great - uncle emperor alexander i. although an enthusiastic amateur musician and patron of the ballet, alexander was seen as lacking refinement and elegance. indeed, he rather relished the idea of being of the same rough texture as some of his subjects. his straightforward, abrupt manner savoured sometimes of gruffness, while his direct, unadorned method of expressing himself harmonized well with his rough - hewn, immobile features and somewhat slug