the ar - 15 platform, the kalashnikov platform bolt locking lugs are chamfered allowing for primary extraction upon bolt rotation which aids reliable feeding and extraction, albeit not with that much force due to the short distance the bolt carrier travels before acting on the locking lug. the kalashnikov platform then uses an extractor claw to eject the spent cartridge case. barrel the rifle received a barrel with a chrome - lined bore and four right - hand grooves at a 240 mm ( 1 in 9. 45 in ) or 31. 5 calibers rifling twist rate. the gas block contains a gas channel that is installed at a slanted angle with the bore axis. the muzzle is threaded for the installation of various muzzle devices such as a muzzle brake or a blank - firing adaptor. gas block the gas block of the ak - 47 features a cleaning rod capture or sling loop. gas relief ports that alleviate gas pressure are placed horizontally in a row on the gas cylinder. fire selector the fire selector is a large lever located on the right side of the rifle ; it acts as a dust cover and prevents the charging handle from being pulled fully to the rear when it is on safe. it is operated by the shooter ' s right fore - fingers and has three settings : safe ( up ), full - auto ( center ), and semi - auto ( down ). the reason for this is that a soldier under stress will push the selector lever down with considerable force, bypassing the full - auto stage and setting the rifle to semi - auto. to set the ak - 47 to full - auto requires the deliberate action of centering the selector lever. to operate the fire selector lever, right - handed shooters have to briefly remove their right hand from the pistol grip, which is ergonomically sub - optimal. some ak - type rifles also have a more traditional selector lever on the left side of the receiver, just above the pistol grip. this lever is operated by the shooter ' s right thumb and has three settings : safe ( forward ), full - auto ( center ), and semi - auto ( backward ). sights the ak - 47 uses a notched rear tangent iron sight calibrated in increments from. the front sight is a post adjustable for elevation in the field. horizontal adjustment requires a special drift tool and is done by the armory before the issue or if the need arises by an armorer after the issue. the sight line elements are approximately over the bore axis. the " point - blank range "