##ity in the languages of certain nations, as the egyptians and assyrians ; and origen ( contra cels. i. 24 ) refers to the ' potent names ' used by egyptian sages, persian magi, and indian brahmins, signifying deities in the several languages. sources it is uncertain what the actual role and function of abraxas was in the basilidian system, as our authorities ( see below ) often show no direct acquaintance with the doctrines of basilides himself. as an archon in the system described by irenaeus, " the unbegotten father " is the progenitor of nous, and nous produced logos, logos produced phronesis, phronesis produced sophia and dynamis, sophia and dynamis produced principalities, powers, and angels, the last of whom create " the first heaven ". they in turn originate a second series, who create a second heaven. the process continues in like manner until 365 heavens are in existence, the angels of the last or visible heaven being the authors of our world. " the ruler " [ principem, i. e., probably ton archonta ] of the 365 heavens " is abraxas, and for this reason he contains within himself 365 numbers ". the name occurs in the refutation of all heresies ( vii. 26 ) by hippolytus, who appears in these chapters to have followed the exegetica of basilides. after describing the manifestation of the gospel in the ogdoad and hebdomad, he adds that the basilidians have a long account of the innumerable creations and powers in the several ' stages ' of the upper world ( diastemata ), in which they speak of 365 heavens and say that " their great archon " is abrasax, because his name contains the number 365, the number of the days in the year ; i. e. the sum of the numbers denoted by the greek letters in αβρασαξ according to the rules of isopsephy is 365 : as a god epiphanius ( haer. 69, 73 f. ) appears to follow partly irenaeus, partly the lost compendium of hippolytus. he designates abraxas more distinctly as " the power above all, and first principle ", " the cause and first archetype " of all things ; and mentions that the basilidians referred to 365 as the number of parts