ludwig philipp albert schweitzer ( ; 14 january 1875 – 4 september 1965 ) was an alsatian polymath. he was a theologian, organist, musicologist, writer, humanitarian, philosopher, and physician. a lutheran minister, schweitzer challenged both the secular view of jesus as depicted by the historical - critical method current at this time, as well as the traditional christian view. his contributions to the interpretation of pauline christianity concern the role of paul ' s mysticism of " being in christ " as primary and the doctrine of justification by faith as secondary. he received the 1952 nobel peace prize for his philosophy of " reverence for life ", becoming the eighth frenchman to be awarded that prize. his philosophy was expressed in many ways, but most famously in founding and sustaining the hopital albert schweitzer in lambarene, french equatorial africa ( now gabon ). as a music scholar and organist, he studied the music of german composer johann sebastian bach and influenced the organ reform movement ( orgelbewegung ). early years schweitzer was born 14 january 1875 in kaysersberg in alsace, in what had less than four years previously become the imperial territory of alsace - lorraine in the german empire after being french for more than two centuries ; he later became a citizen of france after world war i, when alsace became french territory again. he was the son of louis schweitzer and adele schillinger. he spent his childhood in gunsbach, also in alsace, where his father, the local lutheran - evangelical pastor of the epcaal, taught him how to play music. the tiny village would become home to the association internationale albert schweitzer ( aias ). the medieval parish church of gunsbach was shared by the protestant and catholic congregations, which held their prayers in different areas at different times on sundays. this compromise arose after the protestant reformation and the thirty years ' war. schweitzer, the pastor ' s son, grew up in this exceptional environment of religious tolerance, and developed the belief that true christianity should always work towards a unity of faith and purpose. schweitzer ' s first language was the alsatian dialect of german. at the mulhouse gymnasium he received his " abitur " ( the certificate at the end of secondary education ) in 1893. he studied organ in mulhouse from 1885 to 1893 with eugene munch, organist at the protestant cathedral, who inspired schweitzer with his enthusiasm for the music of german composer