of anagrams in every line of the song. the title of the fifth album by american rock band interpol, el pintor, is an anagram of the band ' s name and also spanish for " the painter ". many of the song titles on aphex twin ' s... i care because you do are anagrams of either " aphex twin ", " the aphex twin ", or " richard d. james ". in disney ' s 1964 film mary poppins, dick van dyke played mr. dawes sr. as the anagram of his name, navckid keyd. in the credits, the words unscrambled themselves to reveal his name. the title of king crimson ' s 1982 song thela hun ginjeet is an anagram of " heat in the jungle ". two albums released in 2022 by australian rock band king gizzard & the lizard wizard titled " made in timeland " and " laminated denim ". coincidences in hebrew, the name " gernot zippe " ( גרנוט ציפה ), the inventor of the zippe - type centrifuge, is an anagram of the word " centrifuge " ( צנטריפוגה ). the sentence " name is anu garg ", referring to anagrammer and founder of wordsmith. org anu garg, can be rearranged to spell " anagram genius ". games and puzzles anagrams are in themselves a recreational activity, but they also make up part of many other games, puzzles and game shows. the jumble is a puzzle found in many newspapers in the united states requiring the unscrambling of letters to find the solution. cryptic crossword puzzles frequently use anagrammatic clues, usually indicating that they are anagrams by the inclusion of a descriptive term like " confused " or " in disarray ". an example would be businessman burst into tears ( 9 letters ). the solution, stationer, is an anagram of into tears, the letters of which have burst out of their original arrangement to form the name of a type of businessman. numerous other games and contests involve some element of anagram formation as a basic skill. some examples : in anagrams, players flip tiles over one at a time and race to take words. they can " steal " each other ' s words by rearranging the letters and extending the