the his dark materials trilogy, went further : garner is indisputably the great originator, the most important british writer of fantasy since tolkien, and in many respects better than tolkien, because deeper and more truthful... any country except britain would have long ago recognised his importance, and celebrated it with postage stamps and statues and street - names. but that ' s the way with us : our greatest prophets go unnoticed by the politicians and the owners of media empires. i salute him with the most heartfelt respect and admiration. another british fantasy writer, neil gaiman, claimed that " garner ' s fiction is something special " in that it was " smart and challenging, based in the here and the now, in which real english places emerged from the shadows of folklore, and in which people found themselves walking, living and battling their way through the dreams and patterns of myth. " praise also came from nick lake, the editorial director of harpercollins children ' s books, who proclaimed that " garner is, quite simply, one of the greatest and most influential writers this country has ever produced. " emma donoghue recalls reading red shift as a teenager : " it looked like other garners i had read : a children ' s fantasy. but red shift, with its passionately bickering adolescent lovers and vertiginous plunges through the wormhole of time, shook me to my core every time i read it, and still does... garner makes the past numinous, terrifyingly real : anything but passed. " awards the biennial hans christian andersen award conferred by the international board on books for young people is the highest recognition available to a writer or illustrator of children ' s books. garner was the sole runner - up for the writing award in 1978. garner was appointed officer of the order of the british empire ( obe ) for services to literature in the 2001 new year ' s honours list. he received the british fantasy society ' s occasional karl edward wagner award in 2003 and the world fantasy award for life achievement in 2012. in january 2011, the university of warwick awarded the degree of doctor of letters ( honoris causa ). on that occasion he gave a half - hour interview about his work. he has also been awarded honorary doctorates from the university of salford ( 2011 ) and the university of huddersfield in ( 2012 ). he has been recognised several times for particular works. the owl service ( 1967 ) won both the carnegie medal and the guardian children ' s fiction prize, for the 70th anniversary of the