at atmospheric pressure that can be liquefied at fairly low pressures and are commonly known as liquified petroleum gas ( lpg ). propane is used in propane gas burners and as a fuel for road vehicles, butane in space heaters and disposable cigarette lighters. both are used as propellants in aerosol sprays. from pentane to octane the alkanes are highly volatile liquids. they are used as fuels in internal combustion engines, as they vaporize easily on entry into the combustion chamber without forming droplets, which would impair the uniformity of the combustion. branched - chain alkanes are preferred as they are much less prone to premature ignition, which causes knocking, than their straight - chain homologues. this propensity to premature ignition is measured by the octane rating of the fuel, where 2, 2, 4 - trimethylpentane ( isooctane ) has an arbitrary value of 100, and heptane has a value of zero. apart from their use as fuels, the middle alkanes are also good solvents for nonpolar substances. alkanes from nonane to, for instance, hexadecane ( an alkane with sixteen carbon atoms ) are liquids of higher viscosity, less and less suitable for use in gasoline. they form instead the major part of diesel and aviation fuel. diesel fuels are characterized by their cetane number, cetane being an old name for hexadecane. however, the higher melting points of these alkanes can cause problems at low temperatures and in polar regions, where the fuel becomes too thick to flow correctly. alkanes from hexadecane upwards form the most important components of fuel oil and lubricating oil. in the latter function, they work at the same time as anti - corrosive agents, as their hydrophobic nature means that water cannot reach the metal surface. many solid alkanes find use as paraffin wax, for example, in candles. this should not be confused however with true wax, which consists primarily of esters. alkanes with a chain length of approximately 35 or more carbon atoms are found in bitumen, used, for example, in road surfacing. however, the higher alkanes have little value and are usually split into lower alkanes by cracking. some synthetic polymers such as polyethylene and polypropylene are alkanes with chains containing hundreds