florian cajori explains in a history of mathematics ( 1893 ) the difference between modern and ancient mathematical analysis, as distinct from logical analysis, as follows : the terms synthesis and analysis are used in mathematics in a more special sense than in logic. in ancient mathematics they had a different meaning from what they now have. the oldest definition of mathematical analysis as opposed to synthesis is that given in [ appended to ] euclid, xiii. 5, which in all probability was framed by eudoxus : " analysis is the obtaining of the thing sought by assuming it and so reasoning up to an admitted truth ; synthesis is the obtaining of the thing sought by reasoning up to the inference and proof of it. " the analytic method is not conclusive, unless all operations involved in it are known to be reversible. to remove all doubt, the greeks, as a rule, added to the analytic process a synthetic one, consisting of a reversion of all operations occurring in the analysis. thus the aim of analysis was to aid in the discovery of synthetic proofs or solutions. james gow uses a similar argument as cajori, with the following clarification, in his a short history of greek mathematics ( 1884 ) : the synthetic proof proceeds by shewing that the proposed new truth involves certain admitted truths. an analytic proof begins by an assumption, upon which a synthetic reasoning is founded. the greeks distinguished theoretic from problematic analysis. a theoretic analysis is of the following kind. to prove that a is b, assume first that a is b. if so, then, since b is c and c is d and d is e, therefore a is e. if this be known a falsity, a is not b. but if this be a known truth and all the intermediate propositions be convertible, then the reverse process, a is e, e is d, d is c, c is b, therefore a is b, constitutes a synthetic proof of the original theorem. problematic analysis is applied in all cases where it is proposed to construct a figure which is assumed to satisfy a given condition. the problem is then converted into some theorem which is involved in the condition and which is proved synthetically, and the steps of this synthetic proof taken backwards are a synthetic solution of the problem. music musical analysis – a process attempting to answer the question " how does this music work? " musical analysis is a study of how the composers use the notes together to compose music. those studying music will find differences with each composer