european craftsmen and technicians pre - existed, robert notes in his preface that alchemy ( here still referring to the elixir rather than to the art itself ) was unknown in latin europe at the time of his writing. the translation of arabic texts concerning numerous disciplines including alchemy flourished in 12th - century toledo, spain, through contributors like gerard of cremona and adelard of bath. translations of the time included the turba philosophorum, and the works of avicenna and muhammad ibn zakariya al - razi. these brought with them many new words to the european vocabulary for which there was no previous latin equivalent. alcohol, carboy, elixir, and athanor are examples. meanwhile, theologian contemporaries of the translators made strides towards the reconciliation of faith and experimental rationalism, thereby priming europe for the influx of alchemical thought. the 11th - century st anselm put forth the opinion that faith and rationalism were compatible and encouraged rationalism in a christian context. in the early 12th century, peter abelard followed anselm ' s work, laying down the foundation for acceptance of aristotelian thought before the first works of aristotle had reached the west. in the early 13th century, robert grosseteste used abelard ' s methods of analysis and added the use of observation, experimentation, and conclusions when conducting scientific investigations. grosseteste also did much work to reconcile platonic and aristotelian thinking. through much of the 12th and 13th centuries, alchemical knowledge in europe remained centered on translations, and new latin contributions were not made. the efforts of the translators were succeeded by that of the encyclopaedists. in the 13th century, albertus magnus and roger bacon were the most notable of these, their work summarizing and explaining the newly imported alchemical knowledge in aristotelian terms. albertus magnus, a dominican friar, is known to have written works such as the book of minerals where he observed and commented on the operations and theories of alchemical authorities like hermes and democritus and unnamed alchemists of his time. albertus critically compared these to the writings of aristotle and avicenna, where they concerned the transmutation of metals. from the time shortly after his death through to the 15th century, more than 28 alchemical tracts were misattributed to him, a common practice giving rise to his reputation as an accomplished alchemist. likewise, alchemical texts have been attributed to albert ' s student