. for example, bitumen could also be used for flooring, damp proofing in buildings, and for waterproofing of various types of pools and baths, both of which were also proliferating in the 19th century. one of the earliest surviving examples of its use can be seen at highgate cemetery where it was used in 1839 to seal the roof of the terrace catacombs. on the london stockmarket, there were various claims as to the exclusivity of bitumen quality from france, germany and england. and numerous patents were granted in france, with similar numbers of patent applications being denied in england due to their similarity to each other. in england, " claridge ' s was the type most used in the 1840s and 50s ". in 1914, claridge ' s company entered into a joint venture to produce tar - bound macadam, with materials manufactured through a subsidiary company called clarmac roads ltd. two products resulted, namely clarmac, and clarphalte, with the former being manufactured by clarmac roads and the latter by claridge ' s patent asphalte co., although clarmac was more widely used. however, the first world war ruined the clarmac company, which entered into liquidation in 1915. the failure of clarmac roads ltd had a flow - on effect to claridge ' s company, which was itself compulsorily wound up, ceasing operations in 1917, having invested a substantial amount of funds into the new venture, both at the outset and in a subsequent attempt to save the clarmac company. bitumen was thought in 19th century britain to contain chemicals with medicinal properties. extracts from bitumen were used to treat catarrh and some forms of asthma and as a remedy against worms, especially the tapeworm. united states the first use of bitumen in the new world was by aboriginal peoples. on the west coast, as early as the 13th century, the tongva, luiseno and chumash peoples collected the naturally occurring bitumen that seeped to the surface above underlying petroleum deposits. all three groups used the substance as an adhesive. it is found on many different artifacts of tools and ceremonial items. for example, it was used on rattles to adhere gourds or turtle shells to rattle handles. it was also used in decorations. small round shell beads were often set in asphaltum to provide decorations. it was used as a sealant on baskets to make them watertight for