the mainland part of the orkney jarldom. he visited caithness in person, and hanged the majority of the farmers, while mutilating the rest. his actions were applauded by pope honorius iii, and a quarter of a century later, he was continuing to receive commendation from the catholic church, as in the reward of a bull from pope celestine iv. during the same period, alexander subjugated the hitherto semi - independent district of argyll ( much smaller than the modern area by that name, it only comprised craignish, ardscotnish, glassary, glenary and cowal ; lorn was a separate province, while kintyre and knapdale were part of suðreyar ). royal forces crushed a revolt in galloway in 1235 without difficulty ; nor did an invasion attempted soon afterwards by its exiled leaders meet with success. soon afterwards, a claim for homage from henry of england drew forth from alexander a counter - claim to the northern english counties. the two kingdoms, however, settled this dispute by a compromise in 1237. this was the treaty of york, which defined the boundary between the two kingdoms as running between the solway firth ( in the west ) and the mouth of the river tweed ( in the east ). alexander ' s first wife, joan, died in march 1238 in essex. alexander married his second wife, marie de coucy, the following year on 15 may 1239. together they had one son, alexander iii, born in 1241. a threat of invasion by henry in 1243 for a time interrupted the friendly relations between the two countries ; but the prompt action of alexander in anticipating his attack, and the disinclination of the english barons for war, compelled him to make peace the next year at newcastle. alexander now turned his attention to securing the western isles, which were still part of the norwegian domain of suðreyjar. he repeatedly attempted negotiations and purchase, but without success. alexander set out to conquer these islands but died on the way in 1249. this dispute over the western isles, also known as the hebrides, was not resolved until 1266 when magnus vi of norway ceded them to scotland along with the isle of man. the english chronicler matthew paris in his chronica majora described alexander as red - haired : [ king john ] taunted king alexander, and because he was red - headed, sent word to him, saying, ' so shall we hunt the red fox - cub from