as possible has led to its being mistaken for an official trophy. it is in fact a private memento, and for this reason it is never awarded to either england or australia, but is kept permanently in the mcc cricket museum where it can be seen together with the specially made red and gold velvet bag and the scorecard of the 1882 match. because the urn itself is so delicate, it has been allowed to travel to australia only twice. the first occasion was in 1988 for a museum tour as part of the australian bicentenary celebrations ; the second was for the 2006 / 7 ashes series. the urn arrived on 17 october 2006, going on display at the museum of sydney. it then toured to other states, with the final appearance at the tasmanian museum and art gallery on 21 january 2007. in the 1990s, given australia ' s long dominance of the ashes and the popular acceptance of the darnley urn as " the ashes ", the idea was mooted that the victorious team should be awarded the urn as a trophy and allowed to retain it until the next series. as its condition is fragile and it is a prized exhibit at the mcc cricket museum, the mcc would not agree. furthermore, in 2002, bligh ' s great - great - grandson lord clifton, the heir - apparent to the earldom of darnley, argued that the ashes urn should not be returned to australia because it belonged to his family and was given to the mcc only for safe keeping. as a compromise, the mcc commissioned a larger replica of the urn in waterford crystal, known as the ashes trophy, to award to the winning team of each series starting with the 1998 – 99 ashes. this did little to diminish the status of the darnley urn as the most important icon in cricket, the symbol of this old and keenly fought contest. series and matches quest to " recover those ashes " later in 1882, following the famous australian victory at the oval, bligh led an england team to australia, as he said, to " recover those ashes ". publicity surrounding the series was intense, and it was at some time during this series that the ashes urn was crafted. australia won the first test by nine wickets, but in the next two england were victorious. at the end of the third test, england were generally considered to have " won back the ashes " 2 – 1. a fourth match was played, against a " united australian xi ", which was arguably stronger than the australian sides that had