vietnam ). it brought presents of rhinoceros horns, ivory, and tortoise shell, probably acquired in south asia. the text specifically states that it was the first time there had been direct contact between the two countries. furthermore, a piece of republican - era roman glassware has been found at a western han tomb in guangzhou along the south china sea, dated to the early 1st century bc. roman golden medallions made during the reign of antoninus pius and perhaps even marcus aurelius have been found at oc eo in southern vietnam, then part of the kingdom of funan near the chinese province of jiaozhi. this may have been the port city of kattigara, described by ptolemy ( ) as being visited by a greek sailor named alexander and lying beyond the golden chersonese ( i. e., malay peninsula ). roman coins from the reigns of tiberius to aurelian have been discovered in xi ' an, china ( site of the han capital chang ' an ), although the significantly greater amount of roman coins unearthed in india suggest the roman maritime trade for purchasing chinese silk was centered there, not in china or even the overland silk road running through ancient iran. death and legacy in 156, antoninus pius turned 70. he found it difficult to keep himself upright without stays. he started nibbling on dry bread to give him the strength to stay awake through his morning receptions. marcus aurelius had already been created consul with antoninus in 140, receiving the title of caesar, i. e., heir apparent. as antoninus aged, marcus took on more administrative duties. marcus ' s administrative duties increased again after the death, in 156 or 157, of one of antoninus ' most trusted advisers, marcus gavius maximus. for twenty years, gavius maximus had been praetorian prefect, an office that was as much secretarial as military. gavius maximus had been awarded with the consular insignia and the honours due a senator. he had a reputation as a most strict disciplinarian ( vir severissimus, according to historia augusta ) and some fellow equestrian procurators held lasting grudges against him. a procurator named gaius censorius niger died while gavius maximus was alive. in his will, censorius niger vilified maximus, creating serious embarrassment for one of the heirs, the orator fronto. gavius maximus ' death initiated a change in the ruling team. it has been speculated that it was the legal adviser lucius