by archbishop donald coggan in 1978 as a forum for " leisurely thought, prayer and deep consultation ". ordained ministry like the roman catholic church and the orthodox churches, the anglican communion maintains the threefold ministry of deacons, presbyters ( usually called " priests " ), and bishops. episcopate bishops, who possess the fullness of christian priesthood, are the successors of the apostles. primates, archbishops, and metropolitans are all bishops and members of the historical episcopate who derive their authority through apostolic succession – an unbroken line of bishops that can be traced back to the 12 apostles of jesus. priesthood bishops are assisted by priests and deacons. most ordained ministers in the anglican communion are priests, who usually work in parishes within a diocese. priests are in charge of the spiritual life of parishes and are usually called the rector or vicar. a curate ( or, more correctly, an " assistant curate " ) is a priest or deacon who assists the parish priest. non - parochial priests may earn their living by any vocation, although employment by educational institutions or charitable organisations is most common. priests also serve as chaplains of hospitals, schools, prisons, and in the armed forces. an archdeacon is a priest or deacon responsible for administration of an archdeaconry, which is often the name given to the principal subdivisions of a diocese. an archdeacon represents the diocesan bishop in his or her archdeaconry. in the church of england, the position of archdeacon can only be held by someone in priestly orders who has been ordained for at least six years. in some other parts of the anglican communion, the position can also be held by deacons. in parts of the anglican communion where women cannot be ordained as priests or bishops but can be ordained as deacons, the position of archdeacon is effectively the most senior office to which an ordained woman can be appointed. a dean is a priest who is the principal cleric of a cathedral or other collegiate church and the head of the chapter of canons. if the cathedral or collegiate church has its own parish, the dean is usually also rector of the parish. however, in the church of ireland, the roles are often separated, and most cathedrals in the church of england do not have associated parishes. in the church in wales, however, most cathedrals are parish churches and their deans are now also vicars of their parishes. the anglican communion recognises roman catholic and eastern orthodox ordinations as valid. outside the anglican communion, anglican ordinations ( at least of male priests )