is the most elusive of the alpine flowers, growing on rocky ridges at. perhaps the best known of the alpine plants is edelweiss which grows in rocky areas and can be found at altitudes as low as and as high as. the plants that grow at the highest altitudes have adapted to conditions by specialization such as growing in rock screes that give protection from winds. the extreme and stressful climatic conditions give way to the growth of plant species with secondary metabolites important for medicinal purposes. origanum vulgare, prunella vulgaris, solanum nigrum, and urtica dioica are some of the more useful medicinal species found in the alps. human interference has nearly exterminated the trees in many areas, and, except for the beech forests of the austrian alps, forests of deciduous trees are rarely found after the extreme deforestation between the 17th and 19th centuries. the vegetation has changed since the second half of the 20th century, as the high alpine meadows cease to be harvested for hay or used for grazing which eventually might result in a regrowth of the forest. in some areas, the modern practice of building ski runs by mechanical means has destroyed the underlying tundra from which the plant life cannot recover during the non - skiing months, whereas areas that still practice a natural piste type of ski slope building preserve the fragile underlayers. fauna the alps are a habitat for 30, 000 species of wildlife, ranging from the tiniest snow fleas to brown bears, many of which have made adaptations to the harsh cold conditions and high altitudes to the point that some only survive in specific micro - climates either directly above or below the snow line. the largest mammal to live in the highest altitudes are the alpine ibex, which have been sighted as high as. the ibex live in caves and descend to eat the succulent alpine grasses. classified as antelopes, chamois are smaller than ibex and found throughout the alps, living above the tree line and are common in the entire alpine range. areas of the eastern alps are still home to brown bears. in switzerland the canton of bern was named for the bears but the last bear is recorded as having been killed in 1792 above kleine scheidegg by three hunters from grindelwald. many rodents such as voles live underground. marmots live almost exclusively above the tree line as high as. they hibernate in large groups to provide warmth, and can be found in all areas of the alps, in large colonies they build