establishing priority over the original bell patent, and the bell telephone company never lost a case that had proceeded to a final trial stage. bell ' s laboratory notes and family letters were the key to establishing a long lineage to his experiments. the bell company lawyers successfully fought off myriad lawsuits generated initially around the challenges by elisha gray and amos dolbear. in personal correspondence to bell, both gray and dolbear had acknowledged his prior work, which considerably weakened their later claims. on january 13, 1887, the u. s. government moved to annul the patent issued to bell on the grounds of fraud and misrepresentation. after a series of decisions and reversals, the bell company won a decision in the supreme court, though a couple of the original claims from the lower court cases were left undecided. by the time that the trial wound its way through nine years of legal battles, the u. s. prosecuting attorney had died and the two bell patents ( no. 174, 465 dated march 7, 1876, and no. 186, 787 dated january 30, 1877 ) were no longer in effect, although the presiding judges agreed to continue the proceedings due to the case ' s importance as a precedent. with a change in administration and charges of conflict of interest ( on both sides ) arising from the original trial, the us attorney general dropped the lawsuit on november 30, 1897, leaving several issues undecided on the merits. during a deposition filed for the 1887 trial, italian inventor antonio meucci also claimed to have created the first working model of a telephone in italy in 1834. in 1886, in the first of three cases in which he was involved, meucci took the stand as a witness in the hope of establishing his invention ' s priority. meucci ' s testimony in this case was disputed due to a lack of material evidence for his inventions, as his working models were purportedly lost at the laboratory of american district telegraph ( adt ) of new york, which was later incorporated as a subsidiary of western union in 1901. meucci ' s work, like many other inventors of the period, was based on earlier acoustic principles and despite evidence of earlier experiments, the final case involving meucci was eventually dropped upon meucci ' s death. however, due to the efforts of congressman vito fossella, the u. s. house of representatives on june 11, 2002, stated that meucci ' s " work in the invention of the telephone should be acknowledged ". this did not put an end to