they were decisively defeated in the battle of moore ' s creek bridge. a british expedition sent to reconquer south carolina launched an attack on charleston in the battle of sullivan ' s island on june 28, 1776, but it failed and left the south under patriot control until 1780. a shortage of gunpowder led congress to authorize a naval expedition against the bahamas to secure ordnance stored there. on march 3, 1776, an american squadron under the command of esek hopkins landed at the east end of nassau and encountered minimal resistance at fort montagu. hopkins ' troops then marched on fort nassau. hopkins had promised governor montfort browne and the civilian inhabitants of the area that their lives and property would not be in any danger if they offered no resistance, to which they complied. hopkins captured large stores of powder and other munitions that was so great he had to impress an extra ship in the harbor to transport the supplies back home, when he departed on march 17. a month later, after a brief skirmish with, they returned to new london, connecticut, the base for american naval operations during the revolution. british new york counter - offensive after regrouping at halifax in nova scotia, howe was determined to take the fight to the americans. he set sail for new york in june 1776 and began landing troops on staten island near the entrance to new york harbor on july 2. the americans rejected howe ' s informal attempt to negotiate peace on july 30 ; washington knew that an attack on the city was imminent and realized that he needed advance information to deal with disciplined british regular troops. on august 12, 1776, patriot thomas knowlton was given orders to form an elite group for reconnaissance and secret missions. knowlton ' s rangers, which included nathan hale, became the army ' s first intelligence unit. when washington was driven off long island, he soon realized that he would need more than military might and amateur spies to defeat the british. he was committed to professionalizing military intelligence. with aid from benjamin tallmadge, washington launched the six - man culper spy ring. the efforts of washington and the culper spy ring substantially increased effective allocation and deployment of continental regiments in the field. over the course of the war, washington spent more than 10 percent of his total military funds on military intelligence operations. washington split the continental army into positions on manhattan and across the east river in western long island. on august 27 at the battle of long island, howe outflanked washington and forced him back to brooklyn heights, but he did not attempt to enci