she also was a stepmother to claudia antonia, claudius ' daughter and only child from his second marriage to aelia paetina, and to the young claudia octavia and britannicus, claudius ' children with valeria messalina. agrippina removed or eliminated anyone from the palace or the imperial court whom she thought was loyal and dedicated to the memory of the late messalina. she also eliminated or removed anyone whom she considered was a potential threat to her position and the future of her son, one of her victims being lucius ' second paternal aunt and messalina ' s mother domitia lepida the younger. griffin describes how agrippina " had achieved this dominant position for her son and herself by a web of political alliances, " which included claudius chief secretary and bookkeeper pallas, his doctor xenophon, and afranius burrus, the head of the praetorian guard ( the imperial bodyguard ), who owed his promotion to agrippina. neither ancient nor modern historians of rome have doubted that agrippina had her eye on securing the throne for nero from the very day of the marriage — if not earlier. dio cassius observation seems to bear that out : " as soon as agrippina had come to live in the palace she gained complete control over claudius. " in 49, agrippina was seated on a dais at a parade of captives when their leader the celtic king caratacus bowed before her with the same homage and gratitude as he accorded the emperor. in 50, agrippina was granted the honorific title of augusta. she was only the third roman woman ( livia drusilla and antonia minor received this title ) and only the second living roman woman ( the first being livia ) to receive this title. in her capacity as augusta, agrippina quickly became a trusted advisor to claudius, and by ad 54, she exerted a considerable influence over the decisions of the emperor. statues of her were erected in many cities across the empire, her face appeared on coins, and in the senate, her followers were advanced with public offices and governorships. however this privileged position caused resentment among the senatorial class and the imperial family. she went to a place outside the imperial court and listened to the senate from behind the scenes, and even claudius allowed her to be a separate court and decide on empire matters. agrippina even signed government documents and officially dealt with foreign ambassadors. she also claimed auctoritas ( power of commanding ) and autokrate