theory computational mathematics notes bibliography bell, c. gordon and newell, allen ( 1971 ), computer structures : readings and examples, mcgraw – hill book company, new york.. includes a bibliography of 56 references., : cf. chapter 3 turing machines where they discuss " certain enumerable sets not effectively ( mechanically ) enumerable ". campagnolo, m. l., moore, c., and costa, j. f. ( 2000 ) an analog characterization of the subrecursive functions. in proc. of the 4th conference on real numbers and computers, odense university, pp. 91 – 109 reprinted in the undecidable, p. 89ff. the first expression of " church ' s thesis ". see in particular page 100 ( the undecidable ) where he defines the notion of " effective calculability " in terms of " an algorithm ", and he uses the word " terminates ", etc. reprinted in the undecidable, p. 110ff. church shows that the entscheidungsproblem is unsolvable in about 3 pages of text and 3 pages of footnotes. davis gives commentary before each article. papers of godel, alonzo church, turing, rosser, kleene, and emil post are included ; those cited in the article are listed here by author ' s name. davis offers concise biographies of leibniz, boole, frege, cantor, hilbert, godel and turing with von neumann as the show - stealing villain. very brief bios of joseph - marie jacquard, babbage, ada lovelace, claude shannon, howard aiken, etc., yuri gurevich, sequential abstract state machines capture sequential algorithms, acm transactions on computational logic, vol 1, no 1 ( july 2000 ), pp. 77 – 111. includes bibliography of 33 sources., 3rd edition 1976 [? ], ( pbk. ),. cf. chapter " the spirit of truth " for a history leading to, and a discussion of, his proof. presented to the american mathematical society, september 1935. reprinted in the undecidable, p. 237ff. kleene ' s definition of " general recursion " ( known now as mu - recursion ) was used by church in his 1935 paper an unsolvable problem of elementary number theory that proved the " decision problem " to be " undecidable " ( i. e