, the rock picker can feel underneath rocks at low tides for abalone. abalone are mostly taken in depths from a few inches up to ; less common are freedivers who can work deeper than. abalone are normally found on rocks near food sources such as kelp. an abalone iron is used to pry the abalone from the rock before it has time to fully clamp down. divers dive from boats, kayaks, tube floats, or directly off the shore. the largest abalone recorded in california is, caught by john pepper somewhere off the coast of san mateo county in september 1993. the mollusc concholepas concholepas is often sold in the united states under the name " chilean abalone ", though it is not an abalone, but a muricid. new zealand in new zealand, abalone is called paua (, from the maori language ). haliotis iris ( or blackfoot paua ) is the ubiquitous new zealand paua, the highly polished nacre of which is extremely popular as souvenirs with its striking blue, green, and purple iridescence. haliotis australis and haliotis virginea are also found in new zealand waters, but are less popular than h. iris. like all new zealand shellfish, recreational harvesting of paua does not require a permit provided catch limits, size restrictions, and seasonal and local restrictions set by the ministry for primary industries ( mpi ) are followed. the legal recreational daily limit is 10 per diver, with a minimum shell length of for h. iris and for h. australis. in addition, no person may be in possession, even on land, of more than 20 paua or more than of paua meat at any one time. paua can only be caught by free - diving ; it is illegal to catch them using scuba gear. an extensive global black market exists in collecting and exporting abalone meat. this can be a particularly awkward problem where the right to harvest paua can be granted legally under maori customary rights. when such permits to harvest are abused, it is frequently difficult to police. the limit is strictly enforced by roving ministry for primary industries fishery officers with the backing of the new zealand police. poaching is a major industry in new zealand with many thousands being taken illegally, often undersized. convictions have resulted in seizure of diving gear, boats, and motor vehicles and fines and in rare cases, imprisonment. south africa there are five species endemic