##zer inc., which produces roxarsone, voluntarily suspended sales of the drug in response to studies showing elevated levels of inorganic arsenic, a carcinogen, in treated chickens. a successor to alpharma, zoetis, continued to sell nitarsone until 2015, primarily for use in turkeys. a 2006 study of the remains of the australian racehorse, phar lap, determined that the 1932 death of the famous champion was caused by a massive overdose of arsenic. sydney veterinarian percy sykes stated, " in those days, arsenic was quite a common tonic, usually given in the form of a solution ( fowler ' s solution )... it was so common that i ' d reckon 90 per cent of the horses had arsenic in their system. " medical use during the 17th, 18th, and 19th centuries, a number of arsenic compounds were used as medicines, including arsphenamine ( by paul ehrlich ) and arsenic trioxide ( by thomas fowler ). arsphenamine, as well as neosalvarsan, was indicated for syphilis, but has been superseded by modern antibiotics. however, arsenicals such as melarsoprol are still used for the treatment of trypanosomiasis, since although these drugs have the disadvantage of severe toxicity, the disease is almost uniformly fatal if untreated. arsenic trioxide has been used in a variety of ways since the 15th century, most commonly in the treatment of cancer, but also in medications as diverse as fowler ' s solution in psoriasis. the us food and drug administration in the year 2000 approved this compound for the treatment of patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia that is resistant to all - trans retinoic acid. a 2008 paper reports success in locating tumors using arsenic - 74 ( a positron emitter ). this isotope produces clearer pet scan images than the previous radioactive agent, iodine - 124, because the body tends to transport iodine to the thyroid gland producing signal noise. nanoparticles of arsenic have shown ability to kill cancer cells with lesser cytotoxicity than other arsenic formulations. in subtoxic doses, soluble arsenic compounds act as stimulants, and were once popular in small doses as medicine by people in the mid - 18th to 19th centuries ; its use as a stimulant was especially prevalent as sport animals such as race horses or with work dogs. alloys the main use of arsenic is in alloying with lead. lead components in car batteries are strengthened by