of the presence of the stereochemically active inert pair in thallium. copper, silver, and gold the group 11 metals ( or coinage metals ), copper, silver, and gold, are typically categorised as transition metals given they can form ions with incomplete d - shells. physically, they have the relatively low melting points and high electronegativity values associated with post - transition metals. " the filled d subshell and free s electron of cu, ag, and au contribute to their high electrical and thermal conductivity. transition metals to the left of group 11 experience interactions between s electrons and the partially filled d subshell that lower electron mobility. " chemically, the group 11 metals behave like main - group metals in their + 1 valence states, and are hence somewhat related to the alkali metals : this is one reason for their previously being labelled as " group ib ", paralleling the alkali metals ' " group ia ". they are occasionally classified as post - transition metals. their spectra are analogous to those of the alkali metals. their monopositive ions are paramagnetic and contribute no colour to their salts, like those of the alkali metals. in mendeleev ' s 1871 periodic table, copper, silver, and gold are listed twice, once under group viii ( with the iron triad and platinum group metals ), and once under group ib. group ib was nonetheless parenthesised to note that it was tentative. mendeleev ' s main criterion for group assignment was the maximum oxidation state of an element : on that basis, the group 11 elements could not be classified in group ib, due to the existence of copper ( ii ) and gold ( iii ) compounds being known at that time. however, eliminating group ib would make group i the only main group ( group viii was labelled a transition group ) to lack an a – b bifurcation. soon afterward, a majority of chemists chose to classify these elements in group ib and remove them from group viii for the resulting symmetry : this was the predominant classification until the rise of the modern medium - long 18 - column periodic table, which separated the alkali metals and group 11 metals. the coinage metals were traditionally regarded as a subdivision of the alkali metal group, due to them sharing the characteristic s1 electron configuration of the alkali metals ( group 1 : p6s1 ; group 11 : d10s1 ). however, the similarities are largely confined to the stoichiometries