##a : sanchi, madhya pradesh, india dhamek stupa, sarnath, uttar pradesh, india mahabodhi temple, bihar, india barabar caves, bihar, india nalanda mahavihara ( some portions like sariputta stupa ), bihar, india taxila university ( some portions like dharmarajika stupa and kunala stupa ), taxila, pakistan bhir mound ( reconstructed ), taxila, pakistan bharhut stupa, madhya pradesh, india deorkothar stupa, madhya pradesh, india butkara stupa, swat, pakistan sannati stupa, karnataka, india mir rukun stupa, nawabshah, pakistan propagation of dhamma ashoka ' s rock edicts suggest that during his eighth – ninth regnal years, he made a pilgrimage to the bodhi tree, started propagating dhamma, and performed social welfare activities. the welfare activities included establishment of medical treatment facilities for humans and animals ; plantation of medicinal herbs ; and digging of wells and plantation of trees along the roads. these activities were conducted in the neighbouring kingdoms, including those of the cholas, the pandyas, the satiyaputras, tamraparni, the greek kingdom of antiyoka. the edicts also state that during his tenth – eleventh regnal years, ashoka became closer to the buddhist sangha, and went on a tour of the empire that lasted for at least 256 days. by his 12th regnal year, ashoka had started inscribing edicts to propagate dhamma, having ordered his officers ( rajjukas and pradesikas ) to tour their jurisdictions every five years for inspection and for preaching dhamma. by the next year, he had set up the post of the dharma - mahamatra. during his 14th regnal year, he commissioned the enlargement of the stupa of buddha kanakamuni. third buddhist council the sri lankan tradition presents a greater role for ashoka in the buddhist community. in this tradition, ashoka starts feeding monks on a large scale. his lavish patronage to the state patronage leads to many fake monks joining the sangha. the true buddhist monks refuse to co - operate with these fake monks, and therefore, no uposatha ceremony is held for seven years. the king attempts to eradicate the fake monks, but during this attempt, an over - zealous minister ends up killing some real monks. the king then invites the elder