##nted, " none of us were prepared to actualize practically the ideal life of which we dreamed. so we fell apart ". its founders were often away as well ; in the middle of harvesting, they left for a lecture tour through providence, rhode island, new york city, and new haven, connecticut. in its seven months, only 13 people joined, included the alcotts and lanes. other than abby may and her daughters, only one other woman joined, ann page. one rumor is that page was asked to leave after eating a fish tail with a neighbor. lane believed alcott had misled him into thinking enough people would join the enterprise and developed a strong dislike for the nuclear family. he quit the project and moved to a nearby shaker family with his son. after lane ' s departure, alcott fell into a depression and could not speak or eat for three days. abby may thought lane purposely sabotaged her family. she wrote to her brother, " all mr. lane ' s efforts have been to disunite us. but mr. alcott ' s... paternal instincts were too strong for him. " when the final payment on the farm was owed, sam may refused to cover his brother - in - law ' s debts, as he often did, possibly at abby may ' s suggestion. the experiment failed, the alcotts had to leave fruitlands. the members of the alcott family were not happy with their fruitlands experience. at one point, abby may threatened that she and their daughters would move elsewhere, leaving bronson behind. louisa may alcott, who was ten years old at the time, later wrote of the experience in transcendental wild oats ( 1873 ) : " the band of brothers began by spading garden and field ; but a few days of it lessened their ardor amazingly. " return to concord in january 1844, alcott moved his family to still river, a village within harvard but, on march 1, 1845, the family returned to concord to live in a home they named " the hillside " ( later renamed " the wayside " by nathaniel hawthorne ). both emerson and sam may assisted in securing the home for the alcotts. while living in the home, louisa began writing in earnest and was given her own room. she later said her years at the home " were the happiest years " of her life ; many of the incidents in her novel little women ( 1868 ) are based on this period. alcott renovated the property, moving