( 2017 ) suggests that vocabulary related to aquatic subsistence strategies ( such as boats, waterways, river fauna, and fish capture techniques ) can be reconstructed for proto - austroasiatic. blench ( 2017 ) finds widespread austroasiatic roots for ' river, valley ', ' boat ', ' fish ', ' catfish sp. ', ' eel ', ' prawn ', ' shrimp ' ( central austroasiatic ), ' crab ', ' tortoise ', ' turtle ', ' otter ', ' crocodile ', ' heron, fishing bird ', and ' fish trap '. archaeological evidence for the presence of agriculture in northern indochina ( northern vietnam, laos, and other nearby areas ) dates back to only about 4, 000 years ago ( 2, 000 bc ), with agriculture ultimately being introduced from further up to the north in the yangtze valley where it has been dated to 6, 000 b. p. sidwell ( 2022 ) proposes that the locus of proto - austroasiatic was in the red river delta area about 4, 000 - 4, 500 years before present, instead of the middle mekong as he had previously proposed. austroasiatic dispersed coastal maritime routes and also upstream through river valleys. khmuic, palaungic, and khasic resulted from a westward dispersal that ultimately came from the red valley valley. based on their current distributions, about half of all austroasiatic branches ( including nicobaric and munda ) can be traced to coastal maritime dispersals. hence, this points to a relatively late riverine dispersal of austroasiatic as compared to sino - tibetan, whose speakers had a distinct non - riverine culture. in addition to living an aquatic - based lifestyle, early austroasiatic speakers would have also had access to livestock, crops, and newer types of watercraft. as early austroasiatic speakers dispersed rapidly via waterways, they would have encountered speakers of older language families who were already settled in the area, such as sino - tibetan. sidwell ( 2018 ) sidwell ( 2018 ) ( quoted in sidwell 2021 ) gives a more nested classification of austroasiatic branches as suggested by his computational phylogenetic analysis of austroasiatic languages using a 200 - word list. many of the tentative groupings are likely linkages. pakanic and shompen were not included. possible extinct branches roger blench ( 2009 ) also proposes that there might have been other primary branches of austroasiatic that are now extinct, based on substrate