2019 with connections to many destinations in other countries around europe, africa and asia. the country plans to progressively increase the number of airports especially in the south with possible locations in sarande, gjirokaster and vlore. the highways and motorways in albania are properly maintained and often still under construction and renovation. the autostrada 1 ( a1 ) represents an integral transportation corridor in albania and the longest motorway of the country. it will prospectively link durres on the adriatic sea across pristina in kosovo with the pan - european corridor x in serbia. the autostrada 2 ( a2 ) is part of the adriatic – ionian corridor as well as the pan - european corridor viii and connects fier with vlore. the autostrada 3 ( a3 ) is currently under construction and will connect, after its completion, tirana and elbasan with the pan - european corridor viii. when all three corridors are completed, albania will have an estimated of highway linking it with all of its neighbouring countries. durres is the busiest and largest seaport in the country, followed by vlore, shengjin and sarande., it is as one of the largest passenger ports on the adriatic sea with annual passenger volume of approximately 1. 5 million. the principal ports serve a system of ferries connecting albania with numerous islands and coastal cities in croatia, greece and italy. the rail network is administered by the national railway company hekurudha shqiptare which was extensively promoted by the dictator enver hoxha. there has been a considerable increase in private car ownership and bus usage while rail use decreased since the end of communism. however, a new railway line from tirana and its airport to durres is currently planned. the specific location of this railway, connecting the most populated urban areas in albania, makes it an important economic development project. infrastructure education in the country, education is secular, free, compulsory and based on three levels of education segmented in primary, secondary and tertiary education. the academic year is apportioned into two semesters beginning in september or october, and ending in june or july. albanian serves as the primary language of instruction in all academic institutions across the country. the study of a first foreign language is mandatory and taught most often at elementary and bilingual schools. the languages taught in schools are english, italian, french and german. the country has a school life expectancy of 16 years and a literacy rate of 98. 7 %, with 99. 2 % for males and 98. 3 % for