##dong later reversed this position, arguing that the practice was based on scientific principles. in 1971, new york times reporter james reston published an article on his acupuncture experiences in china, which led to more investigation of and support for acupuncture. the us president richard nixon visited china in 1972. during one part of the visit, the delegation was shown a patient undergoing major surgery while fully awake, ostensibly receiving acupuncture rather than anesthesia. later it was found that the patients selected for the surgery had both a high pain tolerance and received heavy indoctrination before the operation ; these demonstration cases were also frequently receiving morphine surreptitiously through an intravenous drip that observers were told contained only fluids and nutrients. one patient receiving open heart surgery while awake was ultimately found to have received a combination of three powerful sedatives as well as large injections of a local anesthetic into the wound. after the national institute of health expressed support for acupuncture for a limited number of conditions, adoption in the us grew further. in 1972 the first legal acupuncture center in the us was established in washington dc and in 1973 the american internal revenue service allowed acupuncture to be deducted as a medical expense. in 2006, a bbc documentary alternative medicine filmed a patient undergoing open heart surgery allegedly under acupuncture - induced anesthesia. it was later revealed that the patient had been given a cocktail of anesthetics. in 2010, unesco inscribed " acupuncture and moxibustion of traditional chinese medicine " on the unesco intangible cultural heritage list following china ' s nomination. adoption acupuncture is most heavily practiced in china and is popular in the us, australia, and europe. in switzerland, acupuncture has become the most frequently used alternative medicine since 2004. in the united kingdom, a total of 4 million acupuncture treatments were administered in 2009. acupuncture is used in most pain clinics and hospices in the uk. an estimated 1 in 10 adults in australia used acupuncture in 2004. in japan, it is estimated that 25 percent of the population will try acupuncture at some point, though in most cases it is not covered by public health insurance. users of acupuncture in japan are more likely to be elderly and to have a limited education. approximately half of users surveyed indicated a likelihood to seek such remedies in the future, while 37 % did not. less