, is an autobiographical novel of first love beset by small - town religious bigotry. the work received critical praise : the new yorker considered it a story told " with tenderness and charm ", while the chicago tribune concluded : " it ' s as though he turned back the pages of an old diary and told, with rekindled emotion, of the pangs of pain and the sharp, clear sweetness of a boy ' s first love. " helen constance white, wrote in the capital times that it was "... the best articulated, the most fully disciplined of his stories. " these were followed in 1943 with shadow of night, a scribners ' novel of which the chicago sun wrote : " structurally it has the perfection of a carved jewel... a psychological novel of the first order, and an adventure tale that is unique and inspiriting. " in november 1945, however, derleth ' s work was attacked by his one - time admirer and mentor, sinclair lewis. writing in esquire, lewis observed, " it is a proof of mr. derleth ' s merit that he makes one want to make the journey and see his particular avalon : the wisconsin river shining among its islands, and the castles of baron pierneau and hercules dousman. he is a champion and a justification of regionalism. yet he is also a burly, bounding, bustling, self - confident, opinionated, and highly - sweatered young man with faults so grievous that a melancholy perusal of them may be of more value to apprentices than a study of his serious virtues. if he could ever be persuaded that he isn ' t half as good as he thinks he is, if he would learn the art of sitting still and using a blue pencil, he might become twice as good as he thinks he is – which would about rank him with homer. " derleth good - humoredly reprinted the criticism along with a photograph of himself sans sweater, on the back cover of his 1948 country journal : village daybook. a lighter side to the sac prairie saga is a series of quasi - autobiographical short stories known as the " gus elker stories ", amusing tales of country life that peter ruber, derleth ' s last editor, said were "... models of construction and... fused with some of the most memorable characters in american literature. " most were written between 1934 and the late 1940s, though the last, " tail of