##uric acid, and with glucuronic acid to form two different glucuronide esters. the conjugate with the acetyl group intact is referred to as the acyl glucuronide ; the deacetylated conjugate is the phenolic glucuronide. these metabolic pathways have only a limited capacity. small amounts of salicylic acid are also hydroxylated to gentisic acid. with large salicylate doses, the kinetics switch from first - order to zero - order, as metabolic pathways become saturated and renal excretion becomes increasingly important. salicylates are excreted mainly by the kidneys as salicyluric acid ( 75 % ), free salicylic acid ( 10 % ), salicylic phenol ( 10 % ), and acyl glucuronides ( 5 % ), gentisic acid ( < 1 % ), and 2, 3 - dihydroxybenzoic acid. when small doses ( less than 250mg in an adult ) are ingested, all pathways proceed by first - order kinetics, with an elimination half - life of about 2. 0 h to 4. 5 h. when higher doses of salicylate are ingested ( more than 4 g ), the half - life becomes much longer ( 15 h to 30 h ), because the biotransformation pathways concerned with the formation of salicyluric acid and salicyl phenolic glucuronide become saturated. renal excretion of salicylic acid becomes increasingly important as the metabolic pathways become saturated, because it is extremely sensitive to changes in urinary ph. a 10 - to 20 - fold increase in renal clearance occurs when urine ph is increased from 5 to 8. the use of urinary alkalinization exploits this particular aspect of salicylate elimination. it was found that short - term aspirin use in therapeutic doses might precipitate reversible acute kidney injury when the patient was ill with glomerulonephritis or cirrhosis. aspirin for some patients with chronic kidney disease and some children with congestive heart failure was contraindicated. history medicines made from willow and other salicylate - rich plants appear in clay tablets from ancient sumer as well as the ebers papyrus from ancient egypt. hippocrates referred to the use of