. citizen ; the more common term is ( " united states person " ), which derives from ( " united states of america " ). the spanish term ( " north american " ) is frequently used to refer things and persons from the united states, but this term can also denote people and things from canada and mexico. among spanish - speakers, north america generally does not include central america or the caribbean. in other languages, however, there is no possibility for confusion. for example, the chinese word for " u. s. national " is ( ) is derived from a word for the united states,, where is an abbreviation for yameilijia ( " america " ) and is " country ". the name for the american continents is, from plus ( " continent " ). thus, a is an american in the continent sense, and a is an american in the u. s. sense. conversely, in czech, there is no possibility for disambiguation. american ( m. ) and americanka ( f. ) can refer to persons from the united states or from the continents of the americas, and there is no specific word capable of distinguishing the two meanings. for this reason, the latter meaning is very rarely used, and word is used almost exclusively to refer to persons from the united states. the usage is exactly parallel to the english word. korean and vietnamese also use unambiguous terms, with korean having ( ) for the country versus ( ) for the continents, and vietnamese having for the country versus for the continents. japanese has such terms as well ( [ versus [ ] ), but they are found more in newspaper headlines than in speech, where predominates. in swahili, means specifically the united states, and is a u. s. national, whereas the international form refers to the continents, and would be an inhabitant thereof. likewise, the esperanto word refers to the continents. for the country there is the term. thus, a citizen of the united states is an, whereas an is an inhabitant of the americas. history the name america was coined by martin waldseemuller from americus vespucius, the latinized version of the name of amerigo vespucci ( 1454 – 1512 ), the italian explorer who mapped south america ' s east coast and the caribbean sea in the early 16th century. later, vespucci ' s published letters were the basis of waldseemuller ' s 1507 map, which is