. as an advertisement illustrator in the 1950s, warhol used assistants to increase his productivity. collaboration would remain a defining ( and controversial ) aspect of his working methods throughout his career ; this was particularly true in the 1960s. one of the most important collaborators during this period was gerard malanga. malanga assisted the artist with the production of silkscreens, films, sculpture, and other works at " the factory ", warhol ' s aluminum foil - and - silver - paint - lined studio on 47th street ( later moved to broadway ). other members of warhol ' s factory crowd included freddie herko, ondine, ronald tavel, mary woronov, billy name, and brigid berlin ( from whom he apparently got the idea to tape - record his phone conversations ). during the 1960s, warhol also groomed a retinue of bohemian and counterculture eccentrics upon whom he bestowed the designation " superstars ", including nico, joe dallesandro, edie sedgwick, viva, ultra violet, holly woodlawn, jackie curtis, and candy darling. these people all participated in the factory films, and some — like berlin — remained friends with warhol until his death. important figures in the new york underground art / cinema world, such as writer john giorno and film - maker jack smith, also appear in warhol films ( many premiering at the new andy warhol garrick theatre and 55th street playhouse ) of the 1960s, revealing warhol ' s connections to a diverse range of artistic scenes during this time. less well known was his support and collaboration with several teenagers during this era, who would achieve prominence later in life including writer david dalton, photographer stephen shore and artist bibbe hansen ( mother of pop musician beck ). 1968 assassination attempt on june 3, 1968, radical feminist writer valerie solanas shot warhol and mario amaya, art critic and curator, at warhol ' s studio, the factory. before the shooting, solanas had been a marginal figure in the factory scene. she authored the scum manifesto, a separatist feminist tract that advocated the elimination of men ; and appeared in the 1968 warhol film i, a man. earlier on the day of the attack, solanas had been turned away from the factory after asking for the return of a script she had given to warhol. the script had apparently been misplaced. amaya received only minor injuries and was released from the hospital later the same day. warhol was seriously wounded