##cama desert. rainforests and tropical dry forests used to encircle much of the northern andes but are now greatly diminished, especially in the choco and inter - andean valleys of colombia. opposite of the humid andean slopes are the relatively dry andean slopes in most of western peru, chile and argentina. along with several interandean valles, they are typically dominated by deciduous woodland, shrub and xeric vegetation, reaching the extreme in the slopes near the virtually lifeless atacama desert. about 30, 000 species of vascular plants live in the andes, with roughly half being endemic to the region, surpassing the diversity of any other hotspot. the small tree cinchona pubescens, a source of quinine which is used to treat malaria, is found widely in the andes as far south as bolivia. other important crops that originated from the andes are tobacco and potatoes. the high - altitude polylepis forests and woodlands are found in the andean areas of colombia, ecuador, peru, bolivia and chile. these trees, by locals referred to as quenua, yagual and other names, can be found at altitudes of above sea level. it remains unclear if the patchy distribution of these forests and woodlands is natural, or the result of clearing which began during the incan period. regardless, in modern times the clearance has accelerated, and the trees are now considered to be highly endangered, with some believing that as little as 10 % of the original woodland remains. fauna the andes are rich in fauna : with almost 1, 000 species, of which roughly 2 / 3 are endemic to the region, the andes are the most important region in the world for amphibians. the diversity of animals in the andes is high, with almost 600 species of mammals ( 13 % endemic ), more than 1, 700 species of birds ( about 1 / 3 endemic ), more than 600 species of reptile ( about 45 % endemic ), and almost 400 species of fish ( about 1 / 3 endemic ). the vicuna and guanaco can be found living in the altiplano, while the closely related domesticated llama and alpaca are widely kept by locals as pack animals and for their meat and wool. the crepuscular ( active during dawn and dusk ) chinchillas, two threatened members of the rodent order, inhabit the andes ' alpine regions. the andean condor, the largest bird of its kind in the western hemisphere, occurs throughout much of the andes but generally