##s. this often presents itself as a lump of tissue near the anus which grows larger and more painful with time. like other abscesses, perianal abscesses may require prompt medical treatment, such as an incision and debridement or lancing. incisional abscess an incisional abscess is one that develops as a complication secondary to a surgical incision. it presents as redness and warmth at the margins of the incision with purulent drainage from it. if the diagnosis is uncertain, the wound should be aspirated with a needle, with aspiration of pus confirming the diagnosis and availing for gram stain and bacterial culture. pathophysiology an abscess is a defensive reaction of the tissue to prevent the spread of infectious materials to other parts of the body. organisms or foreign materials destroy the local cells, which results in the release of cytokines. the cytokines trigger an inflammatory response, which draws large numbers of white blood cells to the area and increases the regional blood flow. the final structure of the abscess is an abscess wall, or capsule, that is formed by the adjacent healthy cells in an attempt to keep the pus from infecting neighboring structures. however, such encapsulation tends to prevent immune cells from attacking bacteria in the pus, or from reaching the causative organism or foreign object. diagnosis an abscess is a localized collection of pus ( purulent inflammatory tissue ) caused by suppuration buried in a tissue, an organ, or a confined space, lined by the pyogenic membrane. ultrasound imaging can help in a diagnosis. classification abscesses may be classified as either skin abscesses or internal abscesses. skin abscesses are common ; internal abscesses tend to be harder to diagnose, and more serious. skin abscesses are also called cutaneous or subcutaneous abscesses. iv drug use for those with a history of intravenous drug use, an x - ray is recommended before treatment to verify that no needle fragments are present. if there is also a fever present in this population, infectious endocarditis should be considered. differential abscesses should be differentiated from empyemas, which are accumulations of pus in a preexisting, rather than a newly formed, anatomical cavity. other conditions that can cause similar symptoms include : cellulitis, a sebaceous cyst