midnah from denah ' to rise, to shine '. the use of anatolian designations has varied over time, perhaps originally referring to the aeolian, ionian and dorian colonies situated along the eastern coasts of the aegean sea, but also encompassing eastern regions in general. such use of anatolian designations was employed during the reign of roman emperor diocletian ( ), who created the diocese of the east, known in greek as the eastern diocese, but completely unrelated to the regions of asia minor. in their widest territorial scope, anatolian designations were employed during the reign of roman emperor constantine i ( 306 – 337 ), who created the praetorian prefecture of the east, known in greek as the eastern prefecture, encompassing all eastern regions of the late roman empire and spanning from thrace to egypt. only after the loss of other eastern regions during the 7th century and the reduction of byzantine eastern domains to asia minor, that region became the only remaining part of the byzantine east, and thus commonly referred to ( in greek ) as the eastern part of the empire. at the same time, the anatolic theme ( / " the eastern theme " ) was created, as a province ( theme ) covering the western and central parts of turkey ' s present - day central anatolia region, centered around iconium, but ruled from the city of amorium. the latinized form " ", with its - ia ending, is probably a medieval latin innovation. the modern turkish form derives directly from the greek name ( anatole ). the russian male name anatoly, the french anatole and plain anatol, all stemming from saints anatolius of laodicea ( d. 283 ) and anatolius of constantinople ( d. 458 ; the first patriarch of constantinople ), share the same linguistic origin. names the oldest known name for any region within anatolia is related to its central area, known as the " land of hatti " – a designation that was initially used for the land of ancient hattians, but later became the most common name for the entire territory under the rule of ancient hittites. the first recorded name the greeks used for the anatolian peninsula, though not particularly popular at the time, was ασια ( asia ), perhaps from an akkadian expression for the " sunrise " or possibly echoing the name of the assuwa league in western anatolia. the romans used it as the name of their province, comprising the west of the peninsula plus the nearby aegean islands