decision in favor of a defendant varies significantly internationally. all parties must present grounds to appeal, or it will not be heard. by convention in some law reports, the appellant is named first. this can mean that where it is the defendant who appeals, the name of the case in the law reports reverses ( in some cases twice ) as the appeals work their way up the court hierarchy. this is not always true, however. in the federal courts, the parties ' names always stay in the same order as the lower court when an appeal is taken to the circuit courts of appeals, and are re - ordered only if the appeal reaches the supreme court. direct or collateral : appealing criminal convictions many jurisdictions recognize two types of appeals, particularly in the criminal context. the first is the traditional " direct " appeal in which the appellant files an appeal with the next higher court of review. the second is the collateral appeal or post - conviction petition, in which the petitioner - appellant files the appeal in a court of first instance — usually the court that tried the case. the key distinguishing factor between direct and collateral appeals is that the former occurs in state courts, and the latter in federal courts. relief in post - conviction is rare and is most often found in capital or violent felony cases. the typical scenario involves an incarcerated defendant locating dna evidence demonstrating the defendant ' s actual innocence. appellate review " appellate review " is the general term for the process by which courts with appellate jurisdiction take jurisdiction of matters decided by lower courts. it is distinguished from judicial review, which refers to the court ' s overriding constitutional or statutory right to determine if a legislative act or administrative decision is defective for jurisdictional or other reasons ( which may vary by jurisdiction ). in most jurisdictions the normal and preferred way of seeking appellate review is by filing an appeal of the final judgment. generally, an appeal of the judgment will also allow appeal of all other orders or rulings made by the trial court in the course of the case. this is because such orders cannot be appealed " as of right ". however, certain critical interlocutory court orders, such as the denial of a request for an interim injunction, or an order holding a person in contempt of court, can be appealed immediately although the case may otherwise not have been fully disposed of. there are two distinct forms of appellate review, " direct " and " collateral ". for example, a criminal defendant may be convicted in state court, and lose on " direct appeal " to higher state appellate courts, and if