five - year term in the election. however, the election was the tightest in angola ’ s history. executive branch the 2010 constitution grants the president almost absolute power. elections for the national assembly are to take place every five years, and the president is automatically the leader of the winning party or coalition. it is for the president to appoint ( and dismiss ) all of the following : the members of the government ( state ministers, ministers, state secretaries and vice - ministers ) ; the members of the constitutional court ; the members of the supreme court ; the members of the court of auditors ; the members of the military supreme court ; the governor and vice - governors of the national angolan bank ; the general - attorney, the vice - general - attorneys and their deputies ( as well as the military homologous ) ; the governors of the provinces ; the members of the republic council ; the members of the national security council ; the members of the superior magistrates councils ; the general chief of the armed forces and his deputy ; all other command posts in the military ; the police general commander, and the 2nd in command ; all other command posts in the police ; the chiefs and directors of the intelligence and security organs. the president is also provided a variety of powers, like defining the policy of the country. even though it ' s not up to him / her to make laws ( only to promulgate them and make edicts ), the president is the leader of the winning party. the only " relevant " post that is not directly appointed by the president is the vice - president, which is the second in the winning party. jose eduardo dos santos stepped down as president of angola after 38 years in 2017, being peacefully succeeded by joao lourenco, santos ' chosen successor. legislative branch the national assembly ( assembleia nacional ) has 223 members, elected for a four - year term, 130 members by proportional representation, 90 members in provincial districts, and 3 members to represent angolans abroad. the general elections in 1997 were rescheduled for 5 september 2008. the ruling party mpla won 82 % ( 191 seats in the national assembly ) and the main opposition party won only 10 % ( 16 seats ). the elections however have been described as only partly free but certainly not fair. a white book on the elections in 2008 lists up all irregularities surrounding the parliamentary elections of 2008. political parties and elections judicial branch supreme court ( or " tribunal da relacao " ) judges of the supreme court are appointed by the president. the constitutional court, with