to do so was screenwriter dudley nichols ( best writing in 1935 for the informer ). nichols boycotted the 8th academy awards ceremony because of conflicts between the academy and the writers ' guild. nichols eventually accepted the 1935 award three years later, at the 1938 ceremony. nichols was nominated for three further academy awards during his career. george c. scott became the second person to refuse his award ( best actor in 1970 for patton ) at the 43rd academy awards ceremony. scott described it as a " meat parade ", saying, " i don ' t want any part of it. " the third person to refuse the award was marlon brando, who refused his award ( best actor for 1972 ' s the godfather ), citing the film industry ' s discrimination and mistreatment of native americans. at the 45th academy awards ceremony, brando asked actress and civil rights activist sacheen littlefeather to read a 15 - page speech in his place, detailing his criticisms, for which there was booing and cheering by the audience. littlefeather was much later discovered to have falsely misrepresented her ancestry as native american, that is, she was found to be a pretendian. disqualifications seven films have had nominations revoked before the official award ceremony : the circus ( 1928 ) – the film was voluntarily removed by the academy from competitive categories, to award charlie chaplin a special award. hondo ( 1953 ) – removed from the best story ballot after letters from the producer and nominee questioned its inclusion in the category. high society ( 1955 ) – withdrawn from screenwriting ballot after being mistaken for the 1956 movie of the same title. the godfather ( 1972 ) – initially nominated for eleven awards, its nomination for best original score was revoked after it was discovered that its main theme was very similar to music that the score ' s composer had written for an earlier film. none of its other nominations were revoked, and it received three oscars, including best picture. a place in the world ( 1992 ) – removed from the best foreign language film ballot after it was discovered that the country which submitted the film exercised insufficient artistic control. alone yet not alone ( 2014 ) – the film ' s title song, " alone yet not alone ", was removed from the best original song ballot after bruce broughton was found to have improperly contacted other members of the academy ' s musical branch ; this was the first time that a film was removed from a ballot for ethical reasons. 13 hours : the secret soldiers of benghazi ( 2017 ) – sound mixer greg p