that in greek myth, in that the women, abandoned by a band of warriors and unfaithful lovers, rallied together to form a nation from which men were severely reduced, to prevent them from regaining power. the amazons and queen hippolyta are also referenced in geoffrey chaucer ' s canterbury tales in " the knight ' s tale ". amazons continued to be subject of scholarly debate during the european renaissance, and with the onset of the age of exploration, encounters were reported from ever more distant lands. in 1542, francisco de orellana reached the amazon river, naming it after the, a tribe of warlike women he claimed to have encountered and fought on the nhamunda river, a tributary of the amazon. afterwards the whole basin and region of the amazon ( amazonia in portuguese, amazonia in spanish ) were named after the river. amazons also figure in the accounts of both christopher columbus and walter raleigh. amazons in art beginning around 550 bc. depictions of amazons as daring fighters and equestrian warriors appeared on vases. after the battle of marathon in 490 bc the amazon battle - amazonomachy became popular motifs on pottery. by the sixth century bc, public and privately displayed artwork used the amazon imagery for pediment reliefs, sarcophagi, mosaics, pottery, jewelry and even monumental sculptures, that adorned important buildings like the parthenon in athens. amazon motifs remained popular until the roman imperial period and into late antiquity. apart from the artistic desire to express the passionate womanhood of the amazons in contrast with the manhood of their enemies, some modern historians interpret the popularity of amazon in art as indicators of societal trends, both positive and negative. greek and roman societies, however, utilized the amazon mythology as a literary and artistic vehicle to unite against a commonly - held enemy. the metaphysical characteristics of amazons were seen as personifications of both nature and religion. roman authors like virgil, strabo, pliny the elder, curtius, plutarch, arrian, and pausanius advocated the greatness of the state, as amazon myths served to discuss the creation of origin and identity for the roman people. however, that changed over time. amazons in roman literature and art have many faces, such as the trojan ally, the warrior goddess, the native latin, the warmongering celt, the proud sarmatian, the hedonistic and passionate thracian warrior queen, the subdued asian city, and the worthy roman foe. in renaissance