world to devote his entire life to poetry. soon after, he wrote howl, the poem that brought him and his beat generation contemporaries to national attention and allowed him to live as a professional poet for the rest of his life. later in life, ginsberg entered academia, teaching poetry as distinguished professor of english at brooklyn college from 1986 until his death. inspiration from friends ginsberg claimed throughout his life that his biggest inspiration was kerouac ' s concept of " spontaneous prose. " he believed literature should come from the soul without conscious restrictions. ginsberg was much more prone to revise than kerouac. for example, when kerouac saw the first draft of howl, he disliked the fact that ginsberg had made editorial changes in pencil ( transposing " negro " and " angry " in the first line, for example ). kerouac only wrote out his concepts of spontaneous prose at ginsberg ' s insistence because ginsberg wanted to learn how to apply the technique to his poetry. the inspiration for howl was ginsberg ' s friend, carl solomon, and howl is dedicated to him. solomon was a dada and surrealism enthusiast ( he introduced ginsberg to artaud ) who had bouts of clinical depression. solomon wanted to commit suicide, but he thought a form of suicide appropriate to dadaism would be to go to a mental institution and demand a lobotomy. the institution refused, giving him many forms of therapy, including electroshock therapy. much of the final section of the first part of howl is a description of this. ginsberg used solomon as an example of all those ground down by the machine of " moloch. " moloch, to whom the second section is addressed, is a levantine god to whom children were sacrificed. ginsberg may have gotten the name from the kenneth rexroth poem " thou shalt not kill, " a poem about the death of one of ginsberg ' s heroes, dylan thomas. moloch is mentioned a few times in the torah and references to ginsberg ' s jewish background are frequent in his work. ginsberg said the image of moloch was inspired by peyote visions he had of the francis drake hotel in san francisco which appeared to him as a skull ; he took it as a symbol of the city ( not specifically san francisco, but all cities ). ginsberg later acknowledged in various publications and interviews that behind the visions of the francis drake hotel were memories of the moloch of fritz lang ' s film metropolis ( 1927