points in the titration curve of a diprotic acid. the first equivalence point occurs when all first hydrogen ions from the first ionization are titrated. in other words, the amount of oh− added equals the original amount of h2a at the first equivalence point. the second equivalence point occurs when all hydrogen ions are titrated. therefore, the amount of oh− added equals twice the amount of h2a at this time. for a weak diprotic acid titrated by a strong base, the second equivalence point must occur at ph above 7 due to the hydrolysis of the resulted salts in the solution. at either equivalence point, adding a drop of base will cause the steepest rise of the ph value in the system. buffer regions and midpoints a titration curve for a diprotic acid contains two midpoints where ph = pka. since there are two different ka values, the first midpoint occurs at ph = pka1 and the second one occurs at ph = pka2. each segment of the curve that contains a midpoint at its center is called the buffer region. because the buffer regions consist of the acid and its conjugate base, it can resist ph changes when base is added until the next equivalent points. applications of acids in industry acids are fundamental reagents in treating almost all processes in modern industry. sulfuric acid, a diprotic acid, is the most widely used acid in industry, and is also the most - produced industrial chemical in the world. it is mainly used in producing fertilizer, detergent, batteries and dyes, as well as used in processing many products such like removing impurities. according to the statistics data in 2011, the annual production of sulfuric acid was around 200 million tonnes in the world. for example, phosphate minerals react with sulfuric acid to produce phosphoric acid for the production of phosphate fertilizers, and zinc is produced by dissolving zinc oxide into sulfuric acid, purifying the solution and electrowinning. in the chemical industry, acids react in neutralization reactions to produce salts. for example, nitric acid reacts with ammonia to produce ammonium nitrate, a fertilizer. additionally, carboxylic acids can be esterified with alcohols, to produce esters. acids are often used to remove rust and other corrosion from metals in a process known as pickling. they may be used as an electrolyte in a wet cell battery, such as