the ' decknamen ' ( or code words ) of alchemy as physical substances. these scholars have reconstructed physicochemical experiments that they say are described in medieval and early modern texts. at the opposite end of the spectrum, focusing on the esoteric, scholars, such as florin george calian and anna marie roos, who question the reading of principe and newman, interpret these same decknamen as spiritual, religious, or psychological concepts. new interpretations of alchemy are still perpetuated, sometimes merging in concepts from new age or radical environmentalism movements. groups like the rosicrucians and freemasons have a continued interest in alchemy and its symbolism. since the victorian revival of alchemy, " occultists reinterpreted alchemy as a spiritual practice, involving the self - transformation of the practitioner and only incidentally or not at all the transformation of laboratory substances ", which has contributed to a merger of magic and alchemy in popular thought. esoteric interpretations of historical texts in the eyes of a variety of modern esoteric and neo - hermeticist practitioners, alchemy is fundamentally spiritual. in this interpretation, transmutation of lead into gold is presented as an analogy for personal transmutation, purification, and perfection. according to this view, early alchemists such as zosimos of panopolis ( ) highlighted the spiritual nature of the alchemical quest, symbolic of a religious regeneration of the human soul. this approach is held to have continued in the middle ages, as metaphysical aspects, substances, physical states, and material processes are supposed to have been used as metaphors for spiritual entities, spiritual states, and, ultimately, transformation. in this sense, the literal meanings of ' alchemical formulas ' were like a veil, hiding their true spiritual philosophy. in the neo - hermeticist interpretation, both the transmutation of common metals into gold and the universal panacea are held to symbolize evolution from an imperfect, diseased, corruptible, and ephemeral state toward a perfect, healthy, incorruptible, and everlasting state, so the philosopher ' s stone then represented a mystic key that would make this evolution possible. applied to the alchemist, the twin goal symbolized their evolution from ignorance to enlightenment, and the stone represented a hidden spiritual truth or power that would lead to that goal. in texts that are held to have been written according to this view, the cryptic alchemical