3 : 1 ; but, unless the anchorage is crowded, a longer scope always reduces shock stresses. anchoring techniques the basic anchoring consists of determining the location, dropping the anchor, laying out the scope, setting the hook, and assessing where the vessel ends up. the ship seeks a location that is sufficiently protected ; has suitable holding ground, enough depth at low tide and enough room for the boat to swing. the location to drop the anchor should be approached from down wind or down current, whichever is stronger. as the chosen spot is approached, the vessel should be stopped or even beginning to drift back. the anchor should initially be lowered quickly but under control until it is on the bottom ( see anchor windlass ). the vessel should continue to drift back, and the cable should be veered out under control ( slowly ) so it is relatively straight. once the desired scope is laid out, the vessel should be gently forced astern, usually using the auxiliary motor but possibly by backing a sail. a hand on the anchor line may telegraph a series of jerks and jolts, indicating the anchor is dragging, or a smooth tension indicative of digging in. as the anchor begins to dig in and resist backward force, the engine may be throttled up to get a thorough set. if the anchor continues to drag, or sets after having dragged too far, it should be retrieved and moved back to the desired position ( or another location chosen. ) there are techniques of anchoring to limit the swing of a vessel if the anchorage has limited room : using an anchor weight, kellet or sentinel lowering a concentrated, heavy weight down the anchor line – rope or chain – directly in front of the bow to the seabed behaves like a heavy chain rode and lowers the angle of pull on the anchor. if the weight is suspended off the seabed it acts as a spring or shock absorber to dampen the sudden actions that are normally transmitted to the anchor and can cause it to dislodge and drag. in light conditions, a kellet reduces the swing of the vessel considerably. in heavier conditions these effects disappear as the rode becomes straightened and the weight ineffective. known as an " anchor chum weight " or " angel " in the uk. forked moor using two anchors set approximately 45° apart, or wider angles up to 90°, from the bow is a strong mooring for facing into strong winds. to set anchors in this way, first one anchor is set in the normal fashion. then, taking in on the first cable