life ambrose was born into a roman christian family in the year 339. ambrose himself wrote that he was 53 years old in his letter number 49, which has been dated to 392. he began life in augusta trevorum ( modern trier ) the capital of the roman province of gallia belgica in what was then northeastern gaul and is now in the rhineland - palatinate in germany. scholars disagree on who exactly his father was. his father is sometimes identified with aurelius ambrosius, a praetorian prefect of gaul ; but some scholars identify his father as an official named uranius who received an imperial constitution dated 3 february 339 ( addressed in a brief extract from one of the three emperors ruling in 339, constantine ii, constantius ii, or constans, in the codex theodosianus, book xi. 5 ). what does seem certain is that ambrose was born in trier and his father was either the praetorian prefect or part of his administration. a legend about ambrose as an infant recounts that a swarm of bees settled on his face while he lay in his cradle, leaving behind a drop of honey. his father is said to have considered this a sign of his future eloquence and honeyed tongue. bees and beehives often appear in the saint ' s symbology. ambrose ' mother was a woman of intellect and piety. it was probable that she was a member of the roman family aurelii symmachi, which would make ambrose a cousin of the orator quintus aurelius symmachus. the family had produced one martyr ( the virgin soteris ) in its history. ambrose was the youngest of three children. his siblings were satyrus, the subject of ambrose ' s de excessu fratris satyri, and marcellina, who made a profession of virginity sometime between 352 and 355 ; pope liberius himself conferred the veil upon her. both ambrose ' s siblings also became venerated as saints. some time early in the life of ambrose, his father died. at an unknown later date, his mother fled trier with her three children, and the family moved to rome. there ambrose studied literature, law, and rhetoric. he then followed in his father ' s footsteps and entered public service. praetorian prefect sextus claudius petronius probus first gave him a place as a judicial councillor, and then in about 372 made him governor of the province of liguria and emilia, with headquarters at milan