. grant ' s character is actually a killer, as per written in the book, before the fact by francis iles, but the studio felt that grant ' s image would be tarnished by that. hitchcock therefore settled for an ambiguous finale, although he would have preferred to end with the wife ' s murder. fontaine won best actress for her performance. saboteur ( 1942 ) is the first of two films that hitchcock made for universal studios during the decade. hitchcock wanted gary cooper and barbara stanwyck or henry fonda and gene tierney to star, but was forced by universal to use universal contract player robert cummings and priscilla lane, a freelancer who signed a one - picture deal with the studio, both known for their work in comedies and light dramas. the story depicts a confrontation between a suspected saboteur ( cummings ) and a real saboteur ( norman lloyd ) atop the statue of liberty. hitchcock took a three - day tour of new york city to scout for saboteurs filming locations. he also directed have you heard? ( 1942 ), a photographic dramatisation for life magazine of the dangers of rumours during wartime. in 1943, he wrote a mystery story for look, " the murder of monty woolley ", a sequence of captioned photographs inviting the reader to find clues to the murderer ' s identity ; hitchcock cast the performers as themselves, such as woolley, doris merrick and make - up man guy pearce. back in england, hitchcock ' s mother emma was severely ill ; she died on 26 september 1942 at age 79. hitchcock never spoke publicly about his mother, but his assistant said that he admired her. four months later, on 4 january 1943, his brother william died of an overdose at age 52. hitchcock was not very close to william, but his death made hitchcock conscious about his own eating and drinking habits. he was overweight and suffering from back aches. his new year ' s resolution in 1943 was to take his diet seriously with the help of a physician. in january that year, shadow of a doubt was released, which hitchcock had fond memories of making. in the film, charlotte " charlie " newton ( teresa wright ) suspects her beloved uncle charlie oakley ( joseph cotten ) of being a serial killer. hitchcock filmed extensively on location, this time in the northern california city of santa rosa. at 20th century fox, hitchcock approached john steinbeck with an idea for a film, which recorded the experiences of the survivors of a german u - boat attack. steinbeck began work on the script