. 02 male ( s ) / female ( 2011 est. ) urbanization urban population : 68. 1 % of total population ( 2022 est. ) 4. 04 % annual rate of change ( 2020 - 2025 est. ) health according to the cia world factbook, 2 % of adults ( aged 15 – 49 ) are living with hiv / aids ( as of 2009 ). the risk of contracting disease is very high. there are food and waterborne diseases, bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis a, and typhoid fever ; vectorborne diseases, malaria, african trypanosomiasis ( sleeping sickness ) ; respiratory disease : meningococcal meningitis, and schistosomiasis, a water contact disease, as of 2005. ethnic groups roughly 37 % of angolans are ovimbundu, 25 % are ambundu, 13 % are bakongo, 2 % are mestico, 1 - 2 % are white africans, and people from other african ethnicities make up 22 % of angola ' s population. romani people were deported to angola from portugal. religions angola is a majority christian country. official statistics do not exist, however it is estimated that over 80 % belong to a christian church or community. more than half are catholic, the remaining ones comprising members of traditional protestant churches as well as of pentecostal communities. only 0. 1 % are muslims - generally immigrants from other african countries. traditional indigenous religions are practiced by a very small minority, generally in peripheral rural societies. education literacy is quite low, with 71. 1 % of the population over the age of 15 able to read and write in portuguese. 82 % of males and 60. 7 % of women are literate as of 2015. languages portuguese is the official language of angola, but bantu and other african languages are also widely spoken. in fact, kikongo, kimbundu, umbundu, tuchokwe, ganguela, and ukanyama have the official status of " national languages ". the mastery of portuguese is widespread ; in the cities the overwhelming majority are either fluent in portuguese or have at least a reasonable working knowledge of this language ; an increasing minority are native portuguese speakers and have a poor, if any, knowledge of an african language. references attribution : 2003 external links population cartogram of angola society of angola