the greek parliament ), so as to highlight the continuity between modern and ancient athens. neoclassicism, the international style of this epoch, was the architectural style through which bavarian, french and greek architects such as hansen, klenze, boulanger or kaftantzoglou designed the first important public buildings of the new capital. in 1896, athens hosted the first modern olympic games. during the 1920s a number of greek refugees, expelled from asia minor after the greco - turkish war and greek genocide, swelled athens ' s population ; nevertheless it was most particularly following world war ii, and from the 1950s and 1960s, that the population of the city exploded, and athens experienced a gradual expansion. in the 1980s, it became evident that smog from factories and an ever - increasing fleet of automobiles, as well as a lack of adequate free space due to congestion, had evolved into the city ' s most important challenge. a series of anti - pollution measures taken by the city ' s authorities in the 1990s, combined with a substantial improvement of the city ' s infrastructure ( including the attiki odos motorway, the expansion of the athens metro, and the new athens international airport ), considerably alleviated pollution and transformed athens into a much more functional city. in 2004, athens hosted the 2004 summer olympics. geography athens sprawls across the central plain of attica that is often referred to as the athens basin or the attica basin ( ). the basin is bounded by four large mountains : mount aigaleo to the west, mount parnitha to the north, mount pentelicus to the northeast and mount hymettus to the east. beyond mount aegaleo lies the thriasian plain, which forms an extension of the central plain to the west. the saronic gulf lies to the southwest. mount parnitha is the tallest of the four mountains ( ), and has been declared a national park. the athens urban area spreads over from agios stefanos in the north to varkiza in the south. the city is located in the north temperate zone, 38 degrees north of the equator. athens is built around a number of hills. lycabettus is one of the tallest hills of the city proper and provides a view of the entire attica basin. the meteorology of athens is deemed to be one of the most complex in the world because its mountains cause a temperature inversion phenomenon which, along with the greek government ' s difficulties controlling industrial pollution, was responsible for the air pollution problems the