respectively negatively or positively charged as a whole ; a charged atom is called an ion. electrons have been known since the late 19th century, mostly thanks to j. j. thomson ; see history of subatomic physics for details. protons have a positive charge and a mass 1, 836 times that of the electron, at. the number of protons in an atom is called its atomic number. ernest rutherford ( 1919 ) observed that nitrogen under alpha - particle bombardment ejects what appeared to be hydrogen nuclei. by 1920 he had accepted that the hydrogen nucleus is a distinct particle within the atom and named it proton. neutrons have no electrical charge and have a free mass of 1, 839 times the mass of the electron, or. neutrons are the heaviest of the three constituent particles, but their mass can be reduced by the nuclear binding energy. neutrons and protons ( collectively known as nucleons ) have comparable dimensions — on the order of — although the ' surface ' of these particles is not sharply defined. the neutron was discovered in 1932 by the english physicist james chadwick. in the standard model of physics, electrons are truly elementary particles with no internal structure, whereas protons and neutrons are composite particles composed of elementary particles called quarks. there are two types of quarks in atoms, each having a fractional electric charge. protons are composed of two up quarks ( each with charge + ) and one down quark ( with a charge of − ). neutrons consist of one up quark and two down quarks. this distinction accounts for the difference in mass and charge between the two particles. the quarks are held together by the strong interaction ( or strong force ), which is mediated by gluons. the protons and neutrons, in turn, are held to each other in the nucleus by the nuclear force, which is a residuum of the strong force that has somewhat different range - properties ( see the article on the nuclear force for more ). the gluon is a member of the family of gauge bosons, which are elementary particles that mediate physical forces. nucleus all the bound protons and neutrons in an atom make up a tiny atomic nucleus, and are collectively called nucleons. the radius of a nucleus is approximately equal to femtometres, where is the total number of nucleons. this is much smaller than the radius of the atom, which is on the order of 105 fm. the nucle