" benefactor of mankind " ). apollo virotutis was worshipped, among other places, at fins d ' annecy ( haute - savoie ) and at jublains ( maine - et - loire ). origins apollo is considered the most hellenic ( greek ) of the olympian gods. the cult centers of apollo in greece, delphi and delos, date from the 8th century bce. the delos sanctuary was primarily dedicated to artemis, apollo ' s twin sister. at delphi, apollo was venerated as the slayer of the monstrous serpent python. for the greeks, apollo was the most greek of all the gods, and through the centuries he acquired different functions. in archaic greece he was the prophet, the oracular god who in older times was connected with " healing ". in classical greece he was the god of light and of music, but in popular religion he had a strong function to keep away evil. walter burkert discerned three components in the prehistory of apollo worship, which he termed " a dorian - northwest greek component, a cretan - minoan component, and a syro - hittite component. " healer and god - protector from evil in classical times, his major function in popular religion was to keep away evil, and he was therefore called " apotropaios " (, " averting evil " ) and " alexikakos " ( " keeping off ill " ; from v. + n. ). apollo also had many epithets relating to his function as a healer. some commonly - used examples are " paion " ( literally " healer " or " helper " ) " epikourios " (, " succouring " ), " oulios " (, " healer, baleful " ) and " loimios " (, " of the plague " ). in later writers, the word, " paion ", usually spelled " paean ", becomes a mere epithet of apollo in his capacity as a god of healing. apollo in his aspect of " healer " has a connection to the primitive god paean ( ), who did not have a cult of his own. paean serves as the healer of the gods in the iliad, and seems to have originated in a pre - greek religion. it is suggested, though unconfirmed, that he is connected to the mycenaean figure pa - ja - wo - ne ( linear b : ). paean was the personification of holy