they were going to kill him. the three were found guilty as accessories to the crime. exile lepidus was executed. according to the fragmentary inscriptions of the arval brethren, agrippina was forced to carry the urn of lepidus ' ashes back to rome. agrippina and livilla were exiled by their brother to the pontine islands. caligula sold their furniture, jewellery, slaves and freedmen. in january of ad 40, domitius died of edema ( dropsy ) at pyrgi. lucius had gone to live with his second paternal aunt domitia lepida the younger after caligula had taken his inheritance away from him. caligula, his wife milonia caesonia and their daughter julia drusilla were murdered on january 24, 41. agrippina ' s paternal uncle, claudius, brother of her father germanicus, became the new roman emperor. reign of claudius return from exile claudius lifted the exiles of agrippina and livilla. livilla returned to her husband, while agrippina was reunited with her estranged son. after the death of her first husband, agrippina tried to make shameless advances to the future emperor galba, who showed no interest in her and was devoted to his wife aemilia lepida. on one occasion, galba ' s mother - in - law gave agrippina a public reprimand and a slap in the face before a whole bevy of married women. claudius had lucius ' inheritance reinstated. lucius became more wealthy despite his youth shortly after gaius sallustius crispus passienus divorced lucius ' aunt, domitia lepida the elder ( lucius ' first paternal aunt ) so that crispus could marry agrippina. they married, and crispus became a step - father to lucius. crispus was a prominent, influential, witty, wealthy and powerful man, who served twice as consul. he was the adopted grandson and biological great - great - nephew of the historian sallust. little is known on their relationship, but crispus soon died and left his estate to nero. in the first years of claudius ' reign, claudius was married to the infamous empress valeria messalina. although agrippina was very influential, she kept a very low profile and stayed away from the imperial palace and the court of the emperor. messalina was agrippina ' s paternal second cousin. among the victims of messalina ' s intrigues were agrippina ' s surviving