" by objecting. in cases where a judge rather than a jury decided issues of fact, an appellate court will apply an " abuse of discretion " standard of review. under this standard, the appellate court gives deference to the lower court ' s view of the evidence, and reverses its decision only if it were a clear abuse of discretion. this is usually defined as a decision outside the bounds of reasonableness. on the other hand, the appellate court normally gives less deference to a lower court ' s decision on issues of law, and may reverse if it finds that the lower court applied the wrong legal standard. in some cases, an appellant may successfully argue that the law under which the lower decision was rendered was unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, or may convince the higher court to order a new trial on the basis that evidence earlier sought was concealed or only recently discovered. in the case of new evidence, there must be a high probability that its presence or absence would have made a material difference in the trial. another issue suitable for appeal in criminal cases is effective assistance of counsel. if a defendant has been convicted and can prove that his lawyer did not adequately handle his case and that there is a reasonable probability that the result of the trial would have been different had the lawyer given competent representation, he is entitled to a new trial. a lawyer traditionally starts an oral argument to any appellate court with the words " may it please the court. " after an appeal is heard, the " mandate " is a formal notice of a decision by a court of appeal ; this notice is transmitted to the trial court and, when filed by the clerk of the trial court, constitutes the final judgment on the case, unless the appeal court has directed further proceedings in the trial court. the mandate is distinguished from the appeal court ' s opinion, which sets out the legal reasoning for its decision. in some jurisdictions the mandate is known as the " remittitur ". results the result of an appeal can be : affirmed : where the reviewing court basically agrees with the result of the lower courts ' ruling ( s ). reversed : where the reviewing court basically disagrees with the result of the lower courts ' ruling ( s ), and overturns their decision. vacated : where the reviewing court overturns the lower courts ' ruling ( s ) as invalid, without necessarily disagreeing with it / them, e. g. because the case was decided on the basis of a legal principle that no longer applies. remanded : where the reviewing court sends the case