low - level exposure to arsenic at concentrations of 100 ppb ( i. e., above the 10 ppb drinking water standard ) compromises the initial immune response to h1n1 or swine flu infection according to niehs - supported scientists. the study, conducted in laboratory mice, suggests that people exposed to arsenic in their drinking water may be at increased risk for more serious illness or death from the virus. some canadians are drinking water that contains inorganic arsenic. private - dug – well waters are most at risk for containing inorganic arsenic. preliminary well water analysis typically does not test for arsenic. researchers at the geological survey of canada have modeled relative variation in natural arsenic hazard potential for the province of new brunswick. this study has important implications for potable water and health concerns relating to inorganic arsenic. epidemiological evidence from chile shows a dose - dependent connection between chronic arsenic exposure and various forms of cancer, in particular when other risk factors, such as cigarette smoking, are present. these effects have been demonstrated at contaminations less than 50 ppb. arsenic is itself a constituent of tobacco smoke. analyzing multiple epidemiological studies on inorganic arsenic exposure suggests a small but measurable increase in risk for bladder cancer at 10 ppb. according to peter ravenscroft of the department of geography at the university of cambridge, roughly 80 million people worldwide consume between 10 and 50 ppb arsenic in their drinking water. if they all consumed exactly 10 ppb arsenic in their drinking water, the previously cited multiple epidemiological study analysis would predict an additional 2, 000 cases of bladder cancer alone. this represents a clear underestimate of the overall impact, since it does not include lung or skin cancer, and explicitly underestimates the exposure. those exposed to levels of arsenic above the current who standard should weigh the costs and benefits of arsenic remediation. early ( 1973 ) evaluations of the processes for removing dissolved arsenic from drinking water demonstrated the efficacy of co - precipitation with either iron or aluminium oxides. in particular, iron as a coagulant was found to remove arsenic with an efficacy exceeding 90 %. several adsorptive media systems have been approved for use at point - of - service in a study funded by the united states environmental protection agency ( us epa ) and the national science foundation ( nsf ). a team of european and indian scientists and engineers have set up six arsenic treatment plants in west bengal based on in - situ remediation method ( sar technology ). this technology does not use any chemicals and arsenic is