called for the creation of a united slavic state encompassing russia, ukraine, and belarus, and who was a fierce opponent of ukrainian independence. it is well documented that his negative views on ukrainian independence became more radical over the years. harrison also alleged that solzhenitsyn held pan - slavist and monarchist views. according to harrison, " his historical writing is imbued with a hankering after an idealized tsarist era when, seemingly, everything was rosy. he sought refuge in a dreamy past, where, he believed, a united slavic state ( the russian empire ) built on orthodox foundations had provided an ideological alternative to western individualistic liberalism. " solzhenitsyn also repeatedly denounced tsar alexis of russia and patriarch nikon of moscow for causing the great schism of 1666, which solzhenitsyn said both divided and weakened the russian orthodox church at a time when unity was desperately needed. solzhenitsyn also attacked both the tsar and the patriarch for using excommunication, siberian exile, imprisonment, torture, and even burning at the stake against the old believers, who rejected the liturgical changes which caused the schism. solzhenitsyn also argued that the dechristianization of russian culture, which he considered most responsible for the bolshevik revolution, began in 1666, became much worse during the reign of tsar peter the great, and accelerated into an epidemic during the enlightenment, the romantic era, and the silver age. expanding upon this theme, solzhenitsyn once declared, " over a half century ago, while i was still a child, i recall hearing a number of old people offer the following explanation for the great disasters that had befallen russia : ' men have forgotten god ; that ' s why all this has happened. since then i have spent well - nigh 50 years working on the history of our revolution ; in the process i have read hundreds of books, collected hundreds of personal testimonies, and have already contributed eight volumes of my own toward the effort of clearing away the rubble left by that upheaval. but if i were asked today to formulate as concisely as possible the main cause of the ruinous revolution that swallowed up some 60 million of our people, i could not put it more accurately than to repeat : ' men have forgotten god ; that ' s why all this has happened. ' " in an interview with joseph pearce, however, solzhenitsyn commented, " [ the old believers were ] treated amazingly unjustly