care, kings who fail to obey their divine duty to promote learning can expect earthly punishments to befall their people. the pursuit of wisdom, he assured his readers of the boethius, was the surest path to power : " study wisdom, then, and, when you have learned it, condemn it not, for i tell you that by its means you may without fail attain to power, yea, even though not desiring it ". the portrayal of the west - saxon resistance to the vikings by asser and the chronicler as a christian holy war was more than mere rhetoric or propaganda. it reflected alfred ' s own belief in a doctrine of divine rewards and punishments rooted in a vision of a hierarchical christian world order in which god is the lord to whom kings owe obedience and through whom they derive their authority over their followers. the need to persuade his nobles to undertake work for the ' common good ' led alfred and his court scholars to strengthen and deepen the conception of christian kingship that he had inherited by building upon the legacy of earlier kings including offa, clerical writers including bede, and alcuin and various participants in the carolingian renaissance. this was not a cynical use of religion to manipulate his subjects into obedience but an intrinsic element in alfred ' s worldview. he believed, as did other kings in ninth - century england and francia, that god had entrusted him with the spiritual as well as physical welfare of his people. if the christian faith fell into ruin in his kingdom, if the clergy were too ignorant to understand the latin words they butchered in their offices and liturgies, if the ancient monasteries and collegiate churches lay deserted out of indifference, he was answerable before god, as josiah had been. alfred ' s ultimate responsibility was the pastoral care of his people. appearance and character asser wrote of alfred in his life of king alfred, it is also written by asser that alfred did not learn to read until he was 12 years old or later, which is described as " shameful negligence " of his parents and tutors. alfred was an excellent listener and had an incredible memory and he retained poetry and psalms very well. a story is told by asser about how his mother held up a book of saxon poetry to him and his brothers, and said ; " i shall give this book to whichever one of you can learn it the fastest. " after excitedly asking, " will you really give this book to the one of us who can understand it the soonest and recite it to