. the remaining 2, selenocysteine and pyrrolysine, are incorporated into proteins by unique synthetic mechanisms. selenocysteine is incorporated when the mrna being translated includes a secis element, which causes the uga codon to encode selenocysteine instead of a stop codon. pyrrolysine is used by some methanogenic archaea in enzymes that they use to produce methane. it is coded for with the codon uag, which is normally a stop codon in other organisms. this uag codon is followed by a pylis downstream sequence. several independent evolutionary studies have suggested that gly, ala, asp, val, ser, pro, glu, leu, thr may belong to a group of amino acids that constituted the early genetic code, whereas cys, met, tyr, trp, his, phe may belong to a group of amino acids that constituted later additions of the genetic code. standard vs nonstandard amino acids the 20 amino acids that are encoded directly by the codons of the universal genetic code are called standard or canonical amino acids. a modified form of methionine ( n - formylmethionine ) is often incorporated in place of methionine as the initial amino acid of proteins in bacteria, mitochondria and chloroplasts. other amino acids are called nonstandard or non - canonical. most of the nonstandard amino acids are also non - proteinogenic ( i. e. they cannot be incorporated into proteins during translation ), but two of them are proteinogenic, as they can be incorporated translationally into proteins by exploiting information not encoded in the universal genetic code. the two nonstandard proteinogenic amino acids are selenocysteine ( present in many non - eukaryotes as well as most eukaryotes, but not coded directly by dna ) and pyrrolysine ( found only in some archaea and at least one bacterium ). the incorporation of these nonstandard amino acids is rare. for example, 25 human proteins include selenocysteine in their primary structure, and the structurally characterized enzymes ( selenoenzymes ) employ selenocysteine as the catalytic moiety in their active sites. pyrrolysine and selenocysteine are encoded via variant codons. for example, selenocysteine is encoded by stop