unlike other hyenas, aardwolves do not scavenge or kill larger animals. contrary to popular myths, aardwolves do not eat carrion, and if they are seen eating while hunched over a dead carcass, they are actually eating larvae and beetles. also, contrary to some sources, they do not like meat, unless it is finely ground or cooked for them. the adult aardwolf was formerly assumed to forage in small groups, but more recent research has shown that they are primarily solitary foragers, necessary because of the scarcity of their insect prey. their primary source, trinervitermes, forages in small but dense patches of. while foraging, the aardwolf can cover about per hour, which translates to per summer night and per winter night. breeding the breeding season varies depending on location, but normally takes place during autumn or spring. in south africa, breeding occurs in early july. during the breeding season, unpaired male aardwolves search their own territory, as well as others, for a female to mate with. dominant males also mate opportunistically with the females of less dominant neighboring aardwolves, which can result in conflict between rival males. dominant males even go a step further and as the breeding season approaches, they make increasingly greater and greater incursions onto weaker males ' territories. as the female comes into oestrus, they add pasting to their tricks inside of the other territories, sometimes doing so more in rivals ' territories than their own. females will also, when given the opportunity, mate with the dominant male, which increases the chances of the dominant male guarding " his " cubs with her. copulation lasts between 1 and 4. 5 hours. gestation lasts between 89 and 92 days, producing two to five cubs ( most often two or three ) during the rainy season ( november – december ), when termites are more active. they are born with their eyes open, but initially are helpless, and weigh around. the first six to eight weeks are spent in the den with their parents. the male may spend up to six hours a night watching over the cubs while the mother is out looking for food. after three months, they begin supervised foraging, and by four months are normally independent, though they often share a den with their mother until the next breeding season. by the time the next set of cubs is born, the older cubs have moved on. aardwolves generally achieve sexual maturity at