southwest asia minor. the lycians obviously followed matrilineal rules of descent, virtue, and status. they named themselves along their maternal family line and a child ' s status was determined by the mother ' s reputation. this remarkably high esteem of women and legal regulations based on maternal lines, still in effect in the 5th century bc in the lycian regions that herodotus had traveled to, lent him the idea that these people were descendants of the mythical amazons. modern historiography no longer relies exclusively on textual and artistic material, but also on the vast archaeological evidence of over a thousand nomad graves from steppe territories from the black sea all the way to mongolia. discoveries of battle - scarred female skeletons buried with their weapons ( bows and arrows, quivers, and spears ) prove that women warriors were not merely figments of imagination, but the product of the scythian / sarmatian horse - centered lifestyle. mythology according to myth, otrera, the first amazon queen, is the offspring of a romance between ares the god of war and the nymph harmonia of the akmonian wood, and as such a demigoddess. early records refer to two events in which amazons appeared prior to the trojan war ( before 1250 bc ). within the epic context, bellerophon, greek hero, and grandfather of the brothers and trojan war veterans glaukos and sarpedon, faced amazons during his stay in lycia, when king iobates sent bellerophon to fight the amazons, hoping they would kill him, yet bellerophon slew them all. the youthful king priam of troy fought on the side of the phrygians, who were attacked by amazons at the sangarios river. amazons in the trojan war there are amazon characters in homer ' s trojan war epic poem, the iliad, one of the oldest surviving texts in europe ( around 8th century bc ). the now lost epic aethiopis ( probably by arctinus of miletus, 6th century bc ), like the iliad and several other epics, is one of the works that in combination form the trojan war epic cycle. in one of the few references to the text, an amazon force under queen penthesilea, who was of thracian birth, came to join the ranks of the trojans after hector ' s death and initially put the greeks under serious pressure. only after the greatest effort and the help of the reinvigor