intelligence and superintelligence directly or to solve as many specific problems as possible ( narrow ai ) in hopes these solutions will lead indirectly to the field ' s long - term goals. general intelligence is difficult to define and difficult to measure, and modern ai has had more verifiable successes by focusing on specific problems with specific solutions. the experimental sub - field of artificial general intelligence studies this area exclusively. machine consciousness, sentience and mind the philosophy of mind does not know whether a machine can have a mind, consciousness and mental states, in the same sense that human beings do. this issue considers the internal experiences of the machine, rather than its external behavior. mainstream ai research considers this issue irrelevant because it does not affect the goals of the field : to build machines that can solve problems using intelligence. russell and norvig add that " [ t ] he additional project of making a machine conscious in exactly the way humans are is not one that we are equipped to take on. " however, the question has become central to the philosophy of mind. it is also typically the central question at issue in artificial intelligence in fiction. consciousness david chalmers identified two problems in understanding the mind, which he named the " hard " and " easy " problems of consciousness. the easy problem is understanding how the brain processes signals, makes plans and controls behavior. the hard problem is explaining how this feels or why it should feel like anything at all, assuming we are right in thinking that it truly does feel like something ( dennett ' s consciousness illusionism says this is an illusion ). human information processing is easy to explain, however, human subjective experience is difficult to explain. for example, it is easy to imagine a color - blind person who has learned to identify which objects in their field of view are red, but it is not clear what would be required for the person to know what red looks like. computationalism and functionalism computationalism is the position in the philosophy of mind that the human mind is an information processing system and that thinking is a form of computing. computationalism argues that the relationship between mind and body is similar or identical to the relationship between software and hardware and thus may be a solution to the mind – body problem. this philosophical position was inspired by the work of ai researchers and cognitive scientists in the 1960s and was originally proposed by philosophers jerry fodor and hilary putnam. philosopher john searle characterized this position as " strong ai " : " the appropriately programmed computer with the right inputs and outputs would thereby have a mind in exactly the same