drams. business entities that carry out specialized activities, in particular, accounting, advocacy, and consulting will not be considered as micro - business entities. micro business will be exempted from all types of taxes other than income tax, which will be 5 thousand drams per employee. value - added tax over half of the tax revenues in the january – august 2008 time period were generated from value - added taxes ( vat ) of 20 %. by comparison, corporate profit tax generated less than 16 percent of the revenues. this suggests that tax collection in armenia is improving at the expense of ordinary citizens, rather than wealthy citizens ( who have been the main beneficiaries of armenia ' s double - digit economic growth in recent years ). vat ( value added tax ) : in armenia, vat - paying individuals subtract the vat paid on their inputs from the vat levied on their sales and account to the tax authorities for the difference. the standard rate of vat on domestic sales of goods and services, as well as imports importation, is 20 %. exports of products and services are not taxed. foreign trade, direct investments and aid foreign trade exports according to the national statistical committee, in 2018, exports amounted to $ 2. 411. 9 billion, having grown by 7. 8 % from the previous year. after a boom of almost 93 % in 2022, the imf expects exports of goods and services to grow by 22 % in 2023 and 8 % in 2024. the goods export structure changed considerably in 2018 as the export of the traditional mining sector decreased while the share of textiles, agriculture and precious metals increased. geographical location of the country and relatively low electricity costs are comparative advantages supporting to boost the production of the textile and leather products in armenia. proximity to europe in comparison with manufacturers in east asia creates opportunity to strengthen armenia ' s position as contract manufacturing destination for european brands. foreign companies that put orders to armenian companies are mainly famous european brands, particularly, from italy ( la perla, sartis, versace etc. ) and germany ( lebek international fashion, kubler bekliedungswerk ). with the armenia ' s entry into eurasian economic commission, the opportunity to increase its presence with textile and leather production raised also in the countries of eurasian economic commission as no customs duty applies to armenian products in the export markets within the customs union. according to the study regional and international trade of armenia : perspectives and potentials authors investigated the trade potential of armenia for different product groups by