almost 1. 4 million visitors they represent the driving force behind tourism but other venues such as moesgard museum and kvindemuseet are also popular. the city ' s extensive shopping facilities are also said to be a major attraction for tourists, as are festivals, especially northside and spot. many visitors arrive on cruise ships : in 2012, 18 vessels visited the port with over 38, 000 passengers. in the 2010s, there was a significant expansion of tourist facilities, culminating in the opening of the 240 - room comwell hotel in july 2014, which increased the number of hotel rooms in the city by 25 %. some estimates put the number of visitors spending at least one night as high as 750, 000 a year, most of them danes from other regions, with the remainder coming mainly from norway, sweden, northern germany and the united kingdom. overall, they spend roughly dkk 3 billion ( €402 million ) in the city each year. the primary motivation for tourists choosing aarhus as a destination is experiencing the city and culture, family and couples vacation or as a part of a round trip in denmark. the average stay is little more than three days on average. there are more than 30 tourist information spots across the city. some of them are staffed, while others are online, publicly accessible touchscreens. the official tourist information service in aarhus is organised under visitaarhus, a corporate foundation initiated in 1994 by aarhus municipality and local commercial interest organisations. research parks the largest research park in aarhus is incuba science park, focused on it and biomedical research, it is based on denmark ' s first research park, forskerpark aarhus ( research park aarhus ), founded in 1986, which in 2007 merged with another research park to form incuba science park. the organisation is owned partly by aarhus university and private investors and aims to foster close relationships between public institutions and startup companies. it is physically divided across 4 locations after a new department was inaugurated in navitas park in 2015, which it will share with the aarhus school of marine and technical engineering and au engineering. another major centre for knowledge is agro food park in skejby, established to facilitate co - operation between companies and public institutions working within food science and agriculture. in january 2017 arla foods will open the global innovation centre arla nativa in agro food park and in 2018 aarhus university is moving the danish centre for food and agriculture there as well. in 2016, some 1000 people worked at agro food park, spread across 50 companies and institutions and in august