a flight path coplanar with the lunar orbit, which would allow a return to earth in case the sm engine failed to make lunar orbit insertion. landing site lighting conditions on later missions dictated a lunar orbital plane change, which required a course change maneuver soon after tli, and eliminated the free - return option. after apollo 12 placed the second of several seismometers on the moon, the jettisoned lm ascent stages on apollo 12 and later missions were deliberately crashed on the moon at known locations to induce vibrations in the moon ' s structure. the only exceptions to this were the apollo 13 lm which burned up in the earth ' s atmosphere, and apollo 16, where a loss of attitude control after jettison prevented making a targeted impact. as another active seismic experiment, the s - ivbs on apollo 13 and subsequent missions were deliberately crashed on the moon instead of being sent to solar orbit. starting with apollo 13, descent orbit insertion was to be performed using the service module engine instead of the lm engine, in order to allow a greater fuel reserve for landing. this was actually done for the first time on apollo 14, since the apollo 13 mission was aborted before landing. development history uncrewed flight tests two block i csms were launched from lc - 34 on suborbital flights in 1966 with the saturn ib. the first, as - 201 launched on february 26, reached an altitude of and splashed down downrange in the atlantic ocean. the second, as - 202 on august 25, reached altitude and was recovered downrange in the pacific ocean. these flights validated the service module engine and the command module heat shield. a third saturn ib test, as - 203 launched from pad 37, went into orbit to support design of the s - ivb upper stage restart capability needed for the saturn v. it carried a nose cone instead of the apollo spacecraft, and its payload was the unburned liquid hydrogen fuel, the behavior of which engineers measured with temperature and pressure sensors, and a tv camera. this flight occurred on july 5, before as - 202, which was delayed because of problems getting the apollo spacecraft ready for flight. preparation for crewed flight two crewed orbital block i csm missions were planned : as - 204 and as - 205. the block i crew positions were titled command pilot, senior pilot, and pilot. the senior pilot would assume navigation duties, while the pilot would function as a systems engineer. the astronauts would wear a modified version of the gemini spacesuit. after an