the company ' s view and encouraging research into the program by former ferrari team principal stefano domenicali. audi announced in august 2022 that it would enter the championship as an engine manufacturer in. in october, audi confirmed its partnership with sauber motorsport for the year 2026, acquiring a stake in the company for the german brand to enter the competition by renaming the team and supplying engines. current factory drivers marketing branding the audi emblem is four overlapping rings that represent the four marques of auto union. the audi emblem symbolises the amalgamation of audi with dkw, horch and wanderer : the first ring from the left represents audi, the second represents dkw, third is horch, and the fourth and last ring wanderer. the design is popularly believed to have been the idea of klaus von oertzen, the director of sales at wanderer – when berlin was chosen as the host city for the 1936 summer olympics and that a form of the olympic logo symbolized the newly established auto union ' s desire to succeed. somewhat ironically, the international olympic committee later sued audi in the international trademark court in 1995, where they lost. the original " audi " script, with the distinctive slanted tails on the " a " and " d " was created for the historic audi company in 1920 by the famous graphic designer lucian bernhard, and was resurrected when volkswagen revived the brand in 1965. following the demise of nsu in 1977, less prominence was given to the four rings, in preference to the " audi " script encased within a black ( later red ) ellipse, and was commonly displayed next to the volkswagen roundel when the two brands shared a dealer network under the v. a. g banner. the ellipse ( known as the audi oval ) was phased out after 1994, when audi formed its own independent dealer network, and prominence was given back to the four rings – at the same time audi sans ( a derivative of univers ) was adopted as the font for all marketing materials, corporate communications and was also used in the vehicles themselves. as part of audi ' s centennial celebration in 2009, the company updated the logo, changing the font to left - aligned audi type, and altering the shading for the overlapping rings. the revised logo was designed by rayan abdullah. audi developed a corporate sound concept, with audi sound studio designed for producing the corporate sound. the corporate sound project began with sound agency klangerfinder gmbh & co kg and s12 gmbh. audio samples were created in klangerfinder '