computers and the payment terms are cod. if you give me the parts on net 30 - day terms i can build and deliver the computers in that time frame, collect my money from terrell at the byte shop and pay you. " to verify the purchase order, the credit manager called paul terrell, who assured him if the computers showed up, jobs would have more than enough money for the parts order. the two steves and their small crew spent day and night building and testing the computers, and delivered to terrell on time. terrell was surprised to receive a batch of assembled circuit boards, as he had expected complete computers with a case, monitor and keyboard. nonetheless, he kept his word and paid the two steves the money promised. announcement and sales the apple i went on sale in july 1976 at a price of. wozniak later said he had no idea about the relation between the number and the mark of the beast, and that he came up with the price because he liked " repeating digits " and because it was a one - third markup on the wholesale price. jobs had managed to get the inventory into the nation ' s first four storefront microcomputer retailers : byte shop ( palo alto, california ), itty bitty machine company ( evanston, illinois ), data domain ( bloomington, indiana ), and computer mart ( new york city ). the first unit produced was used in a high school math class, and donated to liza loop ' s public - access computer center. about 200 units were produced, and all but 25 were sold within nine or ten months. in april 1977, the price was dropped to. it continued to be sold through august 1977, despite the introduction of the apple ii in april 1977, which began shipping in june of that year. in october 1977, the apple i was officially discontinued and removed from apple ' s price list. as wozniak was the only person who could answer most customer support questions about the computer, the company offered apple i owners discounts and trade - ins for apple iis to persuade them to return their computers. these recovered boards were then destroyed by apple, contributing to their later rarity. both steve jobs and steve wozniak have stated that apple did not assign serial numbers to the apple l. several boards have been found with numbered stickers affixed to them, which appear to be inspection stickers from the pcb manufacturer / assembler. a batch of boards is known to have numbers hand - written in black permanent