yeast rolls, typically fried, covered in granulated sugar or powdered sugar. some variants are stuffed with cream cheese or icing. wonton strips — these deep - fried strips of dough are commonly offered as complimentary appetizers, along with duck sauce and hot mustard, or with soup when ordering take - out. other american chinese dishes dau miu is a chinese vegetable that has become popular since the early 1990s, and now not only appears on english - language menus, usually as " pea shoots ", but is often served by upscale non - asian restaurants as well. originally it was only available during a few months of the year, but it is now grown in greenhouses and is available year - round. versions of dishes also found in china beijing beef — in china, this dish uses gai lan ( chinese broccoli ) rather than american broccoli. cashew chicken — stir - fried tender chicken pieces with cashew nuts. chow mein — literally means " stir - fried noodles ". chow mein consists of fried crispy noodles with bits of meat and vegetables. it can come with chicken, pork, shrimp or beef. egg foo young — chinese - style omelet with vegetables and meat, usually served with a brown gravy. while some restaurants in north america deep fry the omelet, versions found in asia are more likely to fry in the wok. egg roll — while spring rolls have a thin, light beige crispy skin that flakes apart, and is filled with mushrooms, bamboo, and other vegetables inside, the american - style egg roll has a thicker, chewier, dark brown bubbly skin stuffed with cabbage and usually bits of meat or seafood ( such as pork or shrimp ), but no egg. in some regions, a filling of shredded and dried celery replaces cabbage, resulting in a more greenish tinge to the filling. fried rice — fried - rice dishes are popular offerings in american chinese food due to the speed and ease of preparation and their appeal to american tastes. fried rice is generally prepared with rice cooled overnight, allowing restaurants to put leftover rice to good use ( freshly cooked rice is actually less suitable for fried rice ). the chinese - american version of this dish typically uses more soy sauce than the versions found in china. fried rice is offered with different combinations of meat ( pork, chicken and shrimp are the most popular ) and vegetables. ginger beef ( ) — tender beef cut in chunks, mixed with ginger and chinese mixed vegetables. ginger fried beef ( )