condemnation of the teaching of osiander, and the climax came in 1566 when the estates appealed to king sigismund ii augustus of poland, albert ' s cousin, who sent a commission to konigsberg. skalic saved his life by flight, but funck was executed. the question of the regency was settled, and a form of lutheranism was adopted and declared binding on all teachers and preachers. virtually deprived of power, the duke lived for two more years, and died at tapiau on 20 march 1568 of the plague, along with his wife. cornelis floris de vriendt designed his tomb within konigsberg cathedral. albert was a voluminous letter writer, and corresponded with many of the leading personages of the time. legacy albert was the first german noble to support luther ' s ideas and in 1544 founded the university of konigsberg, the albertina, as a rival to the roman catholic krakow academy. it was the second lutheran university in the german states, after the university of marburg. a relief of albert over the renaissance - era portal of konigsberg castle ' s southern wing was created by andreas hess in 1551 according to plans by christoph romer. another relief by an unknown artist was included in the wall of the albertina ' s original campus. this depiction, which showed the duke with his sword over his shoulder, was the popular " albertus ", the symbol of the university. the original was moved to konigsberg public library to protect it from the elements, while the sculptor paul kimritz created a duplicate for the wall. another version of the " albertus " by lothar sauer was included at the entrance of the konigsberg state and royal library. in 1880 friedrich reusch created a sandstone bust of albert at the regierungsgebaude, the administrative building for regierungsbezirk konigsberg. on 19 may 1891 reusch premiered a famous statue of albert at konigsberg castle with the inscription : " albert of brandenburg, last grand master, first duke in prussia ". albert wolff also designed an equestrian statue of albert located at the new campus of the albertina. king ' s gate contains a statue of albert. albert was oft - honored in the quarter maraunenhof in northern konigsberg. its main street was named herzog - albrecht - allee in 1906. its town square, konig - ottokar - platz, was renamed herzog - albrecht - platz