a crouched, wingless ram with its head turned towards taurus. ptolemy asserted in his almagest that hipparchus depicted alpha arietis as the ram ' s muzzle, though ptolemy did not include it in his constellation figure. instead, it was listed as an " unformed star ", and denoted as " the star over the head ". john flamsteed, in his atlas coelestis, followed ptolemy ' s description by mapping it above the figure ' s head. flamsteed followed the general convention of maps by depicting aries lying down. astrologically, aries has been associated with the head and its humors. it was strongly associated with mars, both the planet and the god. it was considered to govern western europe and syria and to indicate a strong temper in a person. the first point of aries, the location of the vernal equinox, is named for the constellation. this is because the sun crossed the celestial equator from south to north in aries more than two millennia ago. hipparchus defined it in 130 bc. as a point south of gamma arietis. because of the precession of the equinoxes, the first point of aries has since moved into pisces and will move into aquarius by around 2600 ad. the sun now appears in aries from late april through mid - may, though the constellation is still associated with the beginning of spring. medieval muslim astronomers depicted aries in various ways. astronomers like al - sufi saw the constellation as a ram, modelled on the precedent of ptolemy. however, some islamic celestial globes depicted aries as a nondescript four - legged animal with what may be antlers instead of horns. some early bedouin observers saw a ram elsewhere in the sky ; this constellation featured the pleiades as the ram ' s tail. the generally accepted arabic formation of aries consisted of thirteen stars in a figure along with five " unformed " stars, four of which were over the animal ' s hindquarters and one of which was the disputed star over aries ' s head. al - sufi ' s depiction differed from both other arab astronomers ' and flamsteed ' s, in that his aries was running and looking behind itself. the obsolete constellations of aries ( apes / vespa / lilium / musca ( borealis ) ) all centred on the same the northern stars. in 1612, petrus plancius introduced apes, a constellation