. in 1991, agassi reached his second consecutive french open final, where he faced fellow bollettieri academy alumnus jim courier. courier emerged the victor in a five - set final. the las vegan was a set and 3 - 1 up when came the rain. the rain delay proved to be a confidence builder for courier. agassi decided to play at wimbledon in 1991, leading to weeks of speculation in the media about the clothes he would wear. he eventually emerged for the first round in a completely white outfit. he reached the quarterfinals on that occasion, losing in five sets to david wheaton. agassi ' s grand slam tournament breakthrough came at wimbledon, not at the french open or the us open, where he had previously enjoyed success. in 1992, he defeated goran ivanisevic in a five - set final. along the way, agassi overcame two former wimbledon champions : boris becker and john mcenroe. no other baseliner would triumph at wimbledon until lleyton hewitt ten years later. agassi was named the bbc overseas sports personality of the year in 1992. agassi once again played on the united states ' davis cup winning team in 1992. it was their second davis cup title in three years. agassi famously played the game wearing oakley brand sunglasses, and a photo of him from the day appeared on the cover of tennis magazine. in his memoir, he wrote that he was covering up bloodshot eyes from a hangover and claimed that the founder of oakley, jim jannard, had sent him a dodge viper to thank him for the inadvertent publicity. in 1993, agassi won the only doubles title of his career, at the cincinnati masters, partnered with petr korda. he missed much of the early part of that year due to injuries. although he made the quarterfinals in his wimbledon title defense, he lost to eventual champion and no. 1 pete sampras in five sets. agassi lost in the first round at the us open to thomas enqvist and required wrist surgery late in the year. 1994 – 1997 : rise to the top, olympic gold and the fall with new coach brad gilbert on board, agassi began to employ more of a tactical, consistent approach, which fueled his resurgence. he started slowly in 1994, losing in the first week at the french open and wimbledon. nevertheless, he emerged during the hard - court season, winning the canadian open. his comeback culminated at the 1994 us open with a five - set fourth