be due to a misunderstanding. " and " hippolytos, however, is not an independent authority, and the only question is what theophrastos wrote. " for him, it became no longer a mere point in time, but a source that could perpetually give birth to whatever will be. the indefiniteness is spatial in early usages as in homer ( indefinite sea ) and as in xenophanes ( 6th century bc ) who said that the earth went down indefinitely ( to apeiron ) i. e. beyond the imagination or concept of men. burnet ( 1930 ) in early greek philosophy says : " nearly all we know of anaximander ' s system is derived in the last resort from theophrastos, who certainly knew his book. he seems once at least to have quoted anaximander ' s own words, and he criticised his style. here are the remains of what he said of him in the first book : " anaximander of miletos, son of praxiades, a fellow - citizen and associate of thales, said that the material cause and first element of things was the infinite, he being the first to introduce this name of the material cause. he says it is neither water nor any other of the so - called elements, but a substance different from them which is infinite " [ apeiron, or ] " from which arise all the heavens and the worlds within them. — phys, op. fr. 2 ( dox. p. 476 ; r. p. 16 ). " burnet ' s quote from the " first book " is his translation of theophrastos ' physic opinion fragment 2 as it appears in p. 476 of historia philosophiae graecae ( 1898 ) by ritter and preller and section 16 of doxographi graeci ( 1879 ) by diels. by ascribing the " infinite " with a " material cause ", theophrastos is following the aristotelian tradition of " nearly always discussing the facts from the point of view of his own system ". aristotle writes ( metaphysics, i. iii 3 – 4 ) that the pre - socratics were searching for the element that constitutes all things. while each pre - socratic philosopher gave a different answer as to the identity of this element ( water for thales and air for anaximenes ), anaximander understood the beginning or first principle to be