penguins into humans – after the birds have been baptized by mistake by the almost - blind abbot mael. it is a satirical history of france, starting in medieval times, going on to the author ' s own time with special attention to the dreyfus affair and concluding with a dystopian future. the gods are athirst (, 1912 ) is a novel, set in paris during the french revolution, about a true - believing follower of maximilien robespierre and his contribution to the bloody events of the reign of terror of 1793 – 94. it is a wake - up call against political and ideological fanaticism and explores various other philosophical approaches to the events of the time. the revolt of the angels (, 1914 ) is often considered france ' s most profound and ironic novel. loosely based on the christian understanding of the war in heaven, it tells the story of arcade, the guardian angel of maurice d ' esparvieu. bored because bishop d ' esparvieu is sinless, arcade begins reading the bishop ' s books on theology and becomes an atheist. he moves to paris, meets a woman, falls in love, and loses his virginity causing his wings to fall off, joins the revolutionary movement of fallen angels, and meets the devil, who realizes that if he overthrew god, he would become just like god. arcade realizes that replacing god with another is meaningless unless " in ourselves and in ourselves alone we attack and destroy ialdabaoth. " " ialdabaoth ", according to france, is god ' s secret name and means " the child who wanders ". he was awarded the nobel prize in 1921. he died in 1924 and is buried in the neuilly - sur - seine old communal cemetery near paris. on 31 may 1922, france ' s entire works were put on the index librorum prohibitorum ( " list of prohibited books " ) of the catholic church. he regarded this as a " distinction ". this index was abolished in 1966. personal life in 1877, france married valerie guerin de sauville, a granddaughter of jean - urbain guerin, a miniaturist who painted louis xvi. their daughter suzanne was born in 1881 ( and died in 1918 ). france ' s relations with women were always turbulent, and in 1888 he began a relationship with madame arman de caillavet, who conducted a celebrated literary salon of the third republic. the affair lasted until shortly before her death in 1910. after his divorce, in 1893