china and india, in contrast to the united states where 96 % of second trimester abortions are performed surgically by dilation and evacuation. a 2020 cochrane systematic review concluded that providing women with medications to take home to complete the second stage of the procedure for an early medical abortion results in an effective abortion. further research is required to determine if self - administered medical abortion is as safe as provider - administered medical abortion, where a health care professional is present to help manage the medical abortion. safely permitting women to self - administer abortion medication has the potential to improve access to abortion. other research gaps that were identified include how to best support women who choose to take the medication home for a self - administered abortion. surgical up to 15 weeks ' gestation, suction - aspiration or vacuum aspiration are the most common surgical methods of induced abortion. manual vacuum aspiration ( mva ) consists of removing the fetus or embryo, placenta, and membranes by suction using a manual syringe, while electric vacuum aspiration ( eva ) uses an electric pump. these techniques can both be used very early in pregnancy. mva can be used up to 14 weeks but is more often used earlier in the u. s. eva can be used later. mva, also known as " mini - suction " and " menstrual extraction ", or eva can be used in very early pregnancy when cervical dilation may not be required. dilation and curettage ( d & c ) refers to opening the cervix ( dilation ) and removing tissue ( curettage ) via suction or sharp instruments. d & c is a standard gynecological procedure performed for a variety of reasons, including examination of the uterine lining for possible malignancy, investigation of abnormal bleeding, and abortion. the world health organization recommends sharp curettage only when suction aspiration is unavailable. dilation and evacuation ( d & e ), used after 12 to 16 weeks, consists of opening the cervix and emptying the uterus using surgical instruments and suction. d & e is performed vaginally and does not require an incision. intact dilation and extraction ( d & x ) refers to a variant of d & e sometimes used after 18 to 20 weeks when removal of an intact fetus improves surgical safety or for other reasons. abortion may also be performed surgically by hysterotomy or gravid hysterectomy. hysterotomy abortion is a