cardinal allowing the use of a grothendieck universe is used, but in fact, most mathematicians can actually prove all they need in systems weaker than zfc, such as second - order arithmetic. the study of topology in mathematics extends all over through point set topology, algebraic topology, differential topology, and all the related paraphernalia, such as homology theory, homotopy theory. the development of abstract algebra brought with itself group theory, rings, fields, and galois theory. this list could be expanded to include most fields of mathematics, including measure theory, ergodic theory, probability, representation theory, and differential geometry. arithmetic the peano axioms are the most widely used axiomatization of first - order arithmetic. they are a set of axioms strong enough to prove many important facts about number theory and they allowed godel to establish his famous second incompleteness theorem. we have a language where is a constant symbol and is a unary function and the following axioms : for any formula with one free variable. the standard structure is where is the set of natural numbers, is the successor function and is naturally interpreted as the number 0. euclidean geometry probably the oldest, and most famous, list of axioms are the 4 + 1 euclid ' s postulates of plane geometry. the axioms are referred to as " 4 + 1 " because for nearly two millennia the fifth ( parallel ) postulate ( " through a point outside a line there is exactly one parallel " ) was suspected of being derivable from the first four. ultimately, the fifth postulate was found to be independent of the first four. one can assume that exactly one parallel through a point outside a line exists, or that infinitely many exist. this choice gives us two alternative forms of geometry in which the interior angles of a triangle add up to exactly 180 degrees or less, respectively, and are known as euclidean and hyperbolic geometries. if one also removes the second postulate ( " a line can be extended indefinitely " ) then elliptic geometry arises, where there is no parallel through a point outside a line, and in which the interior angles of a triangle add up to more than 180 degrees. real analysis the objectives of the study are within the domain of real numbers. the real numbers are uniquely picked out ( up to isomorphism ) by the properties of a dedekind complete ordered field, meaning that any nonempty set of real numbers with an upper bound has a least upper bound. however, expressing these properties