the world of pooh won the lewis carroll shelf award in 1958. 1929 onward the success of his children ' s books was to become a source of considerable annoyance to milne, whose self - avowed aim was to write whatever he pleased and who had, until then, found a ready audience for each change of direction : he had freed pre - war punch from its ponderous facetiousness ; he had made a considerable reputation as a playwright ( like his idol j. m. barrie ) on both sides of the atlantic ; he had produced a witty piece of detective writing in the red house mystery ( although this was severely criticised by raymond chandler for the implausibility of its plot in his essay the simple art of murder in the eponymous collection that appeared in 1950 ). but once milne had, in his own words, " said goodbye to all that in 70, 000 words " ( the approximate length of his four principal children ' s books ), he had no intention of producing any reworkings lacking in originality, given that one of the sources of inspiration, his son, was growing older. another reason milne stopped writing children ' s books, and especially about winnie - the - pooh, was that he felt " amazement and disgust " over the immense fame his son was exposed to, and said that " i feel that the legal christopher robin has already had more publicity than i want for him. i do not want cr milne to ever wish that his name were charles robert. " in his literary home, punch, where the when we were very young verses had first appeared, methuen continued to publish whatever milne wrote, including the long poem " the norman church " and an assembly of articles entitled year in, year out ( which milne likened to a benefit night for the author ). in 1930, milne adapted kenneth grahame ' s novel the wind in the willows for the stage as toad of toad hall. the title was an implicit admission that such chapters as chapter 7, " the piper at the gates of dawn, " could not survive translation to the theatre. a special introduction written by milne is included in some editions of grahame ' s novel. milne and his wife became estranged from their son, who came to resent what he saw as his father ' s exploitation of his childhood and came to hate the books that had thrust him into the public eye. christopher ' s marriage to his first cousin, lesley de selincourt, distanced him still further from his parents – lesley ' s father and christopher ' s mother had