as eupolis and hermippus and predecessors such as magnes, crates and cratinus, but also tragedians, notably aeschylus, sophocles and euripides, all three of whom are mentioned in e. g. the frogs. aristophanes was the equal of these great tragedians in his subtle use of lyrics. he appears to have modelled his approach to language on that of euripides in particular, so much so that the comic dramatist cratinus labelled him a ' euripidaristophanist ' addicted to hair - splitting niceties. a full appreciation of aristophanes ' plays requires an understanding of the poetic forms he employed with virtuoso skill, and of their different rhythms and associations. there were three broad poetic forms : iambic dialogue, tetrameter verses and lyrics : iambic dialogue : aristophanes achieves an effect resembling natural speech through the use of the iambic trimeter ( corresponding to the effects achieved by english poets such as shakespeare using iambic pentameters ). his realistic use of the meter makes it ideal for both dialogue and soliloquy, as for instance in the prologue, before the arrival of the chorus, when the audience is introduced to the main issues in the plot. the acharnians opens with these three lines by the hero, dikaiopolis ( rendered here in english as iambic pentameters ) : how many are the things that vex my heart! pleasures are few, so very few – just four – but stressful things are manysandthousandsandheaps! here aristophanes employs a frequent device, arranging the syntax so that the final word in a line comes as a comic climax. the hero ' s pleasures are so few he can number them (, four ) but his causes for complaint are so many they beggar numerical description and he must invent his own word for them (, literally " sandhundredheaps ", here paraphrased " manysandthousandsandheaps " ). the use of invented compound words is another comic device frequently found in the plays. tetrameter catalectic verses : these are long lines of anapests, trochees or iambs ( where each line is ideally measured in four dipodes or pairs of feet ), used in various situations within each play such as : formal debates or agons between characters ( typically in