u. s. senate seats. jackson ' s political managers william berkeley lewis and john eaton convinced him that he needed to defeat incumbent john williams, who opposed him. the legislature elected jackson in october 1823. he was attentive to his senatorial duties. he was appointed chairman of the committee on military affairs, but avoided debate or initiating legislation. he used his time in the senate to form alliances and make peace with old adversaries. eaton continued to campaign for jackson ' s presidency, updating his biography and writing a series of widely circulated pseudonymous letters that portrayed jackson as a champion of republican liberty. democratic - republican presidential nominees had historically been chosen by informal congressional nominating caucuses. in 1824, most of the democratic - republicans in congress boycotted the caucus, and the power to choose nominees was shifting to state nominating committees and legislatures. jackson was nominated by a pennsylvania convention, making him not merely a regional candidate but the leading national contender. when jackson won the pennsylvania nomination, calhoun dropped out of the presidential race. afterwards, jackson won the nomination in six other states and had a strong second - place finish in three others. in the presidential election, jackson won a 42 - percent plurality of the popular vote. more importantly, he won a plurality of electoral votes, receiving 99 votes from states in the south, west, and mid - atlantic. he was the only candidate to win states outside of his regional base : adams dominated new england, crawford won virginia and georgia, and clay took three western states. because no candidate had a majority of 131 electoral votes, the house of representatives held a contingent election under the terms of the twelfth amendment. the amendment specifies that only the top three electoral vote - winners are eligible to be elected by the house, so clay was eliminated from contention. clay, who was also speaker of the house and presided over the election ' s resolution, saw a jackson presidency as a disaster for the country. clay threw his support behind adams, who won the contingent election on the first ballot. adams appointed clay as his secretary of state, leading supporters of jackson to accuse clay and adams of having struck a " corrupt bargain ". after the congressional session concluded, jackson resigned his senate seat and returned to tennessee. election of 1828 and death of rachel jackson after the election, jackson ' s supporters formed a new party to undermine adams and ensure he served only one term. adams ' s presidency went poorly, and adams ' s behavior undermined it. he was perceived as an intellectual elite who ignored the needs of the populace.