radio production, again using orwell ' s dramatisation of the book, was broadcast in january 2013 on bbc radio 4. tamsin greig narrated, and the cast included nicky henson as napoleon, toby jones as the propagandist squealer, and ralph ineson as boxer. comic strip in 1950, norman pett and his writing partner don freeman were secretly hired by the information research department ( ird ), a secret wing of the british foreign office, to adapt animal farm into a comic strip. this comic was not published in the uk but ran in brazilian and burmese newspapers. see also information research department authoritarian personality history of soviet russia and the soviet union ( 1917 – 1927 ) history of the soviet union ( 1927 – 1953 ) ideocracy new class anthems in animal farm animals, an album based on animal farm books gulliver ' s travels was a favourite book of orwell ' s. swift reverses the role of horses and human beings in the fourth book. orwell brought to animal farm " a dose of swiftian misanthropy, looking ahead to a time ' when the human race had finally been overthrown. " bunt ( revolt ), published in 1924, is a book by polish nobel laureate władysław reymont with a theme similar to animal farm. white acre vs. black acre, published in 1856 and written by william m. burwell, is a satirical novel that features allegories for slavery in the united states similar to animal farms portrayal of soviet history. george orwell ' s own nineteen eighty - four is a classic dystopian novel about totalitarianism. references explanatory notes citations general sources further reading o ' neill, terry, readings on animal farm ( 1998 ), greenhaven press.. external links animal farm book notes from literapedia excerpts from orwell ' s letters to his agent concerning animal farm literary journal review orwell ' s original preface to the book animal farm revisited by john molyneux, international socialism, 44 ( 1989 ) animal farm at the british library animal farm ( 1954 ) 1945 british novels allegory british novellas british novels adapted into films british novels adapted into plays british novels adapted into television shows british political novels british satirical novels novels about cats cattle in literature censored books novels about dogs dystopian novels english novels hugo award for best novella winning works novels about animals novels about propaganda novels about revolutionaries novels about totalitarianism novels adapted into comics novels adapted into radio programs novels by