, and followed the rule of " first come, first served ", without any consideration of how much resources are left for other individuals. anarcho - capitalists advocate private ownership of the means of production and the allocation of the product of labor created by workers within the context of wage labour and the free market – that is through decisions made by property and capital owners, regardless of what an individual needs or does not need. original appropriation allows an individual to claim any never - before - used resources, including land and by improving or otherwise using it, own it with the same " absolute right " as their own body, and retaining those rights forever, regardless of whether the resource is still being used by them. according to rothbard, property can only come about through labor, therefore original appropriation of land is not legitimate by merely claiming it or building a fence around it — it is only by using land and by mixing one ' s labor with it that original appropriation is legitimized : " any attempt to claim a new resource that someone does not use would have to be considered invasive of the property right of whoever the first user will turn out to be ". rothbard argued that the resource need not continue to be used in order for it to be the person ' s property as " for once his labor is mixed with the natural resource, it remains his owned land. his labor has been irretrievably mixed with the land, and the land is therefore his or his assigns ' in perpetuity ". rothbard also spoke about a theory of justice in property rights : in justice and property rights, rothbard wrote that " any identifiable owner ( the original victim of theft or his heir ) must be accorded his property ". in the case of slavery, rothbard claimed that in many cases " the old plantations and the heirs and descendants of the former slaves can be identified, and the reparations can become highly specific indeed ". rothbard believed slaves rightfully own any land they were forced to work on under the homestead principle. if property is held by the state, rothbard advocated its confiscation and " return to the private sector ", writing that " any property in the hands of the state is in the hands of thieves, and should be liberated as quickly as possible ". rothbard proposed that state universities be seized by the students and faculty under the homestead principle. rothbard also supported the expropriation of nominally " private property " if it is the result of state - initiated force such