derleth retained custody of the couple ' s two children, april rose derleth and walden william derleth. april earned a bachelor of arts degree in english from the university of wisconsin - madison in 1977. she became majority stockholder, president, and ceo of arkham house in 1994. she remained in that capacity until her death. she was known in the community as a naturalist and humanitarian. april died on march 21, 2011. in 1960, derleth began editing and publishing a magazine called hawk and whippoorwill, dedicated to poems of man and nature. derleth died of a heart attack on july 4, 1971, and is buried in st. aloysius cemetery in sauk city. the u. s. 12 bridge over the wisconsin river is named in his honor. derleth was roman catholic. in derleth ' s biography, dorothy m. grobe litersky stated that derleth was bisexual, and maintained long - term romantic relationships with both men and women. this assertion has not been verified, however ; no names were given of these romantic partners ( in the interest of privacy according to litersky ), and no evidence or acknowledgement of derleth having a bisexual or homosexual orientation has ever been found in his personal correspondence or writings. career derleth wrote more than 150 short stories and more than 100 books during his lifetime. the sac prairie saga derleth wrote an expansive series of novels, short stories, journals, poems, and other works about sac prairie. derleth intended this series to comprise up to 50 novels telling the projected life - story of the region from the 19th century onwards, with analogies to balzac ' s human comedy and proust ' s remembrance of things past. this, and other early work by derleth, made him a well - known figure among the regional literary figures of his time : early pulitzer prize winners hamlin garland and zona gale, as well as sinclair lewis, the last both an admirer and critic of derleth. as edward wagenknecht wrote in cavalcade of the american novel, " what mr. derleth has that is lacking... in modern novelists generally, is a country. he belongs. he writes of a land and a people that are bone of his bone and flesh of his flesh. in his fictional world, there is a unity much deeper and more fundamental than anything that can be conferred by an ideology. it is clear, too, that he