implementation of apl \ 360 at ibm : apl is occasionally re - interpreted as array programming language or array processing language, thereby making apl into a backronym. logo there has always been cooperation between apl vendors, and joint conferences were held on a regular basis from 1969 until 2010. at such conferences, apl merchandise was often handed out, featuring apl motifs or collection of vendor logos. common were apples ( as a pun on the similarity in pronunciation of apple and apl ) and the code snippet which are the symbols produced by the classic apl keyboard layout when holding the apl modifier key and typing " apl ". despite all these community efforts, no universal vendor - agnostic logo for the programming language emerged. as popular programming languages increasingly have established recognisable logos, fortran getting one in 2020, british apl association launched a campaign in the second half of 2021, to establish such a logo for apl, and after a community election and multiple rounds of feedback, a logo was chosen in may 2022. use apl is used for many purposes including financial and insurance applications, artificial intelligence, neural networks and robotics. it has been argued that apl is a calculation tool and not a programming language ; its symbolic nature and array capabilities have made it popular with domain experts and data scientists who do not have or require the skills of a computer programmer. apl is well suited to image manipulation and computer animation, where graphic transformations can be encoded as matrix multiplications. one of the first commercial computer graphics houses, digital effects, produced an apl graphics product named visions, which was used to create television commercials and animation for the 1982 film tron. latterly, the stormwind boating simulator uses apl to implement its core logic, its interfacing to the rendering pipeline middleware and a major part of its physics engine. today, apl remains in use in a wide range of commercial and scientific applications, for example investment management, asset management, health care, and dna profiling, and by hobbyists. notable implementations apl \ 360 the first implementation of apl using recognizable apl symbols was apl \ 360 which ran on the ibm system / 360, and was completed in november 1966 though at that time remained in use only within ibm. in 1973 its implementors, larry breed, dick lathwell and roger moore, were awarded the grace murray hopper award from the association for computing machinery ( acm ). it was given " for their work in the design and implementation