printed in black over the orange background. in september 1985, warhol ' s joint exhibition with basquiat, paintings, opened to negative reviews at the tony shafrazi gallery. that month, despite apprehension from warhol, his silkscreen series reigning queens was shown at the leo castelli gallery. in the andy warhol diaries, warhol wrote, " they were supposed to be only for europe — nobody here cares about royalty and it ' ll be another bad review. " in january 1987, warhol traveled to milan for the opening of his last exhibition, last supper, at the palazzo delle stelline. the next month, warhol and jazz musician miles davis modeled for koshin satoh ' s fashion show at the tunnel in new york city on february 17, 1987. death warhol died in manhattan at 6 : 32 a. m. on february 22, 1987, at age 58. according to news reports, he had been making a good recovery from gallbladder surgery at new york hospital before dying in his sleep from a sudden post - operative irregular heartbeat. prior to his diagnosis and operation, warhol delayed having his recurring gallbladder problems checked, as he was afraid to enter hospitals and see doctors. his family sued the hospital for inadequate care, saying that the arrhythmia was caused by improper care and water intoxication. the malpractice case was quickly settled out of court ; warhol ' s family received an undisclosed sum of money. shortly before warhol ' s death, doctors expected warhol to survive the surgery, though a re - evaluation of the case about thirty years after his death showed many indications that warhol ' s surgery was in fact riskier than originally thought. it was widely reported at the time that warhol had died of a " routine " surgery, though when considering factors such as his age, a family history of gallbladder problems, his previous gunshot wound, and his medical state in the weeks leading up to the procedure, the potential risk of death following the surgery appeared to have been significant. warhol ' s brothers took his body back to pittsburgh, where an open - coffin wake was held at the thomas p. kunsak funeral home. the solid bronze casket had gold - plated rails and white upholstery. warhol was dressed in a black cashmere suit, a paisley tie, a platinum wig, and sunglasses. he was laid out holding a small prayer book and a red rose. the funeral liturgy was held at the holy ghost