attempted to murder muhammad as he slept. meanwhile, abu bakr accompanied muhammad to medina. due to the danger posed by the quraysh, they did not take the road, but moved in the opposite direction, taking refuge in a cave in jabal thawr, some five miles south of mecca. abd allah ibn abi bakr, the son of abu bakr, would listen to the plans and discussions of the quraysh, and at night he would carry the news to the fugitives in the cave. asma bint abi bakr, the daughter of abu bakr, brought them meals every day. aamir, a servant of abu bakr, would bring a flock of goats to the mouth of the cave every night, where they were milked. the quraysh sent search parties in all directions. one party came close to the entrance to the cave, but was unable to see them. due to this, quranic verse was revealed. aisha, abu al - khudri and abd allah ibn abbas in interpreting this verse said that abu bakr was the companion who stayed with muhammad in the cave. after staying at the cave for three days and three nights, abu bakr and muhammad proceed to medina, staying for some time at quba, a suburb of medina. life in medina in medina, muhammad decided to construct a mosque. a piece of land was chosen and the price of the land was paid for by abu bakr. the muslims, including abu bakr, constructed a mosque named al - masjid al - nabawi at the site. abu bakr was paired with khaarijah bin zaid ansari ( who was from medina ) as a brother in faith. abu bakr ' s relationship with khaarijah was most cordial, which was further strengthened when abu bakr married habiba, a daughter of khaarijah. khaarijah bin zaid ansari lived at sunh, a suburb of medina, and abu bakr also settled there. after abu bakr ' s family arrived in medina, he bought another house near muhammad ' s. while the climate of mecca was dry, the climate of medina was damp and because of this, most of the migrants fell sick on arrival. abu bakr contracted a fever for several days, during which time he was attended to by khaarijah and his family. in mecca, abu bakr was a wholesale trader in cloth and he started the same business in medina. he opened