noble notary jaume orig of puigcerda, and construction of military structures in the country was prohibited. in 1364, the political organization of the country named the figure of the syndic ( now spokesman and president of the parliament ) as representative of the andorrans to their co - princes, making possible the creation of local departments ( comuns, quarts and veinats ). after being ratified by bishop francesc tovia and count john i, the consell de la terra or consell general de les valls ( general council of the valleys ) was founded in 1419, the second oldest parliament in europe. the syndic andreu d ' alas and the general council organized the creation of the justice courts ( la cort de justicia ) in 1433 with the co - princes and the collection of taxes like foc i lloc ( literally " fire and site ", a national tax active since then ). although there are remains of ecclesiastical works dating before the 9th century ( sant vicenc d ' enclar or esglesia de santa coloma ), andorra developed exquisite romanesque art during the 9th through 14th centuries, particularly in the construction of churches, bridges, religious murals and statues of the virgin and child ( our lady of meritxell being the most important ). nowadays, the romanesque buildings that form part of andorra ' s cultural heritage stand out in a remarkable way, with an emphasis on esglesia de sant esteve, sant joan de caselles, esglesia de sant miquel d ' engolasters, sant marti de la cortinada and the medieval bridges of margineda and escalls among many others. the catalan pyrenees were embryonic of the catalan language at the end of the 11th century. andorra was influenced by this language, which was adopted locally decades before it expanded to the rest of the crown of aragon. the local economy during the middle ages was based on livestock, agriculture, furs and weavers. later, at the end of the 11th century, the first iron foundries began to appear in northern parishes like ordino, much appreciated by the master artisans who developed the art of the forges, an important economic activity in the country from the 15th century. 16th to 18th centuries in 1601 the tribunal de corts ( high court of justice ) was created as a result of huguenot rebellions in france, inquisition courts coming from spain and witchcraft - related beliefs native to the area, in the context of