, but a wind perpendicular to the current may break out the anchors, as they are not aligned for this load. backing an anchor also known as tandem anchoring, in this technique two anchors are deployed in line with each other, on the same rode. with the foremost anchor reducing the load on the aft - most, this technique can develop great holding power and may be appropriate in " ultimate storm " circumstances. it does not limit swinging range, and might not be suitable in some circumstances. there are complications, and the technique requires careful preparation and a level of skill and experience above that required for a single anchor. kedging kedging or warping is a technique for moving or turning a ship by using a relatively light anchor. in yachts, a kedge anchor is an anchor carried in addition to the main, or bower anchors, and usually stowed aft. every yacht should carry at least two anchors – the main or bower anchor and a second lighter kedge anchor. it is used occasionally when it is necessary to limit the turning circle as the yacht swings when it is anchored, such as in a narrow river or a deep pool in an otherwise shallow area. kedge anchors are sometimes used to recover vessels that have run aground. for ships, a kedge may be dropped while a ship is underway, or carried out in a suitable direction by a tender or ship ' s boat to enable the ship to be winched off if aground or swung into a particular heading, or even to be held steady against a tidal or other stream. historically, it was of particular relevance to sailing warships that used them to outmaneuver opponents when the wind had dropped but might be used by any vessel in confined, shoal water to place it in a more desirable position, provided she had enough manpower. club hauling club hauling is an archaic technique. when a vessel is in a narrow channel or on a lee shore so that there is no room to tack the vessel in a conventional manner, an anchor attached to the lee quarter may be dropped from the lee bow. this is deployed when the vessel is head to wind and has lost headway. as the vessel gathers sternway the strain on the cable pivots the vessel around what is now the weather quarter turning the vessel onto the other tack. the anchor is then normally cut away ( the ship ' s momentum prevents recovery without aborting the maneuver ). weighing anchor since all anchors that embed themselves in the bottom require the strain to be along the seabed, anchors can be broken out