##mensional, dimensionless variables are used. expression may mean a state with single photon, or the coherent state with mean amplitude equal to 1, or state with momentum equal to unity, and so on. the reader is supposed to guess from the context. ambiguous terms in physics and mathematics some physical quantities do not yet have established notations ; their value ( and sometimes even dimension, as in the case of the einstein coefficients ), depends on the system of notations. many terms are ambiguous. each use of an ambiguous term should be preceded by the definition, suitable for a specific case. just like ludwig wittgenstein states in tractatus logico - philosophicus : "... only in the context of a proposition has a name meaning. " a highly confusing term is gain. for example, the sentence " the gain of a system should be doubled ", without context, means close to nothing. it may mean that the ratio of the output voltage of an electric circuit to the input voltage should be doubled. it may mean that the ratio of the output power of an electric or optical circuit to the input power should be doubled. it may mean that the gain of the laser medium should be doubled, for example, doubling the population of the upper laser level in a quasi - two level system ( assuming negligible absorption of the ground - state ). the term intensity is ambiguous when applied to light. the term can refer to any of irradiance, luminous intensity, radiant intensity, or radiance, depending on the background of the person using the term. also, confusions may be related with the use of atomic percent as measure of concentration of a dopant, or resolution of an imaging system, as measure of the size of the smallest detail which still can be resolved at the background of statistical noise. see also accuracy and precision and its talk. the berry paradox arises as a result of systematic ambiguity in the meaning of terms such as " definable " or " nameable ". terms of this kind give rise to vicious circle fallacies. other terms with this type of ambiguity are : satisfiable, true, false, function, property, class, relation, cardinal, and ordinal. mathematical interpretation of ambiguity in mathematics and logic, ambiguity can be considered to be an instance of the logical concept of underdetermination — for example, leaves open what the value of x is — while its opposite is a self - contradiction, also called inconsistency, paradoxicalness