##is ( " toga of manhood " ) four years later and was elected to the college of pontiffs in 47 bc. the following year he was put in charge of the greek games that were staged in honor of the temple of venus genetrix, built by julius caesar. according to nicolaus of damascus, octavius wished to join caesar ' s staff for his campaign in africa but gave way when his mother protested. in 46 bc, she consented for him to join caesar in hispania, where he planned to fight the forces of pompey, caesar ' s late enemy, but octavius fell ill and was unable to travel. when he had recovered, he sailed to the front but was shipwrecked. after coming ashore with a handful of companions, he crossed hostile territory to caesar ' s camp, which impressed caesar considerably. velleius paterculus reports that after that time, caesar allowed the young man to share his carriage. when back in rome, caesar deposited a new will with the vestal virgins, naming octavius as the prime beneficiary. rise to power heir to caesar octavius was studying and undergoing military training in apollonia, illyria, when julius caesar was assassinated on the ides of march ( 15 march ) 44 bc. he rejected the advice of some army officers to take refuge with the troops in macedonia and sailed to italy to ascertain whether he had any potential political fortunes or security. caesar had no living legitimate children under roman law and so had adopted octavius, his grand - nephew, in his will, making him his primary heir. mark antony later charged that octavian had earned his adoption by caesar through sexual favours, though suetonius describes antony ' s accusation as political slander. this form of slander was popular during this time in the roman republic to demean and discredit political opponents by accusing them of having an inappropriate sexual affair. after landing at lupiae near brundisium, octavius learned the contents of caesar ' s will, and only then did he decide to become caesar ' s political heir as well as heir to two - thirds of his estate. upon his adoption, octavius assumed his great - uncle ' s name gaius julius caesar. roman citizens adopted into a new family usually retained their old nomen in cognomen form ( e. g., octavianus for one who had been an octavius, aemilianus for one who had been an