outset he faced the formidable attack of the normans, led by robert guiscard and his son bohemund, who took dyrrhachium and corfu and laid siege to larissa in thessaly ( see battle of dyrrhachium ). alexios suffered several defeats before he was able to strike back with success. he enhanced his resistance by an agreement with the german king henry iv, who, in exchange for 360, 000 gold pieces, did attack the normans in italy, which forced the normans to concentrate on their defenses at home in 1083 – 84. he also secured the alliance of henry, count of monte sant ' angelo, who controlled the gargano peninsula and dated his charters by alexios ' reign. henry ' s allegiance would be the last example of byzantine political control on peninsular italy. the norman military danger subsided with the death of guiscard in 1085, and the byzantines recovered most of their losses. alexios next had to deal with disturbances in thrace, where the heretical sects of the bogomils and the paulicians revolted and made common cause with the pechenegs from beyond the danube. paulician soldiers in imperial service likewise deserted during alexios ' battles with the normans. as soon as the norman threat had passed, alexios set out to punish the rebels and deserters, confiscating their lands. this led to a further revolt near philippopolis, and the commander of the field army in the west, gregory pakourianos, was defeated and killed in the ensuing battle. in 1087 the pechenegs raided into thrace, and alexios crossed into moesia to retaliate but failed to take dorostolon ( silistra ). during his retreat, the emperor was confronted and defeated by the pechenegs, who forced him to sign a truce and to pay protection money. in 1090 the pechenegs invaded thrace again, while tzachas, the brother - in - law of the sultan of rum, launched a fleet and attempted to arrange a joint siege of constantinople with the pechenegs. alexios overcame this crisis by entering into an alliance with a horde of 40, 000 cumans, with whose help he conquered the pechenegs at levounion in thrace on 29 april 1091. this put an end to the pecheneg threat, but in 1094 the cumans began to raid the imperial territories in