and the languages of other immigrant communities. however, the most common language other than standard english is the island ' s own english - lexifier creole language ( not to be confused with antillean creole ( ' french creole ' ), spoken in french islands such as martinique and guadeloupe ). it is referred to locally by terms such as " dialect " ( pronounced " dialek " ), anguilla talk or " anguillian ". it has its main roots in early varieties of english and west african languages, and is similar to the dialects spoken in english - speaking islands throughout the eastern caribbean in terms of its structural features. linguists who are interested in the origins of anguillan and other caribbean creoles point out that some of its grammatical features can be traced to african languages while others can be traced to european languages. three areas have been identified as significant for the identification of the linguistic origins of those forced migrants who arrived before 1710 : the gold coast, the slave coast and the windward coast. sociohistorical information from anguilla ' s archives suggest that africans and europeans formed two distinct, but perhaps overlapping speech communities in the early phases of the island ' s colonisation. " anguillian " is believed to have emerged as the language of the masses as time passed, slavery was abolished and locals began to see themselves as " belonging " to anguillan society. education there are six government primary schools, one government secondary school ( albena lake hodge comprehensive school ), and two private schools. there is a single library, the edison l. hughes education & library complex of the anguilla public library. a branch of the saint james school of medicine was established in 2011 in anguilla. it is a private, for - profit medical school headquartered in park ridge, illinois. there is a university of the west indies open campus site in the island. culture the island ' s cultural history begins with the native taino, arawak and carib. their artifacts have been found around the island, telling of life before european settlers arrived. anguillan culture has also been built through immigration. many european families have moved to the island and have impacted the formalities of the anguillan people. restaurants such as dolce vita and roy ' s bayside grill, located in meads bay, represent the european culture assimilating within the island. similar to nearby islands, anguillans geography and location require a cultural reliance on the ocean. the island ' s abundance of sea