but the meaning of the line was obscured by gaps in the papyrus until reconstructed by a modern scholar ; such reconstructions are typical of the extant poetry ( see scholars, fragments and sources below ). this poem does not begin with a verb but with an adverb ( δευτε ) but still communicates a sense of action. he probably performed his verses at drinking parties for friends and political allies – men for whom loyalty was essential, particularly in such troubled times. tributes from other poets horace the roman poet horace modelled his own lyrical compositions on those of alcaeus, rendering the lesbian poet ' s verse - forms, including ' alcaic ' and ' sapphic ' stanzas, into concise latin – an achievement he celebrates in his third book of odes. in his second book, in an ode composed in alcaic stanzas on the subject of an almost fatal accident he had on his farm, he imagines meeting alcaeus and sappho in hades : ovid ovid compared alcaeus to sappho in letters of the heroines, where sappho is imagined to speak as follows : scholars, fragments and sources the story of alcaeus is partly the story of the scholars who rescued his work from oblivion. his verses have not come down to us through a manuscript tradition – generations of scribes copying an author ' s collected works, such as delivered intact into the modern age four entire books of pindar ' s odes – but haphazardly, in quotes from ancient scholars and commentators whose own works have chanced to survive, and in the tattered remnants of papyri uncovered from an ancient rubbish pile at oxyrhynchus and other locations in egypt : sources that modern scholars have studied and correlated exhaustively, adding little by little to the world ' s store of poetic fragments. ancient scholars quoted alcaeus in support of various arguments. thus for example heraclitus " the allegorist " quoted fr. 326 and part of fr. 6, about ships in a storm, in his study on homer ' s use of allegory. the hymn to hermes, fr308 ( b ), was quoted by hephaestion and both he and libanius, the rhetorician, quoted the first two lines of fr. 350, celebrating the return from babylon of alcaeus ' brother. the rest of fr. 350 was paraphrased in prose by the historian / geographer strabo. many fragments were supplied in