##ing " is an additional method that is used with the intention of mitigating gastrointestinal bleeding. buffering agents are intended to work by preventing the aspirin from concentrating in the walls of the stomach, although the benefits of buffered aspirin are disputed. almost any buffering agent used in antacids can be used ; bufferin, for example, uses magnesium oxide. other preparations use calcium carbonate. gas - forming agents in effervescent tablet and powder formulations can also double as a buffering agent, one example being sodium bicarbonate, used in alka - seltzer. taking vitamin c with aspirin has been investigated as a method of protecting the stomach lining. in trials vitamin c - releasing aspirin ( asa - vitc ) or a buffered aspirin formulation containing vitamin c was found to cause less stomach damage than aspirin alone. retinal vein occlusion it is a widespread habit among eye specialists ( ophthalmologists ) to prescribe aspirin as an add - on medication for patients with retinal vein occlusion ( rvo ), such as central retinal vein occlusion ( crvo ) and branch retinal vein occlusion ( brvo ). the reason of this widespread use is the evidence of its proven effectiveness in major systemic venous thrombotic disorders, and it has been assumed that may be similarly beneficial in various types of retinal vein occlusion. however, a large - scale investigation based on data of nearly 700 patients showed " that aspirin or other antiplatelet aggregating agents or anticoagulants adversely influence the visual outcome in patients with crvo and hemi - crvo, without any evidence of protective or beneficial effect ". several expert groups, including the royal college of ophthalmologists, recommended against the use of antithrombotic drugs ( incl. aspirin ) for patients with rvo. central effects large doses of salicylate, a metabolite of aspirin, cause temporary tinnitus ( ringing in the ears ) based on experiments in rats, via the action on arachidonic acid and nmda receptors cascade. reye ' s syndrome reye ' s syndrome, a rare but severe illness characterized by acute encephalopathy and fatty liver, can occur when children or adolescents are given aspirin for a fever or other illness or infection. from 1981 to