. the french names ( from which the english names got derived ) preserve the qualities of the english vowels before the great vowel shift. by contrast, the names of f, l, m, n, and s ( ) remain the same in both languages because " short " vowels were largely unaffected by the shift. in cyrillic, originally, acrophony was present using slavic words. the first three words going, azu, buky, vede, with the cyrillic collation order being, а, б, в. however, this was later abandoned in favor of a system similar to latin. orthography and pronunciation when an alphabet is adopted or developed to represent a given language, an orthography generally comes into being, providing rules for spelling words, following the principle on which alphabets get based. these rules will map letters of the alphabet to the phonemes of the spoken language. in a perfectly phonemic orthography, there would be a consistent one - to - one correspondence between the letters and the phonemes so that a writer could predict the spelling of a word given its pronunciation, and a speaker would always know the pronunciation of a word given its spelling, and vice versa. however, this ideal is usually never achieved in practice. languages can come close to it, such as spanish and finnish. others, such as english, deviate from it to a much larger degree. the pronunciation of a language often evolves independently of its writing system. writing systems have been borrowed for languages the orthography was not initially made to use. the degree to which letters of an alphabet correspond to phonemes of a language varies. languages may fail to achieve a one - to - one correspondence between letters and sounds in any of several ways : a language may represent a given phoneme by combinations of letters rather than just a single letter. two - letter combinations are called digraphs, and three - letter groups are called trigraphs. german uses the tetragraphs ( four letters ) " tsch " for the phoneme and ( in a few borrowed words ) " dsch " for. kabardian also uses a tetragraph for one of its phonemes, namely " кхъу. " two letters representing one sound occur in several instances in hungarian as well ( where, for instance, cs stands for [ tʃ ], sz for [ s ], zs for [ ʒ ], dzs for [ dʒ ] ). a language may represent the same phoneme with two or more different letters