in any case, delilah was completed too late to be used during the war. though the system worked fully, with turing demonstrating it to officials by encrypting and decrypting a recording of a winston churchill speech, delilah was not adopted for use. turing also consulted with bell labs on the development of sigsaly, a secure voice system that was used in the later years of the war. early computers and the turing test between 1945 and 1947, turing lived in hampton, london, while he worked on the design of the ace ( automatic computing engine ) at the national physical laboratory ( npl ). he presented a paper on 19 february 1946, which was the first detailed design of a stored - program computer. von neumann ' s incomplete first draft of a report on the edvac had predated turing ' s paper, but it was much less detailed and, according to john r. womersley, superintendent of the npl mathematics division, it " contains a number of ideas which are dr. turing ' s own ". although ace was a feasible design, the effect of the official secrets act surrounding the wartime work at bletchley park made it impossible for turing to explain the basis of his analysis of how a computer installation involving human operators would work. this led to delays in starting the project and he became disillusioned. in late 1947 he returned to cambridge for a sabbatical year during which he produced a seminal work on intelligent machinery that was not published in his lifetime. while he was at cambridge, the pilot ace was being built in his absence. it executed its first program on 10 may 1950, and a number of later computers around the world owe much to it, including the english electric deuce and the american bendix g - 15. the full version of turing ' s ace was not built until after his death. according to the memoirs of the german computer pioneer heinz billing from the max planck institute for physics, published by genscher, dusseldorf, there was a meeting between turing and konrad zuse. it took place in gottingen in 1947. the interrogation had the form of a colloquium. participants were womersley, turing, porter from england and a few german researchers like zuse, walther, and billing ( for more details see herbert bruderer, konrad zuse und die schweiz ). in 1948, turing was appointed reader in the mathematics department at the victoria university of manchester. a year later, he became deputy director of the computing machine laboratory,