the dodo is a fictional character appearing in chapters 2 and 3 of the 1865 book alice ' s adventures in wonderland by lewis carroll ( charles lutwidge dodgson ). the dodo is a caricature of the author. a popular but unsubstantiated belief is that dodgson chose the particular animal to represent himself because of his stammer, and thus would accidentally introduce himself as " do - do - dodgson ". historically, the dodo was a non - flying bird that lived on the island of mauritius, east of madagascar in the indian ocean. it became extinct in the mid 17th century during the colonisation of the island by the dutch. alice ' s adventures in wonderland in this passage lewis carroll incorporated references to the original boating expedition of 4 july 1862 during which alice ' s adventures were first told, with alice as herself, and the others represented by birds : the lory was lorina liddell, the eaglet was edith liddell, the dodo was dodgson, and the duck was rev. robinson duckworth. in order to get dry after a swim, the dodo proposes that everyone run a caucus race – where the participants run in patterns of any shape, starting and leaving off whenever they like, so that everyone wins. at the end of the race, alice distributes comfits from her pocket to all as prizes. however this leaves no prize for herself. the dodo inquires what else she has in her pocket. as she has only a thimble, the dodo requests it from her and then awards it to alice as her prize. the caucus race, as depicted by carroll, is a satire on the political caucus system, mocking its lack of clarity and decisiveness. interpretations disney animated film version in the disney film, the dodo plays a much greater role in the story than in the book. he is merged with the character of pat the gardener, which leads to him sometimes being nicknamed pat the dodo, but this name is never mentioned in the film. the dodo is also the leader of the caucus race. he has the appearance and personality of a sea captain. the dodo is voiced by bill thompson and animated by milt kahl. dodo is first seen as alice is floating on the sea in a bottle. dodo is seen singing, but when alice asks him for help, he does not notice her. on shore, dodo is seen on a rock, organizing a caucus race. this race involves