statistical area totalling. the city sits at an average elevation of above sea level. mount lofty, east of the adelaide metropolitan region in the adelaide hills at an elevation of, is the tallest point of the city and in the state south of burra. the city borders the temperate grassland of south australia in the east, an endangered vegetation community. much of adelaide was bushland before british settlement, with some variation – sandhills, swamps and marshlands were prevalent around the coast. the loss of the sandhills to urban development had a particularly destructive effect on the coastline due to erosion. where practical, the government has implemented programs to rebuild and vegetate sandhills at several of adelaide ' s beachside suburbs. tennyson dunes is the largest contiguous, tertiary dune system contained entirely within metropolitan adelaide, providing refuge for a variety of remnant species formerly found along the entire coastline. much of the original vegetation has been cleared with what is left to be found in reserves such as the cleland national park and belair national park. a number of creeks and rivers flow through the adelaide region. the largest are the torrens and onkaparinga catchments. adelaide relies on its many reservoirs for water supply with the happy valley reservoir supplying around 40 % and the much larger mount bold reservoir 10 % of adelaide ' s domestic requirements respectively. geology adelaide and its surrounding area is one of the most seismically active regions in australia. on 1 march 1954 at 3 : 40 am adelaide experienced its largest recorded earthquake to date, with the epicentre 12 km from the city centre at darlington, and a reported magnitude of 5. 6. there have been smaller earthquakes in 2010, 2011, 2014, 2017, 2018 and 2022. the uplands of the adelaide hills, part of the southern mount lofty ranges to the east of adelaide, are defined on their western side by a number of arcuate faults ( the para, eden, clarendon and willunga faults ), and consist of rocks such as siltstone, dolomite and quartzite, dating from the neoproterozoic to the middle cambrian, laid down in the adelaide rift complex, the oldest part of the adelaide superbasin. most of the adelaide metropolitan area lies in the downthrown st vincent basin and its embayments, including the adelaide plains sub - basin, and the golden grove, noarlunga and willunga embayments. these basins contain deposits of tertiary marine and non - marine sands and limestones, which form