cars. production figures data from 1998 to 2010. figures for different body types / versions of models have been merged to create overall figures for each model. motorsport audi has competed in various forms of motorsports. audi ' s tradition in motorsport began with their former company auto union in the 1930s. in the 1990s, audi found success in the touring and super touring categories of motor racing after success in circuit racing in north america. rallying in 1980, audi released the quattro, a four - wheel drive ( 4wd ) turbocharged car that went on to win rallies and races worldwide. it is considered one of the most significant rally cars of all time, because it was one of the first to take advantage of the then - recently changed rules which allowed the use of four - wheel drive in competition racing. many critics doubted the viability of four - wheel drive racers, thinking them to be too heavy and complex, yet the quattro was to become a successful car. it led its first rally before going off the road, however, the rally world had been served notice 4wd was the future. the quattro went on to achieve much success in the world rally championship. it won the 1983 ( hannu mikkola ) and the 1984 ( stig blomqvist ) drivers ' titles, and brought audi the manufacturers ' title in 1982 and 1984. in 1984, audi launched the short - wheelbase sport quattro which dominated rally races in monte carlo and sweden, with audi taking all podium places, but succumbed to problems further into wrc contention. in 1985, after another season mired in mediocre finishes, walter rohrl finished the season in his sport quattro s1, and helped place audi second in the manufacturers ' points. audi also received rally honours in the hong kong to beijing rally in that same year. michele mouton, the only female driver to win a round of the world rally championship and a driver for audi, took the sport quattro s1, now simply called the " s1 ", and raced in the pikes peak international hill climb. the climb race pits a driver and car to drive to the summit of the pikes peak mountain in colorado, and in 1985, michele mouton set a new record of 11 : 25. 39, and being the first woman to set a pikes peak record. in 1986, audi formally left international rally racing following an accident in portugal involving driver joaquim santos in his ford rs200. santos swerved to avoid hitting