s cr - lf line - ending convention. end of file / stream the pdp - 6 monitor, and its pdp - 10 successor tops - 10, used control - z ( sub ) as an end - of - file indication for input from a terminal. some operating systems such as cp / m tracked file length only in units of disk blocks, and used control - z to mark the end of the actual text in the file. for these reasons, eof, or end - of - file, was used colloquially and conventionally as a three - letter acronym for control - z instead of substitute. the end - of - text character ( etx ), also known as control - c, was inappropriate for a variety of reasons, while using control - z as the control character to end a file is analogous to the letter z ' s position at the end of the alphabet, and serves as a very convenient mnemonic aid. a historically common and still prevalent convention uses the etx character convention to interrupt and halt a program via an input data stream, usually from a keyboard. the unix terminal driver uses the end - of - transmission character ( eot ), also known as control - d, to indicate the end of a data stream. in the c programming language, and in unix conventions, the null character is used to terminate text strings ; such null - terminated strings can be known in abbreviation as asciz or asciiz, where here z stands for " zero ". control code chart other representations might be used by specialist equipment, for example iso 2047 graphics or hexadecimal numbers. printable characters codes 20hex to 7ehex, known as the printable characters, represent letters, digits, punctuation marks, and a few miscellaneous symbols. there are 95 printable characters in total. code 20hex, the " space " character, denotes the space between words, as produced by the space bar of a keyboard. since the space character is considered an invisible graphic ( rather than a control character ) it is listed in the table below instead of in the previous section. code 7fhex corresponds to the non - printable " delete " ( del ) control character and is therefore omitted from this chart ; it is covered in the previous section ' s chart. earlier versions of ascii used the up arrow instead of the caret ( 5ehex ) and the left arrow instead of the underscore ( 5fhex ). usage ascii was first