in the transformation of the roman state into a de facto monarchy in these years. augustus ' s own experience, his patience, his tact, and his political acumen also played their parts. he directed the future of the empire down many lasting paths, from the existence of a standing professional army stationed at or near the frontiers, to the dynastic principle so often employed in the imperial succession, to the embellishment of the capital at the emperor ' s expense. augustus ' s ultimate legacy was the peace and prosperity the empire enjoyed for the next two centuries under the system he initiated. his memory was enshrined in the political ethos of the imperial age as a paradigm of the good emperor. every emperor of rome adopted his name, caesar augustus, which gradually lost its character as a name and eventually became a title. the augustan era poets virgil and horace praised augustus as a defender of rome, an upholder of moral justice, and an individual who bore the brunt of responsibility in maintaining the empire. however, for his rule of rome and establishing the principate, augustus has also been subjected to criticism throughout the ages. the contemporary roman jurist marcus antistius labeo, fond of the days of pre - augustan republican liberty in which he had been born, openly criticized the augustan regime. in the beginning of his annals, tacitus wrote that augustus had cunningly subverted republican rome into a position of slavery. he continued to say that, with augustus ' s death and swearing of loyalty to tiberius, the people of rome traded one slaveholder for another. tacitus, however, records two contradictory but common views of augustus : according to the second opposing opinion : in a 2006 biography on augustus, anthony everitt asserts that through the centuries, judgments on augustus ' s reign have oscillated between these two extremes but stresses that : tacitus was of the belief that nerva ( r. 96 – 98 ) successfully " mingled two formerly alien ideas, principate and liberty ". the 3rd - century historian cassius dio acknowledged augustus as a benign, moderate ruler, yet like most other historians after the death of augustus, dio viewed augustus as an autocrat. the poet marcus annaeus lucanus ( ad 39 – 65 ) was of the opinion that caesar ' s victory over pompey and the fall of cato the younger ( 95 bc – 46 bc ) marked the end of traditional liberty in rome ; historian chester starr writes of his avoidance of criticizing augustus,