##is. they refused to be sent away and criticized his adoption of persian customs and dress and the introduction of persian officers and soldiers into macedonian units. after three days, unable to persuade his men to back down, alexander gave persians command posts in the army and conferred macedonian military titles upon persian units. the macedonians quickly begged forgiveness, which alexander accepted, and held a great banquet with several thousand of his men. in an attempt to craft a lasting harmony between his macedonian and persian subjects, alexander held a mass marriage of his senior officers to persian and other noblewomen at susa, but few of those marriages seem to have lasted much beyond a year. meanwhile, upon his return to persia, alexander learned that guards of the tomb of cyrus the great in pasargadae had desecrated it, and swiftly executed them. alexander admired cyrus the great, from an early age reading xenophon ' s cyropaedia, which described cyrus ' s heroism in battle and governance as a king and legislator. during his visit to pasargadae, alexander ordered his architect aristobulus to decorate the interior of the sepulchral chamber of cyrus ' s tomb. afterwards, alexander travelled to ecbatana to retrieve the bulk of the persian treasure. there, his closest friend, hephaestion, died of illness or poisoning. hephaestion ' s death devastated alexander and he ordered the preparation of an expensive funeral pyre in babylon along with a decree for public mourning. back in babylon, alexander planned a series of new campaigns, beginning with an invasion of arabia, but he would not have a chance to realize them, as he died shortly after hephaestion. on the evening of may 29, alexander organized a banquet for his army to celebrate the end of the campaign of india and the onset of the invasion of the arabian peninsula. there is a tradition that they would only start serious drinking after everyone was done with their meals, but the wine was usually heavily watered. death and succession before his death, someone asked alexander on who would be his designated successor should he die, he responded : " to the strongest one. " he may have also added that there would be funeral games to be played after his death. on either 10 or 11 june 323 bc, alexander died in the palace of nebuchadnezzar ii, in babylon, at age 32. there are two different versions of alexander ' s death, differing slightly in details. plutarch ' s account is that roughly 14 days before his death,