criticized ptolemy ' s almagest, planetary hypotheses, and optics, pointing out various contradictions he found in these works, particularly in astronomy. ptolemy ' s almagest concerned mathematical theories regarding the motion of the planets, whereas the hypotheses concerned what ptolemy thought was the actual configuration of the planets. ptolemy himself acknowledged that his theories and configurations did not always agree with each other, arguing that this was not a problem provided it did not result in noticeable error, but alhazen was particularly scathing in his criticism of the inherent contradictions in ptolemy ' s works. he considered that some of the mathematical devices ptolemy introduced into astronomy, especially the equant, failed to satisfy the physical requirement of uniform circular motion, and noted the absurdity of relating actual physical motions to imaginary mathematical points, lines and circles : having pointed out the problems, alhazen appears to have intended to resolve the contradictions he pointed out in ptolemy in a later work. alhazen believed there was a " true configuration " of the planets that ptolemy had failed to grasp. he intended to complete and repair ptolemy ' s system, not to replace it completely. in the doubts concerning ptolemy alhazen set out his views on the difficulty of attaining scientific knowledge and the need to question existing authorities and theories : he held that the criticism of existing theories — which dominated this book — holds a special place in the growth of scientific knowledge. model of the motions of each of the seven planets alhazen ' s the model of the motions of each of the seven planets was written 1038. only one damaged manuscript has been found, with only the introduction and the first section, on the theory of planetary motion, surviving. ( there was also a second section on astronomical calculation, and a third section, on astronomical instruments. ) following on from his doubts on ptolemy, alhazen described a new, geometry - based planetary model, describing the motions of the planets in terms of spherical geometry, infinitesimal geometry and trigonometry. he kept a geocentric universe and assumed that celestial motions are uniformly circular, which required the inclusion of epicycles to explain observed motion, but he managed to eliminate ptolemy ' s equant. in general, his model didn ' t try to provide a causal explanation of the motions, but concentrated on providing a complete, geometric description that could explain observed motions without the contradictions inherent in ptolemy ' s model. other astronomical works alhazen wrote a total of twenty - five astronomical works, some concerning technical