long lines of anapests, trochees or iambs ( where each line is ideally measured in four dipodes or pairs of feet ), used in various situations within each play such as : formal debates or agons between characters ( typically in anapestic rhythm ) ; excited dialogue or heated argument ( typically trochaic rhythm, the same as in early tragedy ) ; long speeches declaimed by the chorus in parabases ( in either anapestic or trochaic rhythms ) ; informal debates barely above the level of ordinary dialogue ( typically iambic ). anapestic rhythms are naturally jaunty ( as in many limericks ) and trochaic meter is suited to rapid delivery ( the word " trochee " is in fact derived from trechein, " to run ", as demonstrated for example by choruses who enter at speed, often in aggressive mood ) however, even though both these rhythms can seem to " bowl along " aristophanes often varies them through use of complex syntax and substituted meters, adapting the rhythms to the requirements of serious argument. in an anapestic passage in the frogs, for instance, the character aeschylus presents a view of poetry that is supposed to be serious but which leads to a comic interruption by the god, dionysus : aes. : it was orpheus singing who taught us religion and how wrong people are when they kill, and we learned from musaeus medicinal cures and the science of divination. if it ' s farming you want, hesiod knows it all, when to plant, when to harvest. how godlike homer got to be famous, i ' ll tell if you ask : he taught us what all good men should know, discipline, fortitude, battle - readiness. dio. : but no - one taught pantocles – yesterday he was marching his men up and down on parade when the crest of his helmet fell off! the rhythm begins at a typical anapestic gallop, slows down to consider the revered poets hesiod and homer, then gallops off again to its comic conclusion at the expense of the unfortunate pantocles. such subtle variations in rhythm are common in the plays, allowing for serious points to be made while still whetting the audience ' s appetite for the next joke. lyrics : almost nothing is known about the music that accompanied greek lyrics, and the meter is often so varied and complex that it is difficult for modern readers or audiences to get