, written during his senior year and delivered in november 1934 ( with a deadline date of 6 december ) proved a version of the central limit theorem. it was finally accepted on 16 march 1935. by spring of that same year, turing started his master ' s course ( part iii ) — which he completed in 1937 — and, at the same time, he published his first paper, a one - page article called equivalence of left and right almost periodicity ( sent on 23 april ), featured in the tenth volume of the journal of the london mathematical society. later that year, turing was elected a fellow of king ' s college on the strength of his dissertation. however, and, unknown to turing, this version of the theorem he proved in his paper, had already been proven, in 1922, by jarl waldemar lindeberg. despite this, the committee found turing ' s methods original and so regarded the work worthy of consideration for the fellowship. abram besicovitch ' s report for the committee went so far as to say that if turing ' s work had been published before lindeberg ' s, it would have been " an important event in the mathematical literature of that year ". between the springs of 1935 and 1936, at the same time as church, turing worked on the decidability of problems, starting from godel ' s incompleteness theorems. in mid - april 1936, turing sent max newman the first draft typescript of his investigations. that same month, alonzo church published his an unsolvable problem of elementary number theory, with similar conclusions to turing ' s then - yet unpublished work. finally, on 28 may of that year, he finished and delivered his 36 - page paper for publication called " on computable numbers, with an application to the entscheidungsproblem ". it was published in the proceedings of the london mathematical society journal in two parts, the first on 30 november and the second on 23 december. in this paper, turing reformulated kurt godel ' s 1931 results on the limits of proof and computation, replacing godel ' s universal arithmetic - based formal language with the formal and simple hypothetical devices that became known as turing machines. the entscheidungsproblem ( decision problem ) was originally posed by german mathematician david hilbert in 1928. turing proved that his " universal computing machine " would be capable of performing any conceivable mathematical computation if it were representable as an algorithm. he went on to prove that there was