rice was domesticated 8, 200 – 13, 500 years ago – depending on the molecular clock estimate that is used – on the pearl river in southern china with a single genetic origin from the wild rice oryza rufipogon. in greece and rome, the major cereals were wheat, emmer, and barley, alongside vegetables including peas, beans, and olives. sheep and goats were kept mainly for dairy products. in the americas, crops domesticated in mesoamerica ( apart from teosinte ) include squash, beans, and cacao. cocoa was domesticated by the mayo chinchipe of the upper amazon around 3, 000 bc. the turkey was probably domesticated in mexico or the american southwest. the aztecs developed irrigation systems, formed terraced hillsides, fertilized their soil, and developed chinampas or artificial islands. the mayas used extensive canal and raised field systems to farm swampland from 400 bc. coca was domesticated in the andes, as were the peanut, tomato, tobacco, and pineapple. cotton was domesticated in peru by 3, 600 bc. animals including llamas, alpacas, and guinea pigs were domesticated there. in north america, the indigenous people of the east domesticated crops such as sunflower, tobacco, squash and chenopodium. wild foods including wild rice and maple sugar were harvested. the domesticated strawberry is a hybrid of a chilean and a north american species, developed by breeding in europe and north america. the indigenous people of the southwest and the pacific northwest practiced forest gardening and fire - stick farming. the natives controlled fire on a regional scale to create a low - intensity fire ecology that sustained a low - density agriculture in loose rotation ; a sort of " wild " permaculture. a system of companion planting called the three sisters was developed in north america. the three crops were winter squash, maize, and climbing beans. indigenous australians, long supposed to have been nomadic hunter - gatherers, practised systematic burning, possibly to enhance natural productivity in fire - stick farming. scholars have pointed out that hunter - gatherers need a productive environment to support gathering without cultivation. because the forests of new guinea have few food plants, early humans may have used " selective burning " to increase the productivity of the wild karuka fruit trees to support the hunter - gatherer way of life. the gunditjmara and other groups developed eel farming and fish trapping systems from some 5, 000 years ago. there is evidence of '