us ) being brought to the almond orchards each february. much of the supply of bees is managed by pollination brokers, who contract with migratory beekeepers from at least 49 states for the event. this business was heavily affected by colony collapse disorder at the turn of the 21st century, causing a nationwide shortage of honey bees and increasing the price of insect pollination. to partially protect almond growers from these costs, researchers at the agricultural research service, part of the united states department of agriculture ( usda ), developed self - pollinating almond trees that combine this character with quality characters such as a flavor and yield. self - pollinating almond varieties exist, but they lack some commercial characters. however, through natural hybridisation between different almond varieties, a new variety that was self - pollinating with a high yield of commercial quality nuts was produced. diseases almond trees can be attacked by an array of damaging microbes, fungal pathogens, plant viruses, and bacteria. pests pavement ants ( tetramorium caespitum ), southern fire ants ( solenopsis xyloni ), and thief ants ( solenopsis molesta ) are seed predators. bryobia rubrioculus mites are most known for their damage to this crop. sustainability almond production in california is concentrated mainly in the central valley, where the mild climate, rich soil, abundant sunshine and water supply make for ideal growing conditions. due to the persistent droughts in california in the early 21st century, it became more difficult to raise almonds in a sustainable manner. the issue is complex because of the high amount of water needed to produce almonds : a single almond requires roughly of water to grow properly. regulations related to water supplies are changing so some growers have destroyed their current almond orchards to replace with either younger trees or a different crop such as pistachio that needs less water. sustainability strategies implemented by the almond board of california and almond farmers include : tree and soil health, and other farming practices minimizing dust production during the harvest bee health irrigation guidelines for farmers food safety use of waste biomass as coproducts with a goal to achieve zero waste use of solar energy during processing job development support of scientific research to investigate potential health benefits of consuming almonds international education about sustainability practices production in 2020, world production of almonds was 4. 1 million tonnes, led by the united states providing 57 % of the world total ( table ). other leading producers were spain, australia, and iran. united states in the united states, production is concentrated in