to the company. numerous apple employees have stated that projects without jobs ' s involvement often took longer than projects with it. to recognize the best of its employees, apple created the apple fellows program which awards individuals who make extraordinary technical or leadership contributions to personal computing while at the company. the apple fellowship has so far been awarded to individuals including bill atkinson, steve capps, rod holt, alan kay, guy kawasaki, al alcorn, don norman, rich page, steve wozniak, and phil schiller. at apple, employees are intended to be specialists who are not exposed to functions outside their area of expertise. jobs saw this as a means of having " best - in - class " employees in every role. for instance, ron johnson — senior vice president of retail operations until november 1, 2011 — was responsible for site selection, in - store service, and store layout, yet had no control of the inventory in his stores. this was done by tim cook, who had a background in supply - chain management. apple is known for strictly enforcing accountability. each project has a " directly responsible individual " or " dri " in apple jargon. as an example, when ios senior vice president scott forstall refused to sign apple ' s official apology for numerous errors in the redesigned maps app, he was forced to resign. unlike other major u. s. companies, apple provides a relatively simple compensation policy for executives that does not include perks enjoyed by other ceos like country club fees or private use of company aircraft. the company typically grants stock options to executives every other year. in 2015, apple had 110, 000 full - time employees. this increased to 116, 000 full - time employees the next year, a notable hiring decrease, largely due to its first revenue decline. apple does not specify how many of its employees work in retail, though its 2014 sec filing put the number at approximately half of its employee base. in september 2017, apple announced that it had over 123, 000 full - time employees. apple has a strong culture of corporate secrecy, and has an anti - leak global security team that recruits from the national security agency, the federal bureau of investigation, and the united states secret service. in december 2017, glassdoor said apple was the 48th best place to work, having originally entered at rank 19 in 2009, peaking at rank 10 in 2012, and falling down the ranks in subsequent years. in 2023, bloomberg mark gurman revealed the existence of apple ' s exploratory design group (