care, and has interpreted shed allosaur teeth and chewed bones of large prey animals as evidence that adult allosaurs brought food to lairs for their young to eat until they were grown, and prevented other carnivores from scavenging on the food. however, there is actually little evidence of gregarious behavior in theropods, and social interactions with members of the same species would have included antagonistic encounters, as shown by injuries to gastralia and bite wounds to skulls ( the pathologic lower jaw named labrosaurus ferox is one such possible example ). such head - biting may have been a way to establish dominance in a pack or to settle territorial disputes. although allosaurus may have hunted in packs, it has been argued that allosaurus and other theropods had largely aggressive interactions instead of cooperative interactions with other members of their own species. the study in question noted that cooperative hunting of prey much larger than an individual predator, as is commonly inferred for theropod dinosaurs, is rare among vertebrates in general, and modern diapsid carnivores ( including lizards, crocodiles, and birds ) rarely cooperate to hunt in such a way. instead, they are typically territorial and will kill and cannibalize intruders of the same species, and will also do the same to smaller individuals that attempt to eat before they do when aggregated at feeding sites. according to this interpretation, the accumulation of remains of multiple allosaurus individuals at the same site ; e. g., in the cleveland – lloyd quarry, are not due to pack hunting, but to the fact that allosaurus individuals were drawn together to feed on other disabled or dead allosaurs, and were sometimes killed in the process. this could explain the high proportion of juvenile and subadult allosaurs present, as juveniles and subadults are disproportionally killed at modern group feeding sites of animals like crocodiles and komodo dragons. the same interpretation applies to bakker ' s lair sites. there is some evidence for cannibalism in allosaurus, including allosaurus shed teeth found among rib fragments, possible tooth marks on a shoulder blade, and cannibalized allosaur skeletons among the bones at bakker ' s lair sites. brain and senses the brain of allosaurus, as interpreted from spiral ct scanning of an endocast, was more consistent with crocodilian brains than those of the other living archosaurs, birds. the structure