from its underground prison by workmen. with the help of the wizard cadellin, the brollachan is exorcised, but susan ' s soul also leaves her body, being sent to another dimension, leaving colin to find a way to bring it back. critic neil philip characterised it as " an artistic advance " but " a less satisfying story ". in a 1989 interview, garner stated that he had left scope for a third book following the adventures of colin and susan, envisioning a trilogy, but that he had intentionally decided not to write it, instead moving on to write something different. however boneland, the conclusion to the sequence, was belatedly published in august 2012. elidor, the owl service and red shift : 1964 – 73 in 1962, garner began work on a radio play entitled elidor, which eventually became a novel of the same name. set in contemporary manchester, elidor tells the story of four children who enter a derelict victorian church and find a portal to the magical realm of elidor. in elidor, they are entrusted by king malebron to help rescue four treasures which have been stolen by the forces of evil, who are attempting to take control of the kingdom. the children succeed and return to manchester with the treasures, but are pursued by the malevolent forces who need the items to seal their victory. before writing elidor, garner had seen a dinner service set which could be arranged to make pictures of either flowers or owls. inspired by this design, he produced his fourth novel, the owl service. the story, which was heavily influenced by the medieval welsh tale of math fab mathonwy from the mabinogion, was critically acclaimed, winning both the carnegie medal and guardian children ' s fiction prize. it also sparked discussions among critics as to whether garner should properly be considered a children ' s writer, given that this book in particular was deemed equally suitable for an adult readership. it took garner six years to write his next novel, red shift. the book centres on three intertwined love stories, one set in the present, another during the english civil war, and the third in the second century ce. philip referred to it as " a complex book but not a complicated one : the bare lines of story and emotion stand clear ". academic specialist in children ' s literature maria nikolajeva characterised red shift as " a difficult book " for an unprepared reader, identifying its main themes as those of " loneliness and failure to communicate ". ultimately, she thought