on drinking and other behaviors. this legislation has pushed spring break tourism to various parts of mexico, with acapulco as one of the top destinations. in the late 1990s and early 2000s, cancun had been favored as the spring break destination of choice. however, cancun has taken some steps to control the reckless behavior associated with the event, and students have been looking for someplace new. this led many more to choose acapulco, in spite of the fact that for many travelers, the flight is longer and more expensive than to cancun. many were attracted by the glitzy hotels on the south side and acapulco ' s famous nightlife. in 2008, 22, 500 students came to acapulco for spring break. hotels did not get that many in 2009, due mostly to the economic situation in the united states, and partially because of scares of drug - related violence. in february 2009, the us state department issued a travel alert directed at college students planning spring break trips to acapulco. the warning — a result of violent activity springing from mexico ' s drug cartel debacle — took college campuses by storm, with some schools going so far as to warn their students about the risks of travel to mexico over spring break. bill o ' reilly devoted a segment of his show, the o ' reilly factor, to urge students to stay away from acapulco. in june 2009, a number of incidents occurred between the drug cartel and the government. these included coordinated attacks on police headquarters and open battles in the streets, involving large - caliber weapons and grenades. however, no incidents of violence against travelers on spring break were reported. transportation nine passenger airlines, including four international ones, fly to acapulco international airport. in the city, there are many buses and taxi services one can take to get from place to place, but most of the locals choose to walk to their destinations. however, an important mode of transportation is the government - subsidized ' colectivo ' cab system. these cabs cost 13 pesos per person to ride, but they are not private. the driver will pick up more passengers as long as seats are available, and will transport them to their destination based on first - come, first - served rules. the colectivos each travel a designated area of the city, the three main ones being costera, colosio, coloso, or a mixture of the three. coloso cabs travel mainly to old