elder mazdak ( died c. 524 or 528 ce ) zurvanism aesthetic zurvanism materialist zurvanism fatalistic zurvanism philosophy and the empire political philosophy tansar university of gundishapur borzouye bakhtshooa gondishapuri emperor khosrau ' s philosophical discourses paul the persian literature pahlavi literature ancient jewish philosophy see also : jewish philosophy hillel the elder ( – 10ce ) philo of alexandria ( 30 bce – 45 ce ) rabbi akiva ( – ) ancient indian philosophy the ancient indian philosophy is a fusion of two ancient traditions : the vedic tradition and the sramana tradition. vedic philosophy indian philosophy begins with the vedas wherein questions pertaining to laws of nature, the origin of the universe and the place of man in it are asked. in the famous rigvedic hymn of creation ( nasadiya sukta ) the poet asks : " whence all creation had its origin, he, whether he fashioned it or whether he did not, he, who surveys it all from highest heaven, he knows — or maybe even he does not know. " in the vedic view, creation is ascribed to the self - consciousness of the primeval being ( purusha ). this leads to the inquiry into the one being that underlies the diversity of empirical phenomena and the origin of all things. cosmic order is termed rta and causal law by karma. nature ( prakriti ) is taken to have three qualities ( sattva, rajas, and tamas ). vedas upanishads hindu philosophy sramana philosophy jainism and buddhism are continuation of the sramana school of thought. the sramanas cultivated a pessimistic worldview of the samsara as full of suffering and advocated renunciation and austerities. they laid stress on philosophical concepts like ahimsa, karma, jnana, samsara and moksa. carvaka ( sanskrit : चारवाक ) ( atheist ) philosophy, also known as lokayata, it is a system of hindu philosophy that assumes various forms of philosophical skepticism and religious indifference. it is named after its founder, carvaka, author of the barhaspatya - sutras. classical indian philosophy in classical times, these inquiries were systematized in six schools of philosophy. some of the questions asked were : what is the ontological nature of consciousness? how is cognition itself experienced? is mind ( chit ) intentional