##y was also shorn of opener david warner, who was suspended for the start of the series following an off - field incident. england won a closely fought first test by 14 runs, despite 19 - year - old debutant ashton agar making a world - record 98 for a number 11 in the first innings. england then won a very one - sided second test by 347 runs while the rain - affected third test, held at a newly refurbished old trafford, was drawn, ensuring that england retained the ashes. england won the fourth test by 74 runs after australia lost their last eight second - innings wickets for only 86 runs. the final test was drawn, giving england a 3 – 0 series win. in the second of two ashes series held in 2013 ( the series ended in 2014 ), this time hosted by australia, the home team won the series five test matches to nil. this was the third time australia has completed a clean sweep ( or " whitewash " ) in ashes history, a feat never matched by england. all six australian specialist batsmen scored more runs than any englishman with 10 centuries among them, with only debutant ben stokes scoring a century for england. mitchell johnson took 37 english wickets at 13. 97 and ryan harris 22 wickets at 19. 31 in the 5 - test series. only stuart broad and all - rounder stokes bowled effectively for england, with their spinner graeme swann retiring due to a chronic elbow injury after the decisive third test. australia came into the 2015 ashes series in england as favourites to retain the ashes. although england won the first test in cardiff, australia won comfortably in the second test at lords. in the next two tests, the australian batsmen struggled, being bowled out for 136 in the first innings at edgbaston, with england proceeding to win by eight wickets. this was followed by australia being bowled out for 60 as stuart broad took five wickets and finished the spell with 8 for 15 in the first innings at trent bridge, the quickest – in terms of balls faced – a team has been bowled out in the first innings of a test match. with victory by an innings and 78 runs on the morning of the third day of the fourth test, england regained the ashes. 2017 to present during the buildup, the 2017 – 18 ashes series was regarded as a turning point for both sides. australia were criticised for being too reliant on captain steve smith and vice - captain david warner, while england was said to have a shoddy middle to lower order. off the field,