the yangtze river in china is the longest river in the continent. the himalayas between nepal and china is the tallest mountain range in the world. tropical rainforests stretch across much of southern asia and coniferous and deciduous forests lie farther north. main regions there are various approaches to the regional division of asia. the following subdivision into regions is used, among others, by the un statistics agency unsd. this division of asia into regions by the united nations is done solely for statistical reasons and does not imply any assumption about political or other affiliations of countries and territories. north asia ( siberia ) central asia ( the ' stans ) west asia ( the middle east or near east and the caucasus ) south asia ( indian subcontinent ) east asia ( far east ) southeast asia ( east indies and indochina ) climate asia has extremely diverse climate features. climates range from arctic and subarctic in siberia to tropical in southern india and southeast asia. it is moist across southeast sections, and dry across much of the interior. some of the largest daily temperature ranges on earth occur in western sections of asia. the monsoon circulation dominates across southern and eastern sections, due to the presence of the himalayas forcing the formation of a thermal low which draws in moisture during the summer. southwestern sections of the continent are hot. siberia is one of the coldest places in the northern hemisphere, and can act as a source of arctic air masses for north america. the most active place on earth for tropical cyclone activity lies northeast of the philippines and south of japan. climate change climate change is having major impacts on many countries in the continent. a survey carried out in 2010 by global risk analysis farm maplecroft identified 16 countries that are extremely vulnerable to climate change. each nation ' s vulnerability was calculated using 42 socio, economic and environmental indicators, which identified the likely climate change impacts during the next 30 years. the asian countries of bangladesh, india, the philippines, vietnam, thailand, pakistan, china and sri lanka were among the 16 countries facing extreme risk from climate change. some shifts are already occurring. for example, in tropical parts of india with a semi - arid climate, the temperature increased by 0. 4 °c between 1901 and 2003. a 2013 study by the international crops research institute for the semi - arid tropics ( icrisat ) aimed to find science - based, pro - poor approaches and techniques that would enable asia ' s agricultural systems to cope with climate change, while benefitting poor and vulnerable farmers. the study ' s recommendations ranged from improving the use of climate information in local planning