army. the first of these, the legion of the united states, was established in 1791. until 1733 the common soldiers of prussian army consisted largely of peasantry recruited or impressed from brandenburg – prussia, leading many to flee to neighboring countries. to halt this trend, frederick william i divided prussia into regimental cantons. every youth was required to serve as a soldier in these recruitment districts for three months each year ; this met agrarian needs and added extra troops to bolster the regular ranks. russian tsars before peter i of russia maintained professional hereditary musketeer corps ( streltsy in russian ) that were highly unreliable and undisciplined. in times of war the armed forces were augmented by peasants. peter i introduced a modern regular army built on german model, but with a new aspect : officers not necessarily from nobility, as talented commoners were given promotions that eventually included a noble title at the attainment of an officer ' s rank. conscription of peasants and townspeople was based on quota system, per settlement. initially it was based on the number of households, later it was based on the population numbers. the term of service in the 18th century was for life. in 1793 it was reduced to 25 years. in 1834 it was reduced to 20 years plus 5 years in reserve and in 1855 to 12 years plus 3 years of reserve. the first ottoman standing army were janissaries. they replaced forces that mostly comprised tribal warriors ( ghazis ) whose loyalty and morale could not always be trusted. the first janissary units were formed from prisoners of war and slaves, probably as a result of the sultan taking his traditional one - fifth share of his army ' s booty in kind rather than cash. from the 1380s onwards, their ranks were filled under the devsirme system, where feudal dues were paid by service to the sultan. the " recruits " were mostly christian youths, reminiscent of mamluks. china organized the manchu people into the eight banner system in the early 17th century. defected ming armies formed the green standard army. these troops enlisted voluntarily and for long terms of service. late modern conscription allowed the french republic to form the grande armee, what napoleon bonaparte called " the nation in arms ", which successfully battled european professional armies. conscription, particularly when the conscripts are being sent to foreign wars that do not directly affect the security of the nation, has historically been highly politically contentious in democracies. in developed nations, the increasing emphasis on technological firepower and better - trained fighting