1863, and expanded upon by george dyson in his book of the same name in 1998. in fiction thought - capable artificial beings have appeared as storytelling devices since antiquity, and have been a persistent theme in science fiction. a common trope in these works began with mary shelley ' s frankenstein, where a human creation becomes a threat to its masters. this includes such works as arthur c. clarke ' s and stanley kubrick ' s 2001 : a space odyssey ( both 1968 ), with hal 9000, the murderous computer in charge of the discovery one spaceship, as well as the terminator ( 1984 ) and the matrix ( 1999 ). in contrast, the rare loyal robots such as gort from the day the earth stood still ( 1951 ) and bishop from aliens ( 1986 ) are less prominent in popular culture. isaac asimov introduced the three laws of robotics in many books and stories, most notably the " multivac " series about a super - intelligent computer of the same name. asimov ' s laws are often brought up during lay discussions of machine ethics ; while almost all artificial intelligence researchers are familiar with asimov ' s laws through popular culture, they generally consider the laws useless for many reasons, one of which is their ambiguity. several works use ai to force us to confront the fundamental question of what makes us human, showing us artificial beings that have the ability to feel, and thus to suffer. this appears in karel capek ' s r. u. r., the films a. i. artificial intelligence and ex machina, as well as the novel do androids dream of electric sheep?, by philip k. dick. dick considers the idea that our understanding of human subjectivity is altered by technology created with artificial intelligence. see also explanatory notes references ai textbooks the two most widely used textbooks in 2023. ( see the open syllabus ). these were the four the most widely used ai textbooks in 2008 :. later editions. history of ai.. other sources was introduced by kunihiko fukushima in 1980. |. presidential address to the association for the advancement of artificial intelligence. later published as. ai & ml in fusion ai & ml in fusion, video lecture further reading autor, david h., " why are there still so many jobs? the history and future of workplace automation " ( 2015 ) 29 ( 3 ) journal of economic perspectives 3. boden, margaret, mind as machine, oxford university press, 2006. cukier, kenneth, " ready for robots? how