with the deaths of the harry clone, gabriel, and sarah and the real harry ' s soul being freed from mephisto ' s grasp. after spencer left the book, marvel announced the " beyond " era of spider - man would start in # 75. the book would be moving back to the format it had during brand new day where it would have a rotating cast of writers including kelly thompson, saladin ahmed, cody ziglar, patrick gleason, and zeb wells. the book would also be released three times a month. " beyond " would focus on ben reilly taking up the mantle of spider - man once again but backed by the beyond corporation. peter also falls ill and cannot be spider - man so he gives ben his blessing to carry on as the main spider - man. however, following the conclusion of the storyline in # 93, peter has resumed active duties as spider - man, while ben suffers a mental breakdown and becomes the villain chasm. 2022 relaunch in january 2022, it was announced that writer zeb wells and john romita jr. would be working on a relaunched the amazing spider - man, bringing the number of volumes for the title to its sixth, with the series beginning in april 2022 as a semi - monthly publication. the relaunch encompasses both a legacy numbering of # 900 as well as the 60th anniversary for the character. the relaunch took place months after a mysterious event that left peter on bad terms with the superhero community and ended his relationship with mary jane. he ends up taking a job at oscorp and begins working closely with norman osborn and starts dating black cat. the volume ' s first crossover event was entitled dark web, with chasm having teamed up with madelyne pryor to bring limbo to earth. it ' s later revealed that benjamin rabin, the emissary of the mayan god of mischief wayeb ', sent peter and mary jane to an alternate dimension to conduct a ceremony that would allow wayeb to control the earth. peter was sent back to his earth, while due to the alternative passage of time, mary jane and paul, rabin ' s son in that dimension, spent four years in the realm together and adopted two children. when peter eventually rescued them, mary jane refused to part with her new family. rabin then planned to sacrifice mary jane to resurrect wayeb, but is ultimately stopped by ms. marvel sacrificing herself, but not before rabin reveals that paul and mary jane '