, where she worked as an employee in a flower shop. the liaison lasted for 18 years. residences in the years of 1865 to 1873, alfred nobel had his home in krummel, hamburg, he afterward moved to a house in the avenue malakoff in paris that same year. in 1894, when he acquired bofors - gullspang, the bjorkborn manor was included, he stayed at his manor house in sweden during the summers. the manor house became his very last residence in sweden and has after his death functioned as a museum. alfred nobel died on 10 december 1896, in sanremo, italy, at his very last residence, villa nobel, overlooking the mediterranean sea. scientific career as a young man, nobel studied with chemist nikolai zinin ; then, in 1850, went to paris to further the work. there he met ascanio sobrero, who had invented nitroglycerin three years before. sobrero strongly opposed the use of nitroglycerin because it was unpredictable, exploding when subjected to variable heat or pressure. but nobel became interested in finding a way to control and use nitroglycerin as a commercially usable explosive ; it had much more power than gunpowder. in 1851 at age 18, he went to the united states for one year to study, working for a short period under swedish - american inventor john ericsson, who designed the american civil war ironclad, uss monitor. nobel filed his first patent, an english patent for a gas meter, in 1857, while his first swedish patent, which he received in 1863, was on " ways to prepare gunpowder ". the family factory produced armaments for the crimean war ( 1853 – 1856 ), but had difficulty switching back to regular domestic production when the fighting ended and they filed for bankruptcy. in 1859, nobel ' s father left his factory in the care of the second son, ludvig nobel ( 1831 – 1888 ), who greatly improved the business. nobel and his parents returned to sweden from russia and nobel devoted himself to the study of explosives, and especially to the safe manufacture and use of nitroglycerin. nobel invented a detonator in 1863, and in 1865 designed the blasting cap. on 3 september 1864, a shed used for preparation of nitroglycerin exploded at the factory in heleneborg, stockholm, sweden, killing five people, including nobel ' s younger brother emil. fazed by the accident, nobel founded the company nitroglycerin aktie