ahmad shah durrani ( ; ), also known as ahmad shah abdali ( ), was the founder of the durrani empire and is regarded as the founder of the modern afghanistan. in june 1747, ahmad shah was appointed as king of the afghans by a loya jirga in kandahar, where he set up his capital. primarily with the support of the pashtun tribes, ahmad shah pushed east towards the mughal and maratha empires of india, west towards the disintegrating afsharid empire of iran, and north towards the khanate of bukhara of turkestan. within a few years, he extended his control from khorasan in the west to north india in the east, and from the amu darya in the north to the arabian sea in the south. soon after accession, ahmad shah adopted the epithet shah durr - i - durran, " king, pearl of pearls ", and changed the name of his abdali tribe to " durrani " after himself. the tomb of ahmad shah durrani is located in the center of kandahar, adjacent to kirka sharif ( shrine of the cloak ), which contains a cloak believed to have been worn by the islamic prophet muhammad. afghans often refer to ahmad shah as ahmad shah baba, " ahmad shah the father. " early years ahmad ' s father, mohammad zaman khan, was the governor of herat and chief of the pashtun abdali tribe, while his mother, zarghona anaa, was daughter of khalu khan alakozai and belonged to the alakozai tribe. ahmad was born in herat ( then sadozai sultanate of herat, present - day afghanistan ), or multan ( then mughal empire, present - day pakistan ) in 1720 – 1722 around the time of his father ' s death, when the abdali leadership still controlled the herat region. in june 1729, the abdali forces under zulfiqar had surrendered to nader shah afshar, the rising new ruler of persia. however, they soon began a rebellion and took over herat as well as mashad. in july 1730, he defeated ibrahim khan, a military commander and brother of nader shah. this prompted nader shah to retake mashad and also intervene in the power struggle of harat. by july 1731, zulfiqar returned to his capital farah where he had been serving as the governor since 1726. a year later nadir ' s