##teaus, which combine two words without necessarily taking whole syllables from each. albanian in albanian, syllabic acronyms are sometimes used for composing a person ' s name, such as migjeni – an abbreviation from his original name ( millosh gjergj nikolla ) a famous albanian poet and writer – or asdreni ( aleksander stavre drenova ), another famous albanian poet. other such names which are used commonly in recent decades are getoar, composed from gegeria + tosks ( representing the two main dialects of the albanian language, gege and toske ), and arbanon - which is an alternative way used to describe all albanian lands. english syllabic abbreviations are not widely used in english. some uk government agencies such as ofcom ( office of communications ) and the former oftel ( office of telecommunications ) use this style. new york city has various neighborhoods named by syllabic abbreviation, such as tribeca ( triangle below canal street ) and soho ( south of houston street ). this usage has spread into other american cities, giving soma, san francisco ( south of market ) and lodo, denver ( lower downtown ), amongst others. chicago - based electric service provider comed is a syllabic abbreviation of commonwealth and ( thomas ) edison. sections of california are also often colloquially syllabically abbreviated, as in norcal ( northern california ), cencal ( central california ), and socal ( southern california ). additionally, in the context of los angeles, the syllabic abbreviation soho ( southern hollywood ) refers to the southern portion of the hollywood neighborhood. partially syllabic abbreviations are preferred by the us navy, as they increase readability amidst the large number of initialisms that would otherwise have to fit into the same acronyms. hence desron 6 is used ( in the full capital form ) to mean " destroyer squadron 6 ", while comnavairlant would be " commander, naval air force ( in the ) atlantic. " syllabic abbreviations are a prominent feature of newspeak, the fictional language of george orwell ' s dystopian novel nineteen eighty - four. the political contractions of newspeak — ingsoc ( english socialism ), minitrue ( ministry of truth ), miniplenty ( ministry of plenty ) — are described by orwell as similar to real examples of german ( q. v. ) and russian contractions ( q.