could be tested in two vacuum chambers capable of simulating atmospheric pressure at altitudes up to, which is nearly a vacuum. organization administrator webb realized that in order to keep apollo costs under control, he had to develop greater project management skills in his organization, so he recruited george e. mueller for a high management job. mueller accepted, on the condition that he have a say in nasa reorganization necessary to effectively administer apollo. webb then worked with associate administrator ( later deputy administrator ) seamans to reorganize the office of manned space flight ( omsf ). on july 23, 1963, webb announced mueller ' s appointment as deputy associate administrator for manned space flight, to replace then associate administrator d. brainerd holmes on his retirement effective september 1. under webb ' s reorganization, the directors of the manned spacecraft center ( gilruth ), marshall space flight center ( von braun ), and the launch operations center ( debus ) reported to mueller. based on his industry experience on air force missile projects, mueller realized some skilled managers could be found among high - ranking officers in the u. s. air force, so he got webb ' s permission to recruit general samuel c. phillips, who gained a reputation for his effective management of the minuteman program, as omsf program controller. phillips ' s superior officer bernard a. schriever agreed to loan phillips to nasa, along with a staff of officers under him, on the condition that phillips be made apollo program director. mueller agreed, and phillips managed apollo from january 1964, until it achieved the first human landing in july 1969, after which he returned to air force duty. charles fishman, in one giant leap, estimated the number of people and organizations involved into the apollo program as " 410, 000 men and women at some 20, 000 different companies contributed to the effort ". choosing a mission mode once kennedy had defined a goal, the apollo mission planners were faced with the challenge of designing a spacecraft that could meet it while minimizing risk to human life, cost, and demands on technology and astronaut skill. four possible mission modes were considered : direct ascent : the spacecraft would be launched as a unit and travel directly to the lunar surface, without first going into lunar orbit. a earth return ship would land all three astronauts atop a descent propulsion stage, which would be left on the moon. this design would have required development of the extremely powerful saturn c - 8 or nova launch vehicle to carry a payload to the moon. earth orbit rendezvous ( eor ) : multiple rocket launches (