##nerated apollo above all the gods. the hyperboreans always sang and danced in his honor and hosted pythian games. there, a vast forest of beautiful trees was called " the garden of apollo ". apollo spent the winter months among the hyperboreans, leaving his shrine in delphi under the care of dionysus. his absence from the world caused coldness and this was marked as his annual death. no prophecies were issued during this time. he returned to the world during the beginning of the spring. the theophania festival was held in delphi to celebrate his return. however, diodorus silculus states that apollo visited hyperborea every nineteen years. this nineteen - year period was called by the greeks as the ‘ year of meton ', the time period in which the stars returned to their initial positions. and that visiting hyperborea at that time, apollo played on the cithara and danced continuously from the vernal equinox until the rising of the pleiades ( constellations ). hyperborea was also leto ' s birthplace. it is said that leto came to delos from hyperborea accompanied by a pack of wolves. henceforth, hyperborea became apollo ' s winter home and wolves became sacred to him. his intimate connection to wolves is evident from his epithet lyceus, meaning wolf - like. but apollo was also the wolf - slayer in his role as the god who protected flocks from predators. the hyperborean worship of apollo bears the strongest marks of apollo being worshipped as the sun god. shamanistic elements in apollo ' s cult are often liked to his hyperborean origin, and he is likewise speculated to have originated as a solar shaman. shamans like abaris and aristeas were also the followers of apollo, who hailed from hyperborea. in myths, the tears of amber apollo shed when his son asclepius died mixed with the waters of the river eridanos, which surrounded hyperborea. apollo also buried in hyperborea the arrow which he had used to kill the cyclopes. he later gave this arrow to abaris. childhood and youth growing up, apollo was nursed by the nymphs korythalia and aletheia, the personification of truth. as a child, apollo is said to have built a foundation and an altar on delos using the horns of the goats that his sister artemis hunted. since he learnt the art of building when young