the college de france. in 1814, ampere was invited to join the class of mathematicians in the new institut imperial, the umbrella under which the reformed state academy of sciences would sit. ampere engaged in a diverse array of scientific inquiries during the years leading up to his election to the academy — writing papers and engaging in topics from mathematics and philosophy to chemistry and astronomy, which was customary among the leading scientific intellectuals of the day. ampere claimed that " at eighteen years he found three culminating points in his life, his first communion, the reading of antoine leonard thomas ' s " eulogy of descartes ", and the taking of the bastille. on the day of his wife ' s death he wrote two verses from the psalms, and the prayer, ' o lord, god of mercy, unite me in heaven with those whom you have permitted me to love on earth. ' in times of duress he would take refuge in the reading of the bible and the fathers of the church. " a lay catholic, he took for a time into his family the young student frederic ozanam ( 1813 – 1853 ), one of the founders of the conference of charity, later known as the society of saint vincent de paul. ozanam would much later be beatified by pope john paul ii in 1998. through ampere, ozanam had contact with leaders of the neo - catholic movement, such as francois - rene de chateaubriand, jean - baptiste henri lacordaire, and charles forbes rene de montalembert. work in electromagnetism in september 1820, ampere ' s friend and eventual eulogist francois arago showed the members of the french academy of sciences the surprising discovery by danish physicist hans christian ørsted that a magnetic needle is deflected by an adjacent electric current. ampere began developing a mathematical and physical theory to understand the relationship between electricity and magnetism. furthering ørsted ' s experimental work, ampere showed that two parallel wires carrying electric currents attract or repel each other, depending on whether the currents flow in the same or opposite directions, respectively - this laid the foundation of electrodynamics. he also applied mathematics in generalizing physical laws from these experimental results. the most important of these was the principle that came to be called ampere ' s law, which states that the mutual action of two lengths of current - carrying wire is proportional to their lengths and to the intensities of their currents. ampere also applied this same principle to magnetism, showing