highly conducive to the development of other sectors of the economy. in 2012, the construction of kars – tbilisi – baku railway expected to provide transportation between asia and europe through connecting the railways of china and kazakhstan in the east with turkey ' s marmaray to the european railway system in the west. broad gauge railways in 2010 stretched for and electrified railways numbered. by 2010, there were 35 airports and one heliport. regulation single window system shares needed information through a single gateway with all organizations serving in trade field, as well as abolishes useless processes and raises the effectiveness of cooperation among different parties. 73 economies implement single window system in the world. azerbaijan started to implement this system in 2009. it implemented an e - government portal as well. a single - window system was established by a decree of the azerbaijani president issued in 2007, 30 april, in order to simplify export - import procedures, innovate customs services, and improve the trade environment. according to the decree, ministry of justice, ministry of economic development, ministry of taxes, ministry of labor and social protection, state social protection fund, and state statistics committee should present a proposal on the organization of entrepreneurial activities by single registration body based on single window principle. the president appointed the state customs committee as the leading body of controlling goods and transportation passing through the borders of the country in 2008. a " single authority principle " requires customs officials to be more responsible in dealing with all types of border control operations for other authorities. the netherlands and sweden were the countries of which practice studied. a " single system " works on and then shares standardized information accumulated from traders to all entities taking part in international trade. the practice of us was explored in this phase. an " automated system " provides a single electronic statement to responsible agencies submitted by traders to be worked on and confirmed, and after that, these authorities send electronic confirmations and announcements. in this case, practice of mauritius and singapore was studied. the customs committee formed a commission to realize the new system. ministry of agriculture, ministry of healthcare, ministry of internal affairs, ministry of taxes, ministry of transportation, central bank, state road police, state committee for standardization, metrology and patents, state maritime administration were selected as important agencies to implement single window system along with the state customs committee. the government supported customs committee in preparing its staff to deal with the new system by improving recruitment of local customs offices, providing with software and hardware upgrades for the system. azerbaijani government supports financially single window system. in the first