scientific attention, but it was never successfully replicated. in the 1960s, leonard hayflick and paul moorhead proposed the concept of the hayflick limit, which states that differentiated cells undergo only a limited number of divisions before dying. hayflick suggested that carrel ' s daily feeding of nutrients continually introduced new living cells to the culture, resulting in anomalous results. j. a. witkowski argued that the deliberate introduction of new cells into the culture, possibly without carrel ' s knowledge, could also explain the results. despite the doubts surrounding carrel ' s experiment, it remains an important part of scientific history, and his work on tissue culture had a significant impact on the development of modern medicine. honors in 1972, the swedish post office honored carrel with a stamp that was part of its nobel stamp series. seven years later, in 1979, the lunar crater carrel was named after him as a tribute to his breakthroughs. in february 2002, to celebrate the 100th anniversary of charles lindbergh ' s birth, the lindbergh - carrel prize was established by the medical university of south carolina at charleston. michael debakey and nine other scientists were the first recipients of the prise, a bronze statuette, named " elisabeth " after elisabeth morrow, the sister of lindbergh ' s wife anne morrow who died from heart disease. lindbergh ' s frustration with the limitations of medical technology, specifically the lack of an artificial heart pump for heart surgery, led him to reach out to carrel. alexis carrel and lourdes in 1902, carrel underwent a transformative experience that led him from being a skeptic of the reported visions and miracles at lourdes to a believer in spiritual cures. this conversion came about after he witnessed the inexplicable healing of marie bailly. the catholic journal le nouvelliste reported that she identified carrel as the principal witness of her cure. despite facing opposition from his peers in the medical community, carrel refused to dismiss a supernatural explanation for the event and went on to publish his account of the experience in the book, the voyage to lourdes, which was released four years after his death. however, his beliefs proved to be a hindrance to his career and reputation in academic medicine in france. as a result, carrel moved to canada with plans of farming and raising cattle. but, shortly after, he accepted a position at the university of chicago, where he remained for two years before taking up a post at the rockefeller