material that is from about 400 years earlier. the most important text for the study of early korean is the hyangga, a collection of 25 poems, of which some go back to the three kingdoms period ( 57 bc – 668 ad ), but are preserved in an orthography that only goes back to the 9th century ad. korean is copiously attested from the mid - 15th century on in the phonetically precise hangul system of writing. history of the altaic family concept origins the earliest known reference to a unified language group of turkic, mongolic and tungusic languages is from the 1692 work of nicolaes witsen which may be based on a 1661 work of abu al - ghazi bahadur genealogy of the turkmens. a proposed grouping of the turkic, mongolic, and tungusic languages was published in 1730 by philip johan von strahlenberg, a swedish officer who traveled in the eastern russian empire while a prisoner of war after the great northern war. however, he may not have intended to imply a closer relationship among those languages. later proposals to include the korean and japanese languages into a " macro - altaic " family have always been controversial. the original proposal was sometimes called " micro - altaic " by retronymy. most proponents of altaic continue to support the inclusion of korean, but fewer do for japanese. some proposals also included ainuic but this is not widely accepted even among altaicists themselves. a common ancestral proto - altaic language for the " macro " family has been tentatively reconstructed by sergei starostin and others. micro - altaic includes about 66 living languages, to which macro - altaic would add korean, jeju, japanese, and the ryukyuan languages, for a total of about 74 ( depending on what is considered a language and what is considered a dialect ). these numbers do not include earlier states of languages, such as middle mongol, old korean, or old japanese. uralo - altaic hypothesis in 1844, the finnish philologist matthias castren proposed a broader grouping which later came to be called the ural – altaic family, which included turkic, mongolian, and manchu - tungus ( = tungusic ) as an " altaic " branch, and also the finno - ugric and samoyedic languages as the " uralic " branch ( though castren himself used the terms " tataric " and " chudic " ). the name " altaic " referred to the altai mountains in east - central