optical fiber link to all homes ( ftth ) and businesses. the first commercial radio station to broadcast was radio andorra, which was active from 1939 to 1981. on 12 october 1989, the general council established radio and television as essential public services creating and managing the entity orta, becoming on 13 april 2000, in the public company radio i televisio d ' andorra ( rtva ). in 1990, the public radio was founded on the radio nacional d ' andorra. as an autochthonous television channel, there is only the national public television network andorra televisio, created in 1995. additional tv and radio stations from spain and france are available via digital terrestrial television and iptv. there are three national newspapers, diari d ' andorra, el periodic d ' andorra, and bondia as well as several local newspapers. the history of the andorran press begins in the period between 1917 and 1937 with the appearance of several periodicals papers such as les valls d ' andorra ( 1917 ), nova andorra ( 1932 ) and andorra agricola ( 1933 ). in 1974, the poble andorra became the first regular newspaper in andorra. there is also an amateur radio society and news agency ana with independent management. culture andorra is home to folk dances like the contrapas and marratxa, which survive in sant julia de loria especially. andorran folk music has similarities to the music of its neighbours, but is especially catalan in character, especially in the presence of dances such as the sardana. other andorran folk dances include contrapas in andorra la vella and saint anne ' s dance in escaldes - engordany. andorra ' s national holiday is our lady of meritxell day, 8 september. among the more important festivals and traditions are the canolich gathering in may, the roser d ' ordino in july, the meritxell day ( national day of andorra ), the andorra la vella fair, the sant jordi day, the santa llucia fair, the festivity from la candelera to canillo, the carnival of encamp, the sung of caramelles, the festivity of sant esteve and the festa del poble. andorra participated regularly in the eurovision song contest between 2004 and 2009, being the only participating country presenting songs in catalan. in popular folklore, the best - known andorran legends are the legend of charlemagne, according