by reducing usage of aol - owned access points and shifting members with high - speed internet access from client - based usage to the more lucrative advertising provider aol. com. the change from paid to free access was also designed to slow the rate at which members canceled their accounts and defected to microsoft hotmail, yahoo! or other free email providers. the other free services included : aim ( aol instant messenger ) aol video, which featured professional content and allowed users to upload videos. aol local, comprising its cityguide, yellow pages and local search services to help users find local information like restaurants, local events, and directory listings. aol news aol my eaddress, a custom domain name for email addresses. these email accounts could be accessed in a manner similar to those of other aol and aim email accounts. xdrive, which allowed users to back up files over the internet. it was acquired by aol on august 4, 2005, and closed on december 31, 2008. it offered a free 5 gb account ( free online file storage ) to anyone with an aol screenname. xdrive also provided remote backup services and 50 gb of storage for $ 9. 95 per month. also in august, aol informed its u. s. customers of an increase in the price of its dial - up access to $ 25. 90. the increase was part of an effort to migrate the service ' s remaining dial - up users to broadband, as the increased price was the same as that of its monthly dsl access. however, aol subsequently began offering unlimited dial - up access for $ 9. 95 a month. on november 16, 2006, randy falco succeeded jonathan miller as ceo. in december 2006, aol closed its last remaining call center in the united states, " taking the america out of america online, " according to industry pundits. service centers based in india and the philippines continue to provide customer support and technical assistance to subscribers. on september 17, 2007, aol announced the relocation of one of its corporate headquarters from dulles, virginia to new york city and the combination of its advertising units into a new subsidiary called platform a. this action followed several advertising acquisitions, most notably advertising. com, and highlighted the company ' s new focus on advertising - driven business models. aol management stressed that " significant operations " would remain in dulles, which included the company ' s access services and modem banks. in october 2007, aol announced the relocation of its other headquarters from