u each ). methane is produced by methanogenic bacteria and some long - chain alkanes function as pheromones in certain animal species or as protective waxes in plants and fungi. nevertheless, most alkanes do not have much biological activity. they can be viewed as molecular trees upon which can be hung the more active / reactive functional groups of biological molecules. the alkanes have two main commercial sources : petroleum ( crude oil ) and natural gas. an alkyl group is an alkane - based molecular fragment that bears one open valence for bonding. they are generally abbreviated with the symbol for any organyl group, r, although alk is sometimes used to specifically symbolize an alkyl group ( as opposed to an alkenyl group or aryl group ). structure and classification ordinarily the c - c single bond distance is. saturated hydrocarbons can be linear, branched, or cyclic. the third group is sometimes called cycloalkanes. very complicated structures are possible by combining linear, branch, cyclic alkanes. isomerism alkanes with more than three carbon atoms can be arranged in various ways, forming structural isomers. the simplest isomer of an alkane is the one in which the carbon atoms are arranged in a single chain with no branches. this isomer is sometimes called the n - isomer ( n for " normal ", although it is not necessarily the most common ). however, the chain of carbon atoms may also be branched at one or more points. the number of possible isomers increases rapidly with the number of carbon atoms. for example, for acyclic alkanes : c1 : methane only c2 : ethane only c3 : propane only c4 : 2 isomers : butane and isobutane c5 : 3 isomers : pentane, isopentane, and neopentane c6 : 5 isomers : hexane, 2 - methylpentane, 3 - methylpentane, 2, 2 - dimethylbutane, and 2, 3 - dimethylbutane c7 : 9 isomers : heptane, methylhexane ( 2 isomers ), dimethylpentane ( 4 isomers ), 3 - ethylpentane, 2, 2, 3 - trimethylbutane c8 : 18 isomers : octane, 2 - methylheptane, 3 - methylheptane