nuclear bomb test on 16 july 1945, contains traces of americium - 241. elevated levels of americium were also detected at the crash site of a us boeing b - 52 bomber aircraft, which carried four hydrogen bombs, in 1968 in greenland. in other regions, the average radioactivity of surface soil due to residual americium is only about 0. 01 picocuries per gram ( 0. 37 mbq / g ). atmospheric americium compounds are poorly soluble in common solvents and mostly adhere to soil particles. soil analysis revealed about 1, 900 times higher concentration of americium inside sandy soil particles than in the water present in the soil pores ; an even higher ratio was measured in loam soils. americium is produced mostly artificially in small quantities, for research purposes. a tonne of spent nuclear fuel contains about 100 grams of various americium isotopes, mostly 241am and 243am. their prolonged radioactivity is undesirable for the disposal, and therefore americium, together with other long - lived actinides, must be neutralized. the associated procedure may involve several steps, where americium is first separated and then converted by neutron bombardment in special reactors to short - lived nuclides. this procedure is well known as nuclear transmutation, but it is still being developed for americium. the transuranic elements from americium to fermium occurred naturally in the natural nuclear fission reactor at oklo, but no longer do so. americium is also one of the elements that have theoretically been detected in przybylski ' s star. synthesis and extraction isotope nucleosynthesis americium has been produced in small quantities in nuclear reactors for decades, and kilograms of its 241am and 243am isotopes have been accumulated by now. nevertheless, since it was first offered for sale in 1962, its price, about of 241am, remains almost unchanged owing to the very complex separation procedure. the heavier isotope 243am is produced in much smaller amounts ; it is thus more difficult to separate, resulting in a higher cost of the order. americium is not synthesized directly from uranium – the most common reactor material – but from the plutonium isotope 239pu. the latter needs to be produced first, according to the following nuclear process : ^ { 238 } _ { 92 } u - > [ \ ce { ( n, \ gamma ) } ] ^ { 239 } _ { 92 } u - > [