development language for 8 - bit home computers such atari 8 - bit family, apple ii, msx, zx spectrum, and commodore 64. interpreted basic dialects on these systems offer insufficient execution speed and insufficient facilities to take full advantage of the available hardware. these systems have severe resource constraints, idiosyncratic memory and display architectures, and provide limited system services. there are also few high - level language compilers suitable for microcomputer use. similarly, assembly language is the default choice for 8 - bit consoles such as the atari 2600 and nintendo entertainment system. key software for ibm pc compatibles was written in assembly language, such as ms - dos, turbo pascal, and the lotus 1 - 2 - 3 spreadsheet. as computer speed grew exponentially, assembly language became a tool for speeding up parts of programs, such as the rendering of doom, rather than a dominant development language. in the 1990s, assembly language was used to get performance out of systems such as the sega saturn and as the primary language for arcade hardware based on the tms34010 integrated cpu / gpu such as mortal kombat and nba jam. current usage there has been debate over the usefulness and performance of assembly language relative to high - level languages. although assembly language has specific niche uses where it is important ( see below ), there are other tools for optimization., the tiobe index of programming language popularity ranks assembly language at 11, ahead of visual basic, for example. assembler can be used to optimize for speed or optimize for size. in the case of speed optimization, modern optimizing compilers are claimed to render high - level languages into code that can run as fast as hand - written assembly, despite the counter - examples that can be found. the complexity of modern processors and memory sub - systems makes effective optimization increasingly difficult for compilers, as well as for assembly programmers. moreover, increasing processor performance has meant that most cpus sit idle most of the time, with delays caused by predictable bottlenecks such as cache misses, i / o operations and paging. this has made raw code execution speed a non - issue for many programmers. there are some situations in which developers might choose to use assembly language : writing code for systems with that have limited high - level language options such as the atari 2600, commodore 64, and graphing calculators. programs for these computers of the 1970s and 1980s are often written in the context of demoscene or retrogaming subcultures