, there is legislation in place for a system of village councils on the island of antigua ; however, village councils have not been active since the 1940s and 1950s. human rights as of july 2022, same - sex sexual activity is legal in antigua and barbuda. economy tourism dominates the economy, accounting for more than half of the gross domestic product ( gdp ). as a destination for the most affluent travelers, antigua is well known for its extensive collection of five - star resorts. however, weaker tourist activity in lower and middle market segments since the beginning of the year 2000 has slowed the economy and put the government into a tight fiscal corner. antigua and barbuda has enacted policies to attract high - net - worth citizens and residents, such as enacting a 0 % personal income tax rate in 2019. the provision of investment banking and financial services also constitutes a significant portion of the economy. major international financial institutions such as the royal bank of canada ( rbc ) and scotiabank both maintain offices in antigua. pricewaterhousecoopers, pannell kerr forster, and kpmg are some of the other companies in the financial services industry that have offices in antigua. the united states securities and exchange commission has leveled allegations against the antigua - based stanford international bank, which is owned by the texas billionaire allen stanford, of orchestrating a massive fraud that may have resulted in the theft of approximately $ 8 billion from investors. the nation, which consists of two islands, directs the majority of its agricultural production toward the markets that are found within the nation. this is done despite the fact that the nation has a limited water supply and a shortage of laborers as a result of the higher wages offered in the tourism and construction industries. manufacturing comprises 2 % of gdp and is made up of enclave - type assembly for export, the major products being bedding, handicrafts, and electronic components. prospects for economic growth in the medium term will continue to depend on income growth in the industrialised world, especially in the united states, from which about one - third to one - half of all tourists come. access to biocapacity is lower than world average. in 2016, antigua and barbuda had 0. 8 global hectares of biocapacity per person within its territory, much less than the world average of 1. 6 global hectares per person. in 2016, antigua and barbuda used 4. 3 global hectares of biocapacity per person – their ecological footprint of consumption. this means they use more biocapacity than