the plant was taken over by the alberta government. today the bitumount plant is a provincial historic site. photography and art bitumen was used in early photographic technology. in 1826, or 1827, it was used by french scientist joseph nicephore niepce to make the oldest surviving photograph from nature. the bitumen was thinly coated onto a pewter plate which was then exposed in a camera. exposure to light hardened the bitumen and made it insoluble, so that when it was subsequently rinsed with a solvent only the sufficiently light - struck areas remained. many hours of exposure in the camera were required, making bitumen impractical for ordinary photography, but from the 1850s to the 1920s it was in common use as a photoresist in the production of printing plates for various photomechanical printing processes. bitumen was the nemesis of many artists during the 19th century. although widely used for a time, it ultimately proved unstable for use in oil painting, especially when mixed with the most common diluents, such as linseed oil, varnish and turpentine. unless thoroughly diluted, bitumen never fully solidifies and will in time corrupt the other pigments with which it comes into contact. the use of bitumen as a glaze to set in shadow or mixed with other colors to render a darker tone resulted in the eventual deterioration of many paintings, for instance those of delacroix. perhaps the most famous example of the destructiveness of bitumen is theodore gericault ' s raft of the medusa ( 1818 – 1819 ), where his use of bitumen caused the brilliant colors to degenerate into dark greens and blacks and the paint and canvas to buckle. modern use global use the vast majority of refined bitumen is used in construction : primarily as a constituent of products used in paving and roofing applications. according to the requirements of the end use, bitumen is produced to specification. this is achieved either by refining or blending. it is estimated that the current world use of bitumen is approximately 102 million tonnes per year. approximately 85 % of all the bitumen produced is used as the binder in asphalt concrete for roads. it is also used in other paved areas such as airport runways, car parks and footways. typically, the production of asphalt concrete involves mixing fine and coarse aggregates such as sand, gravel and crushed rock with asphalt, which acts as the binding agent. other materials, such as recycled polymers ( e. g., rubber tyres )