, reminding them that the code of silence dictated by the official secrets act did not end with the war but would continue indefinitely. thus, even though turing was appointed an officer of the order of the british empire ( obe ) in 1946 by king george vi for his wartime services, his work remained secret for many years. bombe within weeks of arriving at bletchley park, turing had specified an electromechanical machine called the bombe, which could break enigma more effectively than the polish bomba kryptologiczna, from which its name was derived. the bombe, with an enhancement suggested by mathematician gordon welchman, became one of the primary tools, and the major automated one, used to attack enigma - enciphered messages. the bombe searched for possible correct settings used for an enigma message ( i. e., rotor order, rotor settings and plugboard settings ) using a suitable crib : a fragment of probable plaintext. for each possible setting of the rotors ( which had on the order of 1019 states, or 1022 states for the four - rotor u - boat variant ), the bombe performed a chain of logical deductions based on the crib, implemented electromechanically. the bombe detected when a contradiction had occurred and ruled out that setting, moving on to the next. most of the possible settings would cause contradictions and be discarded, leaving only a few to be investigated in detail. a contradiction would occur when an enciphered letter would be turned back into the same plaintext letter, which was impossible with the enigma. the first bombe was installed on 18 march 1940. action this day by late 1941, turing and his fellow cryptanalysts gordon welchman, hugh alexander and stuart milner - barry were frustrated. building on the work of the poles, they had set up a good working system for decrypting enigma signals, but their limited staff and bombes meant they could not translate all the signals. in the summer, they had considerable success, and shipping losses had fallen to under 100, 000 tons a month ; however, they badly needed more resources to keep abreast of german adjustments. they had tried to get more people and fund more bombes through the proper channels, but had failed. on 28 october they wrote directly to winston churchill explaining their difficulties, with turing as the first named. they emphasised how small their need was compared with the vast expenditure of men and money by the forces and compared with the level