at a public school ". despite this, turing continued to show remarkable ability in the studies he loved, solving advanced problems in 1927 without having studied even elementary calculus. in 1928, aged 16, turing encountered albert einstein ' s work ; not only did he grasp it, but it is possible that he managed to deduce einstein ' s questioning of newton ' s laws of motion from a text in which this was never made explicit. christopher morcom at sherborne, turing formed a significant friendship with fellow pupil christopher collan morcom ( 13 july 1911 – 13 february 1930 ), who has been described as turing ' s first love. their relationship provided inspiration in turing ' s future endeavours, but it was cut short by morcom ' s death, in february 1930, from complications of bovine tuberculosis, contracted after drinking infected cow ' s milk some years previously. the event caused turing great sorrow. he coped with his grief by working that much harder on the topics of science and mathematics that he had shared with morcom. in a letter to morcom ' s mother, frances isobel morcom ( nee swan ), turing wrote : turing ' s relationship with morcom ' s mother continued long after morcom ' s death, with her sending gifts to turing, and him sending letters, typically on morcom ' s birthday. a day before the third anniversary of morcom ' s death ( 13 february 1933 ), he wrote to mrs. morcom : some have speculated that morcom ' s death was the cause of turing ' s atheism and materialism. apparently, at this point in his life he still believed in such concepts as a spirit, independent of the body and surviving death. in a later letter, also written to morcom ' s mother, turing wrote : university and work on computability after graduating from sherborne, turing studied the undergraduate course in schedule b ( that is, a three - year parts i and ii, of the mathematical tripos, with extra courses at the end of the third year, as part iii only emerged as a separate degree in 1934 ) from february 1931 to november 1934 at king ' s college, cambridge, where he was awarded first - class honours in mathematics. his dissertation, on the gaussian error function, written during his senior year and delivered in november 1934 ( with a deadline date of 6 december ) proved a version of the central limit theorem. it was finally accepted on 16 march 1935. by spring of that same year, turing started his master '