greek capital. it is to be found between the parliament and zappeion buildings, the latter of which maintains its own garden of seven hectares. parts of the city centre have been redeveloped under a masterplan called the unification of archeological sites of athens, which has also gathered funding from the eu to help enhance the project. the landmark dionysiou areopagitou street has been pedestrianised, forming a scenic route. the route starts from the temple of olympian zeus at vasilissis olgas avenue, continues under the southern slopes of the acropolis near plaka, and finishes just beyond the temple of hephaestus in thiseio. the route in its entirety provides visitors with views of the parthenon and the agora ( the meeting point of ancient athenians ), away from the busy city centre. the hills of athens also provide green space. lycabettus, philopappos hill and the area around it, including pnyx and ardettos hill, are planted with pines and other trees, with the character of a small forest rather than typical metropolitan parkland. also to be found is the pedion tou areos ( field of mars ) of 27. 7 hectares, near the national archaeological museum. athens ' largest zoo is the attica zoological park, a private zoo located in the suburb of spata. the zoo is home to around 2000 animals representing 400 species, and is open 365 days a year. smaller zoos exist within public gardens or parks, such as the zoo within the national garden of athens. climate athens has a hot - summer mediterranean climate ( koppen climate classification : csa ). according to the meteorological station near the city center which is operated by the national observatory of athens, the downtown area has an annual average temperature of while parts of the urban agglomeration may reach up to, being affected by the urban heat island effect. athens receives about of precipitation per year, largely concentrated during the colder half of the year with the remaining rainfall falling sparsely, mainly during thunderstorms. fog is rare in the city center, but somewhat more frequent in areas to the east, close to mount hymettus. the southern section of the athens metropolitan area ( i. e., elliniko, athens riviera ) lies in the transitional zone between mediterranean ( csa ) and hot semi - arid climate ( bsh ), with its port - city of piraeus being the most extreme example, receiving just per year. the areas to the south