secondary and tertiary free - radicals. an example can be seen in the monobromination of propane : cracking cracking breaks larger molecules into smaller ones. this can be done with a thermal or catalytic method. the thermal cracking process follows a homolytic mechanism with formation of free radicals. the catalytic cracking process involves the presence of acid catalysts ( usually solid acids such as silica - alumina and zeolites ), which promote a heterolytic ( asymmetric ) breakage of bonds yielding pairs of ions of opposite charges, usually a carbocation and the very unstable hydride anion. carbon - localized free radicals and cations are both highly unstable and undergo processes of chain rearrangement, c – c scission in position beta ( i. e., cracking ) and intra - and intermolecular hydrogen transfer or hydride transfer. in both types of processes, the corresponding reactive intermediates ( radicals, ions ) are permanently regenerated, and thus they proceed by a self - propagating chain mechanism. the chain of reactions is eventually terminated by radical or ion recombination. isomerization and reformation dragan and his colleague were the first to report about isomerization in alkanes. isomerization and reformation are processes in which straight - chain alkanes are heated in the presence of a platinum catalyst. in isomerization, the alkanes become branched - chain isomers. in other words, it does not lose any carbons or hydrogens, keeping the same molecular weight. in reformation, the alkanes become cycloalkanes or aromatic hydrocarbons, giving off hydrogen as a by - product. both of these processes raise the octane number of the substance. butane is the most common alkane that is put under the process of isomerization, as it makes many branched alkanes with high octane numbers. other reactions alkanes will react with steam in the presence of a nickel catalyst to give hydrogen. alkanes can be chlorosulfonated and nitrated, although both reactions require special conditions. the fermentation of alkanes to carboxylic acids is of some technical importance. in the reed reaction, sulfur dioxide, chlorine and light convert hydrocarbons to sulfonyl chlorides. nucleophilic abstraction can be used to separate an alkane from a metal. alkyl groups can be transferred from one compound to another by trans