essence of radiation " ), on the quantization of light, and in an earlier 1909 paper, einstein showed that max planck ' s energy quanta must have well - defined momenta and act in some respects as independent, point - like particles. this paper introduced the photon concept ( although the name photon was introduced later by gilbert n. lewis in 1926 ) and inspired the notion of wave – particle duality in quantum mechanics. einstein saw this wave – particle duality in radiation as concrete evidence for his conviction that physics needed a new, unified foundation. zero - point energy in a series of works completed from 1911 to 1913, planck reformulated his 1900 quantum theory and introduced the idea of zero - point energy in his " second quantum theory ". soon, this idea attracted the attention of einstein and his assistant otto stern. assuming the energy of rotating diatomic molecules contains zero - point energy, they then compared the theoretical specific heat of hydrogen gas with the experimental data. the numbers matched nicely. however, after publishing the findings, they promptly withdrew their support, because they no longer had confidence in the correctness of the idea of zero - point energy. stimulated emission in 1917, at the height of his work on relativity, einstein published an article in physikalische zeitschrift that proposed the possibility of stimulated emission, the physical process that makes possible the maser and the laser. this article showed that the statistics of absorption and emission of light would only be consistent with planck ' s distribution law if the emission of light into a mode with n photons would be enhanced statistically compared to the emission of light into an empty mode. this paper was enormously influential in the later development of quantum mechanics, because it was the first paper to show that the statistics of atomic transitions had simple laws. matter waves einstein discovered louis de broglie ' s work and supported his ideas, which were received skeptically at first. in another major paper from this era, einstein observed that de broglie waves could explain the quantization rules of bohr and sommerfeld. this paper would inspire schrodinger ' s work of 1926. quantum mechanics einstein ' s objections to quantum mechanics einstein played a major role in developing quantum theory, beginning with his 1905 paper on the photoelectric effect. however, he became displeased with modern quantum mechanics as it had evolved after 1925, despite its acceptance by other physicists. he was skeptical that the randomness of quantum mechanics was fundamental rather than the result of determinism