of a land and a people that are bone of his bone and flesh of his flesh. in his fictional world, there is a unity much deeper and more fundamental than anything that can be conferred by an ideology. it is clear, too, that he did not get the best, and most fictionally useful, part of his background material from research in the library ; like scott, in his border novels, he gives, rather, the impression of having drunk it in with his mother ' s milk. " jim stephens, editor of an august derleth reader, ( 1992 ), argues : " what derleth accomplished.... was to gather a wisconsin mythos which gave respect to the ancient fundament of our contemporary life. " the author inaugurated the sac prairie saga with four novellas comprising place of hawks, published by loring & mussey in 1935. at publication, the detroit news wrote : " certainly with this book mr. derleth may be added to the american writers of distinction. " derleth ' s first novel, still is the summer night, was published two years later by the famous charles scribners ' editor maxwell perkins, and was the second in his sac prairie saga. village year, the first in a series of journals – meditations on nature, midwestern village american life, and more – was published in 1941 to praise from the new york times book review : " a book of instant sensitive responsiveness... recreates its scene with acuteness and beauty, and makes an unusual contribution to the americana of the present day. " the new york herald tribune observed that " derleth... deepens the value of his village setting by presenting in full the enduring natural background ; with the people projected against this, the writing comes to have the quality of an old flemish picture, humanity lively and amusing and loveable in the foreground and nature magnificent beyond. " james grey, writing in the st. louis dispatch concluded, " derleth has achieved a kind of prose equivalent of the spoon river anthology. " in the same year, evening in spring was published by charles scribners & sons. this work derleth considered among his finest. what the milwaukee journal called " this beautiful little love story ", is an autobiographical novel of first love beset by small - town religious bigotry. the work received critical praise : the new yorker considered it a story told " with tenderness and charm ", while the chicago tribune concluded : " it ' s