##s, strangulated hernias, necrosis, abdominal tumours and chronic constipation and nicotine poisoning, while also attempting to deal with deliberate poisonings, fetishism and fear of cannibalism among the mbahouin. schweitzer ' s wife, helene schweitzer, served as an anaesthetist for surgical operations. after briefly occupying a shed formerly used as a chicken hut, in late 1913 they built their first hospital of corrugated iron, with a consulting room and operating theatre and with a dispensary and sterilising room. the waiting room and dormitory were built, like native huts, of unhewn logs along a path leading to the boat landing. the schweitzers had their own bungalow and employed as their assistant joseph, a french - speaking mpongwe, who first came to lambarene as a patient. after world war i broke out in july 1914, schweitzer and his wife, german citizens in a french colony when the countries were at war, were put under supervision by the french military at lambarene, where schweitzer continued his work. in 1917, exhausted by over four years ' work and by tropical anaemia, they were taken to bordeaux and interned first in garaison and then from march 1918 in saint - remy - de - provence. in july 1918, after being transferred to his home in alsace, he was a free man again. at this time schweitzer, born a german citizen, had his parents ' former ( pre - 1871 ) french citizenship reinstated and became a french citizen. then, working as medical assistant and assistant - pastor in strasbourg, he advanced his project on the philosophy of civilization, which had occupied his mind since 1900. by 1920, his health recovering, he was giving organ recitals and doing other fund - raising work to repay borrowings and raise funds for returning to gabon. in 1922, he delivered the dale memorial lectures in the university of oxford, and from these in the following year appeared volumes i and ii of his great work, the decay and restoration of civilization and civilization and ethics. the two remaining volumes, on the world - view of reverence for life and a fourth on the civilized state, were never completed. in 1924, schweitzer returned to africa without his wife, but with an oxford undergraduate, noel gillespie, as his assistant. everything was heavily decayed, and building and doctoring progressed together for months. he now had salvar