is a unique design featuring three flukes instead of the usual two. it has performed well in tests by independent sources such as american boating magazine practical sailor. permanent anchors these are used where the vessel is permanently or semi - permanently sited, for example in the case of lightvessels or channel marker buoys. the anchor needs to hold the vessel in all weathers, including the most severe storm, but needs to be lifted only occasionally, at most – for example, only if the vessel is to be towed into port for maintenance. an alternative to using an anchor under these circumstances, especially if the anchor need never be lifted at all, may be to use a pile that is driven into the seabed. permanent anchors come in a wide range of types and have no standard form. a slab of rock with an iron staple in it to attach a chain to would serve the purpose, as would any dense object of appropriate weight ( for instance, an engine block ). modern moorings may be anchored by augers, which look and act like oversized screws drilled into the seabed, or by barbed metal beams pounded in ( or even driven in with explosives ) like pilings, or by a variety of other non - mass means of getting a grip on the bottom. one method of building a mooring is to use three or more conventional anchors laid out with short lengths of chain attached to a swivel, so no matter which direction the vessel moves, one or more anchors are aligned to resist the force. mushroom the mushroom anchor is suitable where the seabed is composed of silt or fine sand. it was invented by robert stevenson, for use by an 82 - ton converted fishing boat, pharos, which was used as a lightvessel between 1807 and 1810 near to bell rock whilst the lighthouse was being constructed. it was equipped with a 1. 5 - ton example. it is shaped like an inverted mushroom, the head becoming buried in the silt. a counterweight is often provided at the other end of the shank to lay it down before it becomes buried. a mushroom anchor normally sinks in the silt to the point where it has displaced its own weight in bottom material, thus greatly increasing its holding power. these anchors are suitable only for a silt or mud bottom, since they rely upon suction and cohesion of the bottom material, which rocky or coarse sand bottoms lack. the holding power of this anchor is at best about twice its weight until it becomes buried, when it can be as much as ten