alexander ( ) was tyrant or despot of pherae in thessaly, ruling from 369 to c. 356 bc. following the assassination of jason, the tyrant of pherae and tagus of thessaly, in 370 bc, his brother polyphron ruled for a year, but he was then poisoned by alexander who assumed power himself. alexander governed tyrannically and was constantly seeking to control thessaly and the kingdom of macedonia. he also engaged in piratical raids on attica. alexander was murdered by tisiphonus, lycophron and peitholaus, the brothers of his wife, thebe, as it was said that she lived in fear of her husband and hated alexander ' s cruel and brutal character. reign the accounts of how alexander came to power vary somewhat in minor points. diodorus siculus tells us that upon the assassination of the tyrant jason of pherae, in 370 bc, his brother polydorus ruled for a year, but he was then poisoned by alexander, another brother. however, according to xenophon, polydorus was murdered by his brother polyphron, who was, in turn, murdered by his nephew alexander — son of jason, in 369 bc. plutarch relates that alexander worshipped the spear he slew his uncle with as if it were a god. alexander governed tyrannically, and according to diodorus, differently from the former rulers, but polyphron, at least, seems to have set him the example. the states of thessaly, which had previously acknowledged the authority of jason of pherae, were not so willing to submit to alexander the tyrant, ( especially the old family of the aleuadae of larissa, who had most reason to fear him ). therefore, they applied for help from alexander ii of macedon. alexander prepared to meet his enemy in macedonia, but the king anticipated him, and, reaching larissa, was admitted into the city. alexander withdrew to pherae whilst the macedonian king placed a garrison in larissa, as well as in crannon, which had also come over to him. but once the bulk of the macedonian army had retired, the states of thessaly feared the return and vengeance of alexander, and so sent for aid to thebes, whose policy it was to put a check on any neighbour who might otherwise become too formidable. thebes accordingly dispatched pelopidas to the aid of thessaly. on