##hasya of vasubandhu ( 316 - 396 ), a sanskrit work on buddhist philosophy, says that the second - century ce philosopher vasumitra said that " placing a wick ( sanskrit vartika ) on the number one ( ekanka ) means it is a one while placing the wick on the number hundred means it is called a hundred, and on the number one thousand means it is a thousand ". it is unclear exactly what this arrangement may have been. around the 5th century, indian clerks were already finding new ways of recording the contents of the abacus. hindu texts used the term sunya ( zero ) to indicate the empty column on the abacus. japan in japan, the abacus is called soroban (, lit. " counting tray " ). it was imported from china in the 14th century. it was probably in use by the working class a century or more before the ruling class adopted it, as the class structure obstructed such changes. the 1 : 4 abacus, which removes the seldom - used second and fifth bead, became popular in the 1940s. today ' s japanese abacus is a 1 : 4 type, four - bead abacus, introduced from china in the muromachi era. it adopts the form of the upper deck one bead and the bottom four beads. the top bead on the upper deck was equal to five and the bottom one is similar to the chinese or korean abacus, and the decimal number can be expressed, so the abacus is designed as a one : four device. the beads are always in the shape of a diamond. the quotient division is generally used instead of the division method ; at the same time, in order to make the multiplication and division digits consistently use the division multiplication. later, japan had a 3 : 5 abacus called 天 三, which is now in the ize rongji collection of shansi village in yamagata city. japan also used a 2 : 5 type abacus. the four - bead abacus spread, and became common around the world. improvements to the japanese abacus arose in various places. in china an aluminium frame plastic bead abacus was used. the file is next to the four beads, and pressing the " clearing " button put the upper bead in the upper position, and the lower bead in the lower position. the abacus is still manufactured in japan even with the proliferation, practicality, and affordability