one - electron view is an approximation. when thinking about orbitals, we are often given an orbital visualization heavily influenced by the hartree – fock approximation, which is one way to reduce the complexities of molecular orbital theory. types of orbital atomic orbitals can be the hydrogen - like " orbitals " which are exact solutions to the schrodinger equation for a hydrogen - like " atom " ( i. e., atom with one electron ). alternatively, atomic orbitals refer to functions that depend on the coordinates of one electron ( i. e., orbitals ) but are used as starting points for approximating wave functions that depend on the simultaneous coordinates of all the electrons in an atom or molecule. the coordinate systems chosen for orbitals are usually spherical coordinates in atoms and cartesian in polyatomic molecules. the advantage of spherical coordinates here is that an orbital wave function is a product of three factors each dependent on a single coordinate :. the angular factors of atomic orbitals generate s, p, d, etc. functions as real combinations of spherical harmonics ( where and are quantum numbers ). there are typically three mathematical forms for the radial functions which can be chosen as a starting point for the calculation of the properties of atoms and molecules with many electrons : the hydrogen - like orbitals are derived from the exact solutions of the schrodinger equation for one electron and a nucleus, for a hydrogen - like atom. the part of the function that depends on distance r from the nucleus has radial nodes and decays as. the slater - type orbital ( sto ) is a form without radial nodes but decays from the nucleus as does a hydrogen - like orbital. the form of the gaussian type orbital ( gaussians ) has no radial nodes and decays as. although hydrogen - like orbitals are still used as pedagogical tools, the advent of computers has made stos preferable for atoms and diatomic molecules since combinations of stos can replace the nodes in hydrogen - like orbitals. gaussians are typically used in molecules with three or more atoms. although not as accurate by themselves as stos, combinations of many gaussians can attain the accuracy of hydrogen - like orbitals. history the term " orbital " was coined by robert s. mulliken in 1932 as short for one - electron orbital wave function. niels bohr explained around 1913 that electrons might revolve around a compact nucleus with definite angular momentum. bohr ' s model was an improvement on