recipes from other sources. the first british patent for the use of asphalt was " cassell ' s patent asphalte or bitumen " in 1834. then on 25 november 1837, richard tappin claridge patented the use of seyssel asphalt ( patent # 7849 ), for use in asphalte pavement, having seen it employed in france and belgium when visiting with frederick walter simms, who worked with him on the introduction of asphalt to britain. dr t. lamb phipson writes that his father, samuel ryland phipson, a friend of claridge, was also " instrumental in introducing the asphalte pavement ( in 1836 ) ". claridge obtained a patent in scotland on 27 march 1838, and obtained a patent in ireland on 23 april 1838. in 1851, extensions for the 1837 patent and for both 1838 patents were sought by the trustees of a company previously formed by claridge. claridge ' s patent asphalte companyformed in 1838 for the purpose of introducing to britain " asphalte in its natural state from the mine at pyrimont seysell in france ", " laid one of the first asphalt pavements in whitehall ". trials were made of the pavement in 1838 on the footway in whitehall, the stable at knightsbridge barracks, " and subsequently on the space at the bottom of the steps leading from waterloo place to st. james park ". " the formation in 1838 of claridge ' s patent asphalte company ( with a distinguished list of aristocratic patrons, and marc and isambard brunel as, respectively, a trustee and consulting engineer ), gave an enormous impetus to the development of a british asphalt industry ". " by the end of 1838, at least two other companies, robinson ' s and the bastenne company, were in production ", with asphalt being laid as paving at brighton, herne bay, canterbury, kensington, the strand, and a large floor area in bunhill - row, while meantime claridge ' s whitehall paving " continue ( d ) in good order ". the bonnington chemical works manufactured asphalt using coal tar and by 1839 had installed it in bonnington. in 1838, there was a flurry of entrepreneurial activity involving bitumen, which had uses beyond paving. for example, bitumen could also be used for flooring, damp proofing in buildings, and for waterproofing of various types of pools and baths, both of which were also proliferating in the 19th century. one of the earliest