massive, government - controlled construction company. characteristically hitler did not give speer any clear remit ; he was left to fight his contemporaries in the regime for power and control. as an example, he wanted to be given power over all armaments issues under goring ' s four year plan. goring was reluctant to grant this. however speer secured hitler ' s support, and on 1 march 1942, goring signed a decree naming speer " general plenipotentiary for armament tasks " in the four year plan. speer proved to be ambitious, unrelenting and ruthless. speer set out to gain control not just of armaments production in the army, but in the whole armed forces. it did not immediately dawn on his political rivals that his calls for rationalization and reorganization were hiding his desire to sideline them and take control. by april 1942, speer had persuaded goring to create a three - member central planning board within the four year plan, which he used to obtain supreme authority over procurement and allocation of raw materials and scheduling of production in order to consolidate german war production in a single agency. speer was feted at the time, and in the post - war era, for performing an " armaments miracle " in which german war production dramatically increased. this miracle was brought to a halt in the summer of 1943 by, among other factors, the first sustained allied bombing. other factors probably contributed to the increase more than speer himself. germany ' s armaments production had already begun to result in increases under his predecessor, todt. naval armaments were not under speer ' s supervision until october 1943, nor the luftwaffe ' s armaments until june of the following year. yet each showed comparable increases in production despite not being under speer ' s control. another factor that produced the boom in ammunition was the policy of allocating more coal to the steel industry. production of every type of weapon peaked in june and july 1944, but there was now a severe shortage of fuel. after august 1944, oil from the romanian fields was no longer available. oil production became so low that any possibility of offensive action became impossible and weaponry lay idle. as minister of armaments, speer was responsible for supplying weapons to the army. with hitler ' s full agreement, he decided to prioritize tank production, and he was given unrivaled power to ensure success. hitler was closely involved with the design of the tanks, but kept changing his mind about the specifications. this delayed the program,