an efficient method of orbit determination. in a few weeks, he predicted the path of ceres and sent his results to von zach. on 31 december 1801, von zach and fellow celestial policeman heinrich w. m. olbers found ceres near the predicted position and thus recovered it. at 2. 8 au from the sun, ceres appeared to fit the titius – bode law almost perfectly ; however, neptune, once discovered in 1846, was 8 au closer than predicted, leading most astronomers to conclude that the law was a coincidence. piazzi named the newly discovered object ceres ferdinandea, " in honor of the patron goddess of sicily and of king ferdinand of bourbon ". further search three other asteroids ( 2 pallas, 3 juno, and 4 vesta ) were discovered by von zach ' s group over the next few years, with vesta found in 1807. no new asteroids were discovered until 1845. amateur astronomer karl ludwig hencke started his searches of new asteroids in 1830, and fifteen years later, while looking for vesta, he found the asteroid later named 5 astraea. it was the first new asteroid discovery in 38 years. carl friedrich gauss was given the honor of naming the asteroid. after this, other astronomers joined ; 15 asteroids were found by the end of 1851. in 1868, when james craig watson discovered the 100th asteroid, the french academy of sciences engraved the faces of karl theodor robert luther, john russell hind, and hermann goldschmidt, the three most successful asteroid - hunters at that time, on a commemorative medallion marking the event. in 1891, max wolf pioneered the use of astrophotography to detect asteroids, which appeared as short streaks on long - exposure photographic plates. this dramatically increased the rate of detection compared with earlier visual methods : wolf alone discovered 248 asteroids, beginning with 323 brucia, whereas only slightly more than 300 had been discovered up to that point. it was known that there were many more, but most astronomers did not bother with them, some calling them " vermin of the skies ", a phrase variously attributed to eduard suess and edmund weiss. even a century later, only a few thousand asteroids were identified, numbered and named. 19th and 20th centuries in the past, asteroids were discovered by a four - step process. first, a region of the sky was photographed by a wide - field telescope, or astrograph. pairs of photographs were taken, typically one hour apart. multiple pairs could be taken over a series of days. second, the two films or