##fied, swift ' s rhetoric can easily turn " people into animals, then meat, and from meat, logically, into tonnage worth a price per pound ". swift uses the proposer ' s serious tone to highlight the absurdity of his proposal. in making his argument, the speaker uses the conventional, textbook - approved order of argument from swift ' s time ( which was derived from the latin rhetorician quintilian ). the contrast between the " careful control against the almost inconceivable perversion of his scheme " and " the ridiculousness of the proposal " create a situation in which the reader has " to consider just what perverted values and assumptions would allow such a diligent, thoughtful, and conventional man to propose so perverse a plan ". influences scholars have speculated about which earlier works swift may have had in mind when he wrote a modest proposal. tertullian ' s apology james william johnson argues that a modest proposal was largely influenced and inspired by tertullian ' s apology : a satirical attack against early roman persecution of christianity. johnson believes that swift saw major similarities between the two situations. johnson notes swift ' s obvious affinity for tertullian and the bold stylistic and structural similarities between the works a modest proposal and apology. in structure, johnson points out the same central theme, that of cannibalism and the eating of babies as well as the same final argument, that " human depravity is such that men will attempt to justify their own cruelty by accusing their victims of being lower than human ". stylistically, swift and tertullian share the same command of sarcasm and language. in agreement with johnson, donald c. baker points out the similarity between both authors ' tones and use of irony. baker notes the uncanny way that both authors imply an ironic " justification by ownership " over the subject of sacrificing children — tertullian while attacking pagan parents, and swift while attacking the english mistreatment of the irish poor. defoe ' s the generous projector it has also been argued that a modest proposal was, at least in part, a response to the 1728 essay the generous projector or, a friendly proposal to prevent murder and other enormous abuses, by erecting an hospital for foundlings and bastard children by swift ' s rival daniel defoe. mandeville ' s modest defence of publick stews bernard mandeville ' s modest defence of publick stews asked to introduce public and state - controlled bordellos.