which one rigorously questioned the truths of the age, including the way in which one believed god. his view of robert ingersoll and thomas paine was that they were not denouncing true christianity but rather " a gross perversion of it ". part of the misunderstanding stemmed from ignorance of the concepts of god and religion. historically, a god was any real, perceivable force that ruled the lives of humans and inspired admiration, love, fear, and homage ; religion was the practice of it. ancient peoples worshiped gods with real counterparts, such as mammon ( money and material things ), nabu ( rationality ), or ba ' al ( violent weather ) ; bell argued that modern peoples were still paying homage — with their lives and their children ' s lives — to these old gods of wealth, physical appetites, and self - deification. thus, if one attempted to be agnostic passively, he or she would incidentally join the worship of the world ' s gods. in unfashionable convictions ( 1931 ), he criticized the enlightenment ' s complete faith in human sensory perception, augmented by scientific instruments, as a means of accurately grasping reality. firstly, it was fairly new, an innovation of the western world, which aristotle invented and thomas aquinas revived among the scientific community. secondly, the divorce of " pure " science from human experience, as manifested in american industrialization, had completely altered the environment, often disfiguring it, so as to suggest its insufficiency to human needs. thirdly, because scientists were constantly producing more data — to the point where no single human could grasp it all at once — it followed that human intelligence was incapable of attaining a complete understanding of universe ; therefore, to admit the mysteries of the unobserved universe was to be actually scientific. bell believed that there were two other ways that humans could perceive and interact with the world. artistic experience was how one expressed meaning through speaking, writing, painting, gesturing — any sort of communication which shared insight into a human ' s inner reality. mystical experience was how one could " read " people and harmonize with them, being what we commonly call love. in summary, man was a scientist, artist, and lover. without exercising all three, a person became " lopsided ". bell considered a humanist to be a person who cannot rightly ignore the other ways of knowing. however, humanism, like agnosticism, was also temporal, and would eventually lead to either