merchants from spain, ragusa, genoa, ancona and florence could trade under the french flag. architect and service to islam sultan ahmed constructed the sultan ahmed mosque, the magnum opus of the ottoman architecture, across from the hagia sophia. the sultan attended the breaking of the ground with a golden pickaxe to begin the construction of the mosque complex. an incident nearly broke out after the sultan discovered that the blue mosque contained the same number of minarets as the grand mosque of mecca. ahmed became furious at this fault and became remorseful until the shaykh - ul - islam recommended that he should erect another minaret at the grand mosque of mecca and the matter was solved. ahmed became delightedly involved in the eleventh comprehensive renovations of the kaaba, which had just been damaged by flooding. he sent craftsmen from constantinople, and the golden rain gutter that kept rain from collecting on the roof of the ka ’ ba was successfully renewed. it was again during the era of sultan ahmed that an iron web was placed inside the zamzam well in mecca. the placement of this web about three feet below the water level was a response to lunatics who jumped into the well, imagining a promise of a heroic death. in medina, the city of the islamic prophet muhammad, a new pulpit made of white marble and shipped from istanbul arrived in the mosque of muhammad and substituted the old, worn - out pulpit. it is also known that sultan ahmed erected two more mosques in uskudar on the asian side of istanbul ; however, neither of them has survived. the sultan had a crest carved with the footprint of muhammad that he would wear on fridays and festive days and illustrated one of the most significant examples of affection to muhammad in ottoman history. engraved inside the crest was a poem he composed : character sultan ahmed was known for his skills in fencing, poetry, horseback riding, and fluency in several languages. ahmed was a poet who wrote a number of political and lyrical works under the name bahti. ahmed patronized scholars, calligraphers, and pious men. hence, he commissioned a book entitled the quintessence of histories to be worked upon by calligraphers. he also attempted to enforce conformance to islamic laws and traditions, restoring the old regulations that prohibited alcohol, and he attempted to enforce attendance at friday prayers and paying alms to the poor in the proper way. death ahmed i died of typhus and gastric bleeding on 22 november 1617 at the topkapı palace, istanbul. he was buried