british contact john andre was captured and later executed. arnold escaped to new york and switched sides, an action justified in a pamphlet addressed " to the inhabitants of america " ; the patriots condemned his betrayal, while he found himself almost as unpopular with the british. war in the south the southern strategy was developed by lord germain, based on input from london - based loyalists, including joseph galloway. they argued that it made no sense to fight the patriots in the north where they were strongest, while the new england economy was reliant on trade with britain, regardless of who governed it. on the other hand, duties on tobacco made the south far more profitable for britain, while local support meant securing it required small numbers of regular troops. victory would leave a truncated united states facing british possessions in the south, canada to the north, and ohio on their western border ; with the atlantic seaboard controlled by the royal navy, congress would be forced to agree to terms. however, assumptions about the level of loyalist support proved wildly optimistic. germain accordingly ordered augustine prevost, the british commander in east florida, to advance into georgia in december 1778. lieutenant - colonel archibald campbell, an experienced officer taken prisoner earlier in the war before being exchanged for ethan allen, captured savannah on december 29, 1778. he recruited a loyalist militia of nearly 1, 100, many of whom allegedly joined only after campbell threatened to confiscate their property. poor motivation and training made them unreliable troops, as demonstrated in their defeat by patriot militia at the battle of kettle creek on february 14, 1779, although this was offset by british victory at brier creek on march 3. in june 1779, prevost launched an abortive assault on charleston, before retreating to savannah, an operation notorious for widespread looting by british troops that enraged both loyalists and patriots. in october, a joint french and american operation under admiral d ' estaing and general benjamin lincoln failed to recapture savannah. prevost was replaced by lord cornwallis, who assumed responsibility for germain ' s strategy ; he soon realized estimates of loyalist support were considerably over - stated, and he needed far larger numbers of regular forces. reinforced by clinton, cornwallis ' troops captured charleston in may 1780, inflicting the most serious patriot defeat of the war ; over 5, 000 prisoners were taken and the continental army in the south effectively destroyed. on may 29, lieutenant - colonel banastre tarleton ' s mainly loyalist force routed a continental army force nearly three times its size under the command of colonel abraham buford