actions polarized monroe ' s cabinet. the occupied territories were returned to spain. calhoun wanted him censured for violating the constitution, since the united states had not declared war on spain. secretary of state john quincy adams defended him as he thought jackson ' s occupation of pensacola would lead spain to sell florida, which spain did in the adams – onis treaty of 1819. in february 1819, a congressional investigation exonerated jackson, and his victory was instrumental in convincing the seminoles to sign the treaty of moultrie creek in 1823, which surrendered much of their land in florida. presidential aspirations election of 1824 the panic of 1819, the united states ' first prolonged financial depression, caused congress to reduce the military ' s size and abolish jackson ' s generalship. in compensation, monroe made him the first territorial governor of florida in 1821. he served as the governor for two months, returning to the hermitage in ill health. during his convalescence, jackson, who had been a freemason since at least 1798, became the grand master of the grand lodge of tennessee for 1822 – 1823. around this time, he also completed negotiations for tennessee to purchase chickasaw lands. this became known as the jackson purchase. jackson, overton, and another colleague had speculated in some of the land and used their portion to found the town of memphis. in 1822, jackson agreed to run in the 1824 presidential election, and he was nominated by the tennessee legislature in july. at the time, the federalist party had collapsed, and there were four major contenders for the democratic - republican party nomination : william crawford, john quincy adams, henry clay and john c. calhoun. jackson was intended to be a stalking horse candidate to prevent tennessee ' s electoral votes from going to crawford, who was seen as a washington insider. unexpectedly, jackson garnered popular support outside of tennessee and became a serious candidate. he benefited from the expansion of suffrage among white males that followed the conclusion of the war of 1812. he was a popular war hero whose reputation suggested he had the decisiveness and independence to bring reform to washington. he also was promoted as an outsider who stood for all the people, blaming banks for the country ' s depression. during his presidential candidacy, jackson reluctantly ran for one of tennessee ' s u. s. senate seats. jackson ' s political managers william berkeley lewis and john eaton convinced him that he needed to defeat incumbent john williams, who opposed him. the legislature elected jackson in october 1823. he was attentive to his senatorial