consist of a university degree in architecture. the experience requirement for degree candidates is usually satisfied by a practicum or internship ( usually two to three years ). finally, a registration examination or a series of exams is required prior to licensure. professionals who engaged in the design and supervision of construction projects prior to the late 19th century were not necessarily trained in a separate architecture program in an academic setting. instead, they often trained under established architects. prior to modern times, there was no distinction between architects and engineers and the title used varied depending on geographical location. they often carried the title of master builder or surveyor after serving a number of years as an apprentice ( such as sir christopher wren ). the formal study of architecture in academic institutions played a pivotal role in the development of the profession as a whole, serving as a focal point for advances in architectural technology and theory. the use of " architect " or abbreviations such as " ar. " as a title attached to a person ' s name was regulated by law in some countries. fees architects ' fee structure was typically based on a percentage of construction value, as a rate per unit area of the proposed construction, hourly rates, or a fixed lump sum fee. combination of these structures was also common. fixed fees were usually based on a project ' s allocated construction cost and could range between 4 and 12 % of new construction cost for commercial and institutional projects, depending on a project ' s size and complexity. residential projects ranged from 12 to 20 %. renovation projects typically commanded higher percentages such as 15 - 20 %. overall billings for architectural firms range widely, depending on their location and economic climate. billings have traditionally been dependent on the local economic conditions, but with rapid globalization, this is becoming less of a factor for large international firms. salaries could also vary depending on experience, position within the firm ( i. e. staff architect, partner, or shareholder, etc. ), and the size and location of the firm. professional organizations a number of national professional organizations exist to promote career and business development in architecture. the international union of architects ( uia ) the american institute of architects ( aia ) us royal institute of british architects ( riba ) uk architects registration board ( arb ) uk the australian institute of architects ( aia ) australia the south african institute of architects ( saia ) south africa association of consultant architects ( aca ) uk association of licensed architects ( ala ) us the consejo profesional de arquitectura y urbanismo ( cpau )