aroused ambiguous public response. see also literature covering the gulag system list of refugees ivan bunin czesław miłosz đoan van toai wei jingsheng yevgeny zamyatin notes references sources kriza, elisa ( 2014 ) alexander solzhenitsyn : cold war icon, gulag author, russian nationalist? a study of the western reception of his literary writings, historical interpretations, and political ideas. stuttgart : ibidem press. further reading biographies ostrovsky alexander ( 2004 ). солженицын : прощание с мифом ( solzhenitsyn : farewell to the myth ) – moscow : « yauza », presscom. reference works. ; prof. vittorio strada, dott. julija dobrovol ' skaja. anatoly livry, « soljenitsyne et la republique regicide », les lettres et les arts, cahiers suisses de critique litteraire et artistiques, association de la revue les lettres et les arts, suisse, vicques, 2011, pp. 70 – 72. http : / / anatoly - livry. e - monsite. com / medias / files / soljenitsine - livry - 1. pdf........ external links the nobel prize in literature 1970 negative analysis of alexander solzhenitsyn by the stalin society ' '. vermont recluse aleksandr solzhenitsyn der spiegel interviews alexander solzhenitsyn : ' i am not afraid of death ', 23 july 2007 as delivered text and video of harvard commencement address at americanrhetoric. com the solzhenitsyn reader : new and essential writings, 1947 – 2005 1918 births 2008 deaths 20th - century male writers 20th - century non - fiction writers russian writers of ukrainian descent 20th - century russian short story writers burials at donskoy monastery censorship in the soviet union christian humanists christian novelists christian writers converts to eastern orthodoxy from atheism or agnosticism critics of atheism eastern orthodox philosophers full members of the russian academy of sciences gulag detainees inmates of lefortovo prison members of the serbian academy of sciences and arts nobel laureates in literature people denaturalized by the soviet union people from cavendish, vermont people from kislovodsk people of the cold war prison writings recipients of the order of the red