the ' malay archipelago '. " some of wallace ' s friends suggested that he be buried in westminster abbey, but his wife followed his wishes and had him buried in the small cemetery at broadstone, dorset. several prominent british scientists formed a committee to have a medallion of wallace placed in westminster abbey near where darwin had been buried. the medallion was unveiled on 1 november 1915. theory of evolution early evolutionary thinking wallace began his career as a travelling naturalist who already believed in the transmutation of species. the concept had been advocated by jean - baptiste lamarck, geoffroy saint - hilaire, erasmus darwin, and robert grant, among others. it was widely discussed, but not generally accepted by leading naturalists, and was considered to have radical, even revolutionary connotations. prominent anatomists and geologists such as georges cuvier, richard owen, adam sedgwick, and lyell attacked transmutation vigorously. it has been suggested that wallace accepted the idea of the transmutation of species in part because he was always inclined to favour radical ideas in politics, religion and science, and because he was unusually open to marginal, even fringe, ideas in science. wallace was profoundly influenced by robert chambers ' s vestiges of the natural history of creation, a controversial work of popular science published anonymously in 1844. it advocated an evolutionary origin for the solar system, the earth, and living things. wallace wrote to henry bates in 1845 describing it as " an ingenious hypothesis strongly supported by some striking facts and analogies, but which remains to be proven by... more research ". in 1847, he wrote to bates that he would " like to take some one family [ of beetles ] to study thoroughly,... with a view to the theory of the origin of species. " wallace planned fieldwork to test the evolutionary hypothesis that closely related species should inhabit neighbouring territories. during his work in the amazon basin, he came to realise that geographical barriers — such as the amazon and its major tributaries — often separated the ranges of closely allied species. he included these observations in his 1853 paper " on the monkeys of the amazon ". near the end of the paper he asked the question, " are very closely allied species ever separated by a wide interval of country? " in february 1855, while working in sarawak on the island of borneo, wallace wrote " on the law which has regulated the introduction of new species ". the paper was published in the annals and magazine of natural history in september 1855. in this