press in a building called the thermae in the sestiere di san polo on the campo sant ' agostin, today numero civico ( house number ) 2343 san polo on the calle della chiesa ( alley of the church ), now the location of the restaurant due colonne. though there are two commemorative plaques located on the building numero civico 2311 rio tera secondo, historians regard them to be erroneously placed based on contemporaneous letters addressed to manutius. the first erroneous plaque had been placed by abbot don vincenzo zenier in 1828. manutius lived and worked in the thermae in order to produce published books from the aldine press. this was also the location of the " new academy ", where a group of manutius ' friends, associates, and editors came together to translate greek and latin texts. in 1505, manutius married maria, the daughter of andrea torresani of asola. torresani and manutius were already business partners, but the marriage combined the two partners ' shares in the publishing business. after the marriage, manutius lived at torresani ' s house. shrinking in popularity, in 1506 the aldine press was moved to torresani ' s house in the parish of san paternian. it was later demolished in 1873 and was covered by a bank building in the venice square, campo manin. accomplishments the press was started by manutius due to a combination of his love of classics and the need for preservation of hellenic studies. during its initial era the press printed new copies of plato, aristotle, and other greek and latin classics. the first edition of plato ' s works ( known as the aldine edition ) was dedicated to pope leo x, and included the poem of musurus and the life of plato by diogenes laertius, which were also included in the first two editions of plato ' s works printed in basel. the two basel editions were introduced by a latin preface written by the greek scholar simon grynaeus, who dedicated the work to the humanist thomas more. manutius also printed dictionaries and grammars to help people interpret the books, used by scholars wanting to learn greek who would employ learned greeks in order to teach them directly. historian elizabeth eisenstein claims that the fall of constantinople in 1453 had placed under threat the importance and survival of greek scholarship, but that publications such as those by the aldine press secured it once more.