abusive content posted on the website 4chan. org. while originally derogatory, the terms " otaku " and " weeb " have been reappropriated by the anime fandom overtime and today are used by some fans to refer to themselves in a comedic and more positive way. anime enthusiasts have produced fan fiction and fan art, including computer wallpapers and anime music videos ( amvs ). many fans will visit sites depicted in anime, games, manga and other forms of otaku culture, this behavior is known as " anime pilgrimage ". as of the 2020s, many anime fans and followers use social media platforms and other sites like youtube, twitch, fandom, facebook, reddit, discord, tumblr, 4chan, tiktok and twitter with online communities and databases such as imdb, myanimelist to discuss anime, manga and track their progress watching respective series as well as using news outlets such as anime news network. due to anime ' s increased popularity in recent years, a large number of celebrities such as elon musk, bts and ariana grande have come out as anime fans. anime style one of the key points that made anime different from a handful of western cartoons is the potential for visceral content. once the expectation that the aspects of visual intrigue or animation are just for children is put aside, the audience can realize that themes involving violence, suffering, sexuality, pain, and death can all be storytelling elements utilized in anime just as much as other media. however, as anime itself became increasingly popular, its styling has been inevitably the subject of both satire and serious creative productions. south parks " chinpokomon " and " good times with weapons " episodes, adult swim ' s perfect hair forever, and nickelodeon ' s kappa mikey are examples of western satirical depictions of japanese culture and anime, but anime tropes have also been satirized by some anime such as konosuba. traditionally only japanese works have been considered anime, but some works have sparked debate about blurring the lines between anime and cartoons, such as the american anime - style productions avatar : the last airbender and avatar : the legend of korra. these anime - styled works have become defined as anime - influenced animation, in an attempt to classify all anime styled works of non - japanese origin. some creators of these works cite anime as a source of inspiration, for example the french production team for oban star - racers that moved to tokyo to collaborate with a japanese