less elegant and more difficult than general relativity, with the equations of motion supplemented by additional gauge fixing conditions. after more than two years of intensive work, einstein realized that the hole argument was mistaken and abandoned the theory in november 1915. physical cosmology in 1917, einstein applied the general theory of relativity to the structure of the universe as a whole. he discovered that the general field equations predicted a universe that was dynamic, either contracting or expanding. as observational evidence for a dynamic universe was lacking at the time, einstein introduced a new term, the cosmological constant, into the field equations, in order to allow the theory to predict a static universe. the modified field equations predicted a static universe of closed curvature, in accordance with einstein ' s understanding of mach ' s principle in these years. this model became known as the einstein world or einstein ' s static universe. following the discovery of the recession of the galaxies by edwin hubble in 1929, einstein abandoned his static model of the universe, and proposed two dynamic models of the cosmos, the friedmann – einstein universe of 1931 and the einstein – de sitter universe of 1932. in each of these models, einstein discarded the cosmological constant, claiming that it was " in any case theoretically unsatisfactory ". in many einstein biographies, it is claimed that einstein referred to the cosmological constant in later years as his " biggest blunder ", based on a letter george gamow claimed to have received from him. the astrophysicist mario livio has recently cast doubt on this claim. in late 2013, a team led by the irish physicist cormac o ' raifeartaigh discovered evidence that, shortly after learning of hubble ' s observations of the recession of the galaxies, einstein considered a steady - state model of the universe. in a hitherto overlooked manuscript, apparently written in early 1931, einstein explored a model of the expanding universe in which the density of matter remains constant due to a continuous creation of matter, a process that he associated with the cosmological constant. as he stated in the paper, " in what follows, i would like to draw attention to a solution to equation ( 1 ) that can account for hubbel ' s [ sic ] facts, and in which the density is constant over time "... " if one considers a physically bounded volume, particles of matter will be continually leaving it. for the density to remain constant, new particles of matter must be continually formed in the volume from space. " it thus