europe and parts of africa during the neolithic. haplogroup r1b is carried by modern egyptians. modern egypt is also the only african country that is known to harbor all three r1 subtypes, including r1b - m269. the mitochondrial haplogroup was k, which is most likely also part of a near eastern lineage. the profiles for tutankhamun and amenhotep iii were incomplete and the analysis produced differing probability figures despite having concordant allele results. because the relationships of these two mummies with the kv55 mummy had previously been confirmed in an earlier study, the haplogroup prediction of both mummies could be derived from the full profile of the kv55 data. genetic analysis indicated the following haplogroups : tutankhamun ydna r1b / mtdna k akhenaten ydna r1b / mtdna k amenhotep iii ydna r1b / mtdna h2b yuya g2a / mtdna k tiye mtdna k thuya mtdna k both y - dna haplogroups r1b and g2a, as well as both mtdna haplogroups h and k, are carried by modern egyptians. in a comment on hawas et al. ( 2010 & 2012 ), keita pointed out, based on inserting the data into the popaffiliator online calculator, which only calculates affinity to east asia, eurasia, and sub - saharan africa, but not to north africa or the near east, for instance, that the majority of the samples : " have an affinity with sub - saharan africans in one affinity analysis, which does not mean that they lacked other affiliations — an important point that typological thinking obscures. also, different data and algorithms might give different results, which would illustrate the complexity of biological heritage and its interpretation. " legacy the culture and monuments of ancient egypt have left a lasting legacy on the world. egyptian civilization significantly influenced the kingdom of kush and meroe with both adopting egyptian religious and architectural norms ( hundreds of pyramids ( 6 – 30 meters high ) were built in egypt / sudan ), as well as using egyptian writing as the basis of the meroitic script. meroitic is the oldest written language in africa, other than egyptian, and was used from the 2nd century bc until the early 5th century ad. the cult of the goddess isis, for example, became popular in the