the integral of the other function, g ( x ) : where is the curve with the greater y - value. an area bounded by a function expressed in polar coordinates is : the area enclosed by a parametric curve with endpoints is given by the line integrals : or the z - component of ( for details, see. ) this is the principle of the planimeter mechanical device. bounded area between two quadratic functions to find the bounded area between two quadratic functions, we subtract one from the other to write the difference as where f ( x ) is the quadratic upper bound and g ( x ) is the quadratic lower bound. define the discriminant of f ( x ) - g ( x ) as by simplifying the integral formula between the graphs of two functions ( as given in the section above ) and using vieta ' s formula, we can obtain the above remains valid if one of the bounding functions is linear instead of quadratic. surface area of 3 - dimensional figures cone :, where r is the radius of the circular base, and h is the height. that can also be rewritten as or where r is the radius and l is the slant height of the cone. is the base area while is the lateral surface area of the cone. cube :, where s is the length of an edge. cylinder :, where r is the radius of a base and h is the height. the can also be rewritten as, where d is the diameter. prism :, where b is the area of a base, p is the perimeter of a base, and h is the height of the prism. pyramid :, where b is the area of the base, p is the perimeter of the base, and l is the length of the slant. rectangular prism :, where is the length, w is the width, and h is the height. general formula for surface area the general formula for the surface area of the graph of a continuously differentiable function where and is a region in the xy - plane with the smooth boundary : an even more general formula for the area of the graph of a parametric surface in the vector form where is a continuously differentiable vector function of is : list of formulas the above calculations show how to find the areas of many common shapes. the areas of irregular ( and thus arbitrary ) polygons can be calculated using the " surveyor ' s formula " ( shoelace formula ). relation of area to perimeter the isoperimetric inequality states that, for