richards " = " marcil d ' hirson garron " " vladimir nabokov " = " vivian darkbloom ", = " vivian bloodmark ", = " blavdak vinomori ", or = " dorian vivalkomb " several of these are " imperfect anagrams ", letters having been left out in some cases for the sake of easy pronunciation. titles anagrams used for titles afford scope for some types of wit. examples : homer hickam ' s book rocket boys was adapted into the 1999 film october sky. the tapes for the revival of the bbc show doctor who were labeled with the anagram torchwood, which later went on to be used as the name for a spin - off show. in multi - episode shows, the program occasionally substitutes the anagram of an actor ' s name for the actual name to prevent revealing the true identity of the role ( for instance, the master ) being played by the actor. the new wave band missing persons ' best - selling album was called spring session m. hip - hop artist mf doom recorded a 2004 album called mm.. food. brian eno ' s album before and after science includes a song entitled " king ' s lead hat ", an anagram of " talking heads ", a band eno has worked with. juan maria solare ' s piano ballad " jura ser anomalia " ( literally " he / she swears to be an anomaly " ) is an anagram of the composer ' s full name. his composition for english horn titled " a dot in time " is an anagram of " meditation ", which describes the piece. the title of his piano piece that is a homage to claude debussy is " seduce us badly ". bill evans ' s overdubbed piano elegy for fellow jazz pianist sonny clark is titled " n. y. c. ' s no lark ", and another composition, " re : person i knew " is a tribute to his producer, orrin keepnews. the title of imogen heap ' s album imegaphone is an anagram of her name. progressive rock group rush published a song on their 1989 album presto titled " anagram ( for mongo ) " that makes use of anagrams in every line of the song. the title of the fifth album by american rock band interpol, el pintor, is an anagram of the band ' s name and also spanish for " the painter ". many of the