role in convening the third buddhist council, and his dispatch of several missionaries to distant regions, including his son mahinda to sri lanka. however, the north indian tradition makes no mention of these events. it describes other events not found in the sri lankan tradition, such as a story about another son named kunala. even while narrating the common stories, the two traditions diverge in several ways. for example, both ashokavadana and mahavamsa mention that ashoka ' s queen tishyarakshita had the bodhi tree destroyed. in ashokavadana, the queen manages to have the tree healed after she realises her mistake. in the mahavamsa, she permanently destroys the tree, but only after a branch of the tree has been transplanted in sri lanka. in another story, both the texts describe ashoka ' s unsuccessful attempts to collect a relic of gautama buddha from ramagrama. in ashokavadana, he fails to do so because he cannot match the devotion of the nagas who hold the relic ; however, in the mahavamsa, he fails to do so because the buddha had destined the relic to be enshrined by king dutthagamani of sri lanka. using such stories, the mahavamsa glorifies sri lanka as the new preserve of buddhism. other sources numismatic, sculptural, and archaeological evidence supplements research on ashoka. ashoka ' s name appears in the lists of mauryan kings in the various puranas. however, these texts do not provide further details about him, as their brahmanical authors were not patronised by the mauryans. other texts, such as the arthashastra and indica of megasthenes, which provide general information about the maurya period, can also be used to make inferences about ashoka ' s reign. however, the arthashastra is a normative text that focuses on an ideal rather than a historical state, and its dating to the mauryan period is a subject of debate. the indica is a lost work, and only parts of it survive in the form of paraphrases in later writings. the 12th - century text rajatarangini mentions a kashmiri king ashoka of gonandiya dynasty who built several stupas : some scholars, such as aurel stein, have identified this king with the maurya king ashoka ; others, such as ananda w. p