relationship with the size ( molecular weight ) of the molecule. as a rule of thumb, the boiling point rises 20 – 30 °c for each carbon added to the chain ; this rule applies to other homologous series. a straight - chain alkane will have a boiling point higher than a branched - chain alkane due to the greater surface area in contact, and thus greater van der waals forces, between adjacent molecules. for example, compare isobutane ( 2 - methylpropane ) and n - butane ( butane ), which boil at −12 and 0 °c, and 2, 2 - dimethylbutane and 2, 3 - dimethylbutane which boil at 50 and 58 °c, respectively. on the other hand, cycloalkanes tend to have higher boiling points than their linear counterparts due to the locked conformations of the molecules, which give a plane of intermolecular contact. melting points the melting points of the alkanes follow a similar trend to boiling points for the same reason as outlined above. that is, ( all other things being equal ) the larger the molecule the higher the melting point. there is one significant difference between boiling points and melting points. solids have a more rigid and fixed structure than liquids. this rigid structure requires energy to break down. thus the better put together solid structures will require more energy to break apart. for alkanes, this can be seen from the graph above ( i. e., the blue line ). the odd - numbered alkanes have a lower trend in melting points than even - numbered alkanes. this is because even - numbered alkanes pack well in the solid phase, forming a well - organized structure which requires more energy to break apart. the odd - numbered alkanes pack less well and so the " looser " - organized solid packing structure requires less energy to break apart. for a visualization of the crystal structures see. the melting points of branched - chain alkanes can be either higher or lower than those of the corresponding straight - chain alkanes, again depending on the ability of the alkane in question to pack well in the solid phase. conductivity and solubility alkanes do not conduct electricity in any way, nor are they substantially polarized by an electric field. for this reason, they do not form hydrogen bonds and are insoluble in polar solvents such as water. since the hydrogen bonds between individual water molecules are aligned away from