manipulate symbols of which number was one instance, according to rules. it is this fundamental transition from a machine which is a number cruncher to a machine for manipulating symbols according to rules that is the fundamental transition from calculation to computation — to general - purpose computation — and looking back from the present high ground of modern computing, if we are looking and sifting history for that transition, then that transition was made explicitly by ada in that 1843 paper. distinction between mechanism and logical structure lovelace recognized the difference between the details of the computing mechanism, as covered in a 1834 article on the difference engine, and the logical structure of the analytical engine, on which the article she was reviewing dwelt. she noted that different specialists might be required in each area. the [ 1834 article ] chiefly treats it under its mechanical aspect, entering but slightly into the mathematical principles of which that engine is the representative, but giving, in considerable length, many details of the mechanism and contrivances by means of which it tabulates the various orders of differences. m. menabrea, on the contrary, exclusively developes the analytical view ; taking it for granted that mechanism is able to perform certain processes, but without attempting to explain how ; and devoting his whole attention to explanations and illustrations of the manner in which analytical laws can be so arranged and combined as to bring every branch of that vast subject within the grasp of the assumed powers of mechanism. it is obvious that, in the invention of a calculating engine, these two branches of the subject are equally essential fields of investigation... they are indissolubly connected, though so different in their intrinsic nature, that perhaps the same mind might not be likely to prove equally profound or successful in both. controversy over contribution though lovelace is often referred to as the first computer programmer, some biographers, computer scientists and historians of computing suggest otherwise. allan g. bromley, in the 1990 article difference and analytical engines : bruce collier wrote that lovelace " made a considerable contribution to publicizing the analytical engine, but there is no evidence that she advanced the design or theory of it in any way ". eugene eric kim and betty alexandra toole consider it " incorrect " to regard lovelace as the first computer programmer, as babbage wrote the initial programs for his analytical engine, although the majority were never published. bromley notes several dozen sample programs prepared by babbage between 1837 and 1840, all substantially predating lovelace ' s notes. dorothy k. stein regards lovelace ' s notes as " more