half hours after landing, before preparations began for the eva, aldrin radioed to earth : he then took communion privately. at this time nasa was still fighting a lawsuit brought by atheist madalyn murray o ' hair ( who had objected to the apollo 8 crew reading from the book of genesis ) demanding that their astronauts refrain from broadcasting religious activities while in space. for this reason, aldrin chose to refrain from directly mentioning taking communion on the moon. aldrin was an elder at the webster presbyterian church, and his communion kit was prepared by the pastor of the church, dean woodruff. webster presbyterian possesses the chalice used on the moon and commemorates the event each year on the sunday closest to july 20. the schedule for the mission called for the astronauts to follow the landing with a five - hour sleep period, but they chose to begin preparations for the eva early, thinking they would be unable to sleep. lunar surface operations preparations for neil armstrong and buzz aldrin to walk on the moon began at 23 : 43 utc. these took longer than expected ; three and a half hours instead of two. during training on earth, everything required had been neatly laid out in advance, but on the moon the cabin contained a large number of other items as well, such as checklists, food packets, and tools. six hours and thirty - nine minutes after landing armstrong and aldrin were ready to go outside, and eagle was depressurized. eagles hatch was opened at 02 : 39 : 33. armstrong initially had some difficulties squeezing through the hatch with his portable life support system ( plss ). some of the highest heart rates recorded from apollo astronauts occurred during lm egress and ingress. at 02 : 51 armstrong began his descent to the lunar surface. the remote control unit on his chest kept him from seeing his feet. climbing down the nine - rung ladder, armstrong pulled a d - ring to deploy the modular equipment stowage assembly ( mesa ) folded against eagle side and activate the tv camera. apollo 11 used slow - scan television ( tv ) incompatible with broadcast tv, so it was displayed on a special monitor and a conventional tv camera viewed this monitor ( thus, a broadcast of a broadcast ), significantly reducing the quality of the picture. the signal was received at goldstone in the united states, but with better fidelity by honeysuckle creek tracking station near canberra in australia. minutes later the feed was switched to the more sensitive parkes radio telescope in australia. despite some technical and weather difficulties, black