half are elected in equal numbers by each of the seven administrative parishes, and the other half of the councillors are elected in a single national constituency. fifteen days after the election, the councillors hold their inauguration. during this session, the general syndic, who is the head of the general council, and the subsyndic general, his assistant, are elected. eight days later, the council convenes once more. during this session, the prime minister is chosen from among the councillors. candidates can be proposed by a minimum of one - fifth of the councillors. the council then elects the candidate with the absolute majority of votes to be prime minister. the syndic general then notifies the co - princes, who in turn appoint the elected candidate as the prime minister of andorra. the general council is also responsible for proposing and passing laws. bills may be presented to the council as private members ' bills by three of the local parish councils jointly or by at least one tenth of the citizens of andorra. the council also approves the annual budget of the principality. the government must submit the proposed budget for parliamentary approval at least two months before the previous budget expires. if the budget is not approved by the first day of the next year, the previous budget is extended until a new one is approved. once any bill is approved, the syndic general is responsible for presenting it to the co - princes so that they may sign and enact it. if the prime minister is not satisfied with the council, he may request that the co - princes dissolve the council and order new elections. in turn, the councillors have the power to remove the prime minister from office. after a motion of censure is approved by at least one - fifth of the councillors, the council will vote and if it receives the absolute majority of votes, the prime minister is removed. law and criminal justice the judiciary is composed of the magistrates court, the criminal law court, the high court of andorra, and the constitutional court. the high court of justice is composed of five judges : one appointed by the prime minister, one each by the co - princes, one by the syndic general, and one by the judges and magistrates. it is presided over by the member appointed by the syndic general and the judges hold office for six - year terms. the magistrates and judges are appointed by the high court, as is the president of the criminal law court. the high court also appoints members of the office of the attorney general. the constitutional court is responsible