the age of consent is a legal barrier to the minor ' s ability to consent and therefore obtaining consent is not in general a defense to having sexual relations with a person under the prescribed age, for example : reasonable belief that the victim is over the age of consent in some jurisdictions it is a defense if the accused can show their reasonable belief that the victim was over the age of consent. however, where such a defense is provided, it normally applies only when the victim is close to the age of consent or the accused can show due diligence in determining the age of the victim ( e. g. an underage person who used a fake identification document claiming to be of legal age ). marriage in various jurisdictions, age of consent laws do not apply if the parties are legally married to each other. ruhollah khomeini, first supreme leader of iran, in tahrir al - wasilah apart from sexual penetration, which he said a girl must be at least 9 years old to do it ; he considered other sexual pleasures to be unobjection, whether after 9 years old or before 9 years old, even if those sexual acts done with a suckling infant. close - in - age exemptions similar age some jurisdictions have laws explicitly allowing sexual acts with minors under the age of consent if their partner is close in age. in canada, the age of consent is 16, but there are three close - in - age exemptions : sex with minors aged 14 – 15 is permitted if the partner is less than five years older, sex with minors aged 12 – 13 is permitted if the partner is less than two years older, and sex with minors aged 0 – 11 is permitted if the partner is 12 or 13 years of age, as long as the partner is not in a position of trust over the other minor. age under threshold another approach takes the form of a stipulation that sexual intercourse between a minor and an older partner is legal under the condition that the latter does not exceed a certain age. for example, the age of consent in the us state of delaware is 18, but it is allowed for teenagers aged 16 and 17 to engage in sexual intercourse as long as the older partner is younger than 30. the law in canada for sex between minors aged 0 – 11 with a partner younger than 14 also takes this form. similar maturity other countries state that the sexual conduct with the minor is not to be punished if the partners are of a similar age and development : for instance, the age of consent in finland is 16