. the extent and nature of these expectations will vary. foresight is a prerequisite when designing buildings as it is a very complex and demanding undertaking. any design concept during the early stage of its generation must take into account a great number of issues and variables including qualities of space ( s ), the end - use and life - cycle of these proposed spaces, connections, relations, and aspects between spaces including how they are put together and the impact of proposals on the immediate and wider locality. selection of appropriate materials and technology must be considered, tested, and reviewed at an early stage in the design to ensure there are no setbacks ( such as higher - than - expected costs ) which could occur later in the project. the site and its surrounding environment as well as the culture and history of the place, will also influence the design. the design must also balance increasing concerns with environmental sustainability. the architect may introduce ( intentionally or not ), aspects of mathematics and architecture, new or current architectural theory, or references to architectural history. a key part of the design is that the architect often must consult with engineers, surveyors and other specialists throughout the design, ensuring that aspects such as structural supports and air conditioning elements are coordinated. the control and planning of construction costs are also a part of these consultations. coordination of the different aspects involves a high degree of specialized communication including advanced computer technology such as building information modeling ( bim ), computer - aided design ( cad ), and cloud - based technologies. finally, at all times, the architect must report back to the client who may have reservations or recommendations which might introduce further variables into the design. architects also deal with local and federal jurisdictions regarding regulations and building codes. the architect might need to comply with local planning and zoning laws such as required setbacks, height limitations, parking requirements, transparency requirements ( windows ), and land use. some jurisdictions require adherence to design and historic preservation guidelines. health and safety risks form a vital part of the current design, and in some jurisdictions, design reports and records are required to include ongoing considerations of materials and contaminants, waste management and recycling, traffic control, and fire safety. means of design previously, architects employed drawings to illustrate and generate design proposals. while conceptual sketches are still widely used by architects, computer technology has now become the industry standard. furthermore, design may include the use of photos, collages, prints, linocuts, 3d scanning technology, and other media in design production. increasingly, computer software is shaping how architects work