- hindi ( " addition and subtraction in indian arithmetic " ). both of these texts are lost in the original arabic at this time. ( however, his other book on algebra remains. ) in the early 12th century, latin translations of said al - khwarizmi texts involving the hindu – arabic numeral system and arithmetic appeared : liber alghoarismi de practica arismetrice ( attributed to john of seville ) and liber algorismi de numero indorum ( attributed to adelard of bath ). hereby, alghoarismi or algorismi is the latinization of al - khwarizmi ' s name ; the text starts with the phrase dixit algorismi ( " thus spoke al - khwarizmi " ). in 1240, alexander of villedieu writes a latin text titled carmen de algorismo. it begins with : which translates to : the poem is a few hundred lines long and summarizes the art of calculating with the new styled indian dice ( tali indorum ), or hindu numerals. english evolution of the word around 1230, the english word algorism is attested and then by chaucer in 1391. english adopted the french term. in the 15th century, under the influence of the greek word αριθμος ( arithmos, " number " ; cf. " arithmetic " ), the latin word was altered to algorithmus. in 1656, in the english dictionary glossographia, it says : algorism ( [ latin ] algorismus ) the art or use of cyphers, or of numbering by cyphers ; skill in accounting. augrime ( [ latin ] algorithmus ) skil in accounting or numbring. in 1658, in the first edition of the new world of english words, it says : algorithme, ( a word compounded of arabick and spanish, ) the art of reckoning by cyphers. in 1706, in the sixth edition of the new world of english words, it says : algorithm, the art of computing or reckoning by numbers, which contains the five principle rules of arithmetick, viz. numeration, addition, subtraction, multiplication and division ; to which may be added extraction of roots : it is also call ' d logistica numeralis. algorism, the practical operation in the several parts of specious arithmetick