methods. red beard also marked the midway point, chronologically, in the artist ' s career. during his previous twenty - nine years in the film industry ( which includes his five years as assistant director ), he had directed twenty - three films, while during the remaining twenty - eight years, for many complex reasons, he would complete only seven more. also, for reasons never adequately explained, red beard would be his final film starring toshiro mifune. yu fujiki, an actor who worked on the lower depths, observed, regarding the closeness of the two men on the set, " mr. kurosawa ' s heart was in mr. mifune ' s body. " donald richie has described the rapport between them as a unique " symbiosis ". hollywood ambitions to last films ( 1966 – 1998 ) hollywood detour ( 1966 – 1968 ) when kurosawa ' s exclusive contract with toho came to an end in 1966, the 56 - year - old director was seriously contemplating change. observing the troubled state of the domestic film industry, and having already received dozens of offers from abroad, the idea of working outside japan appealed to him as never before. for his first foreign project, kurosawa chose a story based on a life magazine article. the embassy pictures action thriller, to be filmed in english and called simply runaway train, would have been his first in color. but the language barrier proved a major problem, and the english version of the screenplay was not even finished by the time filming was to begin in autumn 1966. the shoot, which required snow, was moved to autumn 1967, then canceled in 1968. almost two decades later, another foreign director working in hollywood, andrei konchalovsky, finally made runaway train ( 1985 ), though from a new script loosely based on kurosawa ' s. the director meanwhile had become involved in a much more ambitious hollywood project. tora! tora! tora!, produced by 20th century fox and kurosawa production, would be a portrayal of the japanese attack on pearl harbor from both the american and the japanese points of view, with kurosawa helming the japanese half and an anglophonic film - maker directing the american half. he spent several months working on the script with ryuzo kikushima and hideo oguni, but very soon the project began to unravel. the director of the american sequences turned out not to be david lean, as originally planned, but american richard fleischer. the budget was also cut