##zable. the adjective " forensic " refers to the application of this subfield of science to a court of law. palaeoanthropology paleoanthropology combines the disciplines of paleontology and physical anthropology. it is the study of ancient humans, as found in fossil hominid evidence such as petrifacted bones and footprints. genetics and morphology of specimens are crucially important to this field. markers on specimens, such as enamel fractures and dental decay on teeth, can also give insight into the behaviour and diet of past populations. organizations contemporary anthropology is an established science with academic departments at most universities and colleges. the single largest organization of anthropologists is the american anthropological association ( aaa ), which was founded in 1903. its members are anthropologists from around the globe. in 1989, a group of european and american scholars in the field of anthropology established the european association of social anthropologists ( easa ) which serves as a major professional organization for anthropologists working in europe. the easa seeks to advance the status of anthropology in europe and to increase visibility of marginalized anthropological traditions and thereby contribute to the project of a global anthropology or world anthropology. hundreds of other organizations exist in the various sub - fields of anthropology, sometimes divided up by nation or region, and many anthropologists work with collaborators in other disciplines, such as geology, physics, zoology, paleontology, anatomy, music theory, art history, sociology and so on, belonging to professional societies in those disciplines as well. list of major organizations american anthropological association american ethnological society asociacion de antropologos iberoamericanos en red, aibr anthropological society of london center for world indigenous studies ethnological society of london max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology network of concerned anthropologists n. n. miklukho - maklai institute of ethnology and anthropology royal anthropological institute of great britain and ireland society for anthropological sciences society for applied anthropology usc center for visual anthropology ethics as the field has matured it has debated and arrived at ethical principles aimed at protecting both the subjects of anthropological research as well as the researchers themselves, and professional societies have generated codes of ethics. anthropologists, like other researchers ( especially historians and scientists engaged in field research ), have over time assisted state policies and projects, especially colonialism. some commentators have contended : that the discipline grew out of colonialism, perhaps was in league with it, and derives some of its key notions from it, consciously or not. ( see