the hellenic world. he has been called the greatest ruler of the kingdom of pontus. further annexations by rome, in particular of the kingdom of pontus by pompey, brought all of anatolia under roman control, except for the southeastern frontier with the parthian empire, which remained unstable for centuries, causing a series of military conflicts that culminated in the roman – parthian wars ( 54 bce – 217 ce ). early christian period after the first division of the roman empire, anatolia became part of the eastern roman empire, otherwise known as the byzantine empire or byzantium. in the 1st century ce, anatolia became one of the first places where christianity spread, so that by the 4th century ce, western and central anatolia were overwhelmingly christian and greek - speaking. byzantine anatolia was one of the wealthiest and most densely populated places in the later roman empire. anatolia ' s wealth grew during the 4th and 5th centuries thanks, in part, to the pilgrim ' s road that ran through the peninsula. literary evidence about the rural landscape stems from the christian hagiographies of the 6th - century nicholas of sion and 7th - century theodore of sykeon. large and prosperous urban centers of byzantine anatolia included assos, ephesus, miletus, nicaea, pergamum, priene, sardis, and aphrodisias. from the mid - 5th century onwards, urbanism was affected negatively and began to decline, while the rural areas reached unprecedented levels of prosperity in the region. historians and scholars continue to debate the cause of the urban decline in byzantine anatolia between the 6th and 7th centuries, variously attributing it to the plague of justinian ( 541 ), the byzantine – sasanian war ( 602 – 628 ), and the arab invasion of the levant ( 634 – 638 ). medieval period in the 10 years following the battle of manzikert in 1071, the seljuk turks from central asia migrated over large areas of anatolia, with particular concentrations around the northwestern rim. the turkish language and the islamic religion were gradually introduced as a result of the seljuk conquest, and this period marks the start of anatolia ' s slow transition from predominantly christian and greek - speaking, to predominantly muslim and turkish - speaking ( although ethnic groups such as armenians, greeks, and assyrians remained numerous and retained christianity and their native languages ). in the following century, the byzantines managed to reassert their control in western and northern anatolia. control of anatolia was then split