time " poll, seven samurai placed 17th among all films from all countries in both the critics ' and the directors ' polls, receiving a place in the top ten lists of 48 critics and 22 directors. in 1954, nuclear tests in the pacific were causing radioactive rainstorms in japan and one particular incident in march had exposed a japanese fishing boat to nuclear fallout, with disastrous results. it is in this anxious atmosphere that kurosawa ' s next film, i live in fear, was conceived. the story concerned an elderly factory owner ( toshiro mifune ) so terrified of the prospect of a nuclear attack that he becomes determined to move his entire extended family ( both legal and extra - marital ) to what he imagines is the safety of a farm in brazil. production went much more smoothly than the director ' s previous film, but a few days before shooting ended, kurosawa ' s composer, collaborator, and close friend fumio hayasaka died ( of tuberculosis ) at the age of 41. the film ' s score was finished by hayasaka ' s student, masaru sato, who would go on to score all of kurosawa ' s next eight films. i live in fear opened in november 1955 to mixed reviews and muted audience reaction, becoming the first kurosawa film to lose money during its original theatrical run. today, it is considered by many to be among the finest films dealing with the psychological effects of the global nuclear stalemate. kurosawa ' s next project, throne of blood, an adaptation of william shakespeare ' s macbeth — set, like seven samurai, in the sengoku era — represented an ambitious transposition of the english work into a japanese context. kurosawa instructed his leading actress, isuzu yamada, to regard the work as if it were a cinematic version of a japanese rather than a european literary classic. given kurosawa ' s appreciation of traditional japanese stage acting, the acting of the players, particularly yamada, draws heavily on the stylized techniques of the noh theater. it was filmed in 1956 and released in january 1957 to a slightly less negative domestic response than had been the case with the director ' s previous film. abroad, throne of blood, regardless of the liberties it takes with its source material, quickly earned a place among the most celebrated shakespeare adaptations. another adaptation of a classic european theatrical work followed almost immediately, with production of the lower depths, based on a play by maxim gorky, taking place in may and june 1957. in contrast