an arrangement was found. henry ' s son, henry the lion, received the duchy of saxony in 1142. in the same year, albert renounced the saxon duchy and received the counties of weimar and orlamunde. once he was firmly established in the northern march, albert ' s covetous eye lay also on the thinly populated lands to the north and east. for three years he was occupied in campaigns against the slavic wends, who as pagans were considered fair game, and whose subjugation to christianity was the aim of the wendish crusade of 1147 in which albert took part. albert was a part of the army that besieged demmin, and at the end of the war, recovered havelberg, which had been lost since 983. diplomatic measures were more successful, and by an arrangement made with the last of the wendish princes of brandenburg, pribislav - henry of the hevelli, albert secured this district when the prince died in 1150. taking the title " margrave in brandenburg ", he pressed the crusade against the wends, extended the area of his mark, encouraged dutch and german settlement in the elbe - havel region ( ostsiedlung ), established bishoprics under his protection, and so became the founder of the margraviate of brandenburg in 1157, which his heirs — the house of ascania — held until the line died out in 1320. in 1158 a feud with henry the lion, duke of saxony, was interrupted by a pilgrimage to the holy land. on his return in 1160, he, with the consent of his sons, siegfried not being mentioned, donated land to the knights of saint john in memory of his wife, sofia, at werben on the elbe. around this same time, he minted a pfennig in memory of his deceased wife. in 1162 albert accompanied emperor frederick barbarossa to italy, where he distinguished himself at the storming of milan. in 1164 albert joined a league of princes formed against henry the lion, and peace being made in 1169, albert divided his territories among his six sons. he died on 18 november 1170, and was buried at ballenstedt. cognomen albert ' s personal qualities won for him the cognomen of the bear, " not from his looks or qualities, for he was a tall handsome man, but from the cognisance on his shield, an able man, had a quick eye as