##shite king piye invaded northward, seizing control of thebes and eventually the delta, which established the 25th dynasty. during the 25th dynasty, pharaoh taharqa created an empire nearly as large as the new kingdom ' s. twenty - fifth dynasty pharaohs built, or restored, temples and monuments throughout the nile valley, including at memphis, karnak, kawa, and jebel barkal. during this period, the nile valley saw the first widespread construction of pyramids ( many in modern sudan ) since the middle kingdom. egypt ' s far - reaching prestige declined considerably toward the end of the third intermediate period. its foreign allies had fallen under the assyrian sphere of influence, and by 700bc war between the two states became inevitable. between 671 and 667bc the assyrians began the assyrian conquest of egypt. the reigns of both taharqa and his successor, tanutamun, were filled with constant conflict with the assyrians, against whom egypt enjoyed several victories. ultimately, the assyrians pushed the kushites back into nubia, occupied memphis, and sacked the temples of thebes. late period ( 653 – 332 bc ) the assyrians left control of egypt to a series of vassals who became known as the saite kings of the twenty - sixth dynasty. by 653bc, the saite king psamtik i was able to oust the assyrians with the help of greek mercenaries, who were recruited to form egypt ' s first navy. greek influence expanded greatly as the city - state of naucratis became the home of greeks in the nile delta. the saite kings based in the new capital of sais witnessed a brief but spirited resurgence in the economy and culture, but in 525bc, the powerful persians, led by cambyses ii, began their conquest of egypt, eventually capturing the pharaoh psamtik iii at the battle of pelusium. cambyses ii then assumed the formal title of pharaoh, but ruled egypt from iran, leaving egypt under the control of a satrap. a few successful revolts against the persians marked the 5th centurybc, but egypt was never able to permanently overthrow the persians. following its annexation by persia, egypt was joined with cyprus and phoenicia in the sixth satrapy of the achaemenid persian empire. this first period of persian rule over egypt, also known as the twenty - seventh dynasty, ended in 402bc, when egypt regained independence under a series of native dynasties. the last of these