##eddin hasanoghlu, who composed a divan consisting of persian and azerbaijani ghazals. in persian ghazals he used his pen - name, while his azerbaijani ghazals were composed under his own name of hasanoghlu. classical literature in azerbaijani was formed in the 14th century based on the various early middle ages dialects of tabriz and shirvan. among the poets of this period were gazi burhanaddin, haqiqi ( pen - name of jahan shah qara qoyunlu ), and habibi. the end of the 14th century was also the period of starting literary activity of imadaddin nasimi, one of the greatest azerbaijani hurufi mystical poets of the late 14th and early 15th centuries and one of the most prominent early divan masters in turkic literary history, who also composed poetry in persian and arabic. the divan and ghazal styles were further developed by poets qasem - e anvar, fuzuli and khatai ( pen - name of safavid shah ismail i ). the book of dede korkut consists of two manuscripts copied in the 16th century, and was not written earlier than the 15th century. it is a collection of 12 stories reflecting the oral tradition of oghuz nomads. the 16th - century poet, muhammed fuzuli produced his timeless philosophical and lyrical qazals in arabic, persian, and azerbaijani. benefiting immensely from the fine literary traditions of his environment, and building upon the legacy of his predecessors, fuzuli was destined to become the leading literary figure of his society. his major works include the divan of ghazals and the qasidas. in the same century, azerbaijani literature further flourished with the development of ashik ( ) poetic genre of bards. during the same period, under the pen - name of khatai ( for sinner ) shah ismail i wrote about 1400 verses in azerbaijani, which were later published as his divan. a unique literary style known as qoshma ( for improvisation ) was introduced in this period, and developed by shah ismail and later by his son and successor, shah tahmasp i. in the span of the 17th and 18th centuries, fuzuli ' s unique genres as well ashik poetry were taken up by prominent poets and writers such as qovsi of tabriz, shah abbas sani,, nishat, molla vali vidadi, molla panah va