these prehistoric sites today. aeroacoustics aeroacoustics is the study of noise generated by air movement, for instance via turbulence, and the movement of sound through the fluid air. this knowledge is applied in acoustical engineering to study how to quieten aircraft. aeroacoustics is important for understanding how wind musical instruments work. acoustic signal processing acoustic signal processing is the electronic manipulation of acoustic signals. applications include : active noise control ; design for hearing aids or cochlear implants ; echo cancellation ; music information retrieval, and perceptual coding ( e. g. mp3 or opus ). architectural acoustics architectural acoustics ( also known as building acoustics ) involves the scientific understanding of how to achieve good sound within a building. it typically involves the study of speech intelligibility, speech privacy, music quality, and vibration reduction in the built environment. commonly studied environments are hospitals, classrooms, dwellings, performance venues, recording and broadcasting studios. focus considerations include room acoustics, airborne and impact transmission in building structures, airborne and structure - borne noise control, noise control of building systems and electroacoustic systems. bioacoustics bioacoustics is the scientific study of the hearing and calls of animal calls, as well as how animals are affected by the acoustic and sounds of their habitat. electroacoustics this subdiscipline is concerned with the recording, manipulation and reproduction of audio using electronics. this might include products such as mobile phones, large scale public address systems or virtual reality systems in research laboratories. environmental noise and soundscapes environmental acoustics is concerned with noise and vibration caused by railways, road traffic, aircraft, industrial equipment and recreational activities. the main aim of these studies is to reduce levels of environmental noise and vibration. research work now also has a focus on the positive use of sound in urban environments : soundscapes and tranquility. musical acoustics musical acoustics is the study of the physics of acoustic instruments ; the audio signal processing used in electronic music ; the computer analysis of music and composition, and the perception and cognitive neuroscience of music. noise the goal this acoustics sub - discipline is to reduce the impact of unwanted sound. scope of noise studies includes the generation, propagation, and impact on structures, objects, and people. innovative model development measurement techniques mitigation strategies input to the establishment of standards and regulations noise research investigates the impact of noise on humans and animals to include work in definitions, abatement, transportation noise, hearing protection, jet and rocket