. ). there is no hard - and - fast distinction between them, and these categories overlap to a considerable degree. inquiry in sociocultural anthropology is guided in part by cultural relativism, the attempt to understand other societies in terms of their own cultural symbols and values. accepting other cultures in their own terms moderates reductionism in cross - cultural comparison. this project is often accommodated in the field of ethnography. ethnography can refer to both a methodology and the product of ethnographic research, i. e. an ethnographic monograph. as a methodology, ethnography is based upon long - term fieldwork within a community or other research site. participant observation is one of the foundational methods of social and cultural anthropology. ethnology involves the systematic comparison of different cultures. the process of participant - observation can be especially helpful to understanding a culture from an emic ( conceptual, vs. etic, or technical ) point of view. the study of kinship and social organization is a central focus of sociocultural anthropology, as kinship is a human universal. sociocultural anthropology also covers economic and political organization, law and conflict resolution, patterns of consumption and exchange, material culture, technology, infrastructure, gender relations, ethnicity, childrearing and socialization, religion, myth, symbols, values, etiquette, worldview, sports, music, nutrition, recreation, games, food, festivals, and language ( which is also the object of study in linguistic anthropology ). comparison across cultures is a key element of method in sociocultural anthropology, including the industrialized ( and de - industrialized ) west. the standard cross - cultural sample ( sccs ) includes 186 such cultures. biological biological anthropology and physical anthropology are synonymous terms to describe anthropological research focused on the study of humans and non - human primates in their biological, evolutionary, and demographic dimensions. it examines the biological and social factors that have affected the evolution of humans and other primates, and that generate, maintain or change contemporary genetic and physiological variation. archaeological archaeology is the study of the human past through its material remains. artifacts, faunal remains, and human altered landscapes are evidence of the cultural and material lives of past societies. archaeologists examine material remains in order to deduce patterns of past human behavior and cultural practices. ethnoarchaeology is a type of archaeology that studies the practices and material remains of living human groups in order to gain a better understanding of the evidence left behind by past human groups, who are presumed to have lived in