a single species ; and indeed a large number of conifers belonging to different genera are represented in the amber - flora. paleontological significance amber is a unique preservational mode, preserving otherwise unfossilizable parts of organisms ; as such it is helpful in the reconstruction of ecosystems as well as organisms ; the chemical composition of the resin, however, is of limited utility in reconstructing the phylogenetic affinity of the resin producer. amber sometimes contains animals or plant matter that became caught in the resin as it was secreted. insects, spiders and even their webs, annelids, frogs, crustaceans, bacteria and amoebae, marine microfossils, wood, flowers and fruit, hair, feathers and other small organisms have been recovered in cretaceous ambers ( deposited c. ). the preservation of prehistoric organisms in amber forms a key plot point in michael crichton ' s 1990 novel jurassic park and the 1993 movie adaptation by steven spielberg. in the story, scientists are able to extract the preserved blood of dinosaurs from prehistoric mosquitoes trapped in amber, from which they genetically clone living dinosaurs. scientifically this is as yet impossible, since no amber with fossilized mosquitoes has ever yielded preserved blood. amber is, however, conducive to preserving dna, since it dehydrates and thus stabilizes organisms trapped inside. one projection in 1999 estimated that dna trapped in amber could last up to 100 million years, far beyond most estimates of around 1 million years in the most ideal conditions, although a later 2013 study was unable to extract dna from insects trapped in much more recent holocene copal. in 1938, 12 - year - old david attenborough ( brother of richard who played john hammond in jurassic park ) was given a piece of amber containing prehistoric creatures from his adoptive sister ; it would be the focus of his 2004 bbc documentary the amber time machine. use amber has been used since prehistory ( solutrean ) in the manufacture of jewelry and ornaments, and also in folk medicine. jewelry amber has been used as jewelry since the stone age, from 13, 000 years ago. amber ornaments have been found in mycenaean tombs and elsewhere across europe. to this day it is used in the manufacture of smoking and glassblowing mouthpieces. amber ' s place in culture and tradition lends it a tourism value ; palanga amber museum is dedicated to the fossilized resin. historical medicinal uses amber has long been used in folk medicine for its purported healing properties