##a. gaudi carved oak doors similar to what he had done for the casa y bardes, but these were only included on two floors as when segimon discovered the price, she decided there would be no more at that quality. architecture casa mila is part of the unesco world heritage site " works of antoni gaudi ". it was a predecessor of some buildings with a similar biomorphic appearance : the 1921 einstein tower in potsdam, designed by erich mendelsohn solomon r. guggenheim museum in manhattan, new york, designed by frank lloyd wright chapelle notre dame du haut, ronchamp, france, designed by le corbusier the hundertwasserhaus and other works by austrian architect friedensreich hundertwasser disney concert hall in los angeles, by frank gehry free exhibitions often are held on the first floor, which also provides some opportunity to see the interior design. there is a charge for entrance to the apartment on the fourth floor and the roof. the other floors are not open to visitors. constructive similarities gaudi ' s la pedrera was inspired by a mountain, but there is no agreement as to which mountain was the reference model. joan bergos thought it was the rocks of fray guerau in prades mountains. joan matamala thought that the model could have been st. miquel del fai, while the sculptor vicente vilarubias believed it was inspired by the cliffs torrent pareis in menorca. other options include the mountains of uchisar in cappadocia, suggested by juan goytisolo, or mola gallifa, suggested by louis permanyer, based on the fact that gaudi visited the area in 1885 to escape an outbreak of cholera in barcelona. some people say that the interior layout of la pedrera comes from studies that gaudi made of medieval fortresses. this image is reinforced by the seeming appearance of the rooftop chimneys as " sentinels " with great helmets. the structure of the iron door in the lobby does not follow any symmetry, straight or repetitive pattern. rather, it evokes bubbles of soap that are formed between the hands or the structures of a plant cell. criticism and controversy the building ' s unconventional style made it the subject of much criticism. it was given the nickname " la pedrera ", meaning " the quarry ". casa mila appeared in many satirical magazines. joan junceda presented it as a traditional " easter cake " by means of cartoons in