another successful album in 1975, frida ensam, which included the original swedish rendition of " fernando ", a hit on the swedish radio charts before the english version was released by abba. agnetha faltskog ( born 5 april 1950 in jonkoping, sweden ) sang with a local dance band headed by bernt enghardt who sent a demo recording of the band to karl - gerhard lundkvist. the demo tape featured a song written and sung by agnetha : " jag var sa kar " ( " i was so in love " ). lundkvist was so impressed with her voice that he was convinced she would be a star. after going through considerable effort to locate the singer, he arranged for agnetha to come to stockholm and to record two of her own songs. this led to agnetha at the age of 18 having a number - one record in sweden with a self - composed song, which later went on to sell over 80, 000 copies. she was soon noticed by the critics and songwriters as a talented singer / songwriter of schlager style songs. faltskog ' s main inspiration in her early years was singers such as connie francis. along with her own compositions, she recorded covers of foreign hits and performed them on tours in swedish folkparks. most of her biggest hits were self - composed, which was quite unusual for a female singer in the 1960s. agnetha released four solo lps between 1968 and 1971. she had many successful singles in the swedish charts. during filming of a swedish tv special in may 1969, faltskog met ulvaeus and they married on 6 july 1971. faltskog and ulvaeus eventually were involved in each other ' s recording sessions, and soon even andersson and lyngstad added backing vocals to faltskog ' s third studio album, som jag ar ( " as i am " ) ( 1970 ). in 1972, faltskog starred as mary magdalene in the original swedish production of jesus christ superstar and attracted favourable reviews. between 1967 and 1975, faltskog released five studio albums. first live performance and the start of " festfolket " an attempt at combining their talents occurred in april 1970 when the two couples went on holiday together to the island of cyprus. what started as singing for fun on the beach ended up as an improvised live performance in front of the united nations soldiers stationed on the island. andersson and ulvaeus were at this time