inexperienced practitioners. materials science and engineering anisotropy, in materials science, is a material ' s directional dependence of a physical property. this is a critical consideration for materials selection in engineering applications. a material with physical properties that are symmetric about an axis that is normal to a plane of isotropy is called a transversely isotropic material. tensor descriptions of material properties can be used to determine the directional dependence of that property. for a monocrystalline material, anisotropy is associated with the crystal symmetry in the sense that more symmetric crystal types have fewer independent coefficients in the tensor description of a given property. when a material is polycrystalline, the directional dependence on properties is often related to the processing techniques it has undergone. a material with randomly oriented grains will be isotropic, whereas materials with texture will be often be anisotropic. textured materials are often the result of processing techniques like cold rolling, wire drawing, and heat treatment. mechanical properties of materials such as young ' s modulus, ductility, yield strength, and high - temperature creep rate, are often dependent on the direction of measurement. fourth - rank tensor properties, like the elastic constants, are anisotropic, even for materials with cubic symmetry. the young ' s modulus relates stress and strain when an isotropic material is elastically deformed ; to describe elasticity in an anisotropic material, stiffness ( or compliance ) tensors are used instead. in metals, anisotropic elasticity behavior is present in all single crystals with three independent coefficients for cubic crystals, for example. for face - centered cubic materials such as nickel and copper, the stiffness is highest along the < 111 > direction, normal to the close - packed planes, and smallest parallel to < 100 >. tungsten is so nearly isotropic at room temperature that it can be considered to have only two stiffness coefficients ; aluminium is another metal that is nearly isotropic. for an isotropic material, where is the shear modulus, is the young ' s modulus, and is the material ' s poisson ' s ratio. therefore, for cubic materials, we can think of anisotropy,, as the ratio between the empirically determined shear modulus for the cubic material and its ( isotropic ) equivalent : the latter expression is known as the zener ratio,, where refers to elastic constants in voigt ( vector - matrix ) notation. for