. cultural anthropologist rachel thorn argues that japanese animators and audiences do not perceive such stylized eyes as inherently more or less foreign. however, not all anime characters have large eyes. for example, the works of hayao miyazaki are known for having realistically proportioned eyes, as well as realistic hair colors on their characters. hair in anime is often unnaturally lively and colorful or uniquely styled. the movement of hair in anime is exaggerated and " hair actions " is used to emphasize the action and emotions of characters for added visual effect. poitras traces hairstyle color to cover illustrations on manga, where eye - catching artwork and colorful tones are attractive for children ' s manga. despite being produced for a domestic market, anime features characters whose race or nationality is not always defined, and this is often a deliberate decision, such as in the pokemon animated series. anime and manga artists often draw from a common canon of iconic facial expression illustrations to denote particular moods and thoughts. these techniques are often different in form than their counterparts in western animation, and they include a fixed iconography that is used as shorthand for certain emotions and moods. for example, a male character may develop a nosebleed when aroused. a variety of visual symbols are employed, including sweat drops to depict nervousness, visible blushing for embarrassment, or glowing eyes for an intense glare. another recurring sight gag is the use of chibi ( deformed, simplified character designs ) figures to comedically punctuate emotions like confusion or embarrassment. music the opening and credits sequences of most anime television series are accompanied by j - pop or j - rock songs, often by reputed bands — as written with the series in mind — but are also aimed at the general music market, therefore they often allude only vaguely or not at all, to the thematic settings or plot of the series. also, they are often used as incidental music ( " insert songs " ) in an episode, in order to highlight particularly important scenes. future funk, a musical microgenre that evolved in the early 2010 ' s from vaporwave with a french house euro disco influence, heavily uses anime visuals and samples along with japanese city pop to build an aesthetic. since the 2020 ' s anime songs have experienced a rapid growth in global online popularity due to their widened availability on music streaming services like spotify and promotion by fans and artists on social media. in 2023, the opening theme idol by yoasobi of the anime series oshi no ko topped the billboard global 200 excl. u.