des, a procedure commonly referred to as chemical castration, as an alternative to prison. turing died on 7 june 1954, 16 days before his 42nd birthday, from cyanide poisoning. an inquest determined his death as a suicide, but it has been noted that the known evidence is also consistent with accidental poisoning. following a public campaign in 2009, british prime minister gordon brown made an official public apology on behalf of the government for " the appalling way [ turing ] was treated ". queen elizabeth ii granted a posthumous pardon in 2013. the term " alan turing law " is now used informally to refer to a 2017 law in the united kingdom that retroactively pardoned men cautioned or convicted under historical legislation that outlawed homosexual acts. turing has an extensive legacy with statues of him and many things named after him, including an annual award for computer science innovations. he appears on the current bank of england £50 note, which was released on 23 june 2021 to coincide with his birthday. a 2019 bbc series, as voted by the audience, named him the greatest person of the 20th century. early life and education family turing was born in maida vale, london, while his father, julius mathison turing was on leave from his position with the indian civil service ( ics ) of the british raj government at chatrapur, then in the madras presidency and presently in odisha state, in india. turing ' s father was the son of a clergyman, the rev. john robert turing, from a scottish family of merchants that had been based in the netherlands and included a baronet. turing ' s mother, julius ' s wife, was ethel sara turing ( ), daughter of edward waller stoney, chief engineer of the madras railways. the stoneys were a protestant anglo - irish gentry family from both county tipperary and county longford, while ethel herself had spent much of her childhood in county clare. julius and ethel married on 1 october 1907 at bartholomew ' s church on clyde road, in dublin. julius ' s work with the ics brought the family to british india, where his grandfather had been a general in the bengal army. however, both julius and ethel wanted their children to be brought up in britain, so they moved to maida vale, london, where alan turing was born on 23 june 1912, as recorded by a blue plaque on the outside of the house of his birth, later the colonnade hotel. turing had an elder brother, john ferrier turing, father of sir john dermot turing, 12th baronet of the