the apple computer 1 ( apple - 1 ), later known predominantly as the apple i, is an 8 - bit motherboard - only personal computer designed by steve wozniak and released by the apple computer company ( now apple inc. ) in 1976. the company was initially formed to sell the apple iits first product and would later become the world ' s largest technology company. the idea of starting a company and selling the computer came from wozniak ' s friend and apple co - founder steve jobs. to finance its development, wozniak and jobs sold some of their possessions for a few hundred dollars. wozniak demonstrated the first prototype in july 1976 at the homebrew computer club in palo alto, california, impressing an early computer retailer. after securing an order for 50 computers, jobs was able to order the parts on credit and deliver the first apple products after ten days. the apple i was one of the first computers available that used the inexpensive mos technology 6502 microprocessor. an expansion included a basic interpreter, allowing users to utilize basic at home instead of at institutions with mainframe computers, greatly lowering the entry cost for computing with basic. production was discontinued on september 30, 1977, after the june 10, 1977 introduction of its successor, the apple ii, which byte magazine referred to as part of the " 1977 trinity " of personal computing ( along with the pet 2001 from commodore business machines and the trs - 80 model i from tandy corporation ). as relatively few computers were made before they were discontinued, coupled with their status as apple ' s first product, surviving apple i units are now displayed in computer museums. history development in 1975, steve wozniak started attending meetings of the homebrew computer club, which was a major source of inspiration for him. new microcomputers such as the altair 8800 and the imsai 8080 inspired wozniak to build a microprocessor into his video terminal circuit to make a complete computer. at the time the only microcomputer cpus generally available were the $ 179 intel 8080 ( ), and the $ 170 motorola 6800 ( ). wozniak preferred the 6800, but both were out of his price range. so he watched, and learned, and designed computers on paper, waiting for the day he could afford a cpu. when mos technology released its $ 20 ( ) 6502 chip in 1976, wozniak wrote a version of basic for it,