2018 ) fictional the apollo program has been the focus of several works of fiction, including : apollo 18 ( 2011 ), horror movie which was released to negative reviews. for all mankind ( 2019 ), tv series depicting an alternate history in which the soviet union was the first country to successfully land a man on the moon. indiana jones and the dial of destiny ( 2023 ), fifth movie about indiana jones, in which jurgen voller, a nasa member and ex - nazi involved with the apollo program, wishes to make the world into a better place as he sees fit. see also apollo 11 in popular culture apollo lunar surface experiments package exploration of the moon leslie cantwell collection list of artificial objects on the moon list of crewed spacecraft moon landing conspiracy theories third - party evidence for apollo moon landings soviet crewed lunar programs stolen and missing moon rocks artemis program notes references citations sources chaikin interviewed all the surviving astronauts and others who worked with the program. further reading nasa report jsc - 09423, april 1975 astronaut mike collins autobiography of his experiences as an astronaut, including his flight aboard apollo 11. although this book focuses on apollo 13, it provides a wealth of background information on apollo technology and procedures. history of the apollo program from apollos 1 – 11, including many interviews with the apollo astronauts. gleick, james, " moon fever " [ review of oliver morton, the moon : a history of the future ; apollo ' s muse : the moon in the age of photography, an exhibition at the metropolitan museum of art, new york city, july 3 – september 22, 2019 ; douglas brinkley, american moonshot : john f. kennedy and the great space race ; brandon r. brown, the apollo chronicles : engineering america ' s first moon missions ; roger d. launius, reaching for the moon : a short history of the space race ; apollo 11, a documentary film directed by todd douglas miller ; and michael collins, carrying the fire : an astronaut ' s journeys ( 50th anniversary edition ) ], the new york review of books, vol. lxvi, no. 13 ( 15 august 2019 ), pp. 54 – 58. factual, from the standpoint of a flight controller during the mercury, gemini, and apollo space programs. details the flight of apollo 13. tells grumman ' s story of building the lunar modules. history of the crewed space program from 1september 1960, to 5january 1968. account of deke slayton ' s life as an astronaut and