without unique defining features apart from shared primitive characteristics. classification varies according to the preferred phylogeny of the author and whether they use a stem - based or a node - based classification. traditionally, amphibians as a class are defined as all tetrapods with a larval stage, while the group that includes the common ancestors of all living amphibians ( frogs, salamanders and caecilians ) and all their descendants is called lissamphibia. the phylogeny of paleozoic amphibians is uncertain, and lissamphibia may possibly fall within extinct groups, like the temnospondyli ( traditionally placed in the subclass labyrinthodontia ) or the lepospondyli, and in some analyses even in the amniotes. this means that advocates of phylogenetic nomenclature have removed a large number of basal devonian and carboniferous amphibian - type tetrapod groups that were formerly placed in amphibia in linnaean taxonomy, and included them elsewhere under cladistic taxonomy. if the common ancestor of amphibians and amniotes is included in amphibia, it becomes a paraphyletic group. all modern amphibians are included in the subclass lissamphibia, which is usually considered a clade, a group of species that have evolved from a common ancestor. the three modern orders are anura ( the frogs ), caudata ( or urodela, the salamanders ), and gymnophiona ( or apoda, the caecilians ). it has been suggested that salamanders arose separately from a temnospondyl - like ancestor, and even that caecilians are the sister group of the advanced reptiliomorph amphibians, and thus of amniotes. although the fossils of several older proto - frogs with primitive characteristics are known, the oldest " true frog ", with hopping adaptations is prosalirus bitis, from the early jurassic kayenta formation of arizona. it is anatomically very similar to modern frogs. the oldest known caecilians are funcusvermis gilmorei ( from the late triassic ) and eocaecilia micropodia ( from the early jurassic ), both from arizona. the earliest salamander is beiyanerpeton jianpingensis from the late jurassic of northeastern china. authorities disagree as to whether salientia is a superorder that includes the order anura, or whether anura is a