has been suggested that growth is not crystallographically controlled but is due to the filling - in of spaces between pre - existing crystals which have since dissolved. iris agate is a finely - banded and usually colorless agate, that when thinly sliced, exhibits spectral decomposition of white light into its constituent colors, requiring 400 to up to 30, 000 bands per inch. other forms of agate include holley blue agate ( also spelled " holly blue agate " ), a rare dark blue ribbon agate found only near holley, oregon ; lake superior agate ; carnelian agate ( has reddish hues ) ; botswana agate ; plume agate ; condor agate ; tube agate containing visible flow channels or pinhole - sized " tubes " ; fortification agate with contrasting concentric banding reminiscent of defensive ditches and walls around ancient forts ; binghamite, a variety found only on the cuyuna iron range ( near crosby ) in crow wing county, minnesota ; fire agate showing an iridescent, internal flash or " fire ", the result of a layer of clear agate over a layer of hydrothermally deposited hematite ; patuxent river stone, a red and yellow form of agate only found in maryland ; and enhydro agate, which contains tiny inclusions of water, sometimes with air bubbles. agate is a versatile gemstone that is often used in jewelry making. agate is favored for its durability, with a mohs scale hardness rating of 6. 5 - 7. it is known for its colorful, banded patterns and wide range of hues. agate is found in a wide range of colors, including shades of red, orange, yellow, green, blue, purple, and pink, as well as black and white. agate is generally more affordable than other gemstones. uses agate is one of the most common materials used in the art of hardstone carving, and has been recovered at a number of ancient sites, indicating its widespread use in the ancient world ; for example, archaeological recovery at the knossos site on crete illustrates its role in bronze age minoan culture. it has also been used for centuries for leather burnishing tools. the decorative arts use it to make ornaments such as pins, brooches or other types of jewellery, paper knives, inkstands, marbles and seals. agate is also still used today for decorative displays, cabochons, beads, carvings and intarsia