##us, the traditional warrior king, are used by geoffrey for other characters. ambrosius ' supposed supernatural powers are passed to merlin. geoffrey ' s aurelius ambrosius rises to the throne but dies early, passing the throne to a previously unknown brother called uther pendragon. the role of warrior king is shared by uther and his son arthur. geoffrey also uses the character gloiu, father of vitalinus / vitolinus, derived from nennius. he names this character as a son of claudius and appointed by his father as duke of the welsh. his predecessor as duke is called arvirargus. assuming that claudius and arvirargus are supposed to be contemporaries, then this claudius is the roman emperor claudius i ( reigned 41 – 54 ). it seems unlikely that claudius would have living grandsons in the 5th century, four centuries following his death. reno suggests that claudius ii ( reigned 268 – 270 ) would be a more likely " claudius " to have living descendants in the 5th century. geoffrey for the first time gives a genealogy of ambrosius. he is supposedly a paternal nephew of aldroenus, king of brittany, son of constantine and an unnamed briton noblewoman, adoptive grandson ( on his mother ' s side ) of guthelinus / vitalinus, bishop of london, younger brother of constans and older brother of uther pendragon. ambrosius and uther are supposedly raised by their adoptive maternal grandfather guthelinus / vitalinus. it is not explicitly covered in geoffrey ' s narrative, but this genealogy makes constantine and his children descendants of conan meriadoc, legendary founder of the line of kings of brittany. conan is also featured in the historia regum britanniae, where he is appointed king by roman emperor magnus maximus ( reigned 383 – 388 ). constantine ' s reign is placed by geoffrey as following the groans of the britons mentioned by gildas. constantine is reported killed by a pict and his reign is followed by a brief succession crisis. candidates for the throne included all three sons of constantine, but there were problems for their eventual rise to the throne. constans was a monk, and ambrosius and uther were underage and still in their cradle. the crisis is resolved when vortigern places constans on the throne, and then serves as his chief adviser and power behind the throne. when constans is killed by the picts serving as bodyguards of vortigern, vortiger