to duchy ( ducatus ) also signalled the progressive militarization of italy. the selection of a fortified town as the centre for the new duchy was also an important change from the time in pannonia, for while urbanized settlements had previously been ignored by the lombards, now a considerable part of the nobility settled itself in forum iulii, a pattern that was repeated regularly by the lombards in their other duchies. conquest of milan from forum iulii, alboin next reached aquileia, the most important road junction in the northeast, and the administrative capital of venetia. the imminent arrival of the lombards had a considerable impact on the city ' s population ; the patriarch of aquileia paulinus fled with his clergy and flock to the island of grado in byzantine - controlled territory. from aquileia, alboin took the via postumia and swept through venetia, taking in rapid succession tarvisium ( treviso ), vicentia ( vicenza ), verona, brixia ( brescia ) and bergomum ( bergamo ). the lombards faced difficulties only in taking opitergium ( oderzo ), which alboin decided to avoid, as he similarly avoided tackling the main venetian towns closer to the coast on the via annia, such as altinum, patavium ( padova ), mons silicis ( monselice ), mantua and cremona. the invasion of venetia generated a considerable level of turmoil, spurring waves of refugees from the lombard - controlled interior to the byzantine - held coast, often led by their bishops, and resulting in new settlements such as torcello and heraclia. alboin moved west in his march, invading the region of liguria ( north - west italy ) and reaching its capital mediolanum ( milan ) on 3 september 569, only to find it already abandoned by the vicarius italiae ( vicar of italy ), the authority entrusted with the administration of the diocese of annonarian italy. archbishop honoratus, his clergy, and part of the laity accompanied the vicarius italiae to find a safe haven in the byzantine port of genua ( genoa ). alboin counted the years of his reign from the capture of milan, when he assumed the title of dominus italiae ( lord of italy ). his success also meant the collapse of byzantine defences in the northern part of the po plain