##lred, ealdorman of mercia. soon afterwards, alfred restyled himself as " king of the anglo - saxons ". the restoration of london progressed through the latter half of the 880s and is believed to have revolved around a new street plan ; added fortifications in addition to the existing roman walls ; and, some believe, the construction of matching fortifications on the south bank of the river thames. this is also the period in which almost all chroniclers agree that the saxon people of pre - unification england submitted to alfred. in 888, æthelred, the archbishop of canterbury, also died. one year later guthrum, or athelstan by his baptismal name, alfred ' s former enemy and king of east anglia, died and was buried in hadleigh, suffolk. guthrum ' s death changed the political landscape for alfred. the resulting power vacuum stirred other power - hungry warlords eager to take his place in the following years. viking attacks ( 890s ) after another lull, in the autumn of 892 or 893, the danes attacked again. finding their position in mainland europe precarious, they crossed to england in 330 ships in two divisions. they entrenched themselves, the larger body at appledore, kent, and the lesser under hastein, at milton, also in kent. the invaders brought their wives and children with them, indicating a meaningful attempt at conquest and colonisation. alfred, in 893 or 894, took up a position from which he could observe both forces. while he was in talks with hastein, the danes at appledore broke out and struck north - westwards. they were overtaken by alfred ' s eldest son edward, and were defeated at the battle of farnham in surrey. they took refuge on an island at thorney, on the river colne between buckinghamshire and middlesex, where they were blockaded and forced to give hostages and promise to leave wessex. they then went to essex and after suffering another defeat at benfleet, joined with hastein ' s force at shoebury. alfred had been on his way to relieve his son at thorney when he heard that the northumbrian and east anglian danes were besieging exeter and an unnamed stronghold on the north devon shore. alfred at once hurried westward and raised the siege of exeter. the fate of the other place is not recorded. the force under hastein set out to march up the thames valley, possibly with the idea of assisting their friends in the