seed coat, creating a dark crust. phytomelanin is found in most families of the asparagales ( although not in orchidaceae, thought to be the sister - group of the rest of the order ). the leaves of almost all species form a tight rosette, either at the base of the plant or at the end of the stem, but occasionally along the stem. the flowers are not particularly distinctive, being ' lily type ', with six tepals and up to six stamina. the order is thought to have first diverged from other related monocots some 120 – 130 million years ago ( early in the cretaceous period ), although given the difficulty in classifying the families involved, estimates are likely to be uncertain. from an economic point of view, the order asparagales is second in importance within the monocots only to the order poales ( which includes grasses and cereals ). species are used as food and flavourings ( e. g. onion, garlic, leek, asparagus, vanilla, saffron ), in medicinal or cosmetic applications ( aloe ), as cut flowers ( e. g. freesia, gladiolus, iris, orchids ), and as garden ornamentals ( e. g. day lilies, lily of the valley, agapanthus ). description although most species in the order are herbaceous, some no more than 15 cm high, there are a number of climbers ( e. g., some species of asparagus ), as well as several genera forming trees ( e. g. agave, cordyline, yucca, dracaena, aloe ), which can exceed 10 m in height. succulent genera occur in several families ( e. g. aloe ). almost all species have a tight cluster of leaves ( a rosette ), either at the base of the plant or at the end of a more - or - less woody stem as with yucca. in some cases, the leaves are produced along the stem. the flowers are in the main not particularly distinctive, being of a general ' lily type ', with six tepals, either free or fused from the base and up to six stamina. they are frequently clustered at the end of the plant stem. the asparagales are generally distinguished from the liliales by the lack of markings on the tepals, the presence of septal nectaries in the ovaries, rather