flood for example, as presented to jews in the hebrew bible in the narrative of noah — and later to christians in the old testament, and to muslims in the quran — is earliest found in mesopotamian mythology, in the enuma elis and epic of gilgamesh. hindu mythology similarly tells about an avatar of vishnu in the form of a fish who warned manu of a terrible flood. ancient chinese mythology also tells of a great flood spanning generations, one that required the combined efforts of emperors and divinities to control. abrahamic the abrahamic religions including judaism, christianity, islam, druze faith, and bahaʼi faith originated in west asia. judaism, the oldest of the abrahamic faiths, is practiced primarily in israel, the indigenous homeland and historical birthplace of the hebrew nation : which today consists both of those jews who remained in the middle east and those who returned from diaspora in europe, north america, and other regions ; though various diaspora communities persist worldwide. jews are the predominant ethnic group in israel ( 75. 6 % ) numbering at about 6. 1 million, although the levels of adherence to jewish religion vary. outside of israel there are small ancient jewish communities in turkey ( 17, 400 ), azerbaijan ( 9, 100 ), iran ( 8, 756 ), india ( 5, 000 ) and uzbekistan ( 4, 000 ), among many other places. in total, there are 14. 4 – 17. 5 million ( 2016, est. ) jews alive in the world today, making them one of the smallest asian minorities, at roughly 0. 3 to 0. 4 percent of the total population of the continent. christianity is a widespread religion in asia with more than 286 million adherents according to pew research center in 2010, and nearly 364 million according to britannica book of the year 2014. constituting around 12. 6 % of the total population of asia. in the philippines and east timor, roman catholicism is the predominant religion ; it was introduced by the spaniards and the portuguese, respectively. in armenia and georgia, eastern orthodoxy is the predominant religion. in the middle east, such as in the levant, anatolia and fars, syriac christianity ( church of the east ) and oriental orthodoxy are prevalent minority denominations, which are both eastern christian sects mainly adhered to assyrian people or syriac christians. vibrant indigenous minorities in west asia are adhering to the eastern catholic churches and eastern orthodoxy. saint thomas christians in india trace their origins to the evangelistic activity of thomas the apostle in the 1st century. significant