the anchor is then normally cut away ( the ship ' s momentum prevents recovery without aborting the maneuver ). weighing anchor since all anchors that embed themselves in the bottom require the strain to be along the seabed, anchors can be broken out of the bottom by shortening the rope until the vessel is directly above the anchor ; at this point the anchor chain is " up and down ", in naval parlance. if necessary, motoring slowly around the location of the anchor also helps dislodge it. anchors are sometimes fitted with a trip line attached to the crown, by which they can be unhooked from rocks, coral, chain, or other underwater hazards. the term aweigh describes an anchor when it is hanging on the rope and is not resting on the bottom. this is linked to the term to weigh anchor, meaning to lift the anchor from the sea bed, allowing the ship or boat to move. an anchor is described as aweigh when it has been broken out of the bottom and is being hauled up to be stowed. aweigh should not be confused with under way, which describes a vessel that is not moored to a dock or anchored, whether or not the vessel is moving through the water. aweigh is also often confused with away, which is incorrect. anchor as symbol an anchor frequently appears on the flags and coats of arms of institutions involved with the sea, both naval and commercial, as well as of port cities and seacoast regions and provinces in various countries. there also exists in heraldry the " anchored cross ", or mariner ' s cross, a stylized cross in the shape of an anchor. the symbol can be used to signify ' fresh start ' or ' hope '. the new testament refers to the christian ' s hope as " an anchor of the soul ". the mariner ' s cross is also referred to as st. clement ' s cross, in reference to the way this saint was killed ( being tied to an anchor and thrown from a boat into the black sea in 102 ). anchored crosses are occasionally a feature of coats of arms in which context they are referred to by the heraldic terms anchry or ancre. in 1887, the delta gamma fraternity adopted the anchor as its badge to signify hope. the unicode anchor ( miscellaneous symbols ) is represented by :. see also " anchors aweigh ", united states navy marching song references bibliography blackwell, alex & daria ; happy hooking – the art of anchoring, 2008, 2011,