the american national standards institute ( ansi ) is a private nonprofit organization that oversees the development of voluntary consensus standards for products, services, processes, systems, and personnel in the united states. the organization also coordinates u. s. standards with international standards so that american products can be used worldwide. ansi accredits standards that are developed by representatives of other standards organizations, government agencies, consumer groups, companies, and others. these standards ensure that the characteristics and performance of products are consistent, that people use the same definitions and terms, and that products are tested the same way. ansi also accredits organizations that carry out product or personnel certification in accordance with requirements defined in international standards. the organization ' s headquarters are in washington, d. c. ansi ' s operations office is located in new york city. the ansi annual operating budget is funded by the sale of publications, membership dues and fees, accreditation services, fee - based programs, and international standards programs. many ansi regulations are incorporated by reference into united states federal statutes ( i. e. by osha regulations referring to individual ansi specifications ). ansi does not make these standards publicly available, and charges money for access to these documents ; it further claims that it is copyright infringement for them to be provided to the public by others free of charge. these assertions have been the subject of criticism and litigation. history ansi was most likely formed in 1918, when five engineering societies and three government agencies founded the american engineering standards committee ( aesc ). in 1928, the aesc became the american standards association ( asa ). in 1966, the asa was reorganized and became united states of america standards institute ( usasi ). the present name was adopted in 1969. prior to 1918, these five founding engineering societies : american institute of electrical engineers ( aiee, now ieee ) american society of mechanical engineers ( asme ) american society of civil engineers ( asce ) american institute of mining engineers ( aime, now american institute of mining, metallurgical, and petroleum engineers ) american society for testing and materials ( now astm international ) had been members of the united engineering society ( ues ). at the behest of the aiee, they invited the u. s. government departments of war, navy ( combined in 1947 to become the department of defense or dod ) and commerce to join in founding a national standards organization. according to adam stanton, the first permanent secretary and head of staff in 1919, aesc started as an ambitious