. in a shifted code, some character codes determine choices between options for the following character codes. it allows compact encoding, but is less reliable for data transmission, as an error in transmitting the shift code typically makes a long part of the transmission unreadable. the standards committee decided against shifting, and so ascii required at least a seven - bit code. the committee considered an eight - bit code, since eight bits ( octets ) would allow two four - bit patterns to efficiently encode two digits with binary - coded decimal. however, it would require all data transmission to send eight bits when seven could suffice. the committee voted to use a seven - bit code to minimize costs associated with data transmission. since perforated tape at the time could record eight bits in one position, it also allowed for a parity bit for error checking if desired. eight - bit machines ( with octets as the native data type ) that did not use parity checking typically set the eighth bit to 0. internal organization the code itself was patterned so that most control codes were together and all graphic codes were together, for ease of identification. the first two so - called ascii sticks ( 32 positions ) were reserved for control characters. the " space " character had to come before graphics to make sorting easier, so it became position 20hex ; for the same reason, many special signs commonly used as separators were placed before digits. the committee decided it was important to support uppercase 64 - character alphabets, and chose to pattern ascii so it could be reduced easily to a usable 64 - character set of graphic codes, as was done in the dec sixbit code ( 1963 ). lowercase letters were therefore not interleaved with uppercase. to keep options available for lowercase letters and other graphics, the special and numeric codes were arranged before the letters, and the letter a was placed in position 41hex to match the draft of the corresponding british standard. the digits 0 – 9 are prefixed with 011, but the remaining 4 bits correspond to their respective values in binary, making conversion with binary - coded decimal straightforward ( for example, 5 in encoded to 0110101, where 5 is 0101 in binary ). many of the non - alphanumeric characters were positioned to correspond to their shifted position on typewriters ; an important subtlety is that these were based on mechanical typewriters, not electric typewriters. mechanical typewriters followed the de facto standard set by