to himself over 200 times. more damagingly, he also spoke of " men... still opposed to the union " to whom he could not extend the hand of friendship he gave to the south. when called upon by the crowd to say who they were, johnson named pennsylvania congressman thaddeus stevens, massachusetts senator charles sumner, and abolitionist wendell phillips, and accused them of plotting his assassination. republicans viewed the address as a declaration of war, while one democratic ally estimated johnson ' s speech cost the party 200, 000 votes in the 1866 congressional midterm elections. although strongly urged by moderates to sign the civil rights act of 1866, johnson broke decisively with them by vetoing it on march 27. in his veto message, he objected to the measure because it conferred citizenship on the freedmen at a time when 11 out of 36 states were unrepresented in the congress, and that it discriminated in favor of african americans and against whites. within three weeks, congress had overridden his veto, the first time that had been done on a major bill in american history. the veto, often seen as a key mistake of johnson ' s presidency, convinced moderates there was no hope of working with him. historian eric foner, in his volume on reconstruction, views it as " the most disastrous miscalculation of his political career ". according to stewart, the veto was " for many his defining blunder, setting a tone of perpetual confrontation with congress that prevailed for the rest of his presidency ". congress also proposed the fourteenth amendment to the states. written by trumbull and others, it was sent for ratification by state legislatures in a process in which the president plays no part, though johnson opposed it. the amendment was designed to put the key provisions of the civil rights act into the constitution, but also went further. the amendment extended citizenship to every person born in the united states ( except indians on reservations ), penalized states that did not give the vote to freedmen, and most importantly, created new federal civil rights that could be protected by federal courts. it also guaranteed that the federal debt would be paid and forbade repayment of confederate war debts. further, it disqualified many former confederates from office, although the disability could be removed — by congress, not the president. both houses passed the freedmen ' s bureau act a second time, and again the president vetoed it ; this time, the veto was overridden. by the summer of 1866, when congress finally adjourned