in 1801, the document titled letter to american spaniards — published in french ( 1799 ), in spanish ( 1801 ), and in english ( 1808 ) — might have influenced venezuela ' s act of independence and its 1811 constitution. the latter - day saints ' articles of faith refer to the american continents as where they are to build zion. common short forms and abbreviations are the united states, the u. s., the u. s. a., and america ; colloquial versions include the u. s. of a. and the states. the term columbia ( from the columbus surname ) was a popular name for the u. s. and for the entire geographic americas ; its usage is present today in the district of columbia ' s name. moreover, the womanly personification of columbia appears in some official documents, including editions of the u. s. dollar. usage at the united nations use of the term american for u. s. nationals is common at the united nations, and financial markets in the united states are referred to as " american financial markets ". american samoa, an unincorporated territory of the united states, is a recognized territorial name at the united nations. cultural views canada modern canadians typically refer to people from the united states as americans, though they seldom refer to the united states as america ; they use the terms the united states, the u. s., or ( informally ) the states instead. because of anti - american sentiment or simply national pride, canadians never apply the term american to themselves. not being an " american " is a part of canadian identity, with many canadians resenting being referred to as americans or mistaken for u. s. citizens. this is often due to others ' inability, particularly overseas, to distinguish canadians from americans, by their accent or other cultural attributes. some canadians have protested the use of american as a national demonym. people of u. s. ethnic origin in canada are categorized as " other north american origins " by statistics canada for purposes of census counts. spain and hispanic america the use of american as a national demonym for u. s. nationals is challenged, primarily by latin americans. spanish speakers in spain and latin america use the term to refer to people and things from the united states ( from ), while refers to the continents as a whole. the term is also accepted in many parts of latin america to refer to a person or something from the united states ; however, this term may be ambiguous in certain parts. up to and including the 1992 edition, the,