albanian towns were organised into four principal sanjaks. the government fostered trade by settling a sizeable jewish colony of refugees fleeing persecution in spain. the city of vlore saw passing through its ports imported merchandise from europe such as velvets, cotton goods, mohairs, carpets, spices and leather from bursa and constantinople. some citizens of vlore even had business associates throughout europe. the phenomenon of islamisation among the albanians became primarily widespread from the 17th century and continued into the 18th century. islam offered them equal opportunities and advancement within the ottoman empire. however, motives for conversion were, according to some scholars, diverse depending on the context though the lack of source material does not help when investigating such issues. because of increasing suppression of catholicism, most catholic albanians converted in the 17th century, while orthodox albanians followed suit mainly in the following century. since the albanians were seen as strategically important, they made up a significant proportion of the ottoman military and bureaucracy. many muslim albanians attained important political and military positions and culturally contributed to the broader muslim world. enjoying this privileged position, they held various high administrative positions with over two dozen albanian grand viziers. others included members of the prominent koprulu family, zagan pasha, muhammad ali of egypt and ali pasha of tepelena. furthermore, two sultans, bayezid ii and mehmed iii, both had mothers of albanian origin. rilindja the albanian renaissance was a period with its roots in the late 18th century and continuing into the 19th century, during which the albanian people gathered spiritual and intellectual strength for an independent cultural and political life within an independent nation. modern albanian culture flourished too, especially albanian literature and arts, and was frequently linked to the influences of the romanticism and enlightenment principles. prior to the rise of nationalism, ottoman authorities suppressed any expression of national unity or conscience by the albanian people. the victory of russia over the ottoman empire following the russian - ottoman wars resulted the execution of the treaty of san stefano which overlooked to assign albanian - populated lands to the slavic and greek neighbours. however, the united kingdom and austro - hungarian empire consequently blocked the arrangement and caused the treaty of berlin. from this point, albanians started to organise themselves with the goal to protect and unite the albanian - populated lands into a unitary nation, leading to the formation of the league of prizren. the league had initially the assistance of the ottoman authorities whose position was based on the religious solidarity of muslim people and landlords connected with the ottoman administration. they favoured and protected the muslim solidarity and called