process. first, a region of the sky was photographed by a wide - field telescope, or astrograph. pairs of photographs were taken, typically one hour apart. multiple pairs could be taken over a series of days. second, the two films or plates of the same region were viewed under a stereoscope. a body in orbit around the sun would move slightly between the pair of films. under the stereoscope, the image of the body would seem to float slightly above the background of stars. third, once a moving body was identified, its location would be measured precisely using a digitizing microscope. the location would be measured relative to known star locations. these first three steps do not constitute asteroid discovery : the observer has only found an apparition, which gets a provisional designation, made up of the year of discovery, a letter representing the half - month of discovery, and finally a letter and a number indicating the discovery ' s sequential number ( example : ). the last step is sending the locations and time of observations to the minor planet center, where computer programs determine whether an apparition ties together earlier apparitions into a single orbit. if so, the object receives a catalogue number and the observer of the first apparition with a calculated orbit is declared the discoverer, and granted the honor of naming the object subject to the approval of the international astronomical union. naming by 1851, the royal astronomical society decided that asteroids were being discovered at such a rapid rate that a different system was needed to categorize or name asteroids. in 1852, when de gasparis discovered the twentieth asteroid, benjamin valz gave it a name and a number designating its rank among asteroid discoveries, 20 massalia. sometimes asteroids were discovered and not seen again. so, starting in 1892, new asteroids were listed by the year and a capital letter indicating the order in which the asteroid ' s orbit was calculated and registered within that specific year. for example, the first two asteroids discovered in 1892 were labeled 1892a and 1892b. however, there were not enough letters in the alphabet for all of the asteroids discovered in 1893, so 1893z was followed by 1893aa. a number of variations of these methods were tried, including designations that included year plus a greek letter in 1914. a simple chronological numbering system was established in 1925. currently all newly discovered asteroids receive a provisional designation ( such as ) consisting of the year of discovery and an alphanumeric code indicating the half - month of discovery and the sequence within that half - month. once an asteroid '