place in the city. in 1983, singer - songwriter juan gabriel wrote the song " amor eterno ", which pays homage to acapulco. the song was first and most famously recorded by rocio durcal. additionally, acapulco is the hometown of actress, singer, and comedian aida pierce, who found fame during the 1980s, 1990s and the first decade of the 21st century. the tollway known as the ruta del sol was built during the 1990s, crossing the mountains between mexico city and acapulco. the journey takes only about three - and - a - half hours, making acapulco a favorite weekend destination for mexico city inhabitants. it was in that time period that the economic impact of acapulco as a tourist destination increased positively, and as a result new types of services emerged, such as the colegio nautilus. this educational project, backed by the state government, was created for the families of local and foreign investors and businessmen living in acapulco who were in need of a bilingual and international education for their children. the port continued to grow and in 1996, a new private company, api acapulco, was created to manage operations. this consolidated operations and now acapulco is the major port for car exports to the pacific. the city was devastated by hurricane pauline in 1997. the storm stranded tourists and left more than 100 dead in the city. most of the victims were from the shantytowns built on steep hillsides that surround the city. other victims were swept away by thirty - foot ( 9 m ) waves and winds. the main road, avenida costera, became a fast - moving river of sludge three feet ( 1 m ) in depth. 21st century in the 21st century, the mexican drug war has had a negative effect on tourism in acapulco as rival drug traffickers fight each other for the guerrero coast route that brings drugs from south america as well as soldiers that have been fighting the cartels since 2006. a major gun battle between 18 gunmen and soldiers took place in the summer of 2009 in the old acapulco seaside area, lasting hours and killing 16 of the gunmen and two soldiers. this came after the 2009 swine flu pandemic outbreak earlier in the year nearly paralyzed the mexican economy, forcing hotels to give discounts to bring tourists back. however, hotel occupancy for 2009 was down five percent from the year before. the death of arturo beltran leyva