the soviet army. the soviets soon developed the 7. 62×39mm m43 cartridge, used in the semi - automatic sks carbine and the rpd light machine gun. shortly after world war ii, the soviets developed the ak - 47 rifle, which quickly replaced the sks in soviet service. introduced in 1959, the akm is a lighter stamped steel version and the most ubiquitous variant of the entire ak series of firearms. in the 1960s, the soviets introduced the rpk light machine gun, an ak - type weapon with a stronger receiver, a longer heavy barrel, and a bipod, that eventually replaced the rpd light machine gun. concept mikhail kalashnikov began his career as a weapon designer in 1941 while recuperating from a shoulder wound that he received during the battle of bryansk. kalashnikov himself stated... " i was in the hospital, and a soldier in the bed beside me asked : ' why do our soldiers have only one rifle for two or three of our men when the germans have automatics? ' so i designed one. i was a soldier, and i created a machine gun for a soldier. it was called an avtomat kalashnikova, the automatic weapon of kalashnikov — ak — and it carried the year of its first manufacture, 1947. " the ak - 47 is best described as a hybrid of previous rifle technology innovations. " kalashnikov decided to design an automatic rifle combining the best features of the american m1 garand and the german stg 44. " kalashnikov ' s team had access to these weapons and did not need to " reinvent the wheel ". kalashnikov himself observed : " a lot of russian army soldiers ask me how one can become a constructor, and how new weaponry is designed. these are very difficult questions. each designer seems to have his own paths, his own successes and failures. but one thing is clear : before attempting to create something new, it is vital to have a good appreciation of everything that already exists in this field. i myself have had many experiences confirming this to be so. " some claimed that kalashnikov copied designs like bulkin ' s tkb - 415 or simonov ' s avs - 31. early designs kalashnikov started work on a submachine gun design in 1942 and light machine gun design in 1943. early in 1944, kalashnikov was given some 7. 62×39mm m43 cartridges and informed that other designers were working on weapons for