present in the sanctuary of apollo leukates. a leap from this rock was believed to have put an end to the longings of love. once, aphrodite fell deeply in love with adonis, a young man of great beauty who was later accidentally killed by a boar. heartbroken, aphrodite wandered looking for the rock of leukas. when she reached the sanctuary of apollo in argos, she confided in him her love and sorrow. apollo then brought her to the rock of leukas and asked her to throw herself from the top of the rock. she did so and was freed from her love. when she sought the reason behind this, apollo told her that zeus, before taking another lover, would sit on this rock to free himself from his love for hera. another tale relates that a man named nireus, who fell in love with the cult statue of athena, came to the rock and jumped in order to relieve himself. after jumping, he fell into the net of a fisherman in which, when he was pulled out, he found a box filled with gold. he fought with the fisherman and took the gold, but apollo appeared to him in the night in a dream and warned him not to appropriate gold which belonged to others. it was an ancestral custom among the leukadians to fling a criminal from this rock every year at the sacrifice performed in honor of apollo for the sake of averting evil. however, a number of men would be stationed all around below rock to catch the criminal and take him out of the borders in order to exile him from the island. this was the same rock from which, according to a legend, sappho took her suicidal leap. slaying of titans once hera, out of spite, aroused the titans to war against zeus and take away his throne. accordingly, when the titans tried to climb mount olympus, zeus with the help of apollo, artemis and athena, defeated them and cast them into tartarus. female lovers love affairs ascribed to apollo are a late development in greek mythology. their vivid anecdotal qualities have made some of them favorites of painters since the renaissance, the result being that they stand out more prominently in the modern imagination. daphne was a nymph who scorned apollo ' s advances and ran away from him. when apollo chased her in order to persuade her, she changed herself into a laurel tree. according to other versions, she cried for help during the chase, and gaia helped her by