prompted him to eliminate the man himself, as poirot knew that his friend was not a murderer and refused to let a man capable of manipulating hastings in such a manner go on. mrs ariadne oliver detective novelist ariadne oliver is agatha christie ' s humorous self - caricature. like christie, she is not overly fond of the detective whom she is most famous for creating – in ariadne ' s case, finnish sleuth sven hjerson. we never learn anything about her husband, but we do know that she hates alcohol and public appearances and has a great fondness for apples until she is put off them by the events of hallowe ' en party. she also has a habit of constantly changing her hairstyle, and in every appearance by her much is made of her clothes and hats. her maid maria prevents the public adoration from becoming too much of a burden on her employer but does nothing to prevent her from becoming too much of a burden on others. she has authored more than 56 novels and greatly dislikes people modifying her characters. she is the only one in poirot ' s universe to have noted that " it ' s not natural for five or six people to be on the spot when b is murdered and all have a motive for killing b. " she first met poirot in the story cards on the table and has bothered him ever since. miss felicity lemon poirot ' s secretary, miss felicity lemon, has few human weaknesses. the only mistakes she makes within the series are a typing error during the events of hickory dickory dock and the mis - mailing of an electricity bill, although she was worried about strange events surrounding her sister who worked at a student hostel at the time. poirot described her as being " unbelievably ugly and incredibly efficient. anything that she mentioned as worth consideration usually was worth consideration. " she is an expert on nearly everything and plans to create the perfect filing system. she also worked for the government statistician - turned - philanthropist parker pyne. whether this was during one of poirot ' s numerous retirements or before she entered his employment is unknown. in the agatha christie hour, she was portrayed by angela easterling, while in agatha christie ' s poirot she was portrayed by pauline moran ( where she was shown to be efficient, prim and modest, but not remotely " unbelievably ugly ". ) on a number of occasions, she joins poirot in his inquiries or seeks out