ancient history the current coastline dates back to about 4000 bc. before that time, at the peak of the last ice age ( about 18, 000 years ago ) sea levels everywhere were 130 metres lower, and there were large well - watered coastal plains instead of much of the northern aegean. when they were first occupied, the present - day islands including milos with its important obsidian production were probably still connected to the mainland. the present coastal arrangement appeared around 9, 000 years ago, with post - ice age sea levels continuing to rise for another 3, 000 years after that. the subsequent bronze age civilizations of greece and the aegean sea have given rise to the general term aegean civilization. in ancient times, the sea was the birthplace of two ancient civilizations – the minoans of crete and the myceneans of the peloponnese. the minoan civilization was a bronze age civilization on the island of crete and other aegean islands, flourishing from around 3000 to 1450 bc before a period of decline, finally ending at around 1100 bc. it represented the first advanced civilization in europe, leaving behind massive building complexes, tools, stunning artwork, writing systems, and a massive network of trade. the minoan period saw extensive trade between crete, aegean, and mediterranean settlements, particularly the near east. the most notable minoan palace is that of knossos, followed by that of phaistos. the mycenaean greeks arose on the mainland, becoming the first advanced civilization in mainland greece, which lasted from approximately 1600 to 1100 bc. it is believed that the site of mycenae, which sits close to the aegean coast, was the center of mycenaean civilization. the mycenaeans introduced several innovations in the fields of engineering, architecture and military infrastructure, while trade over vast areas of the mediterranean, including the aegean, was essential for the mycenaean economy. their syllabic script, the linear b, offers the first written records of the greek language and their religion already included several deities that can also be found in the olympic pantheon. mycenaean greece was dominated by a warrior elite society and consisted of a network of palace - centered states that developed rigid hierarchical, political, social and economic systems. at the head of this society was the king, known as wanax. the civilization of mycenaean greeks perished with the collapse of bronze age culture in the eastern mediterranean, to be followed by the so - called greek dark ages. it is undetermined what cause the collapse of the my