linearly - polarized light could be resolved into two circularly - polarized components rotating in opposite directions. if these components propagated at slightly different speeds, the phase difference between them — and therefore the direction of their linearly - polarized resultant — would vary continuously with distance. these concepts called for a redefinition of the distinction between polarized and unpolarized light. before fresnel, it was thought that polarization could vary in direction, and in degree ( e. g., due to variation in the angle of reflection off a transparent body ), and that it could be a function of color ( chromatic polarization ), but not that it could vary in kind. hence it was thought that the degree of polarization was the degree to which the light could be suppressed by an analyzer with the appropriate orientation. light that had been converted from linear to elliptical or circular polarization ( e. g., by passage through a crystal lamina, or by total internal reflection ) was described as partly or fully " depolarized " because of its behavior in an analyzer. after fresnel, the defining feature of polarized light was that the perpendicular components of vibration had a fixed ratio of amplitudes and a fixed difference in phase. by that definition, elliptically or circularly polarized light is fully polarized although it cannot be fully suppressed by an analyzer alone. the conceptual gap between the wave theory and selectionism had widened again. total internal reflection ( 1817 – 23 ) by 1817 it had been discovered by brewster, but not adequately reported, that plane - polarized light was partly depolarized by total internal reflection if initially polarized at an acute angle to the plane of incidence. fresnel rediscovered this effect and investigated it by including total internal reflection in a chromatic - polarization experiment. with the aid of his first theory of chromatic polarization, he found that the apparently depolarized light was a mixture of components polarized parallel and perpendicular to the plane of incidence, and that the total reflection introduced a phase difference between them. choosing an appropriate angle of incidence ( not yet exactly specified ) gave a phase difference of 1 / 8 of a cycle ( 45° ). two such reflections from the " parallel faces " of " two coupled prisms " gave a phase difference of 1 / 4 of a cycle ( 90° ). these findings were contained in a memoir submitted to the academie on 10 november 1817 and read a fortnight later. an und