, however, the decision of the lower proceeding is itself admissible as evidence, thus helping to curb frivolous appeals. in some cases, an application for " trial de novo " effectively erases the prior trial as if it had never taken place. the supreme court of virginia has stated that ' " this court has repeatedly held that the effect of an appeal to circuit court is to " annul the judgment of the inferior tribunal as completely as if there had been no previous trial. " ' the only exception to this is that if a defendant appeals a conviction for a crime having multiple levels of offenses, where they are convicted on a lesser offense, the appeal is of the lesser offense ; the conviction represents an acquittal of the more serious offenses. " [ a ] trial on the same charges in the circuit court does not violate double jeopardy principles,... subject only to the limitation that conviction in [ the ] district court for an offense lesser included in the one charged constitutes an acquittal of the greater offense, permitting trial de novo in the circuit court only for the lesser - included offense. " in an appeal on the record from a decision in a judicial proceeding, both appellant and respondent are bound to base their arguments wholly on the proceedings and body of evidence as they were presented in the lower tribunal. each seeks to prove to the higher court that the result they desired was the just result. precedent and case law figure prominently in the arguments. in order for the appeal to succeed, the appellant must prove that the lower court committed reversible error, that is, an impermissible action by the court acted to cause a result that was unjust, and which would not have resulted had the court acted properly. some examples of reversible error would be erroneously instructing the jury on the law applicable to the case, permitting seriously improper argument by an attorney, admitting or excluding evidence improperly, acting outside the court ' s jurisdiction, injecting bias into the proceeding or appearing to do so, juror misconduct, etc. the failure to formally object at the time, to what one views as improper action in the lower court, may result in the affirmance of the lower court ' s judgment on the grounds that one did not " preserve the issue for appeal " by objecting. in cases where a judge rather than a jury decided issues of fact, an appellate court will apply an " abuse of discretion " standard of review. under this standard, the appellate court gives deference to the lower court ' s