a return to the citizen armies of the classical period also began, as central levies of the peasantry began to be the central recruiting tool. england was one of the most centralized states in the middle ages, and the armies that fought in the hundred years ' war were, predominantly, composed of paid professionals. in theory, every englishman had an obligation to serve for forty days. forty days was not long enough for a campaign, especially one on the continent. thus the scutage was introduced, whereby most englishmen paid to escape their service and this money was used to create a permanent army. however, almost all high medieval armies in europe were composed of a great deal of paid core troops, and there was a large mercenary market in europe from at least the early 12th century. as the middle ages progressed in italy, italian cities began to rely mostly on mercenaries to do their fighting rather than the militias that had dominated the early and high medieval period in this region. these would be groups of career soldiers who would be paid a set rate. mercenaries tended to be effective soldiers, especially in combination with standing forces, but in italy they came to dominate the armies of the city states. this made them considerably less reliable than a standing army. mercenary - on - mercenary warfare in italy also led to relatively bloodless campaigns which relied as much on maneuver as on battles. in 1439 the french legislature, known as the estates general ( french : etats generaux ), passed laws that restricted military recruitment and training to the king alone. there was a new tax to be raised known as the taille that was to provide funding for a new royal army. the mercenary companies were given a choice of either joining the royal army as compagnies d ' ordonnance on a permanent basis, or being hunted down and destroyed if they refused. france gained a total standing army of around 6, 000 men, which was sent out to gradually eliminate the remaining mercenaries who insisted on operating on their own. the new standing army had a more disciplined and professional approach to warfare than its predecessors. the reforms of the 1440s, eventually led to the french victory at castillon in 1453, and the conclusion of the hundred years ' war. by 1450 the companies were divided into the field army, known as the grande ordonnance and the garrison force known as the petite ordonnance. early modern first nation states lacked the funds needed to maintain standing forces, so they tended to hire mercenaries to serve in their armies during wartime. such mercenaries typically