exports, with small quantities of gold and cotton also being produced. grains, sugar, and rum were also produced for local consumption. the principal imports were foodstuffs, cotton goods, hardware, and british coal. legislation against foreign traders was implemented in the 1890s. the territory ' s prosperity, however, continued to depend on plantations worked by labor " indentured " from the interior. before world war ii, the portuguese government was concerned primarily with keeping its colonies self - sufficient and therefore invested little capital in angola ' s local economy. it built no roads until the mid - 1920s, and the first railroad, the benguela railway, was not completed until 1929. between 1900 and 1940, only 35, 000 portuguese emigrants settled in angola, and most worked in commerce in the cities, facilitating trade with portugal. in the rural areas, portuguese settlers often found it difficult to make a living because of fluctuating world prices for sugarcane and sisal and the difficulties in obtaining cheap labor to farm their crops. as a result, they often suspended their operations until the market prices rose and instead marketed the produce of angolan farmers. but in the wake of world war ii, the rapid growth of industrialization worldwide and the parallel requirements for raw materials led portugal to develop closer ties with its colonies and to begin actively developing the angolan economy. in the 1930s, portugal started to develop closer trade ties with its colonies, and by 1940 it absorbed 63 percent of angolan exports and accounted for 47 percent of angolan imports, up from 39 percent and 37 percent, respectively, a decade earlier. when the price of angola ' s principal crops — coffee and sisal — jumped after the war, the portuguese government began to reinvest some profits inside the country, initiating a series of projects to develop infrastructure. during the 1950s, portugal built dams, hydroelectric power stations, and transportation systems. in addition, portuguese citizens were encouraged to emigrate to angola, where planned settlements ( colonatos ) were established for them in the rural areas. finally, the portuguese initiated mining operations for iron ore, manganese, and copper to complement industrial activities at home, and in 1955 the first successful oil wells were drilled in angola. by 1960 the angolan economy had been completely transformed, boasting a successful commercial agricultural sector, a promising mineral and petroleum production enterprise, and an incipient manufacturing industry. yet by 1976, these encouraging developments had been reversed. the economy was in complete disarray in the aftermath of the war of independence and the subsequent internal