the crown has wooden figures of animal gods and other ornaments on its centre. men carry an emush ( ceremonial sword ) secured by an emush at strap to their shoulders. ainu women traditionally wear matanpushi, embroidered headbands, and ninkari, metal earrings with balls. matanpushi and ninkari were originally also worn by men. furthermore, aprons called maidari now are a part of women ' s formal clothes. however, some old documents state that men wore maidari. women sometimes wear a bracelet called a tekunkani. women may wear a necklace called a rektunpe, a long, narrow strip of cloth with metal plaques. they may also wear a necklace that reaches the breast called a tamasay or shitoki, usually made from glass balls. some glass balls came from trade with the asian continent. the ainu also obtained glass balls secretly made by the matsumae clan. housing a village is called a kotan in the ainu language. kotan were traditionally located in river basins and along seashores where food was readily available, particularly in the basins of rivers through which salmon traveled upstream. in early modern times, the ainu people were forced to labor at japanese fishing grounds. ainu kotan were also forced to relocate to near fishing grounds, so that the japanese could secure a labor force. when the japanese moved to other fishing grounds, ainu kotan were forced to accompany them. as a result, the traditional kotan disappeared, and large villages of several dozen families were formed around the fishing grounds. cise or cisey ( houses ) in a kotan are made of cogon grass, bamboo grass, bark, etc. the length lays east to west or parallel to a river. a cise is about seven by five meters, with an entrance at the west end that also serves as a storeroom. a cise has three windows, including the rorun - puyar, a window located on the side facing the entrance ( i. e., on the east side ), through which gods enter and leave and ceremonial tools are taken in and out. the ainu regard this window as sacred and are told never to look in through it. a cise has a fireplace near the entrance. a husband and wife would traditionally sit on the fireplace ' s left side ( called shiso ). children and guests would sit facing them on the fireplace ' s right side ( called harkiso ). the cise has a platform for