definition and logic. it is said to have parallels with that of the ancient greek sophists or dialecticians. the most notable logician was gongsun longzi. the school of diplomacy or school of vertical and horizontal [ alliances ], which focused on practical matters instead of any moral principle, so it stressed political and diplomatic tactics, and debate and lobbying skill. scholars from this school were good orators, debaters and tacticians. the miscellaneous school, which integrated teachings from different schools ; for instance, lu buwei found scholars from different schools to write a book called lushi chunqiu cooperatively. this school tried to integrate the merits of various schools and avoid their perceived flaws. the school of " minor - talks ", which was not a unique school of thought, but a philosophy constructed of all the thoughts which were discussed by and originated from normal people on the street. another group is the school of the military that studied strategy and the philosophy of war ; sunzi and sun bin were influential leaders. however, this school was not one of the " ten schools " defined by hanshu. early imperial china the founder of the qin dynasty, who implemented legalism as the official philosophy, quashed mohist and confucianist schools. legalism remained influential until the emperors of the han dynasty adopted daoism and later confucianism as official doctrine. these latter two became the determining forces of chinese thought until the introduction of buddhism. confucianism was particularly strong during the han dynasty, whose greatest thinker was dong zhongshu, who integrated confucianism with the thoughts of the zhongshu school and the theory of the five elements. he also was a promoter of the new text school, which considered confucius as a divine figure and a spiritual ruler of china, who foresaw and started the evolution of the world towards the universal peace. in contrast, there was an old text school that advocated the use of confucian works written in ancient language ( from this comes the denomination old text ) that were so much more reliable. in particular, they refuted the assumption of confucius as a godlike figure and considered him as the greatest sage, but simply a human and mortal. the 3rd and 4th centuries saw the rise of the xuanxue ( mysterious learning ), also called neo - taoism. the most important philosophers of this movement were wang bi, xiang xiu and guo xiang. the main question of this school was whether being came before not - being