shows such as dragon ball z had a serialization format, where continuous story arcs stretch over multiple episodes or seasons, which distinguished them from traditional american television shows ; serialization has since also become a common characteristic of american streaming television shows during the " peak tv " era. industry the animation industry consists of more than 430 production companies with some of the major studios including toei animation, gainax, madhouse, gonzo, sunrise, bones, tms entertainment, nippon animation, p. a. works, studio pierrot, production i. g, ufotable and studio ghibli. many of the studios are organized into a trade association, the association of japanese animations. there is also a labor union for workers in the industry, the japanese animation creators association. studios will often work together to produce more complex and costly projects, as done with studio ghibli ' s spirited away. an anime episode can cost between us $ 100, 000 and us $ 300, 000 to produce. in 2001, animation accounted for 7 % of the japanese film market, above the 4. 6 % market share for live - action works. the popularity and success of anime is seen through the profitability of the dvd market, contributing nearly 70 % of total sales. according to a 2016 article on nikkei asian review, japanese television stations have bought over worth of anime from production companies " over the past few years ", compared with under from overseas. there has been a rise in sales of shows to television stations in japan, caused by late night anime with adults as the target demographic. this type of anime is less popular outside japan, being considered " more of a niche product ". spirited away ( 2001 ) was the all - time highest - grossing film in japan until overtaken by demon slayer : kimetsu no yaiba – the movie : mugen train in 2020. it was also the highest - grossing anime film worldwide until it was overtaken by makoto shinkai ' s 2016 film your name. anime films represent a large part of the highest - grossing japanese films yearly in japan, with 6 out of the top 10 in 2014, in 2015 and also in 2016. anime has to be licensed by companies in other countries in order to be legally released. while anime has been licensed by its japanese owners for use outside japan since at least the 1960s, the practice became well - established in the united states in the late 1970s to early 1980s, when such tv series as gatchaman and captain harlock were licensed from their japanese parent