the lowest life expectance of any country outside africa. this ( along with other factors such as returning refugees ) caused rapid population growth in the 2000s that has only recently started to slow down. the gini coefficient in 2008 was 27. 8. ethnicity and languages afghans are divided into several ethnolinguistic groups. according to research data by several institutions in 2019, the pashtuns are the largest ethnic group, comprising 42 %, followed by tajiks, comprising 27 % of the country ' s population. the other two major ethnic groups are the hazaras and uzbeks, each at 9 %. a further 10 other ethnic groups are recognized and each are represented in the afghan national anthem. dari and pashto are the official languages of afghanistan ; bilingualism is very common. dari, which is also referred to as eastern persian as it is a variety of and mutually intelligible with persian ( and very often called ' farsi ' by some afghans like in iran ), functions as the lingua franca in kabul as well as in much of the northern and northwestern parts of the country. native speakers of dari, of any ethnicity, are sometimes called farsiwans. pashto is the native tongue of the pashtuns, although many of them are also fluent in dari while some non - pashtuns are fluent in pashto. despite the pashtuns having been dominant in afghan politics for centuries, dari remained the preferred language for government and bureaucracy. according to cia world factbook, dari persian is spoken by 78 % ( l1 + l2 ) and functions as the lingua franca, while pashto is spoken by 50 %, uzbek 10 %, english 5 %, turkmen 2 %, urdu 2 %, pashayi 1 %, nuristani 1 %, arabic 1 %, and balochi 1 % ( 2021 est ). data represent the most widely spoken languages ; shares sum to more than 100 % because there is much bilingualism in the country and because respondents were allowed to select more than one language. there are a number of smaller regional languages, including uzbek, turkmen, balochi, pashayi, and nuristani. when it comes to foreign languages among the populace, many are able to speak or understand hindustani ( urdu - hindi ), partly due to returning afghan refugees from pakistan and the popularity of bollywood films respectively. english is also understood by some of the population