of the equator ( because of heavy tropical rainfall ), in general, the lowest values are in the high latitudes and along coasts where large rivers enter. maximum salinity values occur at about 25° north and south, in subtropical regions with low rainfall and high evaporation. the high surface salinity in the atlantic, on which the atlantic thermohaline circulation is dependent, is maintained by two processes : the agulhas leakage / rings, which brings salty indian ocean waters into the south atlantic, and the " atmospheric bridge ", which evaporates subtropical atlantic waters and exports it to the pacific. water masses the atlantic ocean consists of four major, upper water masses with distinct temperature and salinity. the atlantic subarctic upper water in the northernmost north atlantic is the source for subarctic intermediate water and north atlantic intermediate water. north atlantic central water can be divided into the eastern and western north atlantic central water since the western part is strongly affected by the gulf stream and therefore the upper layer is closer to underlying fresher subpolar intermediate water. the eastern water is saltier because of its proximity to mediterranean water. north atlantic central water flows into south atlantic central water at 15°n. there are five intermediate waters : four low - salinity waters formed at subpolar latitudes and one high - salinity formed through evaporation. arctic intermediate water, flows from north to become the source for north atlantic deep water south of the greenland - scotland sill. these two intermediate waters have different salinity in the western and eastern basins. the wide range of salinities in the north atlantic is caused by the asymmetry of the northern subtropical gyre and the large number of contributions from a wide range of sources : labrador sea, norwegian - greenland sea, mediterranean, and south atlantic intermediate water. the north atlantic deep water ( nadw ) is a complex of four water masses, two that form by deep convection in the open oceanclassical and upper labrador sea waterand two that form from the inflow of dense water across the greenland - iceland - scotland silldenmark strait and iceland - scotland overflow water. along its path across earth the composition of the nadw is affected by other water masses, especially antarctic bottom water and mediterranean overflow water. the nadw is fed by a flow of warm shallow water into the northern north atlantic which is responsible for the anomalous warm climate in europe. changes in the formation of nadw have been linked to global climate changes