##ya, and naghma. attan is the national dance of afghanistan, a group dance popularly performed by afghans of all backgrounds. the dance is considered part of afghan identity. cuisine afghan cuisine is largely based upon the nation ' s chief crops, such as wheat, maize, barley and rice. accompanying these staples are native fruits and vegetables as well as dairy products such as milk, yogurt, and whey. kabuli palaw is the national dish of afghanistan. the nation ' s culinary specialties reflect its ethnic and geographic diversity. afghanistan is known for its high - quality pomegranates, grapes, and sweet melons. tea is a favorite drink among afghans. a typical afghan diet consists of naan, yogurt, rice, and meat. literature classic persian and pashto poetry are a cherished part of afghan culture. poetry has always been one of the major educational pillars in the region, to the level that it has integrated itself into culture. one of the poetic styles is called landay. a popular theme in afghan folklore and mythology are divs, monstrous creatures. thursdays are traditionally " poetry night " in the city of herat when men, women and children gather and recite both ancient and modern poems. three mystical authors are considered true national glories ( although claimed with equal ardor by iran ), namely : khwaja abdullah ansari of herat, a great mystic and sufi saint in the 11th century, sanai of ghazni, author of mystical poems in the 12th century, and, finally, rumi of balkh, in the 13th century, considered the greatest mystical poet of the muslim world. the afghan pashto literature, although quantitatively remarkable and in great growth in the last century, has always had an essentially local meaning and importance, feeling the influence of both persian literature and the contiguous literatures of india. both main literatures, from the second half of the nineteenth century, have shown themselves to be sensitive to genres, movements and stylistic features imported from europe. khushal khan khattak of the 17th century is considered the national poet. other notable poets include rabi ' a balkhi, jami, rahman baba, khalilullah khalili, and parween pazhwak. holidays and festivals afghanistan ' s official new year starts with nowruz, an ancient tradition that started as a zoroastrian celebration in present - day iran, and with which it shares the annual celebration