full agreement, he decided to prioritize tank production, and he was given unrivaled power to ensure success. hitler was closely involved with the design of the tanks, but kept changing his mind about the specifications. this delayed the program, and speer was unable to remedy the situation. in consequence, despite tank production having the highest priority, relatively little of the armaments budget was spent on it. this led to a significant german army failure at the battle of prokhorovka, a major turning point on the eastern front against the soviet red army. as head of organisation todt, speer was directly involved in the construction and alteration of concentration camps. he agreed to expand auschwitz and some other camps, allocating 13. 7 million reichsmarks for the work to be carried out. this allowed an extra 300 huts to be built at auschwitz, increasing the total human capacity to 132, 000. included in the building works was material to build gas chambers, crematoria and morgues. the ss called this " professor speer ' s special programme ". speer realized that with six million workers drafted into the armed forces, there was a labor shortage in the war economy, and not enough workers for his factories. in response, hitler appointed fritz sauckel as a " manpower dictator " to obtain new workers. speer and sauckel cooperated closely to meet speer ' s labor demands. hitler gave sauckel a free hand to obtain labor, something that delighted speer, who had requested 1, 000, 000 " voluntary " laborers to meet the need for armament workers. sauckel had whole villages in france, holland and belgium forcibly rounded up and shipped to speer ' s factories. sauckel obtained new workers often using the most brutal methods. in occupied areas of the soviet union, that had been subject to partisan action, civilian men and women were rounded up en masse and sent to work forcibly in germany. by april 1943, sauckel had supplied 1, 568, 801 " voluntary " laborers, forced laborers, prisoners of war and concentration camp prisoners to speer for use in his armaments factories. it was for the maltreatment of these people, that speer was principally convicted at the nuremberg trials. consolidation of arms production following his appointment as minister of armaments, speer was in control of armaments production solely for the army. he coveted control of the production of armaments for the luftwaffe and kriegsmarine as well. he set