##al of new converts, launched several campaigns against the " sudanese " ( pagan peoples of sub - saharan africa ). under their king tinbarutan ibn usfayshar, the sanhaja lamtuna erected ( or captured ) the citadel of aoudaghost, a critical stop on the trans - saharan trade route. after the collapse of the sanhaja union, aoudaghost passed over to the ghana empire ; and the trans - saharan routes were taken over by the zenata maghrawa of sijilmasa. the maghrawa also exploited this disunion to dislodge the sanhaja gazzula and lamta out of their pasturelands in the sous and draa valleys. around 1035, the lamtuna chieftain abu abdallah muhammad ibn tifat ( alias tarsina ), tried to reunite the sanhaja desert tribes, but his reign lasted less than three years. around 1040, yahya ibn ibrahim, a chieftain of the gudala ( and brother - in - law of the late tarsina ), went on pilgrimage to mecca. on his return, he stopped by kairouan in ifriqiya, where he met abu imran al - fasi, a native of fez and a jurist and scholar of the sunni maliki school. at this time, ifriqiya was in ferment. the zirid ruler, al - mu ' izz ibn badis, was openly contemplating breaking with his shi ' ite fatimid overlords in cairo, and the jurists of kairouan were agitating for him to do so. within this heady atmosphere, yahya and abu imran fell into conversation on the state of the faith in their western homelands, and yahya expressed his disappointment at the lack of religious education and negligence of islamic law among his southern sanhaja people. with abu imran ' s recommendation, yahya ibn ibrahim made his way to the ribat of waggag ibn zelu in the sous valley of southern morocco, to seek out a maliki teacher for his people. waggag assigned him one of his residents, abdallah ibn yasin. abdallah ibn yasin was a gazzula berber, and probably a convert rather than a born muslim. his name can be read as " son of ya - sin " ( the title of the 36th surah of the quran ), suggesting he had obliterated his family past and was