in that it possessed negative gravity. the modern theory of antimatter began in 1928, with a paper by paul dirac. dirac realised that his relativistic version of the schrodinger wave equation for electrons predicted the possibility of antielectrons. although dirac had laid the groundwork for the existence of these “ antielectrons ” he initially failed to pick up on the implications contained within his own equation. he freely gave the credit for that insight to j. robert oppenheimer, whose seminal paper “ on the theory of electrons and protons ” ( feb 14th 1930 ) drew on dirac ’ s equation and argued for the existence of a positively charged electron ( a positron ), which as a counterpart to the electron should have the same mass as the electron itself. this meant that it could not be, as dirac had in fact suggested, a proton. dirac further postulated the existence of antimatter in a 1931 paper which referred to the positron as an " anti - electron ". these were discovered by carl d. anderson in 1932 and named positrons from " positive electron ". although dirac did not himself use the term antimatter, its use follows on naturally enough from antielectrons, antiprotons, etc. a complete periodic table of antimatter was envisaged by charles janet in 1929. the feynman – stueckelberg interpretation states that antimatter and antiparticles are regular particles traveling backward in time. notation one way to denote an antiparticle is by adding a bar over the particle ' s symbol. for example, the proton and antiproton are denoted as and, respectively. the same rule applies if one were to address a particle by its constituent components. a proton is made up of quarks, so an antiproton must therefore be formed from antiquarks. another convention is to distinguish particles by positive and negative electric charge. thus, the electron and positron are denoted simply as and respectively. to prevent confusion, however, the two conventions are never mixed. properties theorized anti - gravitational properties of antimatter are currently being tested at the aegis and alpha - g experiments at cern. research is needed to study the possible gravitational effects between matter and antimatter, and between antimatter and antimatter. however, research is difficult considering when the two meet they annihilate, along with the current difficulties of capturing and containing antimat