christie " in a vote sponsored by the author ' s estate. the novel is emblematic of both her use of formula and her willingness to discard it. " and then there were none carries the ' closed society ' type of murder mystery to extreme lengths, " according to author charles osborne. it begins with the classic set - up of potential victim ( s ) and killer ( s ) isolated from the outside world, but then violates conventions. there is no detective involved in the action, no interviews of suspects, no careful search for clues, and no suspects gathered together in the last chapter to be confronted with the solution. as christie herself said, " ten people had to die without it becoming ridiculous or the murderer being obvious. " critics agreed she had succeeded : " the arrogant mrs. christie this time set herself a fearsome test of her own ingenuity... the reviews, not surprisingly, were without exception wildly adulatory. " character stereotypes and racism christie included stereotyped descriptions of characters in her work, especially before 1945 ( when such attitudes were more commonly expressed publicly ), particularly in regard to italians, jews, and non - europeans. for example, she described " men of hebraic extraction, sallow men with hooked noses, wearing rather flamboyant jewellery " in the short story " the soul of the croupier " from the collection the mysterious mr quin. in 1947, the anti - defamation league in the us sent an official letter of complaint to christie ' s american publishers, dodd, mead and company, regarding perceived antisemitism in her works. christie ' s british literary agent later wrote to her us representative, authorising american publishers to " omit the word ' jew ' when it refers to an unpleasant character in future books. " in the hollow, published in 1946, one of the characters is described by another as " a whitechapel jewess with dyed hair and a voice like a corncrake... a small woman with a thick nose, henna red and a disagreeable voice ". to contrast with the more stereotyped descriptions, christie portrayed some " foreign " characters as victims, or potential victims, at the hands of english malefactors, such as, respectively, olga seminoff ( hallowe ' en party ) and katrina reiger ( in the short story " how does your garden grow? " ). jewish characters are often seen as un - english ( such as oliver manders in three act tragedy ), but they are