##ient of tracing photographs projected with an epidiascope. using prints by edward wallowitch, his " first boyfriend ", the photographs would undergo a subtle transformation during warhol ' s often cursory tracing of contours and hatching of shadows. warhol used wallowitch ' s photograph young man smoking a cigarette ( ), for a 1958 design for a book cover he submitted to simon and schuster for the walter ross pulp novel the immortal, and later used others for his series of paintings. with the rapid expansion of the record industry, rca records hired warhol, along with another freelance artist, sid maurer, to design album covers and promotional materials. 1960s warhol was an early adopter of the silk screen printmaking process as a technique for making paintings. in 1961 and 1962, warhol resided at a 1342 lexington avenue apartment / art studio. in 1962, warhol was taught silk screen printmaking techniques by max arthur cohn at his graphic arts business in manhattan. in his book popism : the warhol sixties, warhol writes : " when you do something exactly wrong, you always turn up something. " in may 1962, warhol was featured in an article in time magazine with his painting big campbell ' s soup can with can opener ( vegetable ) ( 1962 ), which initiated his most sustained motif, the campbell ' s soup can. that painting became warhol ' s first to be shown in a museum when it was exhibited at the wadsworth atheneum in hartford in july 1962. on july 9, 1962, warhol ' s exhibition opened at the ferus gallery in los angeles with campbell ' s soup cans, marking his west coast debut of pop art. in november 1962, warhol had an exhibition at eleanor ward ' s stable gallery in new york. the exhibit included the works gold marilyn, eight of the classic " marilyn " series also named " flavor marilyns ", marilyn diptych, 100 soup cans, 100 coke bottles, and 100 dollar bills. gold marilyn, was bought by the architect philip johnson and donated to the museum of modern art. at the exhibit, warhol met poet john giorno, who would star in warhol ' s first film, sleep ( 1964 ). in december 1962, new york city ' s museum of modern art hosted a symposium on pop art, during which artists such as warhol were attacked for " capitulating " to consumerism. critics were appalled by warhol ' s open acceptance of market culture, which set the tone