one of whom was to be lovelace. in march 2022, a statue of ada lovelace was installed at the site of the former ergon house in the city of westminster, london, honoring its scientific history. the redevelopment was part of a complex with imperial chemical house. the statue was sculpted by etienne and mary millner and based on the portrait by margaret sarah carpenter. the sculpture was unveiled on international women ' s day, 2022. it stands on the 7th floor of millbank quarter overlooking the junction of dean bradley street and horseferry road. in september 2022, nvidia announced the ada lovelace graphics processing unit ( gpu ) microarchitecture. in july 2023, the uk ' s royal mint issued four commemorative £2 coins in various metals to " honour the innovative contributions of computer science visionary ada lovelace and her legacy as a female trailblazer. " bicentenary ( 2015 ) the bicentenary of ada lovelace ' s birth was celebrated with a number of events, including : the ada lovelace bicentenary lectures on computability, israel institute for advanced studies, 20 december 2015 – 31 january 2016. ada lovelace symposium, university of oxford, 13 – 14 october 2015. ada. ada. ada, a one - woman show about the life and work of ada lovelace ( using an led dress ), premiered at edinburgh international science festival on 11 april 2015, and continued to touring internationally to promote diversity on stem at technology conferences, businesses, government and educational organisations. special exhibitions were displayed by the science museum in london, england and the weston library ( part of the bodleian library ) in oxford, england. in popular culture novels and plays lovelace is portrayed in romulus linney ' s 1977 play childe byron. in tom stoppard ' s 1993 play arcadia, the precocious teenage genius thomasina coverly — a character " apparently based " on ada lovelace ( the play also involves lord byron ) — comes to understand chaos theory, and theorises the second law of thermodynamics, before either is officially recognised. in the 1990 steampunk novel the difference engine by william gibson and bruce sterling, lovelace delivers a lecture on the " punched cards " programme which proves godel ' s incompleteness theorems decades before their actual discovery. lovelace and mary shelley as teenagers are the central characters in jordan stratford ' s steampunk series, the wollstonecraft detective agency. lovelace features in john crowley ' s