in 1916 and published in 1920. the large number of refugees in the country who had fled the german invasion of belgium in august to november 1914 served as a plausible explanation of why such a skilled detective would be available to solve mysteries at an english country house. at the time of christie ' s writing, it was considered patriotic to express sympathy towards the belgians, since the invasion of their country had constituted britain ' s casus belli for entering world war i, and british wartime propaganda emphasised the " rape of belgium ". popularity poirot first appeared in the mysterious affair at styles ( published in 1920 ) and exited in curtain ( published in 1975 ). following the latter, poirot was the only fictional character to receive an obituary on the front page of the new york times. by 1930, agatha christie found poirot " insufferable ", and by 1960 she felt that he was a " detestable, bombastic, tiresome, ego - centric little creep ". despite this, poirot remained an exceedingly popular character with the general public. christie later stated that she refused to kill him off, claiming that it was her duty to produce what the public liked. appearance and proclivities captain arthur hastings ' s first description of poirot : agatha christie ' s initial description of poirot in murder on the orient express : in the later books, his limp is not mentioned, suggesting it may have been a temporary wartime injury. ( in curtain, poirot admits he was wounded when he first came to england. ) poirot has green eyes that are repeatedly described as shining " like a cat ' s " when he is struck by a clever idea, and dark hair, which he dyes later in life. in curtain, he admits to hastings that he wears a wig and a false moustache. however, in many of his screen incarnations, he is bald or balding. frequent mention is made of his patent leather shoes, damage to which is frequently a source of misery for him, but comical for the reader. poirot ' s appearance, regarded as fastidious during his early career, later falls hopelessly out of fashion. among poirot ' s most significant personal attributes is the sensitivity of his stomach : he suffers from sea sickness, and, in death in the clouds, he states that his air sickness prevents him from being more alert at the time of the murder. later in his life, we are told : poirot is extremely