study art education at the university of pittsburgh in the hope of becoming an art teacher, but his plans changed and he enrolled in the carnegie institute of technology, now carnegie mellon university in pittsburgh, where he studied commercial art. during his time there, warhol joined the campus modern dance club and beaux arts society. he also served as art director of the student art magazine, cano, illustrating a cover in 1948 and a full - page interior illustration in 1949. these are believed to be his first two published artworks. warhol earned a bachelor of fine arts in pictorial design in 1949. later that year, he moved to new york city and began a career in magazine illustration and advertising. 1950s warhol ' s early career was dedicated to commercial and advertising art, where his first commission had been to draw shoes for glamour magazine in the late 1940s. in the 1950s, warhol worked as a designer for shoe manufacturer israel miller. while working in the shoe industry, warhol developed his " blotted line " technique, applying ink to paper and then blotting the ink while still wet, which was akin to a printmaking process on the most rudimentary scale. his use of tracing paper and ink allowed him to repeat the basic image and also to create endless variations on the theme. american photographer john coplans recalled that " nobody drew shoes the way andy did. he somehow gave each shoe a temperament of its own, a sort of sly, toulouse - lautrec kind of sophistication, but the shape and the style came through accurately and the buckle was always in the right place. the kids in the apartment [ which andy shared in new york – note by coplans ] noticed that the vamps on andy ' s shoe drawings kept getting longer and longer but [ israel ] miller didn ' t mind. miller loved them. " in 1952, warhol had his first solo show at the hugo gallery in new york, and although that show was not well received, by 1956, he was included in his first group exhibition at the museum of modern art, new york. warhol ' s " whimsical " ink drawings of shoe advertisements figured in some of his earliest showings at the bodley gallery in new york in 1957. warhol habitually used the expedient of tracing photographs projected with an epidiascope. using prints by edward wallowitch, his " first boyfriend ", the photographs would undergo a subtle transformation during warhol ' s often cursory tracing of contours and hatching of