panhellenic enterprise, but athens, corinth, and especially thebes, refused to participate. in spring 396, agesilaus came to aulis ( in boeotian territory ) to sacrifice on the place where agamemnon had done so just before his departure to troy at the head of the greek army in the iliad, thus giving a grandiose aspect to the expedition. however he did not inform the boeotians and brought his own seer to perform the sacrifice, instead of the local one. learning this, the boeotians prevented him from sacrificing and further humiliated him by casting away the victim ; they perhaps intended to provoke a confrontation, as the relations between sparta and thebes had become execrable. agesilaus then left to asia, but thebes remained hateful to him for the rest of his life. campaign in asia ( 396 – 394 bc ) once agesilaus landed in ephesus, the spartan main base, he concluded a three months ' truce with tissaphernes, likely to settle the affairs among the greek allies. he integrated some of the greek mercenaries formerly hired by cyrus the younger ( the ten thousand ) in his army. they had returned from persia under the leadership of xenophon, who also remained in agesilaus ' staff. in ephesus, agesilaus ' authority was nevertheless overshadowed by lysander, who was reacquainted with many of his supporters, men he had placed in control of the greek cities at the end of the peloponnesian war. angered by his local aura, agesilaus humiliated lysander several times to force him to leave the army, despite his former relationship and lysander ' s role in his accession to the throne. plutarch adds that after agesilaus ' emancipation from him, lysander returned to his undercover scheme to make the monarchy elective. after lysander ' s departure, agesilaus raided phrygia, the satrapy of pharnabazus, until his advance guard was defeated not far from daskyleion by the superior persian cavalry. he then wintered at ephesus, where he trained a cavalry force, perhaps on the advice of xenophon, who had commanded the cavalry of the ten thousand. in 395, the spartan king managed to trick tissaphernes into thinking that he would attack caria, in the south of asia minor, forcing the satrap