on the street, wounding some and killing a dog. the police arrest him. father paneloux : father paneloux is a learned, well - respected jesuit priest. he is well known for having given a series of lectures in which he championed a pure form of christian doctrine and chastised his audience about their laxity. during the first stage of the plague outbreak, paneloux preaches a sermon at the cathedral. he has a powerful way of speaking, and he insists to the congregation that the plague is a scourge sent by god to those who have hardened their hearts against him. however, paneloux also claims that god is present to offer succor and hope. later, paneloux attends at the bedside of othon ' s stricken son and prays that the boy may be spared. after the boy ' s death, paneloux tells rieux that although the death of an innocent child in a world ruled by a loving god cannot be rationally explained, it should nonetheless be accepted. paneloux joins the team of volunteer workers and preaches another sermon saying that the death of the innocent child is a test of faith. since god willed the child ' s death, so the christian should will it, too. a few days after preaching this sermon, paneloux is taken ill. he refuses to call for a doctor, trusting in god alone, and dies. since his symptoms did not seem to resemble those of the plague, rieux records his death as a " doubtful case. " minor characters the narrator : the narrator presents himself at the outset of the book as witness to the events and privy to documents, but does not identify himself until the ending of the novel. the prefect : the prefect believes at first that the talk of plague is a false alarm, but on the advice of his medical association, he authorizes limited measures to combat it. when they do not work, he tries to avoid responsibility, saying he will ask the government for orders. then, he takes responsibility for tightening up the regulations relating to the plague and issues the order to close the town. dr. castel : dr. castel is one of rieux ' s medical colleagues and is much older than rieux. he realizes after the first few cases that the disease is bubonic plague and is aware of the seriousness of the situation. he works hard to make an antiplague serum, but as the epidemic continues, he shows increasing signs of wear and tear. m. othon : m. othon is a magistrate in oran