, north tongass highway, pennock island and saxman east ), but have not been used since. the remaining population was scattered throughout alaska, both within organized boroughs and in the unorganized borough, in largely remote areas. climate the climate in south and southeastern alaska is a mid - latitude oceanic climate ( koppen climate classification : cfb ), and a subarctic oceanic climate ( koppen cfc ) in the northern parts. on an annual basis, the southeast is both the wettest and warmest part of alaska with milder temperatures in the winter and high precipitation throughout the year. juneau averages over of precipitation a year, and ketchikan averages over. this is also the only region in alaska in which the average daytime high temperature is above freezing during the winter months. the climate of anchorage and south central alaska is mild by alaskan standards due to the region ' s proximity to the seacoast. while the area gets less rain than southeast alaska, it gets more snow, and days tend to be clearer. on average, anchorage receives of precipitation a year, with around of snow, although there are areas in the south central which receive far more snow. it is a subarctic climate ( koppen : dfc ) due to its brief, cool summers. the climate of western alaska is determined in large part by the bering sea and the gulf of alaska. it is a subarctic oceanic climate in the southwest and a continental subarctic climate farther north. the temperature is somewhat moderate considering how far north the area is. this region has a tremendous amount of variety in precipitation. an area stretching from the northern side of the seward peninsula to the kobuk river valley ( i. e., the region around kotzebue sound ) is technically a desert, with portions receiving less than of precipitation annually. on the other extreme, some locations between dillingham and bethel average around of precipitation. the climate of the interior of alaska is subarctic. some of the highest and lowest temperatures in alaska occur around the area near fairbanks. the summers may have temperatures reaching into the 90s °f ( the low - to - mid 30s °c ), while in the winter, the temperature can fall below. precipitation is sparse in the interior, often less than a year, but what precipitation falls in the winter tends to stay the entire winter. the highest and lowest recorded temperatures in alaska are both in the interior. the highest is in fort yukon ( which is just inside the arctic circle ) on june 27,