july 1978, administration of ashmore and cartier islands was retained by the commonwealth. in 1983, the territory was declared a nature reserve under the national parks and wildlife conservation act 1975, now replaced by the environment protection and biodiversity conservation act 1999. cartier island, which was a former bombing range, became a marine reserve in 2000. after the islands became a first point of contact with the australian migration zone, in september 2001, the australian government excised the ashmore and cartier islands from the australian migration zone. indonesian heritage and memorandum ashmore has been regularly visited and fished by indonesian fishermen since the early eighteenth century. a 1974 memorandum of understanding ( mou ) between australia and indonesia sets out arrangements by which traditional fishers can access resources in australia ' s territorial sea in the region. this allows traditional indonesian fishermen to access parts of ashmore for shelter, freshwater and to visit grave sites. the area, known as the mou box, contains the ashmore and cartier islands territory. governance today, the territory is administered from canberra by the department of infrastructure, regional development and cities, which is also responsible for the administration of the territories of christmas island, cocos ( keeling ) islands, the coral sea islands, jervis bay territory and norfolk island. the attorney - general ' s department had been responsible for the administration of australian territories until the 2010 federal election. in that year the responsibility for australian territories was transferred to the then department of regional australia, local government, arts and sport, and from 18 september 2013 the department of infrastructure and regional development has administered australian territories. defence of ashmore and cartier islands is the responsibility of australia, with periodic visits by the royal australian navy, royal australian air force and the australia border force. nearby hibernia reef, northeast of ashmore reef, is not part of the territory, but belongs to western australia. it has no permanently dry land area, although large parts of the reef become exposed during low tide. proposed northern territory annexation the northern territory government has claimed on multiple occasions ( 1989, 1996 ) that the ashmore and cartier islands should be returned to their jurisdiction, instead of remaining a separate territory. the australian house of representatives standing committee on legal and constitutional affairs recommended in a 1991 report that the northern territory annex the islands. in 1998, john howard ' s coalition debated the issue in the leadup to the 1998 northern territory statehood referendum, and stated in a campaign release that it would " pursue incorporation of the ashmore & cartier islands into the northern territory before or