##semitism is " deeply ingrained and institutionalized " in " arab nations in modern times ". in a 2011 survey by the pew research center, all of the muslim - majority middle eastern countries polled held significantly negative opinions of jews. in the questionnaire, only 2 % of egyptians, 3 % of lebanese muslims, and 2 % of jordanians reported having a positive view of jews. muslim - majority countries outside the middle east similarly held markedly negative views of jews, with 4 % of turks and 9 % of indonesians viewing jews favorably. according to a 2011 exhibition at the united states holocaust memorial museum in washington, united states, some of the dialogue from middle east media and commentators about jews bear a striking resemblance to nazi propaganda. according to josef joffe of newsweek, " anti - semitism — the real stuff, not just bad - mouthing particular israeli policies — is as much part of arab life today as the hijab or the hookah. whereas this darkest of creeds is no longer tolerated in polite society in the west, in the arab world, jew hatred remains culturally endemic. " muslim clerics in the middle east have frequently referred to jews as descendants of apes and pigs, which are conventional epithets for jews and christians. according to professor robert wistrich, director of the vidal sassoon international center for the study of antisemitism ( sicsa ), the calls for the destruction of israel by iran or by hamas, hezbollah, islamic jihad, or the muslim brotherhood, represent a contemporary mode of genocidal antisemitism. black hebrew israelite antisemitism in 2022, the american jewish committee stated that the black hebrew israelite claim that " we are the real jews " is a " troubling anti - semitic trope with dangerous potential ". black hebrew israelite followers have sought out and attacked jewish people in the united states on more than one occasion. between 2019 and 2022, individuals motivated by black hebrew israelitism committed five religiously motivated murders. black hebrew israelites believe that jewish people are " imposters ", who have " stolen " black americans ' true racial and religious identity. black hebrew israelites promote the khazar theory about ashkenazi jewish origins. in 2019, 4 % of african - americans self - identified as being black hebrew israelites. causes antisemitism has been explained in terms of racism, xenophobia, projected guilt, displaced aggression, and the search for a scapegoat. some explanations assign partial blame to