' s lead, waitz points out that anthropology is a new field, which would gather material from other fields, but would differ from them in the use of comparative anatomy, physiology, and psychology to differentiate man from " the animals nearest to him ". he stresses that the data of comparison must be empirical, gathered by experimentation. the history of civilization, as well as ethnology, are to be brought into the comparison. it is to be presumed fundamentally that the species, man, is a unity, and that " the same laws of thought are applicable to all men ". waitz was influential among british ethnologists. in 1863, the explorer richard francis burton and the speech therapist james hunt broke away from the ethnological society of london to form the anthropological society of london, which henceforward would follow the path of the new anthropology rather than just ethnology. it was the 2nd society dedicated to general anthropology in existence. representatives from the french societe were present, though not broca. in his keynote address, printed in the first volume of its new publication, the anthropological review, hunt stressed the work of waitz, adopting his definitions as a standard. among the first associates were the young edward burnett tylor, inventor of cultural anthropology, and his brother alfred tylor, a geologist. previously edward had referred to himself as an ethnologist ; subsequently, an anthropologist. similar organizations in other countries followed : the anthropological society of madrid ( 1865 ), the american anthropological association in 1902, the anthropological society of vienna ( 1870 ), the italian society of anthropology and ethnology ( 1871 ), and many others subsequently. the majority of these were evolutionists. one notable exception was the berlin society for anthropology, ethnology, and prehistory ( 1869 ) founded by rudolph virchow, known for his vituperative attacks on the evolutionists. not religious himself, he insisted that darwin ' s conclusions lacked empirical foundation. during the last three decades of the 19th century, a proliferation of anthropological societies and associations occurred, most independent, most publishing their own journals, and all international in membership and association. the major theorists belonged to these organizations. they supported the gradual osmosis of anthropology curricula into the major institutions of higher learning. by 1898, 48 educational institutions in 13 countries had some curriculum in anthropology. none of the 75 faculty members were under a department named anthropology. 20th and 21st centuries anthropology studies as a specialized field of academic study, however much developed through the end of the 19th century,