later agreed to a settlement of $ 15 million, without admission of wrongdoing. the aol software then was given a feature called aol dialer, or aol connect on. this feature allowed users to connect to the isp without running the full interface. this allowed users to use only the applications they wish to use, especially if they do not favor the aol browser. aol 9. 0 was once identified by stopbadware as being under investigation for installing additional software without disclosure, and modifying browser preferences, toolbars, and icons. however, as of the release of aol 9. 0 vr ( vista ready ) on january 26, 2007, it was no longer considered badware due to changes aol made in the software. usenet newsgroups when aol gave clients access to usenet in 1993, they hid at least one newsgroup in standard list view : alt. aol - sucks. aol did list the newsgroup in the alternative description view, but changed the description to " flames and complaints about america online ". with aol clients swarming usenet newsgroups, the old, existing user base started to develop a strong distaste for both aol and its clients, referring to the new state of affairs as eternal september. aol discontinued access to usenet on june 25, 2005. no official details were provided as to the cause of decommissioning usenet access, except providing users the suggestion to access usenet services from a third - party, google groups. aol then provided community - based message boards in lieu of usenet. terms of service ( tos ) aol has a detailed set of guidelines and expectations for users on their service, known as the terms of service ( tos, also known as conditions of service, or cos in the uk ). it is separated into three different sections : member agreement, community guidelines and privacy policy. all three agreements are presented to users at time of registration and digital acceptance is achieved when they access the aol service. during the period when volunteer chat room hosts and board monitors were used, chat room hosts were given a brief online training session and test on terms of service violations. there have been many complaints over rules that govern an aol user ' s conduct. some users disagree with the tos, citing the guidelines are too strict to follow coupled with the fact the tos may change without users being made aware. a considerable cause for this was likely due to alleged censorship of user - generated content