style architecture is rare but does exist : the victory arch at paghman and the darul aman palace in kabul were built in this style in the 1920s. afghan architecture also ranges deep into india such as the tomb of sher shah suri, an afghan emperor of india. art and ceramics carpet weaving is an ancient practice in afghanistan, and many of these are still handmade by tribal and nomadic people today. carpets have been produced in the region for thousands of years and traditionally done by women. some crafters express their feelings through the designs of rugs ; for example after the outbreak of the soviet – afghan war, " war rugs ", a variant of afghan rugs, were created with designs representing pain and misery caused by the conflict. every province has its own specific characteristics in making rugs. in some of the turkic - populated areas in the north - west, bride and wedding ceremony prices are driven by the bride ' s weaving skills. pottery has been crafted in afghanistan for millennia. the village of istalif, north of kabul, is in particular a major center, known for its unique turquoise and green pottery, and their methods of crafting have remained the same for centuries. much of lapis lazuli stones were earthed in modern - day afghanistan which were used in chinese porcelain as cobalt blue, later used in ancient mesopotamia and turkey. the lands of afghanistan have a long history of art, with the world ' s earliest known usage of oil painting found in cave murals in the country. a notable art style that developed in afghanistan and eastern pakistan is gandhara art, produced by a fusion of greco - roman art and buddhist art between the 1st and 7th centuries ce. later eras saw increased use of the persian miniature style, with kamaleddin behzad of herat being one of the most notable miniature artists of the timurid and early safavid periods. since the 1900s, the nation began to use western techniques in art. abdul ghafoor breshna was a prominent afghan painter and sketch artist from kabul during the 20th century. media and entertainment afghanistan has around 350 radio stations and over 200 television stations. radio television afghanistan, originating from 1925, is the state public broadcaster. television programs began airing in the 1970s and today there are many private television channels such as tolo and shamshad tv. the first afghan newspaper was published in 1873, and there are hundreds of print outlets today. by the 1920s, radio kabul was broadcasting local radio services. voice of america, bbc,