appearing from east of the volga, who migrated further into western europe c. 370 and built up an enormous empire there. their main military techniques were mounted archery and javelin throwing. they were in the process of developing settlements before their arrival in western europe, yet the huns were a society of pastoral warriors whose primary form of nourishment was meat and milk, products of their herds. the origin and language of the huns has been the subject of debate for centuries. according to some theories, their leaders at least may have spoken a turkic language, perhaps closest to the modern chuvash language. according to the encyclopedia of european peoples, " the huns, especially those who migrated to the west, may have been a combination of central asian turkic, mongolic, and ugric stocks ". attila ' s father mundzuk was the brother of kings octar and ruga, who reigned jointly over the hunnic empire in the early fifth century. this form of diarchy was recurrent with the huns, but historians are unsure whether it was institutionalized, merely customary, or an occasional occurrence. his family was from a noble lineage, but it is uncertain whether they constituted a royal dynasty. attila ' s birthdate is debated ; journalist eric deschodt and writer herman schreiber have proposed a date of 395. however, historian iaroslav lebedynsky and archaeologist katalin escher prefer an estimate between the 390s and the first decade of the fifth century. several historians have proposed 406 as the date. attila grew up in a rapidly changing world. his people were nomads who had only recently arrived in europe. they crossed the volga river during the 370s and annexed the territory of the alans, then attacked the gothic kingdom between the carpathian mountains and the danube. they were a very mobile people, whose mounted archers had acquired a reputation for invincibility, and the germanic tribes seemed unable to withstand them. vast populations fleeing the huns moved from germania into the roman empire in the west and south, and along the banks of the rhine and danube. in 376, the goths crossed the danube, initially submitting to the romans but soon rebelling against emperor valens, whom they killed in the battle of adrianople in 378. large numbers of vandals, alans, suebi, and burgundians crossed the rhine and invaded roman gaul on december 31, 406 to escape the huns. the roman empire had been split