undulating their body from side to side. they are mostly active at night, soon lose their gills and make sorties onto land. metamorphosis is gradual. by the age of about ten months they have developed a pointed head with sensory tentacles near the mouth and lost their eyes, lateral line systems and tails. the skin thickens, embedded scales develop and the body divides into segments. by this time, the caecilian has constructed a burrow and is living on land. in the majority of species of caecilians, the young are produced by viviparity. typhlonectes compressicauda, a species from south america, is typical of these. up to nine larvae can develop in the oviduct at any one time. they are elongated and have paired sac - like gills, small eyes and specialised scraping teeth. at first, they feed on the yolks of the eggs, but as this source of nourishment declines they begin to rasp at the ciliated epithelial cells that line the oviduct. this stimulates the secretion of fluids rich in lipids and mucoproteins on which they feed along with scrapings from the oviduct wall. they may increase their length sixfold and be two - fifths as long as their mother before being born. by this time they have undergone metamorphosis, lost their eyes and gills, developed a thicker skin and mouth tentacles, and reabsorbed their teeth. a permanent set of teeth grow through soon after birth. the ringed caecilian ( siphonops annulatus ) has developed a unique adaptation for the purposes of reproduction. the progeny feed on a skin layer that is specially developed by the adult in a phenomenon known as maternal dermatophagy. the brood feed as a batch for about seven minutes at intervals of approximately three days which gives the skin an opportunity to regenerate. meanwhile, they have been observed to ingest fluid exuded from the maternal cloaca. parental care the care of offspring among amphibians has been little studied but, in general, the larger the number of eggs in a batch, the less likely it is that any degree of parental care takes place. nevertheless, it is estimated that in up to 20 % of amphibian species, one or both adults play some role in the care of the young. those species that breed in smaller water bodies or other specialised habitats tend to have complex patterns