aek athens was the first greek team to win a european trophy in any team sport. other notable clubs within athens are athinaikos, panionios, atromitos, apollon, panellinios, egaleo f. c., ethnikos piraeus, maroussi bc and peristeri b. c. athenian clubs have also had domestic and international success in other sports. the athens area encompasses a variety of terrain, notably hills and mountains rising around the city, and the capital is the only major city in europe to be bisected by a mountain range. four mountain ranges extend into city boundaries and thousands of kilometres of trails criss - cross the city and neighbouring areas, providing exercise and wilderness access on foot and bike. beyond athens and across the prefecture of attica, outdoor activities include skiing, rock climbing, hang gliding and windsurfing. numerous outdoor clubs serve these sports, including the athens chapter of the sierra club, which leads over 4, 000 outings annually in the area. athens was awarded the 2004 summer olympics on 5 september 1997 in lausanne, switzerland, after having lost a previous bid to host the 1996 summer olympics, to atlanta, united states. it was to be the second time athens would host the games, following the inaugural event of 1896. after an unsuccessful bid in 1990, the 1997 bid was radically improved, including an appeal to greece ' s olympic history. in the last round of voting, athens defeated rome with 66 votes to 41. prior to this round, the cities of buenos aires, stockholm and cape town had been eliminated from competition, having received fewer votes. although the heavy cost was criticized, estimated at $ 1. 5 billion, athens was transformed into a more functional city that enjoys modern technology both in transportation and in modern urban development. the games welcomed over 10, 000 athletes from all 202 countries. see also outline of athens timeline of athens references external links of the municipality of athens ancient greek archaeological sites in greece archaeological sites in attica capitals in europe capitals of greek states city - states greek regional capitals populated coastal places in greece populated places established in the 5th century bc populated places in ancient greece populated places in central athens ( regional unit ) roman sites in greece athens riviera