determined by the connectivity of the substituents attached to the nitrogen : * cyclic amines — cyclic amines are either secondary or tertiary amines. examples of cyclic amines include the 3 - membered ring aziridine and the six - membered ring piperidine. n - methylpiperidine and n - phenylpiperidine are examples of cyclic tertiary amines. it is also possible to have four organic substituents on the nitrogen. these species are not amines but are quaternary ammonium cations and have a charged nitrogen center. quaternary ammonium salts exist with many kinds of anions. naming conventions amines are named in several ways. typically, the compound is given the prefix " amino - " or the suffix " - amine ". the prefix " n - " shows substitution on the nitrogen atom. an organic compound with multiple amino groups is called a diamine, triamine, tetraamine and so forth. systematic names for some common amines : physical properties hydrogen bonding significantly influences the properties of primary and secondary amines. for example, methyl and ethyl amines are gases under standard conditions, whereas the corresponding methyl and ethyl alcohols are liquids. amines possess a characteristic ammonia smell, liquid amines have a distinctive " fishy " and foul smell. the nitrogen atom features a lone electron pair that can bind h + to form an ammonium ion r3nh +. the lone electron pair is represented in this article by a two dots above or next to the n. the water solubility of simple amines is enhanced by hydrogen bonding involving these lone electron pairs. typically salts of ammonium compounds exhibit the following order of solubility in water : primary ammonium ( ) > secondary ammonium ( ) > tertiary ammonium ( r3nh + ). small aliphatic amines display significant solubility in many solvents, whereas those with large substituents are lipophilic. aromatic amines, such as aniline, have their lone pair electrons conjugated into the benzene ring, thus their tendency to engage in hydrogen bonding is diminished. their boiling points are high and their solubility in water is low. spectroscopic identification typically the presence of an amine functional group is deduced by a combination of techniques, including mass spectrometry as well as nmr and ir spectroscopies. 1h nmr signals for amines disappear upon treatment of the sample with d2o