union by seeking to outlaw slavery. the tennessee senator stated that " all men are created equal " from the declaration of independence did not apply to african americans, since the constitution of illinois contained that phrase — and that document barred voting by african americans. johnson, by this time, was a wealthy man who owned 14 slaves. johnson hoped that he would be a compromise candidate for the presidential nomination as the democratic party tore itself apart over the slavery question. busy with the homestead bill during the 1860 democratic national convention in charleston, south carolina, he sent two of his sons and his chief political adviser to represent his interests in the backroom deal - making. the convention deadlocked, with no candidate able to gain the required two - thirds vote, but the sides were too far apart to consider johnson as a compromise. the party split, with northerners backing illinois senator stephen douglas while southerners, including johnson, supported vice president breckinridge for president. with former tennessee senator john bell running a fourth - party candidacy and further dividing the vote, the republican party elected its first president, former illinois representative abraham lincoln. the election of lincoln, known to be against the spread of slavery, was unacceptable to many in the south. although secession from the union had not been an issue in the campaign, talk of it began in the southern states. johnson took to the senate floor after the election, giving a speech well received in the north, " i will not give up this government... no ; i intend to stand by it... and i invite every man who is a patriot to... rally around the altar of our common country... and swear by our god, and all that is sacred and holy, that the constitution shall be saved, and the union preserved. " as southern senators announced they would resign if their states seceded, he reminded mississippi senator jefferson davis that if southerners would only hold to their seats, the democrats would control the senate, and could defend the south ' s interests against any infringement by lincoln. gordon - reed points out that while johnson ' s belief in an indissoluble union was sincere, he had alienated southern leaders, including davis, who would soon be the president of the confederate states of america, formed by the seceding states. if the tennessean had backed the confederacy, he would have had small influence in its government. johnson returned home when his state took up the issue of secession. his successor as governor, isham g. harris, and the legislature organized a