1815. ( the institut de france had taken over the functions of the french academie des sciences and other academies in 1795. in 1816 the academie des sciences regained its name and autonomy, but remained part of the institute. ) in march 1815, perceiving napoleon ' s return from elba as " an attack on civilization ", fresnel departed without leave, hastened to toulouse and offered his services to the royalist resistance, but soon found himself on the sick list. returning to nyons in defeat, he was threatened and had his windows broken. during the hundred days he was placed on suspension, which he was eventually allowed to spend at his mother ' s house in mathieu. there he used his enforced leisure to begin his optical experiments. contributions to physical optics historical context : from newton to biot the appreciation of fresnel ' s reconstruction of physical optics might be assisted by an overview of the fragmented state in which he found the subject. in this subsection, optical phenomena that were unexplained or whose explanations were disputed are named in bold type. the corpuscular theory of light, favored by isaac newton and accepted by nearly all of fresnel ' s seniors, easily explained rectilinear propagation : the corpuscles obviously moved very fast, so that their paths were very nearly straight. the wave theory, as developed by christiaan huygens in his treatise on light ( 1690 ), explained rectilinear propagation on the assumption that each point crossed by a traveling wavefront becomes the source of a secondary wavefront. given the initial position of a traveling wavefront, any later position ( according to huygens ) was the common tangent surface ( envelope ) of the secondary wavefronts emitted from the earlier position. as the extent of the common tangent was limited by the extent of the initial wavefront, the repeated application of huygens ' s construction to a plane wavefront of limited extent ( in a uniform medium ) gave a straight, parallel beam. while this construction indeed predicted rectilinear propagation, it was difficult to reconcile with the common observation that wavefronts on the surface of water can bend around obstructions, and with the similar behavior of sound waves — causing newton to maintain, to the end of his life, that if light consisted of waves it would " bend and spread every way " into the shadows. huygens ' s theory neatly explained the law of ordinary reflection and the law of ordinary refraction ( " snell ' s law " ), provided that the secondary waves