for supine transfer i. e., transfer from a gurney to an operating room table ), gait belts ( or transfer belt ) and a slider board ( or transfer board ), usually used for transfer from a bed to a wheelchair or from a bed to an operating table. highly dependent patients who cannot assist their caregiver in moving them often require a patient lift ( a floor or ceiling - suspended sling lift ) which though invented in 1955 and in common use since the early 1960s is still considered the state - of - the - art transfer device by osha and the american nursing association. walkers a walker or walking frame or rollator is a tool for disabled people who need additional support to maintain balance or stability while walking. it consists of a frame that is about waist high, approximately twelve inches deep and slightly wider than the user. walkers are also available in other sizes, such as for children, or for heavy people. modern walkers are height - adjustable. the front two legs of the walker may or may not have wheels attached depending on the strength and abilities of the person using it. it is also common to see caster wheels or glides on the back legs of a walker with wheels on the front. treadmills bodyweight - supported treadmill training ( bwstt ) are used to enhance walking ability of people with neurological injury. these machines are therapist - assisted devices that are used in the clinical setting, but is limited by the personnel and labor requirements placed on physical therapists. the bwstt device, and many others like it, assist physical therapists by providing task - specific practice of walking in people following neurological injury. prosthesis a prosthesis, prosthetic, or prosthetic limb is a device that replaces a missing body part. it is part of the field of biomechatronics, the science of using mechanical devices with human muscular, musculoskeletal, and nervous systems to assist or enhance motor control lost by trauma, disease, or defect. prostheses are typically used to replace parts lost by injury ( traumatic ) or missing from birth ( congenital ) or to supplement defective body parts. inside the body, artificial heart valves are in common use with artificial hearts and lungs seeing less common use but under active technology development. other medical devices and aids that can be considered prosthetics include hearing aids, artificial eyes, palatal obturator, gastric bands, and dentures. prostheses are specifically not orthoses, although given certain