masters series event in cincinnati to bring his career total to 59 top - level singles titles and a record 17 atp masters series titles, having already won seven of the nine atp masters tournament — all except the tournaments in monte carlo and hamburg. at 34, he became the second - oldest singles champion in cincinnati tournament history ( the tournament began in 1899 ), tied with roger federer and surpassed only by ken rosewall, who won the title in 1970 at age 35. he finished the year ranked no. 8, one of the oldest players to finish in the top 10 since the 36 - year - old connors was no. 7 in 1988. at the time, agassi also became the sixth male player during the open era to reach 800 career wins with his first - round victory over alex bogomolov in countrywide classic in los angeles. agassi ' s 2005 began with a quarterfinal loss to federer at the australian open. agassi had several other deep runs at tournaments, but had to withdraw from several events due to injury. he lost to jarkko nieminen in the first round of the french open. he won his fourth title in los angeles and reached the final of the rogers cup, before falling to no. 2 rafael nadal. agassi ' s 2005 was defined by an improbable run to the us open final. after beating razvan sabau and ivo karlovic in straight sets and tomas berdych in four sets, agassi won three consecutive five - set matches to advance to the final. the most notable of these matches was his quarterfinal victory over james blake, where he rallied from two sets down to win in the fifth set tie - breaker. his other five - set victories were over xavier malisse in the fourth round and robby ginepri in the semi - finals. in the final, agassi faced federer, who was seeking his second consecutive us open title and his sixth grand slam title in two years. federer defeated agassi in four sets. agassi finished 2005 ranked no. 7, his 16th time in the year - end top - 10 rankings, which tied connors for the most times ranked in the top 10 at year ' s end. agassi had a poor start to 2006, as he was still recovering from an ankle injury and also suffering from back and leg pain and lack of match play. agassi withdrew from the australian open because of the ankle injury, and his back injury and other pains forced him to withdraw from several other