operation must, therefore, be taken to be one of the following : " ( a ) a possible change ( a ) of symbol together with a possible change of state of mind. " ( b ) a possible change ( b ) of observed squares, together with a possible change of state of mind " " we may now construct a machine to do the work of this computer. " a few years later, turing expanded his analysis ( thesis, definition ) with this forceful expression of it : " a function is said to be " effectively calculable " if its values can be found by some purely mechanical process. though it is fairly easy to get an intuitive grasp of this idea, it is nevertheless desirable to have some more definite, mathematical expressible definition... [ he discusses the history of the definition pretty much as presented above with respect to godel, herbrand, kleene, church, turing, and post ]... we may take this statement literally, understanding by a purely mechanical process one which could be carried out by a machine. it is possible to give a mathematical description, in a certain normal form, of the structures of these machines. the development of these ideas leads to the author ' s definition of a computable function, and to an identification of computability † with effective calculability... " † we shall use the expression " computable function " to mean a function calculable by a machine, and we let " effectively calculable " refer to the intuitive idea without particular identification with any one of these definitions ". j. b. rosser ( 1939 ) and s. c. kleene ( 1943 ) j. barkley rosser defined an " effective [ mathematical ] method " in the following manner ( italicization added ) : effective method ' is used here in the rather special sense of a method each step of which is precisely determined and which is certain to produce the answer in a finite number of steps. with this special meaning, three different precise definitions have been given to date. [ his footnote # 5 ; see discussion immediately below ]. the simplest of these to state ( due to post and turing ) says essentially that an effective method of solving certain sets of problems exists if one can build a machine which will then solve any problem of the set with no human intervention beyond inserting the question and ( later ) reading the answer. all three definitions are equivalent, so it doesn ' t matter which one is used. moreover, the fact that all three are