operational by early 1853. the boiler was brought up from the foundry and put at the start of the line, and as it progressed through the building it would stop at various stages where new parts would be added. from the upper level, where other parts were made, the lighter parts would be lowered over a balcony and then fixed onto the machine on the ground level. when the machine reached the end of the shop, it would be completed. interchangeable parts during the early 19th century, the development of machine tools such as the screw - cutting lathe, metal planer, and milling machine, and of toolpath control via jigs and fixtures, provided the prerequisites for the modern assembly line by making interchangeable parts a practical reality. late 19th - century steam and electric conveyors steam - powered conveyor lifts began being used for loading and unloading ships some time in the last quarter of the 19th century. hounshell ( 1984 ) shows a sketch of an electric - powered conveyor moving cans through a filling line in a canning factory. the meatpacking industry of chicago is believed to be one of the first industrial assembly lines ( or disassembly lines ) to be utilized in the united states starting in 1867. workers would stand at fixed stations and a pulley system would bring the meat to each worker and they would complete one task. henry ford and others have written about the influence of this slaughterhouse practice on the later developments at ford motor company. 20th century according to domm, the implementation of mass production of an automobile via an assembly line may be credited to ransom olds, who used it to build the first mass - produced automobile, the oldsmobile curved dash. olds patented the assembly line concept, which he put to work in his olds motor vehicle company factory in 1901. at ford motor company, the assembly line was introduced by william " pa " klann upon his return from visiting swift & company ' s slaughterhouse in chicago and viewing what was referred to as the " disassembly line ", where carcasses were butchered as they moved along a conveyor. the efficiency of one person removing the same piece over and over without moving to another station caught his attention. he reported the idea to peter e. martin, soon to be head of ford production, who was doubtful at the time but encouraged him to proceed. others at ford have claimed to have put the idea forth to henry ford, but pa klann ' s slaughterhouse revelation is well documented in the archives at the henry