on the advice of his mother, alexander attempted to buy the germanic tribes off, so as to gain time. it was this decision that resulted in the legionaries looking down upon alexander. they considered him dishonorable and feared he was unfit to be emperor. under these circumstances the army swiftly looked to replace alexander. gaius julius verus maximinus was the next best option. he was a soldier from thrace who had a golden reputation and was working hard to increase his military status. he was also a man with superior personal strength, who rose to his present position from a peasant background. with the thracian ' s hailing came the end of the severan dynasty, and, with the growing animosity of severus ' army towards him, the path for his assassination was paved. assassination alexander was forced to face his german enemies in the early months of 235. by the time he and his mother arrived, the situation had settled, and so his mother convinced him that to avoid violence, trying to bribe the german army to surrender was the more sensible course of action. according to historians, it was this tactic combined with insubordination from his own men that destroyed his reputation and popularity. alexander was thus assassinated together with his mother on 21 or 22 march, in a mutiny of the legio xxii primigenia at moguntiacum ( mainz ) while at a meeting with his generals. these assassinations secured the throne for maximinus. the historia augusta documents two theories that elaborate on severus ' s assassination. the first claims that the disaffection of mamaea was the main motive behind the homicide. however, lampridius makes it clear that he is more supportive of an alternative theory, that alexander was murdered in sicilia ( located in britain ). this theory has it that, in an open tent after his lunch, alexander was consulting with his insubordinate troops, who compared him to his cousin elagabalus, the divisive and unpopular emperor whose own assassination paved the way for alexander ' s reign. a german servant entered the tent and initiated the call for alexander ' s assassination, at which point many of the troops joined in the attack. alexander ' s attendants fought against the other troops but could not hold off the combined might of those seeking the emperor ' s assassination. within minutes, alexander was dead. his mother, julia mamaea, was in the same tent with alexander and soon fell victim to the same group of assassins. alexander ' s body was buried together