special editions containing contestants from the australian and english versions of the shows competing against each other. the term became further genericised in australia in the first half of the twentieth century, and was used to describe many sports rivalries or competitions outside the context of australia vs england. the australian rules football interstate carnival, and the small silver casket which served as its trophy, were symbolically known as " the ashes " of australian football, and was spoken of as such until at least the 1940s. the soccer rivalry between australia and new zealand was described as " the soccer ashes of australasia " until as late as the 1950s ; ashes from cigars smoked by the two countries ' captains were put into a casket in 1923 to make the trophy literal. the interstate rugby league rivalry between queensland and new south wales was known for a time as australia ' s rugby league ashes, and bowls competitions between the two states also regularly used the term. even some local rivalries, such as southern western australia ' s annual great southern football carnival, were locally described as " the ashes ". this genericised usage is no longer common, and " the ashes " would today be assumed only to apply to a contest between australia and england. the ashes featured in the film the final test, released in 1953, based on a television play by terence rattigan. it stars jack warner as an england cricketer playing the last test of his career, which is the last of an ashes series ; the film includes cameo appearances of english captain len hutton and other players who were part of england ' s 1953 triumph. douglas adams ' s 1982 science fiction comedy novel life, the universe and everything – the third part of the hitchhiker ' s guide to the galaxy series – features the urn containing the ashes as a significant element of its plot. the urn is stolen by alien robots, as the burnt stump inside is part of a key needed to unlock the " wikkit gate " and release an imprisoned world called krikkit. bodyline, a fictionalised television miniseries based on the " bodyline " ashes series of 1932 – 33, was screened in australia in 1984. the cast included gary sweet as donald bradman and hugo weaving as england captain douglas jardine. in the 1938 film the lady vanishes, charters and caldicott, played by basil radford and naunton wayne are two cricket fans who are desperate to get home from europe in order to see the last day ' s play in the third test at manchester. it is not until they see a news