alaska ' s capital, which had been in sitka until 1906, was moved north to juneau. construction of the alaska governor ' s mansion began that same year. european immigrants from norway and sweden also settled in southeast alaska, where they entered the fishing and logging industries. during world war ii, the aleutian islands campaign focused on attu, agattu and kiska, all of which were occupied by the empire of japan. during the japanese occupation, a white american civilian and two united states navy personnel were killed at attu and kiska respectively, and nearly a total of 50 aleut civilians and eight sailors were interned in japan. about half of the aleuts died during the period of internment. unalaska / dutch harbor and adak became significant bases for the united states army, united states army air forces and united states navy. the united states lend - lease program involved flying american warplanes through canada to fairbanks and then nome ; soviet pilots took possession of these aircraft, ferrying them to fight the german invasion of the soviet union. the construction of military bases contributed to the population growth of some alaskan cities. statehood statehood for alaska was an important cause of james wickersham early in his tenure as a congressional delegate. decades later, the statehood movement gained its first real momentum following a territorial referendum in 1946. the alaska statehood committee and alaska ' s constitutional convention would soon follow. statehood supporters also found themselves fighting major battles against political foes, mostly in the u. s. congress but also within alaska. statehood was approved by the u. s. congress on july 7, 1958 ; alaska was officially proclaimed a state on january 3, 1959. good friday earthquake on march 27, 1964, the massive good friday earthquake killed 133 people and destroyed several villages and portions of large coastal communities, mainly by the resultant tsunamis and landslides. it was the fourth - most - powerful earthquake in recorded history, with a moment magnitude of 9. 2 ( more than a thousand times as powerful as the 1989 san francisco earthquake ). the time of day ( 5 : 36 pm ), time of year ( spring ) and location of the epicenter were all cited as factors in potentially sparing thousands of lives, particularly in anchorage. lasting four minutes and thirty - eight seconds, the magnitude 9. 2 megathrust earthquake remains the most powerful earthquake recorded in north american history, and the second most powerful earthquake recorded in world history. of fault ruptured at once and moved up to, releasing about 500 years of