gap between the wave theory and selectionism had become unbridgeable. the other difficulty posed by pure transverse waves, of course, was the apparent implication that the aether was an elastic solid, except that, unlike other elastic solids, it was incapable of transmitting longitudinal waves. the wave theory was cheap on assumptions, but its latest assumption was expensive on credulity. if that assumption was to be widely entertained, its explanatory power would need to be impressive. partial reflection ( 1821 ) in the second installment of " calcul des teintes " ( june 1821 ), fresnel supposed, by analogy with sound waves, that the density of the aether in a refractive medium was inversely proportional to the square of the wave velocity, and therefore directly proportional to the square of the refractive index. for reflection and refraction at the surface between two isotropic media of different indices, fresnel decomposed the transverse vibrations into two perpendicular components, now known as the s and p components, which are parallel to the surface and the plane of incidence, respectively ; in other words, the s and p components are respectively square and parallel to the plane of incidence. for the s component, fresnel supposed that the interaction between the two media was analogous to an elastic collision, and obtained a formula for what we now call the reflectivity : the ratio of the reflected intensity to the incident intensity. the predicted reflectivity was non - zero at all angles. the third installment ( july 1821 ) was a short " postscript " in which fresnel announced that he had found, by a " mechanical solution ", a formula for the reflectivity of the p component, which predicted that the reflectivity was zero at the brewster angle. so polarization by reflection had been accounted for — but with the proviso that the direction of vibration in fresnel ' s model was perpendicular to the plane of polarization as defined by malus. ( on the ensuing controversy, see plane of polarization. ) the technology of the time did not allow the s and p reflectivities to be measured accurately enough to test fresnel ' s formulae at arbitrary angles of incidence. but the formulae could be rewritten in terms of what we now call the reflection coefficient : the signed ratio of the reflected amplitude to the incident amplitude. then, if the plane of polarization of the incident ray was at 45° to the plane of incidence, the tangent of the corresponding angle for the reflected ray was