arsenic is a chemical element with the symbol as and atomic number 33. arsenic occurs in many minerals, usually in combination with sulfur and metals, but also as a pure elemental crystal. arsenic is a metalloid. it has various allotropes, but only the grey form, which has a metallic appearance, is important to industry. the primary use of arsenic is in alloys of lead ( for example, in car batteries and ammunition ). arsenic is a common n - type dopant in semiconductor electronic devices. it is also a component of the iii – v compound semiconductor gallium arsenide. arsenic and its compounds, especially the trioxide, are used in the production of pesticides, treated wood products, herbicides, and insecticides. these applications are declining with the increasing recognition of the toxicity of arsenic and its compounds. a few species of bacteria are able to use arsenic compounds as respiratory metabolites. trace quantities of arsenic are an essential dietary element in rats, hamsters, goats, chickens, and presumably other species. a role in human metabolism is not known. however, arsenic poisoning occurs in multicellular life if quantities are larger than needed. arsenic contamination of groundwater is a problem that affects millions of people across the world. the united states ' environmental protection agency states that all forms of arsenic are a serious risk to human health. the united states ' agency for toxic substances and disease registry ranked arsenic as number 1 in its 2001 priority list of hazardous substances at superfund sites. arsenic is classified as a group - a carcinogen. characteristics physical characteristics the three most common arsenic allotropes are grey, yellow, and black arsenic, with grey being the most common. grey arsenic ( α - as, space group rm no. 166 ) adopts a double - layered structure consisting of many interlocked, ruffled, six - membered rings. because of weak bonding between the layers, grey arsenic is brittle and has a relatively low mohs hardness of 3. 5. nearest and next - nearest neighbors form a distorted octahedral complex, with the three atoms in the same double - layer being slightly closer than the three atoms in the next. this relatively close packing leads to a high density of 5. 73 g / cm3. grey arsenic is a semimetal, but becomes a semiconductor with a bandgap of 1. 2 – 1. 4 ev if amorphized. grey arsenic is also the most stable form. yellow arsenic is soft and waxy, and somewhat similar to tetraph