consultation. it is a forum for bishops of the communion to reinforce unity and collegiality through manifesting the episcopate, to discuss matters of mutual concern, and to pass resolutions intended to act as guideposts. it is held roughly every ten years and invitation is by the archbishop of canterbury. the anglican consultative council ( first met in 1971 ) was created by a 1968 lambeth conference resolution, and meets usually at three - yearly intervals. the council consists of representative bishops, other clergy and laity chosen by the 38 provinces. the body has a permanent secretariat, the anglican communion office, of which the archbishop of canterbury is president. the primates ' meeting ( first met in 1979 ) is the most recent manifestation of international consultation and deliberation, having been first convened by archbishop donald coggan as a forum for " leisurely thought, prayer and deep consultation ". since there is no binding authority in the anglican communion, these international bodies are a vehicle for consultation and persuasion. in recent times, persuasion has tipped over into debates over conformity in certain areas of doctrine, discipline, worship and ethics. the most notable example has been the objection of many provinces of the communion ( particularly in africa and asia ) to the changing acceptance of lgbtq + individuals in the north american churches ( e. g., by blessing same - sex unions and ordaining and consecrating same - sex relationships ) and to the process by which changes were undertaken. ( see anglican realignment ) those who objected condemned these actions as unscriptural, unilateral, and without the agreement of the communion prior to these steps being taken. in response, the american episcopal church and the anglican church of canada answered that the actions had been undertaken after lengthy scriptural and theological reflection, legally in accordance with their own canons and constitutions and after extensive consultation with the provinces of the communion. the primates ' meeting voted to request the two churches to withdraw their delegates from the 2005 meeting of the anglican consultative council. canada and the united states decided to attend the meeting but without exercising their right to vote. they have not been expelled or suspended, since there is no mechanism in this voluntary association to suspend or expel an independent province of the communion. since membership is based on a province ' s communion with canterbury, expulsion would require the archbishop of canterbury ' s refusal to be in communion with the affected jurisdictions. in line with the suggestion of the windsor report, rowan williams ( the then archbishop of canterbury ) established a working group to examine