marry alexander. alexander ' s parents encouraged the match. on 2 june 1866, alexander went to copenhagen to visit dagmar. when they were looking at photographs of the deceased nicholas, alexander proposed to dagmar. on in the grand church of the winter palace in st. petersburg, alexander wed dagmar, who converted to orthodox christianity and took the name maria feodorovna. the union proved a happy one to the end ; unlike nearly all of his predecessors since peter i, there was no adultery in his marriage. the couple spent their wedding night at the tsarevich ' s private dacha known as " my property ". alexander and his father became estranged due to their different political views. in 1870, alexander ii supported prussia in the franco - prussian war, which angered the younger alexander. influenced by his danish wife dagmar, alexander criticized the " shortsighted government " for helping the " prussian pigs ". alexander resented his father for having a long - standing relationship with princess catherine dolgorukova ( with whom he had several illegitimate children ) while his mother, the empress, was suffering from chronic ill - health. two days after empress marie died, his father told him, " i shall live as i wish, and my union with princess dolgorukova is definite " but assured him that " your rights will be safeguarded. " alexander was furious over his father ' s decision to marry catherine a month after his mother ' s death, which he believed " forever ruined all the dear good memories of family life. " his father threatened to disinherit him if he left court out of protest against the marriage. he privately denounced catherine as " the outsider " and complained that she was " designing and immature ". after his father ' s assassination, he reflected that his father ' s marriage to catherine had caused the tragedy : " all the scum burst out and swallowed all that was holy. the guardian angel flew away and everything turned to ashes, finally culminating in the dreadful incomprehensible 1 march. " reign on 13 march 1881 ( n. s. ) alexander ' s father, alexander ii, was assassinated by members of the extremist organization narodnaya volya. as a result, alexander ascended to the russian imperial throne in nennal. he and maria feodorovna were officially crowned and anointed at the assumption cathedral in moscow on 27 may 1883. alexander ' s ascension to the throne was followed by an outbreak of anti - jewish riots. alexander iii