allah ( ;,, ) is the common arabic word for god. in the english language, the word generally refers to god in islam. the word is thought to be derived by contraction from al - ilah, which means " the god ", and is linguistically related to the aramaic words elah and syriac ( ʼalaha ) and the hebrew word el ( elohim ) for god. the word allah has been used by arabic people of different religions since pre - islamic times. the pre - islamic arabs worshipped a supreme deity whom they called allah, alongside other lesser deities. muhammad used the word allah to indicate the islamic conception of god. allah has been used as a term for god by muslims ( both arab and non - arab ), judaeo - arabic - speaking jews, and arab christians after the term " al - ilah " and " allah " were used interchangeably in classical arabic by the majority of arabs who had become muslims. it is also often, albeit not exclusively, used in this way by babists, bahaʼis, mandaeans, indonesian and maltese christians, and sephardi jews, as well as by the gagauz people. similar usage by christians and sikhs in peninsular malaysia has recently led to political and legal controversies. etymology the etymology of the word allah has been discussed extensively by classical arab philologists. grammarians of the basra school regarded it as either formed " spontaneously " ( murtajal ) or as the definite form of lah ( from the verbal root lyh with the meaning of " lofty " or " hidden " ). others held that it was borrowed from syriac or hebrew. most considered it to be derived from a contraction of the arabic definite article al - " the " and " deity, god " to meaning " the deity, the god ". indeed, there is " the interchangeability of al - ilah and allah in early arabic poetry even when composed by the christian ʿadi ibn zayd ". the majority of modern scholars subscribe to the latter theory, and view the loanword hypothesis with skepticism. the use of " allah " as the name of a deity appears as early as the first century. an inscription using the ancient south arabian script in old arabic from qaryat al - faw reads, " ' to kahl and lh and ʿaththar ' ( b - khl w - lh w - ʿtr ) ". cognates of the name " allah " exist in other semitic languages, including hebrew and