alboin ( 530s – 28 june 572 ) was king of the lombards from about 560 until 572. during his reign the lombards ended their migrations by settling in italy, the northern part of which alboin conquered between 569 and 572. he had a lasting effect on italy and the pannonian basin ; in the former his invasion marked the beginning of centuries of lombard rule, and in the latter his defeat of the gepids and his departure from pannonia ended the dominance there of the germanic peoples. the period of alboin ' s reign as king in pannonia following the death of his father, audoin, was one of confrontation and conflict between the lombards and their main neighbors, the gepids. the gepids initially gained the upper hand, but in 567, thanks to his alliance with the avars, alboin inflicted a decisive defeat on his enemies, whose lands the avars subsequently occupied. the increasing power of his new neighbours caused alboin some unease however, and he therefore decided to leave pannonia for italy, hoping to take advantage of the byzantine empire ' s vulnerability in defending its territory in the wake of the gothic war. after gathering a large coalition of peoples, alboin crossed the julian alps in 568, entering an almost undefended italy. he rapidly took control of most of venetia and liguria. in 569, unopposed, he took northern italy ' s main city, milan. pavia offered stiff resistance however, and was taken only after a siege lasting three years. during that time alboin turned his attention to tuscany, but signs of factionalism among his supporters and alboin ' s diminishing control over his army increasingly began to manifest themselves. alboin was assassinated on 28 june 572, in a coup d ' etat instigated by the byzantines. it was organized by the king ' s foster brother, helmichis, with the support of alboin ' s wife, rosamund, daughter of the gepid king whom alboin had killed some years earlier. the coup failed in the face of opposition from a majority of the lombards, who elected cleph as alboin ' s successor, forcing helmichis and rosamund to flee to ravenna under imperial protection. alboin ' s death deprived the lombards of the only leader who could have kept the newborn germanic entity together, the last in the line of