as most spiders are venomous. they have a second pair of appendages called pedipalps attached to the cephalothorax. these have similar segmentation to the legs and function as taste and smell organs. at the end of each male pedipalp is a spoon - shaped cymbium that acts to support the copulatory organ. other branches of anatomy superficial or surface anatomy is important as the study of anatomical landmarks that can be readily seen from the exterior contours of the body. it enables physicians or veterinary surgeons to gauge the position and anatomy of the associated deeper structures. superficial is a directional term that indicates that structures are located relatively close to the surface of the body. comparative anatomy relates to the comparison of anatomical structures ( both gross and microscopic ) in different animals. artistic anatomy relates to anatomic studies for artistic reasons. history ancient in 1600 bce, the edwin smith papyrus, an ancient egyptian medical text, described the heart and its vessels, as well as the brain and its meninges and cerebrospinal fluid, and the liver, spleen, kidneys, uterus and bladder, and it showed the blood vessels diverging from the heart. the ebers papyrus ( ) features a " treatise on the heart ", with vessels carrying all the body ' s fluids to or from every member of the body. ancient greek anatomy and physiology underwent great changes and advances throughout the early medieval world. over time, this medical practice expanded by a continually developing understanding of the functions of organs and structures in the body. phenomenal anatomical observations of the human body were made, which have contributed towards the understanding of the brain, eye, liver, reproductive organs and the nervous system. the hellenistic egyptian city of alexandria was the stepping - stone for greek anatomy and physiology. alexandria not only housed the biggest library for medical records and books of the liberal arts in the world during the time of the greeks, but was also home to many medical practitioners and philosophers. great patronage of the arts and sciences from the ptolemaic dynasty of egypt helped raise alexandria up, further rivalling the cultural and scientific achievements of other greek states. some of the most striking advances in early anatomy and physiology took place in hellenistic alexandria. two of the most famous anatomists and physiologists of the third century were herophilus and erasistratus. these two physicians helped pioneer human dissection for medical research, using the cadavers of condemned criminals, which was considered taboo until the renaissance — herophi