' s 1959 novel psycho, which was inspired by the case of ed gein, the film was produced on a tight budget of $ 800, 000 ( equivalent to $ million in ) and shot in black - and - white on a spare set using crew members from alfred hitchcock presents. the unprecedented violence of the shower scene, the early death of the heroine, and the innocent lives extinguished by a disturbed murderer became the hallmarks of a new horror - film genre. the film proved popular with audiences, with lines stretching outside theatres as viewers waited for the next showing. it broke box - office records in the united kingdom, france, south america, the united states and canada, and was a moderate success in australia for a brief period. psycho was the most profitable of hitchcock ' s career, and he personally earned in excess of $ 15 million ( equivalent to $ million in ). he subsequently swapped his rights to psycho and his tv anthology for 150, 000 shares of mca, making him the third largest shareholder and his own boss at universal, in theory at least, although that did not stop studio interference. following the first film, psycho became an american horror franchise : psycho ii, psycho iii, bates motel, psycho iv : the beginning and a colour 1998 remake of the original. truffaut interview on 13 august 1962, hitchcock ' s 63rd birthday, the french director francois truffaut began a 50 - hour interview of hitchcock, filmed over eight days at universal studios, during which hitchcock agreed to answer 500 questions. it took four years to transcribe the tapes and organise the images ; it was published as a book in 1967, which truffaut nicknamed the " hitchbook ". the audio tapes were used as the basis of a documentary in 2015. truffaut sought the interview because it was clear to him that hitchcock was not simply the mass - market entertainer the american media made him out to be. it was obvious from his films, truffaut wrote, that hitchcock had " given more thought to the potential of his art than any of his colleagues ". he compared the interview to " oedipus ' consultation of the oracle ". the birds the film scholar peter william evans wrote that the birds ( 1963 ) and marnie ( 1964 ) are regarded as " undisputed masterpieces ". hitchcock had intended to film marnie first, and in march 1962 it was announced that grace kelly, princess grace of monaco since 1956, would come out of retirement to star in it. when kelly asked hitchcock