era of the himyarite and aksumite kingdoms in ibn ishaq ' s biography there is a christian leader named abd allah ibn abu bakr ibn muhammad, who was martyred in najran in 523, as he had worn a ring that said " allah is my lord ". in an inscription of christian martyrion dated back to 512, references to ' l - ilah ( الاله ) can be found in both arabic and aramaic. the inscription starts with the statement " by the help of ' l - ilah ". in pre - islamic gospels, the name used for god was " allah ", as evidenced by some discovered arabic versions of the new testament written by arab christians during the pre - islamic era in northern and southern arabia. however most recent research in the field of islamic studies by sydney griffith et al. ( 2013 ), david d. grafton ( 2014 ), clair wilde ( 2014 ) & ml hjalm et al. ( 2016 & 2017 ) assert that " all one can say about the possibility of a pre - islamic, christian version of the gospel in arabic is that no sure sign of its actual existence has yet emerged. " additionally ml hjalm in her most recent research ( 2017 ) inserts that " manuscripts containing translations of the gospels are encountered no earlier than the year 873 " irfan shahid quoting the 10th - century encyclopedic collection kitab al - aghani notes that pre - islamic arab christians have been reported to have raised the battle cry " ya la ibad allah " ( o slaves of allah ) to invoke each other into battle. according to shahid, on the authority of 10th - century muslim scholar al - marzubani, " allah " was also mentioned in pre - islamic christian poems by some ghassanid and tanukhid poets in syria and northern arabia. pronunciation the word allah is generally pronounced, exhibiting a heavy lam,, a velarized alveolar lateral approximant, a marginal phoneme in modern standard arabic. since the initial alef has no hamza, the initial is elided when a preceding word ends in a vowel. if the preceding vowel is, the lam is light,, as in, for instance, the basmala. as a loanword english and other european languages the history of the name allah in english was probably influenced by the study of comparative religion in the 19th century ; for example, thomas carlyle ( 1840 ) sometimes used the term allah but without any