late 1920s through the 1930s through the synthesis of the older martial arts that he had studied. the core martial art from which aikido derives is daito - ryu aiki - jujutsu, which ueshiba studied directly with takeda sokaku, the reviver of that art. additionally, ueshiba is known to have studied tenjin shin ' yo - ryu with tozawa tokusaburo in tokyo in 1901, gotoha yagyu shingan - ryu under nakai masakatsu in sakai from 1903 to 1908, and judo with ( 1894 – 1972 ) in tanabe in 1911. the art of is the primary technical influence on aikido. along with empty - handed throwing and joint - locking techniques, ueshiba incorporated training movements with weapons, such as those for the spear ( ), short staff ( ), and possibly the. aikido also derives much of its technical structure from the art of swordsmanship ( ). ueshiba moved to hokkaido in 1912, and began studying under takeda sokaku in 1915 ; his official association with daito - ryu continued until 1937. however, during the latter part of that period, ueshiba had already begun to distance himself from takeda and the. at that time ueshiba referred to his martial art as " aiki budo ". it is unclear exactly when ueshiba began using the name " aikido ", but it became the official name of the art in 1942 when the greater japan martial virtue society ( ) was engaged in a government sponsored reorganization and centralization of japanese martial arts. religious influences after ueshiba left hokkaido in 1919, he met and was profoundly influenced by onisaburo deguchi, the spiritual leader of the omoto - kyo religion ( a neo - shinto movement ) in ayabe. one of the primary features of omoto - kyo is its emphasis on the attainment of utopia during one ' s life. this idea was a great influence on ueshiba ' s martial arts philosophy of extending love and compassion especially to those who seek to harm others. aikido demonstrates this philosophy in its emphasis on mastering martial arts so that one may receive an attack and harmlessly redirect it. in an ideal resolution, not only is the receiver unharmed, but so is the attacker. in addition to the effect on his spiritual growth, the connection with deguchi gave ueshiba entry to elite political and military circles as a martial artist. as a result of