suspected the pressure caused by the engine ' s own exhaust reflecting off the lunar surface could make it explode, but he forgot. three seconds later, eagle landed and armstrong shut the engine down. aldrin immediately said " okay, engine stop. aca — out of detent. " armstrong acknowledged : " out of detent. auto. " aldrin continued : " mode control — both auto. descent engine command override off. engine arm — off. 413 is in. " aca was the attitude control assembly — the lm ' s control stick. output went to the lgc to command the reaction control system ( rcs ) jets to fire. " out of detent " meant the stick had moved away from its centered position ; it was spring - centered like the turn indicator in a car. address 413 of the abort guidance system ( ags ) contained the variable that indicated the lm had landed. eagle landed at 20 : 17 : 40 utc on sunday july 20 with of usable fuel remaining. information available to the crew and mission controllers during the landing showed the lm had enough fuel for another 25 seconds of powered flight before an abort without touchdown would have become unsafe, but post - mission analysis showed that the real figure was probably closer to 50 seconds. apollo 11 landed with less fuel than most subsequent missions, and the astronauts encountered a premature low fuel warning. this was later found to be the result of the propellant sloshing more than expected, uncovering a fuel sensor. on subsequent missions, extra anti - slosh baffles were added to the tanks to prevent this. armstrong acknowledged aldrin ' s completion of the post - landing checklist with " engine arm is off ", before responding to the capcom, charles duke, with the words, " houston, tranquility base here. the eagle has landed. " armstrong ' s unrehearsed change of call sign from " eagle " to " tranquility base " emphasized to listeners that landing was complete and successful. duke expressed the relief at mission control : " roger, twan — tranquility, we copy you on the ground. you got a bunch of guys about to turn blue. we ' re breathing again. thanks a lot. " two and a half hours after landing, before preparations began for the eva, aldrin radioed to earth : he then took communion privately. at this time nasa was still fighting a lawsuit brought by atheist madalyn murray o ' hair ( who had objected to