##øgeskov ( between bay and beechwood ) and verdens mindste storby ( world ' s smallest big city ). aarhus is featured in popular songs such as hjem til aarhus by pa slaget 12, lav sol over aarhus by gnags, 8000 aarhus c by flemming jørgensen, pigen ud af aarhus by tina dickow and slingrer ned ad vestergade by gnags. in 1919, the number sangen til aarhus ( song to aarhus ) had become a popular hit for a time, but the oldest and perhaps best known " national anthem " for the city is the classical aarhus tappenstreg from 1872 by carl christian møller which is occasionally played at official events or at performances by local marching bands and orchestras. museums aarhus has a range of museums, including two of the largest in the country, measured by the number of paying guests, den gamle by and aros aarhus kunstmuseum. den gamle by ( the old town ), officially danmarks købstadmuseum ( denmark ' s market town museum ), presents danish townscapes from the 16th century to the 1970s with individual areas focused on different time periods. 75 historic buildings collected from different parts of the country have been brought here to create a small town in its own right. aros aarhus kunstmuseum, the city ' s main art museum, is one of the largest art museums in scandinavia with a collection covering danish art from the 18th century to the present day as well as paintings, installations and sculptures representing international art movements and artists from all over the world. the iconic glass structure on the roof, your rainbow panorama, was designed by olafur eliasson and features a promenade offering a colourful panorama of the city. the moesgard museum specialises in archaeology and ethnography in collaboration with aarhus university with exhibits on denmark ' s prehistory, including weapon sacrifices from illerup adal and the grauballe man. kvindemuseet, the women ' s museum, from 1984 contains collections of the lives and works of women in danish cultural history. the occupation museum ( besættelsesmuseum ) presents exhibits illustrating the german occupation of the city during the second world war ; the university park on the campus of aarhus university includes the natural history museum with 5, 000 species of animals, many in their natural surroundings ; and the steno museum is a museum of the history of science and medicine with a planet