on me ", while dionne warwick, peter cetera, frank sidebottom and celebrity skin recorded their versions of " sos ". us alternative - rock musician marshall crenshaw has also been known to play a version of " knowing me, knowing you " in concert appearances, while legendary english latin pop songwriter richard daniel roman has recognised abba as a major influence. swedish metal guitarist yngwie malmsteen covered " gimme! gimme! gimme! ( a man after midnight ) " with slightly altered lyrics. two different compilation albums of abba songs have been released. abba : a tribute coincided with the 25th anniversary celebration and featured 17 songs, some of which were recorded especially for this release. notable tracks include go west ' s " one of us ", army of lovers " hasta manana ", information society ' s " lay all your love on me ", erasure ' s " take a chance on me " ( with mc kinky ), and lyngstad ' s a cappella duet with the real group of " dancing queen ". a second 12 - track album was released in 1999, titled abbamania, with proceeds going to the youth music charity in england. it featured all new cover versions : notable tracks were by madness ( " money, money, money " ), culture club ( " voulez - vous " ), the corrs ( " the winner takes it all " ), steps ( " lay all your love on me ", " i know him so well " ), and a medley titled " thank abba for the music " performed by several artists and as featured on the brits awards that same year. in 1998, an abba tribute group was formed, the abba teens, which was subsequently renamed the a - teens to allow the group some independence. the group ' s first album, the abba generation, consisting solely of abba covers reimagined as 1990s pop songs, was a worldwide success and so were subsequent albums. the group disbanded in 2004 due to a gruelling schedule and intentions to go solo. in sweden, the growing recognition of the legacy of andersson and ulvaeus resulted in the 1998 b & b concerts, a tribute concert ( with swedish singers who had worked with the songwriters through the years ) showcasing not only their abba years, but hits both before and after abba. the concert was a success, and was ultimately released on cd. it later toured scandinavia and even went to beijing