and may lose their effect with continued exposure unless reinforced with real reputational effects. public displays such as public weeping for dead celebrities and participation in demonstrations may be influenced by a desire to be seen as generous. people who know that they are publicly monitored sometimes even wastefully donate the money they know is not needed by the recipient because of reputational concerns. women find altruistic men to be attractive partners. when women look for a long - term partner, altruism may be a trait they prefer as it may indicate that the prospective partner is also willing to share resources with her and her children. men perform charitable acts in the early stages of a romantic relationship or simply when in the presence of an attractive woman. while both sexes state that kindness is the most preferable trait in a partner, there is some evidence that men place less value on this than women and that women may not be more altruistic in the presence of an attractive man. men may even avoid altruistic women in short - term relationships, which may be because they expect less success. people may compete for the social benefit of a burnished reputation, which may cause competitive altruism. on the other hand, in some experiments, a proportion of people do not seem to care about reputation and do not help more, even if this is conspicuous. this may be due to reasons such as psychopathy or that they are so attractive that they need not be seen as altruistic. the reputational benefits of altruism occur in the future compared to the immediate costs of altruism. while humans and other organisms generally place less value on future costs / benefits as compared to those in the present, some have shorter time horizons than others, and these people tend to be less cooperative. explicit extrinsic rewards and punishments have sometimes been found to have a counterintuitively inverse effect on behaviors when compared to intrinsic rewards. this may be because such extrinsic incentives may replace ( partially or in whole ) intrinsic and reputational incentives, motivating the person to focus on obtaining the extrinsic rewards, which may make the thus - incentivized behaviors less desirable. people prefer altruism in others when it appears to be due to a personality characteristic rather than overt reputational concerns ; simply pointing out that there are reputational benefits of action may reduce them. this may be used as a derogatory tactic against altruists ( " you ' re just virtue signalling " ), especially by those who are non - cooperators.