jet service flight to and from the mainland u. s. american eagle operating on behalf of american airlines began nonstop embraer 175 regional jet service to anguilla from miami in an aviation watershed moment for anguilla with the airport also currently attempting to attract other international air carriers. other airlines currently serving the airport include tradewind aviation and cape air which provide scheduled air service to san juan, puerto rico. several other small airlines serve the airport as well. the airport can handle large narrow - body jets such as the boeing 737 and airbus a320 and has growing private jet service flights with a new private jet terminal being built. road aside from taxis, there is no public transport on the island. cars drive on the left. boat there are regular ferries from saint martin to anguilla. it is a 20 - minute crossing from marigot, st. martin to blowing point, anguilla. ferries commence service from 7 : 00 am. there is also a charter service, from blowing point, anguilla to princess juliana airport to make travel easier. this way of travel is the most common method of transport between anguilla and st. martin. see also bibliography of anguilla outline of anguilla index of anguilla - related articles references further reading.. harris, david r. - plants, animals and man in the outer leeward islands, west indies. an ecological study of antigua, barbuda, and anguilla. external links government government of anguilla — official government website general information anguilla. the world factbook. central intelligence agency. anguilla from ucb libraries govpubs battle for freedom - - youtube video compilation archived at ghostarchive. org on 18 may 2022 dependent territories in the caribbean. anguilla leeward islands ( caribbean ) english - speaking countries and territories island countries former english colonies british leeward islands british west indies member states of the organisation of eastern caribbean states states and territories established in 1980 small island developing states 1650 establishments in the british empire 1650 establishments in north america 1650s establishments in the caribbean states and territories established in 1650