his sister polyxena, and overcome with lust, directed his sexual attentions on the youth – who, refusing to yield, instead found himself decapitated upon an altar - omphalos of apollo thymbraios. later versions of the story suggested troilus was accidentally killed by achilles in an over - ardent lovers ' embrace. in this version of the myth, achilles ' death therefore came in retribution for this sacrilege. ancient writers treated troilus as the epitome of a dead child mourned by his parents. had troilus lived to adulthood, the first vatican mythographer claimed, troy would have been invincible ; however, the motif is older and found already in plautus ' bacchides. in the iliad homer ' s iliad is the most famous narrative of achilles ' deeds in the trojan war. achilles ' wrath ( μηνις αχιλλεως, menis achilleos ) is the central theme of the poem. the first two lines of the iliad read : the homeric epic only covers a few weeks of the decade - long war, and does not narrate achilles ' death. it begins with achilles ' withdrawal from battle after being dishonoured by agamemnon, the commander of the achaean forces. agamemnon has taken a woman named chryseis as his slave. her father chryses, a priest of apollo, begs agamemnon to return her to him. agamemnon refuses, and apollo sends a plague amongst the greeks. the prophet calchas correctly determines the source of the troubles but will not speak unless achilles vows to protect him. achilles does so, and calchas declares that chryseis must be returned to her father. agamemnon consents, but then commands that achilles ' battle prize briseis, the daughter of briseus, be brought to him to replace chryseis. angry at the dishonour of having his plunder and glory taken away ( and, as he says later, because he loves briseis ), with the urging of his mother thetis, achilles refuses to fight or lead his troops alongside the other greek forces. at the same time, burning with rage over agamemnon ' s theft, achilles prays to thetis to convince zeus to help the trojans gain ground in the war, so that he may regain his honour. as the battle turns against the greeks, thanks to the