##litarization and the maintenance of the status quo. the treaty prohibits nuclear testing, military operations, economic exploitation, and territorial claims in antarctica. it is monitored through on - site inspections. the only permanent structures allowed are scientific research stations. the original signatory countries hold voting rights on antarctic governance, with seven of them claiming portions of the continent and the remaining five being non - claimants. other nations have joined as consultative members by conducting significant research in antarctica. non - consultative parties can also adhere to the treaty. in 1991 - 1992, the treaty was renegotiated by 33 nations, with the main change being the madrid protocol on environmental protection, which prohibited mining and oil exploration for 50 years. the positions of the united states, the soviet union, the united kingdom, and new zealand coincided in the establishment of an international administration for antarctica, proposing that it should be within the framework of the united nations. australia and the united kingdom expressed the need for inspections by observers, and the british also proposed the use of military personnel for logistical functions. argentina proposed that all atomic explosions be banned in antarctica, which caused a crisis that lasted until the last day of the conference, since the united states, along with other countries, intended to ban only those that were made without prior notice and without prior consultation. the support of the ussr and chile for the argentine proposal finally caused the united states to retract its opposition. the signing of the treaty was the first arms control agreement that occurred in the framework of the cold war, and the participating countries managed to avoid the internationalization of antarctic sovereignty. as of the year 2048, any of the consultative parties to the treaty may request the revision of the treaty and its entire normative system, with the approval of a relative majority. other agreements other agreements – some 200 recommendations adopted at treaty consultative meetings and ratified by governments – include : agreed measures for the conservation of antarctic fauna and flora ( 1964 ) ( entered into force in 1982 ) the convention for the conservation of antarctic seals ( 1972 ) the convention for the conservation of antarctic marine living resources ( 1982 ) the convention on the regulation of antarctic mineral resource activities ( 1988 ) ( signed in 1988, not in force ) the protocol on environmental protection to the antarctic treaty was signed 4 october 1991, and entered into force 14 january 1998 ; this agreement prevents development and provides for the protection of the antarctic environment through five specific annexes on marine pollution, fauna and flora, environmental impact assessments, waste management, and protected areas. it prohibits all activities relating to mineral resources except scientific