communism is a theory of anarchism that advocates a communist society with common ownership of the means of production, held by a federal network of voluntary associations, with production and consumption based on the guiding principle " from each according to his ability, to each according to his need. " anarcho - communism developed from radical socialist currents after the french revolution but was first formulated as such in the italian section of the first international. it was later expanded upon in the theoretical work of peter kropotkin, whose specific style would go onto become the dominating view of anarchists by the late 19th century. anarcho - syndicalism is a branch of anarchism that views labour syndicates as a potential force for revolutionary social change, replacing capitalism and the state with a new society democratically self - managed by workers. the basic principles of anarcho - syndicalism are direct action, workers ' solidarity and workers ' self - management. individualist anarchism is a set of several traditions of thought within the anarchist movement that emphasise the individual and their will over any kinds of external determinants. early influences on individualist forms of anarchism include william godwin, max stirner, and henry david thoreau. through many countries, individualist anarchism attracted a small yet diverse following of bohemian artists and intellectuals as well as young anarchist outlaws in what became known as illegalism and individual reclamation. post - classical and contemporary anarchist principles undergird contemporary radical social movements of the left. interest in the anarchist movement developed alongside momentum in the anti - globalisation movement, whose leading activist networks were anarchist in orientation. as the movement shaped 21st century radicalism, wider embrace of anarchist principles signaled a revival of interest. anarchism has continued to generate many philosophies and movements, at times eclectic, drawing upon various sources and combining disparate concepts to create new philosophical approaches. the anti - capitalist tradition of classical anarchism has remained prominent within contemporary currents. contemporary news coverage which emphasizes black bloc demonstrations has reinforced anarchism ' s historical association with chaos and violence. its publicity has also led more scholars in fields such as anthropology and history to engage with the anarchist movement, although contemporary anarchism favours actions over academic theory. various anarchist groups, tendencies, and schools of thought exist today, making it difficult to describe the contemporary anarchist movement. while theorists and activists have established " relatively stable constellations of anarchist principles ", there is no consensus on which principles are core and commentators describe multiple anarch