##s, mollusks, nematodes ) on crop or animal production systems. transformation of primary products into end - consumer products ( e. g., production, preservation, and packaging of dairy products ) prevention and correction of adverse environmental effects ( e. g., soil degradation, waste management, bioremediation ) theoretical production ecology, relating to crop production modeling traditional agricultural systems, sometimes termed subsistence agriculture, which feed most of the poorest people in the world. these systems are of interest as they sometimes retain a level of integration with natural ecological systems greater than that of industrial agriculture, which may be more sustainable than some modern agricultural systems. food production and demand on a global basis, with special attention paid to the major producers, such as china, india, brazil, the us and the eu. various sciences relating to agricultural resources and the environment ( e. g. soil science, agroclimatology ) ; biology of agricultural crops and animals ( e. g. crop science, animal science and their included sciences, e. g. ruminant nutrition, farm animal welfare ) ; such fields as agricultural economics and rural sociology ; various disciplines encompassed in agricultural engineering. see also agricultural research council agricultural sciences basic topics agriculture ministry agroecology american society of agronomy genomics of domestication history of agricultural science institute of food and agricultural sciences international assessment of agricultural science and technology for development international food policy research institute, ifpri list of agriculture topics national ffa organization research institute of crop production ( ricp ) ( in the czech republic ) university of agricultural sciences references further reading agricultural research, livelihoods, and poverty : studies of economic and social impacts in six countries edited by michelle adato and ruth meinzen - dick ( 2007 ), johns hopkins university press food policy report claude bourguignon, regenerating the soil : from agronomy to agrology, other india press, 2005 pimentel david, pimentel marcia, computer les kilocalories, ceres, n. 59, sept - oct. 1977 russell e. walter, soil conditions and plant growth, longman group, london, new york 1973 saltini antonio, storia delle scienze agrarie, 4 vols, bologna 1984 – 89,,,, vavilov nicolai i. ( starr chester k. editor ), the origin, variation, immunity and breeding of cultivated plants. selected writings, in chronica botanica, 13 : 1 – 6, waltham, mass., 1949 – 50 va