atari vcs version an a rating. william cassidy, writing for gamespy ' s " classic gaming ", noticed its innovations, including being one of the first video games to track initials and allow players to enter their initials for appearing in the top 10 high scores, and commented, " the vector graphics fit the futuristic outer space theme very well ". in 1995, flux magazine ranked the arcade version 11th on their " top 100 video games. " in 1996, next generation listed it as number 39 on their " top 100 games of all time ", particularly lauding the control dynamics which require " the constant juggling of speed, positioning, and direction ". in 1999, next generation listed asteroids as number 29 on their " top 50 games of all time ", commenting that " asteroids was a classic the day it was released, and it has never lost any of its appeal ". asteroids was ranked fourth on retro gamers list of " top 25 arcade games " ; the retro gamer staff cited its simplicity and the lack of a proper ending as allowances of revisiting the game. in 2012, asteroids was listed on time all - time 100 greatest video games list. entertainment weekly named asteroids one of the top ten games for the atari 2600 in 2013. it was added to the museum of modern art ' s collection of video games. in 2021, the guardian listed asteroids as the second greatest video game of the 1970s, just below galaxian ( 1979 ). by contrast, in march 1983 the atari 8 - bit port of asteroids won sixth place in softlines dog of the year awards " for badness in computer games ", atari division, based on reader submissions. usage of the names of saturday night live characters " mr. bill " and " sluggo " to refer to the saucers in an esquire article about the game led to logg receiving a cease and desist letter from a lawyer with the " mr. bill trademark ". legacy arcade sequels released in 1981, asteroids deluxe was the first sequel to asteroids. dave shepperd edited the code and made enhancements to the game without logg ' s involvement. the onscreen objects are tinted blue, and hyperspace is replaced by a shield that depletes when used. the asteroids rotate, and new " killer satellite " enemies break into smaller ships that home in on the player ' s position. the arcade machine ' s monitor displays vector graphics overlaying a holographic backdrop. the game is more difficult than the original and enables saucers to shoot across