the hydroxyl groups, as in propane - 1, 2 - diol for ch3ch ( oh ) ch2oh ( propylene glycol ). in cases where the hydroxy group is bonded to an sp2 carbon on an aromatic ring, the molecule is classified separately as a phenol and is named using the iupac rules for naming phenols. phenols have distinct properties and are not classified as alcohols. common names in other less formal contexts, an alcohol is often called with the name of the corresponding alkyl group followed by the word " alcohol ", e. g., methyl alcohol, ethyl alcohol. propyl alcohol may be n - propyl alcohol or isopropyl alcohol, depending on whether the hydroxyl group is bonded to the end or middle carbon on the straight propane chain. as described under systematic naming, if another group on the molecule takes priority, the alcohol moiety is often indicated using the " hydroxy - " prefix. in archaic nomenclature, alcohols can be named as derivatives of methanol using " - carbinol " as the ending. for instance, can be named trimethylcarbinol. primary, secondary, and tertiary alcohols are then classified into primary, secondary ( sec -, s - ), and tertiary ( tert -, t - ), based upon the number of carbon atoms connected to the carbon atom that bears the hydroxyl functional group. ( the respective numeric shorthands 1°, 2°, and 3° are sometimes used in informal settings. ) the primary alcohols have general formulas. the simplest primary alcohol is methanol ( ), for which r = h, and the next is ethanol, for which, the methyl group. secondary alcohols are those of the form rr ' choh, the simplest of which is 2 - propanol ( ). for the tertiary alcohols the general form is rr ' r " coh. the simplest example is tert - butanol ( 2 - methylpropan - 2 - ol ), for which each of r, r ', and r " is. in these shorthands, r, r ', and r " represent substituents, alkyl or other attached, generally organic groups. examples applications alcohols have a long history of myriad uses. for simple mono - alcohols, which is the focus on this article, the following are most important industrial alcohols : methan