amulets and the esteemed antiques of lions, appear to be an animistic culture rather than a polytheistic culture. the kermans likely treated jebel barkal as a special sacred site, and passed it on to the kushites and egyptians who venerated the mesa. in north africa, the traditional berber religion includes the traditional polytheistic, animist, and in some rare cases, shamanistic, religions of the berber people. asian origin religions indian - origin religions in the indian - origin religions, namely hinduism, buddhism, jainism, and sikhism, the animistic aspects of nature worship and ecological conservation are part of the core belief system. matsya purana, a hindu text, has a sanskrit language shloka ( hymn ), which explains the importance of reverence of ecology. it states, " a pond equals ten wells, a reservoir equals ten ponds, while a son equals ten reservoirs, and a tree equals ten sons. " indian religions worship trees such as the bodhi tree and numerous superlative banyan trees, conserve the sacred groves of india, revere the rivers as sacred, and worship the mountains and their ecology. panchavati are the sacred trees in indic religions, which are sacred groves containing five type of trees, usually chosen from among the vata ( ficus benghalensis, banyan ), ashvattha ( ficus religiosa, peepal ), bilva ( aegle marmelos, bengal quince ), amalaki ( phyllanthus emblica, indian gooseberry, amla ), ashoka ( saraca asoca, ashok ), udumbara ( ficus racemosa, cluster fig, gular ), nimba ( azadirachta indica, neem ) and shami ( prosopis spicigera, indian mesquite ). the banyan is considered holy in several religious traditions of india. the ficus benghalensis is the national tree of india. vat purnima is a hindu festival related to the banyan tree, and is observed by married women in north india and in the western indian states of maharashtra, goa, gujarat. for three days of the month of jyeshtha in the hindu calendar ( which falls in may – june in the gregorian calendar ) married women observe a fast, tie threads around a banyan tree, and pray for the well - being of their husbands. thimmamma marrim