. lincoln did not note what his children were doing or had done. " the deaths of their sons, eddie and willie, had profound effects on both parents. lincoln suffered from " melancholy ", a condition now thought to be clinical depression. later in life, mary struggled with the stresses of losing her husband and sons, and robert committed her for a time to an asylum in 1875. early career and militia service during 1831 and 1832, lincoln worked at a general store in new salem, illinois. in 1832, he declared his candidacy for the illinois house of representatives, but interrupted his campaign to serve as a captain in the illinois militia during the black hawk war. when lincoln returned home from the black hawk war, he planned to become a blacksmith, but instead formed a partnership with 21 - year - old william berry, with whom he purchased a new salem general store on credit. because a license was required to sell customers single beverages, berry obtained bartending licenses for $ 7 each for lincoln and himself, and in 1833 the lincoln - berry general store became a tavern as well. as licensed bartenders, lincoln and berry were able to sell spirits, including liquor, for 12 cents a pint. they offered a wide range of alcoholic beverages as well as food, including takeout dinners. but berry became an alcoholic, was often too drunk to work, and lincoln ended up running the store by himself. although the economy was booming, the business struggled and went into debt, causing lincoln to sell his share. in his first campaign speech after returning from his military service, lincoln observed a supporter in the crowd under attack, grabbed the assailant by his " neck and the seat of his trousers ", and tossed him. in the campaign, lincoln advocated for navigational improvements on the sangamon river. he could draw crowds as a raconteur, but lacked the requisite formal education, powerful friends, and money, and lost the election. lincoln finished eighth out of 13 candidates ( the top four were elected ), though he received 277 of the 300 votes cast in the new salem precinct. lincoln served as new salem ' s postmaster and later as county surveyor, but continued his voracious reading and decided to become a lawyer. rather than studying in the office of an established attorney, as was the custom, lincoln borrowed legal texts from attorneys john todd stuart and thomas drummond, purchased books including blackstone ' s commentaries and chitty ' s pleadings, and read law on his own. he later said of his legal education that " i studied