bringing tin and textiles in exchange for copper, silver or gold. cuneiform records, dated, found in anatolia at the assyrian colony of kanesh, use an advanced system of trading computations and credit lines. hittite anatolia ( 18th – 12th century bce ) unlike the akkadians and assyrians, whose anatolian trading posts were peripheral to their core lands in mesopotamia, the hittites were centered at hattusa ( modern bogazkale ) in north - central anatolia by the 17th century bce. they were speakers of an indo - european language, the hittite language, or nesili ( the language of nesa ) in hittite. the hittites originated from local ancient cultures that grew in anatolia, in addition to the arrival of indo - european languages. attested for the first time in the assyrian tablets of nesa around 2000 bce, they conquered hattusa in the 18th century bce, imposing themselves over hattian - and hurrian - speaking populations. according to the widely accepted kurgan theory on the proto - indo - european homeland, however, the hittites ( along with the other indo - european ancient anatolians ) were themselves relatively recent immigrants to anatolia from the north. however, they did not necessarily displace the population genetically ; they assimilated into the former peoples ' culture, preserving the hittite language. the hittites adopted the mesopotamian cuneiform script. in the late bronze age, hittite new kingdom ( ) was founded, becoming an empire in the 14th century bce after the conquest of kizzuwatna in the south - east and the defeat of the assuwa league in western anatolia. the empire reached its height in the 13th century bce, controlling much of asia minor, northwestern syria, and northwest upper mesopotamia. however, the hittite advance toward the black sea coast was halted by the semi - nomadic pastoralist and tribal kaskians, a non - indo - european people who had earlier displaced the palaic - speaking indo - europeans. much of the history of the hittite empire concerned war with the rival empires of egypt, assyria and the mitanni. the ancient egyptians eventually withdrew from the region after failing to gain the upper hand over the hittites and becoming wary of the power of assyria, which had destroyed the mitanni empire. the assyrians and hittites were then left to battle over control of eastern and southern anatolia and colonial territories in syria. the assyrians had better success than the egyptians, annex