anthropology is the scientific study of humanity, concerned with human behavior, human biology, cultures, societies, and linguistics, in both the present and past, including past human species. social anthropology studies patterns of behavior, while cultural anthropology studies cultural meaning, including norms and values. a portmanteau term sociocultural anthropology is commonly used today. linguistic anthropology studies how language influences social life. biological or physical anthropology studies the biological development of humans. archaeological anthropology, often termed as " anthropology of the past, " studies human activity through investigation of physical evidence. it is considered a branch of anthropology in north america and asia, while in europe, archaeology is viewed as a discipline in its own right or grouped under other related disciplines, such as history and palaeontology. etymology the abstract noun anthropology is first attested in reference to history. its present use first appeared in renaissance germany in the works of magnus hundt and otto casmann. their neo - latin derived from the combining forms of the greek words anthropos (, " human " ) and logos (, " study " ). its adjectival form appeared in the works of aristotle. it began to be used in english, possibly via french, by the early 18th century. origin and development of the term through the 19th century in 1647, the bartholins, early scholars of the university of copenhagen, defined as follows : sporadic use of the term for some of the subject matter occurred subsequently, such as the use by etienne serres in 1839 to describe the natural history, or paleontology, of man, based on comparative anatomy, and the creation of a chair in anthropology and ethnography in 1850 at the french national museum of natural history by jean louis armand de quatrefages de breau. various short - lived organizations of anthropologists had already been formed. the societe ethnologique de paris, the first to use the term ethnology, was formed in 1839 and focused on methodically studying human races. after the death of its founder, william frederic edwards, in 1842, it gradually declined in activity until it eventually dissolved in 1862. meanwhile, the ethnological society of new york, currently the american ethnological society, was founded on its model in 1842, as well as the ethnological society of london in 1843, a break - away group of the aborigines ' protection society. these anthropologists of the times were liberal, anti - slavery, and pro - human - rights activists. they maintained international connections.