cartoonists kitzawa rakuten and okamoto ippei used film elements in their strips. pioneers animation in japan began in the early 20th century, when filmmakers started to experiment with techniques pioneered in france, germany, the united states, and russia. a claim for the earliest japanese animation is katsudo shashin ( ), a private work by an unknown creator. in 1917, the first professional and publicly displayed works began to appear ; animators such as oten shimokawa, seitaro kitayama, and jun ' ichi kouchi ( considered the " fathers of anime " ) produced numerous films, the oldest surviving of which is kouchi ' s namakura gatana. many early works were lost with the destruction of shimokawa ' s warehouse in the 1923 great kanto earthquake. by the mid - 1930s, animation was well - established in japan as an alternative format to the live - action industry. it suffered competition from foreign producers, such as disney, and many animators, including noburo ofuji and yasuji murata, continued to work with cheaper cutout animation rather than cel animation. other creators, including kenzo masaoka and mitsuyo seo, nevertheless made great strides in technique, benefiting from the patronage of the government, which employed animators to produce educational shorts and propaganda. in 1940, the government dissolved several artists ' organizations to form the the first talkie anime was chikara to onna no yo no naka ( 1933 ), a short film produced by masaoka. the first feature - length anime film was momotaro : sacred sailors ( 1945 ), produced by seo with a sponsorship from the imperial japanese navy. the 1950s saw a proliferation of short, animated advertisements created for television. modern era in the 1960s, manga artist and animator osamu tezuka adapted and simplified disney animation techniques to reduce costs and limit frame counts in his productions. originally intended as temporary measures to allow him to produce material on a tight schedule with an inexperienced staff, many of his limited animation practices came to define the medium ' s style. three tales ( 1960 ) was the first anime film broadcast on television ; the first anime television series was instant history ( 1961 – 64 ). an early and influential success was astro boy ( 1963 – 66 ), a television series directed by tezuka based on his manga of the same name. many animators at tezuka ' s mushi production later established major anime studios ( including madhouse, sunrise, and pierrot