and the xo - 1. the program was founded and is sustained by kay ' s friend nicholas negroponte, and is based on kay ' s dynabook ideal. kay is a prominent co - developer of the computer, focusing on its educational software using squeak and etoys. reinventing programming kay has lectured extensively on the idea that the computer revolution is very new, and all of the good ideas have not been universally implemented. his lectures at the oopsla 1997 conference, and his acm turing award talk, " the computer revolution hasn ' t happened yet ", were informed by his experiences with sketchpad, simula, smalltalk, and the bloated code of commercial software. on august 31, 2006, kay ' s proposal to the united states national science foundation ( nsf ) was granted, funding viewpoints research institute for several years. the proposal title was " steps toward the reinvention of programming : a compact and practical model of personal computing as a self - exploratorium ". a sense of what kay is trying to do comes from this quote, from the abstract of a seminar at intel research labs, berkeley : " the conglomeration of commercial and most open source software consumes in the neighborhood of several hundreds of millions of lines of code these days. we wonder : how small could be an understandable practical ' model t ' design that covers this functionality? 1m lines of code? 200k loc? 100k loc? 20k loc? " awards and honors kay has received many awards and honors, including : udk 01 - award in berlin, germany for pioneering the gui ; j - d warnier prix d ' informatique ; nec c & c prize ( 2001 ) telluride tech festival award of technology in telluride, colorado ( 2002 ) acm turing award " for pioneering many of the ideas at the root of contemporary object - oriented programming languages, leading the team that developed smalltalk, and for fundamental contributions to personal computing " ( 2003 ) kyoto prize ; charles stark draper prize with butler w. lampson, robert w. taylor and charles p. thacker ( 2004 ) upe abacus award, for individuals who have provided extensive support and leadership for student - related activities in the computing and information disciplines ( 2012 ) honorary doctorates : – kungliga tekniska hogskolan ( royal institute of technology ) in stockholm ( 2002 ) – georgia institute of technology ( 2005 ) – columbia college chicago awarded doctor of humane letters, honoris