often considered useful. alloys are made by mixing two or more elements, at least one of which is a metal. this is usually called the primary metal or the base metal, and the name of this metal may also be the name of the alloy. the other constituents may or may not be metals but, when mixed with the molten base, they will be soluble and dissolve into the mixture. the mechanical properties of alloys will often be quite different from those of its individual constituents. a metal that is normally very soft ( malleable ), such as aluminium, can be altered by alloying it with another soft metal, such as copper. although both metals are very soft and ductile, the resulting aluminium alloy will have much greater strength. adding a small amount of non - metallic carbon to iron trades its great ductility for the greater strength of an alloy called steel. due to its very - high strength, but still substantial toughness, and its ability to be greatly altered by heat treatment, steel is one of the most useful and common alloys in modern use. by adding chromium to steel, its resistance to corrosion can be enhanced, creating stainless steel, while adding silicon will alter its electrical characteristics, producing silicon steel. like oil and water, a molten metal may not always mix with another element. for example, pure iron is almost completely insoluble with copper. even when the constituents are soluble, each will usually have a saturation point, beyond which no more of the constituent can be added. iron, for example, can hold a maximum of 6. 67 % carbon. although the elements of an alloy usually must be soluble in the liquid state, they may not always be soluble in the solid state. if the metals remain soluble when solid, the alloy forms a solid solution, becoming a homogeneous structure consisting of identical crystals, called a phase. if as the mixture cools the constituents become insoluble, they may separate to form two or more different types of crystals, creating a heterogeneous microstructure of different phases, some with more of one constituent than the other. however, in other alloys, the insoluble elements may not separate until after crystallization occurs. if cooled very quickly, they first crystallize as a homogeneous phase, but they are supersaturated with the secondary constituents. as time passes, the atoms of these supersaturated alloys can separate from the crystal lattice, becoming more stable, and forming a second phase that serves to reinforce the crystals internally. some alloys