of ginsberg ' s verse, its searching, probing focus, its long and lilting lines, as well as its new world exuberance, all echo the continuity of inspiration that he claimed. he corresponded with william carlos williams, who was then in the middle of writing his epic poem paterson about the industrial city near his home. after attending a reading by williams, ginsberg sent the older poet several of his poems and wrote an introductory letter. most of these early poems were rhymed and metered and included archaic pronouns like " thee. " williams disliked the poems and told ginsberg, " in this mode perfection is basic, and these poems are not perfect. " though he disliked these early poems, williams loved the exuberance in ginsberg ' s letter. he included the letter in a later part of paterson. he encouraged ginsberg not to emulate the old masters, but to speak with his own voice and the voice of the common american. from williams, ginsberg learned to focus on strong visual images, in line with williams ' own motto " no ideas but in things. " studying williams ' style led to a tremendous shift from the early formalist work to a loose, colloquial free verse style. early breakthrough poems include bricklayer ' s lunch hour and dream record. carl solomon introduced ginsberg to the work of antonin artaud ( to have done with the judgement of god and van gogh : the man suicided by society ), and jean genet ( our lady of the flowers ). philip lamantia introduced him to other surrealists and surrealism continued to be an influence ( for example, sections of " kaddish " were inspired by andre breton ' s free union ). ginsberg claimed that the anaphoric repetition of howl and other poems was inspired by christopher smart in such poems as jubilate agno. ginsberg also claimed other more traditional influences, such as : franz kafka, herman melville, fyodor dostoevsky, edgar allan poe, and emily dickinson. ginsberg also made an intense study of haiku and the paintings of paul cezanne, from which he adapted a concept important to his work, which he called the eyeball kick. he noticed in viewing cezanne ' s paintings that when the eye moved from one color to a contrasting color, the eye would spasm, or " kick. " likewise, he discovered that the contrast of two seeming opposites was a common feature in haiku. ginsberg used this technique in his poetry