at the trauma more optimistically. with the now publicised story of andersson and lyngstad ' s divorce, speculation increased of tension within the band. also released in the united states was the title track of the visitors, which hit the top ten on the billboard hot dance club play chart. later recording sessions in the spring of 1982, songwriting sessions had started and the group came together for more recordings. plans were not completely clear, but a new album was discussed and the prospect of a small tour suggested. the recording sessions in may and june 1982 were a struggle, and only three songs were eventually recorded : " you owe me one ", " i am the city " and " just like that ". andersson and ulvaeus were not satisfied with the outcome, so the tapes were shelved and the group took a break for the summer. back in the studio again in early august, the group had changed plans for the rest of the year : they settled for a christmas release of a double album compilation of all their past single releases to be named the singles : the first ten years. new songwriting and recording sessions took place, and during october and december, they released the singles " the day before you came " / " cassandra " and " under attack " / " you owe me one ", the a - sides of which were included on the compilation album. neither single made the top 20 in the united kingdom, though " the day before you came " became a top 5 hit in many european countries such as germany, the netherlands and belgium. the album went to number one in the uk and belgium, top 5 in the netherlands and germany and top 20 in many other countries. " under attack ", the group ' s final release before disbanding, was a top 5 hit in the netherlands and belgium. " i am the city " and " just like that " were left unreleased on the singles : the first ten years for possible inclusion on the next projected studio album, though this never came to fruition. " i am the city " was eventually released on the compilation album more abba gold in 1993, while " just like that " has been recycled in new songs with other artists produced by andersson and ulvaeus. a reworked version of the verses ended up in the musical chess. the chorus section of " just like that " was eventually released on a retrospective box set in 1994, as well as in the abba undeleted medley featured on disc 9 of the complete studio recordings. despite a number of requests from fans