and cut his communications with soviet dissidents. the plan was jointly approved by vladimir kryuchkov, philipp bobkov, and grigorenko ( heads of first, second and fifth kgb directorates ). the residencies in geneva, london, paris, rome and other european cities participated in the operation. among other active measures, at least three stb agents became translators and secretaries of solzhenitsyn ( one of them translated the poem prussian nights ), keeping the kgb informed regarding all contacts by solzhenitsyn. the kgb also sponsored a series of hostile books about solzhenitsyn, most notably a " memoir published under the name of his first wife, natalia reshetovskaya, but probably mostly composed by service a ", according to historian christopher andrew. andropov also gave an order to create " an atmosphere of distrust and suspicion between pauk and the people around him " by feeding him rumors that the people around him were kgb agents, and deceiving him at every opportunity. among other things, he continually received envelopes with photographs of car crashes, brain surgery and other disturbing imagery. after the kgb harassment in zurich, solzhenitsyn settled in cavendish, vermont, reduced communications with others. his influence and moral authority for the west diminished as he became increasingly isolated and critical of western individualism. kgb and cpsu experts finally concluded that he alienated american listeners by his " reactionary views and intransigent criticism of the us way of life ", so no further active measures would be required. over the next 17 years, solzhenitsyn worked on his dramatized history of the russian revolution of 1917, the red wheel. by 1992, four sections had been completed and he had also written several shorter works. solzhenitsyn ' s warnings about the dangers of communist aggression and the weakening of the moral fiber of the west were generally well received in western conservative circles ( e. g. ford administration staffers dick cheney and donald rumsfeld advocated on solzhenitsyn ' s behalf for him to speak directly to president gerald ford about the soviet threat ), prior to and alongside the tougher foreign policy pursued by us president ronald reagan. at the same time, liberals and secularists became increasingly critical of what they perceived as his reactionary preference for russian nationalism and the russian orthodox religion. solzhenitsyn also harshly criticised what he saw as the ugliness and spiritual vapidity of the dominant pop culture of the modern west, including