a british regiment. christie now lived alone at ashfield with her mother. in 1902, she began attending miss guyer ' s girls ' school in torquay but found it difficult to adjust to the disciplined atmosphere. in 1905, her mother sent her to paris, where she was educated in a series of ( boarding schools ), focusing on voice training and piano playing. deciding she lacked the temperament and talent, she gave up her goal of performing professionally as a concert pianist or an opera singer. early literary attempts, marriage, literary success : 1907 – 1926 after completing her education, christie returned to england to find her mother ailing. they decided to spend the northern winter of 1907 – 1908 in the warm climate of egypt, which was then a regular tourist destination for wealthy britons. they stayed for three months at the gezirah palace hotel in cairo. christie attended many dances and other social functions ; she particularly enjoyed watching amateur polo matches. while they visited some ancient egyptian monuments such as the great pyramid of giza, she did not exhibit the great interest in archaeology and egyptology that developed in her later years. returning to britain, she continued her social activities, writing and performing in amateur theatrics. she also helped put on a play called the blue beard of unhappiness with female friends. at 18, christie wrote her first short story, " the house of beauty ", while recovering in bed from an illness. it consisted of about 6, 000 words about " madness and dreams ", subjects of fascination for her. her biographer janet morgan has commented that, despite " infelicities of style ", the story was " compelling ". ( the story became an early version of her story " the house of dreams ". ) other stories followed, most of them illustrating her interest in spiritualism and the paranormal. these included " the call of wings " and " the little lonely god ". magazines rejected all her early submissions, made under pseudonyms ( including mac miller, nathaniel miller, and sydney west ) ; some submissions were later revised and published under her real name, often with new titles. around the same time, christie began work on her first novel, snow upon the desert. writing under the pseudonym monosyllaba, she set the book in cairo and drew upon her recent experiences there. she was disappointed when the six publishers she contacted declined the work. clara suggested that her daughter ask for advice from the successful novelist eden phillpotts, a family friend and neighbour, who responded to her enquiry