without commentary, printed in a typeface mimicking chancery script ( the cursive handwriting of the humanist ), produced in a small book which could sit comfortably in the hand. the editio minor, in many ways, brought financial and logistical benefits to those interested in the classics. an individual no longer had to go to the book, but rather the book came along with them. imprint and motto in 1501, aldus used as his publisher ' s device the image of a dolphin wrapped around an anchor. " the dolphin and anchor device owed its origins most immediately to pietro bembo. aldus told erasmus six years later that bembo had given him a silver coin minted under the roman emperor vespasian bearing an image of this device. the image of the dolphin and anchor on the coin came with the saying " festina lente ", meaning " make haste slowly. " this would later become the motto for the aldine press. after 1515 aldus manutius died on february 6, 1515. following his death the firm was run by andrea torresani and his daughter, maria, the widow of aldus manutius. the name of the press was changed in 1508 to " in the house of aldus and andrea torresano, " and kept this name until 1529. in 1533, paulus manutius managed the firm, starting it up again and changing its name to " heirs of aldus and andrea torresano ". in 1539, the imprint changed to " sons of aldo manuzio ". in 1567, aldus manutius the younger ( grandson of aldus manutius ) took over and maintained the business until his death. publications a partial list of publications from the aldine press, cited from aldus manutius : a legacy more lasting than bronze. musarum panagyris, aldus manutius, sometime between march 1487 and march 1491. erotemata cum interpretatione latina, constantine lascaris, 8 march 1495. opusculum de herone et leandro, quod et in latinam linguam ad verbum tralatum est, musaeus, before november 1495 ( greek text ) and 1497 - 98 ( latin text ). dictionarium graecum, johannes crastonus, december 1497. institutiones graecae grammatices, urban valeriani, january 1497. rudimenta grammatices latinae linguae, aldus