of egypt, but failed to defeat the hyksos. that task fell to kamose ' s successor, ahmose i, who successfully waged a series of campaigns that permanently eradicated the hyksos ' presence in egypt. he established a new dynasty and, in the new kingdom that followed, the military became a central priority for the kings, who sought to expand egypt ' s borders and attempted to gain mastery of the near east. new kingdom ( 1549 – 1069 bc ) the new kingdom pharaohs established a period of unprecedented prosperity by securing their borders and strengthening diplomatic ties with their neighbours, including the mitanni empire, assyria, and canaan. military campaigns waged under tuthmosis i and his grandson tuthmosis iii extended the influence of the pharaohs to the largest empire egypt had ever seen. beginning with merneptah the rulers of egypt adopted the title of pharaoh. between their reigns, hatshepsut, a queen who established herself as pharaoh, launched many building projects, including the restoration of temples damaged by the hyksos, and sent trading expeditions to punt and the sinai. when tuthmosis iii died in 1425bc, egypt had an empire extending from niya in north west syria to the fourth cataract of the nile in nubia, cementing loyalties and opening access to critical imports such as bronze and wood. the new kingdom pharaohs began a large - scale building campaign to promote the god amun, whose growing cult was based in karnak. they also constructed monuments to glorify their own achievements, both real and imagined. the karnak temple is the largest egyptian temple ever built. around 1350bc, the stability of the new kingdom was threatened when amenhotep iv ascended the throne and instituted a series of radical and chaotic reforms. changing his name to akhenaten, he touted the previously obscure sun deity aten as the supreme deity, suppressed the worship of most other deities, and moved the capital to the new city of akhetaten ( modern - day amarna ). he was devoted to his new religion and artistic style. after his death, the cult of the aten was quickly abandoned and the traditional religious order restored. the subsequent pharaohs, tutankhamun, ay, and horemheb, worked to erase all mention of akhenaten ' s heresy, now known as the amarna period. around 1279bc, ramesses ii, also known as