23 ( april 1965 ) as a member of jameson ' s country club but was not named nor revealed as harry ' s father until no. 37 ( june 1966 ). one of the most celebrated issues of the lee - ditko run is no. 33 ( feb. 1966 ), the third part of the story arc " if this be my destiny...! ", which features the dramatic scene of spider - man, through force of will and thoughts of family, escaping from being pinned by heavy machinery. comics historian les daniels noted that " steve ditko squeezes every ounce of anguish out of spider - man ' s predicament, complete with visions of the uncle he failed and the aunt he has sworn to save. " peter david observed that " after his origin, this two - page sequence from amazing spider - man no. 33 is perhaps the best - loved sequence from the stan lee / steve ditko era. " steve saffel stated the " full page ditko image from the amazing spider - man no. 33 is one of the most powerful ever to appear in the series and influenced writers and artists for many years to come. " and matthew k. manning wrote that " ditko ' s illustrations for the first few pages of this lee story included what would become one of the most iconic scenes in spider - man ' s history. " the story was chosen as no. 15 in the 100 greatest marvels of all time poll of marvel ' s readers in 2001. editor robert greenberger wrote in his introduction to the story that " these first five pages are a modern - day equivalent to shakespeare as parker ' s soliloquy sets the stage for his next action. and with dramatic pacing and storytelling, ditko delivers one of the great sequences in all comics. " although credited only as artist for most of his run, ditko would eventually plot the stories as well as draw them, leaving lee to script the dialogue. a rift between ditko and lee developed, and the two men were not on speaking terms long before ditko completed his last issue, the amazing spider - man no. 38 ( july 1966 ). the exact reasons for the ditko - lee split have never been fully explained. spider - man successor artist john romita sr., in a 2010 deposition, recalled that lee and ditko " ended up not being able to work together because they disagreed on almost everything, cultural, social, historically, everything, they disagreed on characters...