royal officers ( mahamattas ) to record her religious and charitable donations. according to one theory, tishyarakshita was the regnal name of kaurvaki. according to the mahavamsa, ashoka ' s chief queen was asandhimitta, who died four years before him. it states that she was born as ashoka ' s queen because in a previous life, she directed a pratyekabuddha to a honey merchant ( who was later reborn as ashoka ). some later texts also state that she additionally gave the pratyekabuddha a piece of cloth made by her. these texts include the dasavatthuppakarana, the so - called cambodian or extended mahavamsa ( possibly from 9th – 10th centuries ), and the trai bhumi katha ( 15th century ). these texts narrate another story : one day, ashoka mocked asandhamitta was enjoying a tasty piece of sugarcane without having earned it through her karma. asandhamitta replied that all her enjoyments resulted from merit resulting from her own karma. ashoka then challenged her to prove this by procuring 60, 000 robes as an offering for monks. at night, the guardian gods informed her about her past gift to the pratyekabuddha, and next day, she was able to miraculously procure the 60, 000 robes. an impressed ashoka makes her his favourite queen, and even offers to make her a sovereign ruler. asandhamitta refuses the offer, but still invokes the jealousy of ashoka ' s 16, 000 other women. ashoka proves her superiority by having 16, 000 identical cakes baked with his royal seal hidden in only one of them. each wife is asked to choose a cake, and only asandhamitta gets the one with the royal seal. the trai bhumi katha claims that it was asandhamitta who encouraged her husband to become a buddhist, and to construct 84, 000 stupas and 84, 000 viharas. according to mahavamsa, after asandhamitta ' s death, tissarakkha became the chief queen. the ashokavadana does not mention asandhamitta at all, but does mention tissarakkha as tishyarakshita. the divyavadana mentions another queen called padmavati, who was the mother of the crown - prince kunala. as mentioned