right through a sequence of rooms and while there either mark or erase a paper or observe the paper and make a yes - no decision about the next instruction. alan turing ' s proof of that the entscheidungsproblem was unsolvable by use of his " a - [ automatic - ] machine " — in effect almost identical to post ' s " formulation ", j. barkley rosser ' s definition of " effective method " in terms of " a machine ". kleene ' s proposal of a precursor to " church thesis " that he called " thesis i ", and a few years later kleene ' s renaming his thesis " church ' s thesis " and proposing " turing ' s thesis ". emil post ( 1936 ) and alan turing ( 1936 – 37, 1939 ) emil post ( 1936 ) described the actions of a " computer " ( human being ) as follows : "... two concepts are involved : that of a symbol space in which the work leading from problem to answer is to be carried out, and a fixed unalterable set of directions. his symbol space would be " a two - way infinite sequence of spaces or boxes... the problem solver or worker is to move and work in this symbol space, being capable of being in, and operating in but one box at a time.... a box is to admit of but two possible conditions, i. e., being empty or unmarked, and having a single mark in it, say a vertical stroke. " one box is to be singled out and called the starting point.... a specific problem is to be given in symbolic form by a finite number of boxes [ i. e., input ] being marked with a stroke. likewise, the answer [ i. e., output ] is to be given in symbolic form by such a configuration of marked boxes... " a set of directions applicable to a general problem sets up a deterministic process when applied to each specific problem. this process terminates only when it comes to the direction of type ( c ) [ i. e., stop ] ". see more at post – turing machine alan turing ' s work preceded that of stibitz ( 1937 ) ; it is unknown whether stibitz knew of the work of turing. turing ' s biographer believed that turing ' s use of a typewriter - like model derived from a youthful interest : " alan had dreamt of inventing typewriters as a boy ; mrs