bear a similar relationship to the soul as the soul bears relationship with the human existence on earth. on earth, if a person leads a righteous life and submits to the will of god, his or her tastes become attuned to enjoying spiritual pleasures as opposed to carnal desires. with this, an " embryonic soul " begins to take shape. different tastes are said to be born which a person given to carnal passions finds no enjoyment. for example, sacrifice of one ' s own rights over that of others becomes enjoyable, or that forgiveness becomes second nature. in such a state a person finds contentment and peace at heart and at this stage, according to ahmadiyya beliefs, it can be said that a soul within the soul has begun to take shape. sufism the sufi muslim scholar ibn ' arabi defined barzakh as the intermediate realm or " isthmus ". it is between the world of corporeal bodies and the world of spirits, and is a means of contact between the two worlds. without it, there would be no contact between the two and both would cease to exist. he described it as simple and luminous, like the world of spirits, but also able to take on many different forms just like the world of corporeal bodies can. in broader terms barzakh, " is anything that separates two things ". it has been called the dream world in which the dreamer is in both life and death. bahaʼi faith the teachings of the bahaʼi faith state that the nature of the afterlife is beyond the understanding of those living, just as an unborn fetus cannot understand the nature of the world outside of the womb. the bahaʼi writings state that the soul is immortal and after death it will continue to progress until it finally attains god ' s presence. in bahaʼi belief, souls in the afterlife will continue to retain their individuality and consciousness and will be able to recognize and communicate spiritually with other souls whom they have made deep profound friendships with, such as their spouses. the bahaʼi scriptures also state there are distinctions between souls in the afterlife, and that souls will recognize the worth of their own deeds and understand the consequences of their actions. it is explained that those souls that have turned toward god will experience gladness, while those who have lived in error will become aware of the opportunities they have lost. also, in the bahaʼi view, souls will be able to recognize the accomplishments of the souls that have reached the same level as themselves,