in addition to the city ' s existing institutions, foreign institutions have been attracted to set up campuses to increase its attractiveness as an education hub. adelaide is the birthplace of three nobel laureates, more than any other australian city : physicist william lawrence bragg and pathologists howard florey and robin warren, all of whom completed secondary and tertiary education at st peter ' s college and the university of adelaide. primary and secondary education there are two systems of primary and secondary schools, a public system operated by the south australian government ' s department for education, and a private system of independent and catholic schools. south australian schools provide education under the australian curriculum for reception to year 10 students. in years 10 to 12, students study for the south australian certificate of education ( sace ). they have the option of incorporating vocational education and training ( vet ) courses or a flexible learning option ( flo ). south australia also has 24 schools that use international baccalaureate programs as an alternative to the australian curriculum or sace. these programs include the ib primary years programme, the ib middle years programme, and the ib diploma programme. for south australian students who cannot attend a traditional school, including students who live in rural or remote areas, the state government runs the open access college ( oac ), which provides virtual teaching. the oac has a campus in marden which caters to students from reception to year 12 and adults who haven ' t been able to complete their sace. guardians are also able to apply for their child to be educated from home as long as they provide an education program which meets the same requirements as the australian curriculum as well as opportunities for social interaction. tertiary education there are three public universities local to adelaide, as well as one private university and three constituent colleges of foreign universities. flinders university of south australia, the university of adelaide, the university of south australia and torrens university australia — part of the laureate international universities are based in adelaide. the university of adelaide was ranked in the top 150 universities worldwide. flinders ranked in the top 250 and uni sa in the top 300. torrens university australia is part of an international network of over 70 higher education institutions in more than 30 countries worldwide. the historic torrens building in victoria square houses carnegie mellon university ' s heinz college australia, and university college london ' s school of energy and resources ( australia ), and constitute the city ' s international university precinct. the university of adelaide, with 25, 000 students, is australia ' s third - oldest university and a member of the leading "