5 million. this included $ 25. 00 to each valid class member and $ 100, 000 each to consumer watchdog and the electronic frontier foundation. judge jacqueline scott corley wrote : " distributing a portion of the [ funds ] to consumer watchdog will meet the interests of the silent class members because the organization will use the funds to help protect consumers across the nation from being subject to the types of fraudulent and misleading conduct that is alleged here, " and " eff ' s mission includes a strong consumer protection component, especially in regards to online protection. " aol continues to market computer checkup. nsa prism program following media reports about prism, nsa ' s massive electronic surveillance program, in june 2013, several technology companies were identified as participants, including aol. according to leaks of said program, aol joined the prism program in 2011. hosting of user profiles changed, then discontinued at one time, most aol users had an online " profile " hosted by the aol hometown service. when aol hometown was discontinued, users had to create a new profile on bebo. this was an unsuccessful attempt to create a social network that would compete with facebook. when the value of bebo decreased to a tiny fraction of the $ 850 million aol paid for it, users were forced to recreate their profiles yet again, on a new service called aol lifestream. aol took the decision to shut down lifestream on february 24, 2017, and gave users one month ' s notice to save photos and videos that had been uploaded to lifestream. following the shutdown, aol no longer provides any option for hosting user profiles. during the hometown / bebo / lifestream era, another user ' s profile could be displayed by clicking the " buddy info " button in the aol desktop software. after the shutdown of lifestream, this was no longer supported, but opened to the aim home page ( www. aim. com ), which also became defunct, redirecting to aol ' s home page. see also adrian lamo – inside - aol. com aohell comparison of webmail providers david shing dot - com bubble list of acquisitions by aol list of s & p 400 companies live365 truveo references external links 1983 establishments in the united states 2015 mergers and acquisitions companies based in dulles, virginia companies based in new york city companies formerly listed on the new york stock exchange companies in the prism network former warnermedia subsidiaries internet properties established in 1983 internet properties established in 2009 internet service providers