mainland china ( 1. 8 % ), vietnam ( 1. 2 % ) and italy ( 1. 1 % ). suburbs including newton, payneham and campbelltown in the east and torrensville, west lakes and fulham to the west, have large greek and italian communities. the italian consulate is located in the western suburb of hindmarsh. large vietnamese populations are settled in the north - western suburbs of woodville, kilkenny, pennington, mansfield park and athol park and also parafield gardens and pooraka in adelaide ' s north. migrants from india and sri lanka have settled into inner suburban areas of adelaide including the inner northern suburbs of blair athol, kilburn and enfield and the inner southern suburbs of plympton, park holme and kurralta park. suburbs such as para hills, salisbury, ingle farm and blair athol in the north and findon, west croydon and seaton and other western suburbs have sizeable afghan communities. chinese migrants favour settling in the eastern and north eastern suburbs including kensington gardens, greenacres, modbury and golden grove. mawson lakes has a large international student population, due to its proximity to the university of south australia campus. at the 2021 census, 1. 7 % of adelaide ' s population identified as being indigenous — aboriginal australians and torres strait islanders. language at the 2016 census, 75. 4 % of the population spoke english at home. the other languages most commonly spoken at home were italian ( 2. 1 % ), standard mandarin ( 2. 1 % ), greek ( 1. 7 % ) vietnamese ( 1. 4 % ), and cantonese ( 0. 7 % ). the kaurna language, spoken by the area ' s original inhabitants, had no living speakers in the middle of the 20th century, but since the 1990s there has been a sustained revival effort from academics and kaurna elders. religion adelaide was founded on a vision of religious tolerance that attracted a wide variety of religious practitioners. this led to it being known as the city of churches. but approximately 28 % of the population expressed no religious affiliation in the 2011 census, compared with the national average of 22. 3 %, making adelaide one of australia ' s least religious cities. over half of the population of adelaide identifies as christian, with the largest denominations being catholic ( 21. 3 % ), anglican ( 12. 6 % ), uniting church ( 7. 6 % ) and eastern orthodox ( 3. 5 % ). the jewish community of the city dates back to