, the lamtuna, under the joint leadership of yahya ibn umar and abdallah ibn yasin — soon calling themselves the al - murabitin ( almoravids ) — set out on a campaign to bring their neighbors over to their cause. expansion early conquests in the early 1050s, a kind of triumvirate emerged in leading the almoravid movement, including abdallah ibn yasin, yahya ibn umar and his brother abu bakr ibn umar. the movement was now dominated by the lamtuna rather than the guddala. during the 1050s the almoravids began their expansion and their conquest of the saharan tribes. their first major targets were two strategic cities located at the northern and southern edges of desert : sijilmasa in the north and awdaghust ( aoudaghost ). control of these two cities would allow the almoravids to effectively control the trans - saharan trade routes. sijilmasa was controlled by the maghrawa, a part of the northern zenata berber confederation, while awdaghust was controlled by the soninke. both cities were captured in 1054 or 1055. sijilmasa was captured first and its leader, mas ' ud ibn wannudin, was killed, along with other maghrawa leaders. according to historical sources, the almoravid army rode on camels and numbered 30, 000, though this number may be an exaggeration. strengthened with the spoils of their victory, they left a garrison of lamtuna tribesmen in the city and then turned south to capture awdaghust, which they accomplished that same year. although the town was mainly muslim, the almoravids pillaged the city and treated the population harshly on the basis that they recognized the pagan king of ghana. not long after the main almoravid army left sijilmasa the city rebelled and the maghrawa returned, slaughtering the lamtuna garrison. ibn yasin responded by organizing a second expedition to recapture it, but the guddala refused to join him and returned instead to their homelands in the desert regions along the atlantic coast. historian amira bennison suggests that some almoravids, including the guddala, were unwilling to be dragged into a conflict with the powerful zanata tribes of the north and this created tension with those, like ibn yasin, who saw northern expansion as the next step in their fortunes. while ibn yasin