##6h5 ) 5 ). history antimony ( iii ) sulfide, sb2s3, was recognized in predynastic egypt as an eye cosmetic ( kohl ) as early as about 3100 bc, when the cosmetic palette was invented. an artifact, said to be part of a vase, made of antimony dating to about 3000 bc was found at telloh, chaldea ( part of present - day iraq ), and a copper object plated with antimony dating between 2500 bc and 2200 bc has been found in egypt. austen, at a lecture by herbert gladstone in 1892, commented that " we only know of antimony at the present day as a highly brittle and crystalline metal, which could hardly be fashioned into a useful vase, and therefore this remarkable ' find ' ( artifact mentioned above ) must represent the lost art of rendering antimony malleable. " the british archaeologist roger moorey was unconvinced the artifact was indeed a vase, mentioning that selimkhanov, after his analysis of the tello object ( published in 1975 ), " attempted to relate the metal to transcaucasian natural antimony " ( i. e. native metal ) and that " the antimony objects from transcaucasia are all small personal ornaments. " this weakens the evidence for a lost art " of rendering antimony malleable. " the roman scholar pliny the elder described several ways of preparing antimony sulfide for medical purposes in his treatise natural history, around 77 ad. pliny the elder also made a distinction between " male " and " female " forms of antimony ; the male form is probably the sulfide, while the female form, which is superior, heavier, and less friable, has been suspected to be native metallic antimony. the greek naturalist pedanius dioscorides mentioned that antimony sulfide could be roasted by heating by a current of air. it is thought that this produced metallic antimony. antimony was frequently described in alchemical manuscripts, including the summa perfectionis of pseudo - geber, written around the 14th century. a description of a procedure for isolating antimony is later given in the 1540 book de la pirotechnia by vannoccio biringuccio, predating the more famous 1556 book by agricola, de re metallica. in this context agricola has been often incorrectly credited with the discovery of metallic antimony. the book currus triumphalis antimonii (