rooftop there are six skylights / staircase exits ( four of which were covered with broken pottery and some that ended in a double cross typical of gaudi ), twenty - eight chimneys in several groupings, two half - hidden vents whose function is to renew the air in the building, and four domes that discharged to the facade. the staircases also house the water tanks ; some of which are snail - shaped. the stepped roof of la pedrera, called " the garden of warriors " by the poet pere gimferrer because the chimneys appear to be protecting the skylights, has undergone a radical restoration, removing chimneys added in interventions after gaudi, television antennas, and other elements that degraded the space. the restoration brought back the splendor to the chimneys and the skylights that were covered with fragments of marble and broken valencia tiles. one of the chimneys was topped with glass pieces – it was said that gaudi did that the day after the inauguration of the building, taking advantage of the empty bottles from the party. it was restored with the bases of champagne bottles from the early twentieth century. the repair work has enabled the restoration of the original impact of the overhangs made of stone from ulldecona with fragments of tiles. this whole set is more colorful than the facade, although here the creamy tones are dominant. furniture gaudi, as he had done in casa batllo, designed furniture specifically for the main floor. this was part of the concept artwork itself integral to modernism in which the architect assumed responsibility for global issues such as the structure and the facade, as well as every detail of the decor, designing furniture and accessories such as lamps, planters, floors or ceilings. this was another point of friction with segimon, who complained that there was no straight wall to place her steinway piano. gaudi ' s response was blunt : " so play the violin. " the result of these disagreements has been the loss of the decorative legacy of gaudi, as most of the furniture was removed due to climate change and the changes she made to the main floor when gaudi died. some remain in private collections, including a curtain made of oak 4 m. long by 1. 96 m. high in the museum of catalan modernism ; and a chair and desktop of mila. gaudi carved oak doors similar to what he had done for the casa y bardes, but these were only included on two floors as when segimon discovered the price, she decided there would be no more at that quality. architecture casa