recommend a launch vehicle to be used in the apollo program, represented a turning point in nasa ' s mission mode decision. this committee recognized that the chosen mode was an important part of the launch vehicle choice, and recommended in favor of a hybrid eor - lor mode. its consideration of lor — as well as houbolt ' s ceaseless work — played an important role in publicizing the workability of the approach. in late 1961 and early 1962, members of the manned spacecraft center began to come around to support lor, including the newly hired deputy director of the office of manned space flight, joseph shea, who became a champion of lor. the engineers at marshall space flight center ( msfc ), which had much to lose from the decision, took longer to become convinced of its merits, but their conversion was announced by wernher von braun at a briefing on june 7, 1962. but even after nasa reached internal agreement, it was far from smooth sailing. kennedy ' s science advisor jerome wiesner, who had expressed his opposition to human spaceflight to kennedy before the president took office, and had opposed the decision to land people on the moon, hired golovin, who had left nasa, to chair his own " space vehicle panel ", ostensibly to monitor, but actually to second - guess nasa ' s decisions on the saturn v launch vehicle and lor by forcing shea, seamans, and even webb to defend themselves, delaying its formal announcement to the press on july 11, 1962, and forcing webb to still hedge the decision as " tentative ". wiesner kept up the pressure, even making the disagreement public during a two - day september visit by the president to marshall space flight center. wiesner blurted out " no, that ' s no good " in front of the press, during a presentation by von braun. webb jumped in and defended von braun, until kennedy ended the squabble by stating that the matter was " still subject to final review ". webb held firm and issued a request for proposal to candidate lunar excursion module ( lem ) contractors. wiesner finally relented, unwilling to settle the dispute once and for all in kennedy ' s office, because of the president ' s involvement with the october cuban missile crisis, and fear of kennedy ' s support for webb. nasa announced the selection of grumman as the lem contractor in november 1962. space historian james hansen concludes that : the lor method had the advantage of allowing the lander spacecraft to be