the axiom of countable choice ( acω or cc ), which states that a choice function exists for any countable set of nonempty sets. these axioms are sufficient for many proofs in elementary mathematical analysis, and are consistent with some principles, such as the lebesgue measurability of all sets of reals, that are disprovable from the full axiom of choice. given an ordinal parameter α ≥ ω + 2 — for every set s with rank less than α, s is well - orderable. given an ordinal parameter α ≥ 1 — for every set s with hartogs number less than ωα, s is well - orderable. as the ordinal parameter is increased, these approximate the full axiom of choice more and more closely. other choice axioms weaker than axiom of choice include the boolean prime ideal theorem and the axiom of uniformization. the former is equivalent in zf to tarski ' s 1930 ultrafilter lemma : every filter is a subset of some ultrafilter. results requiring ac ( or weaker forms ) but weaker than it one of the most interesting aspects of the axiom of choice is the large number of places in mathematics that it shows up. here are some statements that require the axiom of choice in the sense that they are not provable from zf but are provable from zfc ( zf plus ac ). equivalently, these statements are true in all models of zfc but false in some models of zf. set theory the ultrafilter lemma ( with zf ) can be used to prove the axiom of choice for finite sets : given and a collection of non - empty sets, their product is not empty. the union of any countable family of countable sets is countable ( this requires countable choice but not the full axiom of choice ). if the set a is infinite, then there exists an injection from the natural numbers n to a ( see dedekind infinite ). eight definitions of a finite set are equivalent. every infinite game in which is a borel subset of baire space is determined. measure theory the vitali theorem on the existence of non - measurable sets, which states that there exists a subset of the real numbers that is not lebesgue measurable. there exist lebesgue - measurable subsets of the real numbers that are not borel sets. that is, the borel σ - algebra on the real