park guell ( ; ) is a privatized park system composed of gardens and architectural elements located on carmel hill, in barcelona, catalonia, spain. carmel hill belongs to the mountain range of collserola – the parc del carmel is located on the northern face. park guell is located in la salut, a neighborhood in the gracia district of barcelona. with urbanization in mind, eusebi guell assigned the design of the park to antoni gaudi, a renowned architect and the face of catalan modernism. the park was built from 1900 to 1914 and was officially opened as a public park in 1926. in 1984, unesco declared the park a world heritage site under " works of antoni gaudi ". description park guell is the reflection of gaudi ' s artistic plenitude, which belongs to his naturalist phase ( first decade of the 20th century ). during this period, the architect perfected his style through organic shapes ' inspiration. he put into practice a series of new structural solutions rooted in the analysis of geometry. to that, the catalan artist adds creative liberty and an imaginative, ornamental creation. starting from a sort of baroquism, his works acquire a structural richness of forms and volumes, free of the rational rigidity or any sort of classic premises. in the design of park guell, gaudi unleashed all his architectonic genius and put to practice much of his innovative structural solutions that would become the symbol of his organic style, and that would culminate in the creation of the basilica and expiatory church of the holy family ( catalan : sagrada familia ). guell and gaudi conceived this park, situated within a natural park. they imagined an organized grouping of high - quality homes, decked out with all the latest technological advancements to ensure maximum comfort, finished off with an artistic touch. they also envisioned a community strongly influenced by symbolism, since, in the common elements of the park, they were trying to synthesize many of the political and religious ideals shared by both the patron and the architect : therefore there are noticeable concepts originating from political catalanism – especially in the entrance stairway where the catalan countries are represented – and from catholicism – the monumento al calvario, originally designed to be a chapel. the mythological elements are so important : apparently guell and gaudi ' s conception of the park was also inspired by the temple of apollo of delphi. on the other hand, many experts have tried to link the park to