the continents as a whole. the term is also accepted in many parts of latin america to refer to a person or something from the united states ; however, this term may be ambiguous in certain parts. up to and including the 1992 edition, the, published by the real academia espanola, did not include the united states definition in the entry for ; this was added in the 2001 edition. the real academia espanola advised against using exclusively for u. s. nationals : portugal and brazil generally, denotes " u. s. citizen " in portugal. usage of to exclusively denote people and things of the u. s. is discouraged by the lisbon academy of sciences, because the specific word ( also ) clearly denotes a person from the united states. the term currently used by the portuguese press is. in brazil, the term is used to address both that which pertains to the americas and that which pertains to the u. s. ; the particular meaning is deduced from context. alternatively, the term ( " north american " ) is also used in more informal contexts, while ( of the u. s. ) is the preferred form in academia. use of the three terms is common in schools, government, and media. the term is used exclusively for the whole continent, and the u. s. is called ( " united states " ) or ( " united states of america " ), often abbreviated. in other contexts " american " in the 1994 associated press stylebook was defined as, " an acceptable description for a resident of the united states. it also may be applied to any resident or citizen of nations in north or south america. " elsewhere, the ap stylebook indicates that " united states " must " be spelled out when used as a noun. use u. s. ( no space ) only as an adjective. " the entry for " america " in the new york times manual of style and usage from 1999 reads : media releases from the pope and holy see frequently use " america " to refer to the united states, and " american " to denote something or someone from the united states. international law at least one international law uses u. s. citizen in defining a citizen of the united states rather than american citizen ; for example, the english version of the north american free trade agreement includes : many international treaties use the terms american and american citizen : 1796 – the treaty between the united states and the dey of the regency of algiers on march 7, 1796, protected " american citizens ". 1806 – the louisiana