adobe ( ; ) is a building material made from earth and organic materials. is spanish for mudbrick. in some english - speaking regions of spanish heritage, such as the southwestern united states, the term is used to refer to any kind of earthen construction, or various architectural styles like pueblo revival or territorial revival. most adobe buildings are similar in appearance to cob and rammed earth buildings. adobe is among the earliest building materials, and is used throughout the world. adobe architecture has been dated to before 5, 100 b. c. description adobe bricks are rectangular prisms small enough that they can quickly air dry individually without cracking. they can be subsequently assembled, with the application of adobe mud to bond the individual bricks into a structure. there is no standard size, with substantial variations over the years and in different regions. in some areas a popular size measured weighing about ; in other contexts the size is weighing about. the maximum sizes can reach up to ; above this weight it becomes difficult to move the pieces, and it is preferred to ram the mud in situ, resulting in a different typology known as rammed earth. strength in dry climates, adobe structures are extremely durable, and account for some of the oldest existing buildings in the world. adobe buildings offer significant advantages due to their greater thermal mass, but they are known to be particularly susceptible to earthquake damage if they are not reinforced. cases where adobe structures were widely damaged during earthquakes include the 1976 guatemala earthquake, the 2003 bam earthquake, and the 2010 chile earthquake. distribution buildings made of sun - dried earth are common throughout the world ( middle east, western asia, north africa, west africa, south america, southwestern north america, southwestern and eastern europe. ). adobe had been in use by indigenous peoples of the americas in the southwestern united states, mesoamerica, and the andes for several thousand years. puebloan peoples built their adobe structures with handsful or basketsful of adobe, until the spanish introduced them to making bricks. adobe bricks were used in spain from the late bronze and iron ages ( eighth century bce onwards ). its wide use can be attributed to its simplicity of design and manufacture, and economics. etymology the word adobe has existed for around 4, 000 years with relatively little change in either pronunciation or meaning. the word can be traced from the middle egyptian ( ) word dbt " mud brick " ( with vowels unwritten ). middle egyptian evolved into late egyptian and finally to coptic ( ), where it appeared as tobə. this was adopted into arabic as at