rejected a legitimate roman spouse for an " oriental paramour ". in 36 bc, octavian used a political ploy to make himself look less autocratic and antony more the villain by proclaiming that the civil wars were coming to an end and that he would step down as triumvir — if only antony would do the same. antony refused. roman troops captured the kingdom of armenia in 34 bc, and antony made his son alexander helios the ruler of armenia. he also awarded the title " queen of kings " to cleopatra, acts that octavian used to convince the roman senate that antony had ambitions to diminish the preeminence of rome. octavian became consul once again on 1 january 33 bc, and he opened the following session in the senate with a vehement attack on antony ' s grants of titles and territories to his relatives and to his queen. the breach between antony and octavian prompted a large portion of the senators, as well as both of that year ' s consuls, to leave rome and defect to antony. however, octavian received two key deserters from antony in the autumn of 32 bc : munatius plancus and marcus titius. these defectors gave octavian the information that he needed to confirm with the senate all the accusations that he made against antony. octavian forcibly entered the temple of the vestal virgins and seized antony ' s secret will, which he promptly publicized. the will would have given away roman - conquered territories as kingdoms for his sons to rule and designated alexandria as the site for a tomb for him and his queen. in late 32 bc, the senate officially revoked antony ' s powers as consul and declared war on cleopatra ' s regime in egypt. in early 31 bc, antony and cleopatra were temporarily stationed in greece when octavian gained a preliminary victory : the navy successfully ferried troops across the adriatic sea under the command of agrippa. agrippa cut off antony and cleopatra ' s main force from their supply routes at sea, while octavian landed on the mainland opposite the island of corcyra ( modern corfu ) and marched south. trapped on land and sea, deserters of antony ' s army fled to octavian ' s side daily while octavian ' s forces were comfortable enough to make preparations. antony ' s fleet sailed through the bay of actium on the western coast of greece in a desperate attempt to break free of the naval blockade. it was there that antony ' s fleet faced the much larger fleet of smaller, more