entrance. a husband and wife would traditionally sit on the fireplace ' s left side ( called shiso ). children and guests would sit facing them on the fireplace ' s right side ( called harkiso ). the cise has a platform for valuables called iyoykir behind the shiso. ainu place sintoko ( hokai ) and ikayop ( quivers ) there. traditions the ainu people have various types of marriage. a child is traditionally promised in marriage by arrangement between their parents and the parents of their betrothed, or by a go - between. when the betrothed reach a marriageable age, they are told who their spouse is to be. there are also traditional marriages based on mutual consent of both sexes. in some areas, when a daughter reaches a marriageable age, her parents allow her to live in a small room called a tunpu, annexed to the southern wall of the house. the parents choose her husband from the men who visit her. the age of marriage is 17 to 18 years of age for men and 15 to 16 years of age for women, who are traditionally tattooed. at these ages, both sexes are regarded as adults. when a man proposes to a woman in traditional fashion, he visits her house, and she hands him a full bowl of rice. he then eats half of the rice and returns the rest to her. if the woman eats the remaining rice, she accepts his proposal. if she does not and instead puts it beside her, she rejects his proposal. when a man and woman become engaged or learn that their engagement has been arranged, they exchange gifts. the man sends her a small engraved knife, a workbox, a spool, and other gifts. she sends him embroidered clothes, coverings for the back of the hand, leggings, and other handmade clothes. the worn - out fabric of old clothing is used for baby clothes, because soft cloth is good for their skin. additionally, worn - out material was thought to protect babies from the gods of illness and demons, due to these entities ' s abhorrence of dirty things. before a baby is breast - fed, they are given a decoction of the endodermis of an alder and the roots of butterburs to discharge impurities. children are raised almost naked until about the ages of four to five. even when they wear clothes, they do not wear belts and leave the front of their clothes open. subsequently, they wear bark clothes without patterns, such