glassblowing mouthpieces. amber ' s place in culture and tradition lends it a tourism value ; palanga amber museum is dedicated to the fossilized resin. historical medicinal uses amber has long been used in folk medicine for its purported healing properties. amber and extracts were used from the time of hippocrates in ancient greece for a wide variety of treatments through the middle ages and up until the early twentieth century. traditional chinese medicine uses amber to " tranquilize the mind ". amber necklaces are a traditional european remedy for colic or teething pain with purported analgesic properties of succinic acid, although there is no evidence that this is an effective remedy or delivery method. the american academy of pediatrics and the fda have warned strongly against their use, as they present both a choking and a strangulation hazard. scent of amber and amber perfumery in ancient china, it was customary to burn amber during large festivities. if amber is heated under the right conditions, oil of amber is produced, and in past times this was combined carefully with nitric acid to create " artificial musk " – a resin with a peculiar musky odor. although when burned, amber does give off a characteristic " pinewood " fragrance, modern products, such as perfume, do not normally use actual amber because fossilized amber produces very little scent. in perfumery, scents referred to as " amber " are often created and patented to emulate the opulent golden warmth of the fossil. the scent of amber was originally derived from emulating the scent of ambergris and / or the plant resin labdanum, but since sperm whales are endangered, the scent of amber is now largely derived from labdanum. the term " amber " is loosely used to describe a scent that is warm, musky, rich and honey - like, and also somewhat earthy. benzoin is usually part of the recipe. vanilla and cloves are sometimes used to enhance the aroma. " amber " perfumes may be created using combinations of labdanum, benzoin resin, copal ( a type of tree resin used in incense manufacture ), vanilla, dammara resin and / or synthetic materials. in arab muslim tradition, popular scents include amber, jasmine, musk and oud ( agarwood ). imitation substances young resins used as imitations : kauri resin from agathis australis trees in new zealand. the copals ( subfossil resins ). the african and american ( colombia ) copa