the third law of thermodynamics states the entropy of a perfect crystal vanishes at absolute zero. the original nernst heat theorem makes the weaker and less controversial claim that the entropy change for any isothermal process approaches zero as t → 0 : the implication is that the entropy of a perfect crystal approaches a constant value. an adiabat is a state with constant entropy, typically represented on a graph as a curve in a manner similar to isotherms and isobars. the nernst postulate identifies the isotherm t = 0 as coincident with the adiabat s = 0, although other isotherms and adiabats are distinct. as no two adiabats intersect, no other adiabat can intersect the t = 0 isotherm. consequently no adiabatic process initiated at nonzero temperature can lead to zero temperature. ( ≈ callen, pp. 189 – 190 ) a perfect crystal is one in which the internal lattice structure extends uninterrupted in all directions. the perfect order can be represented by translational symmetry along three ( not usually orthogonal ) axes. every lattice element of the structure is in its proper place, whether it is a single atom or a molecular grouping. for substances that exist in two ( or more ) stable crystalline forms, such as diamond and graphite for carbon, there is a kind of chemical degeneracy. the question remains whether both can have zero entropy at t = 0 even though each is perfectly ordered. perfect crystals never occur in practice ; imperfections, and even entire amorphous material inclusions, can and do get " frozen in " at low temperatures, so transitions to more stable states do not occur. using the debye model, the specific heat and entropy of a pure crystal are proportional to t 3, while the enthalpy and chemical potential are proportional to t 4. ( guggenheim, p. 111 ) these quantities drop toward their t = 0 limiting values and approach with zero slopes. for the specific heats at least, the limiting value itself is definitely zero, as borne out by experiments to below 10 k. even the less detailed einstein model shows this curious drop in specific heats. in fact, all specific heats vanish at absolute zero, not just those of crystals. likewise for the coefficient of thermal expansion. maxwell ' s relations show that various other quantities also vanish. these phenomena were unanticipated. since the relation between changes in gibbs free energy ( g ), the enthalpy ( h )