( short for the french term concours hippique international officiel ) is the biggest equestrian meeting of the world and among horsemen is considered to be as prestigious for equitation as the tournament of wimbledon for tennis. aachen hosted the 2006 fei world equestrian games. the local football team alemannia aachen had a short run in germany ' s first division, after its promotion in 2006. however, the team could not sustain its status and is now back in the fourth division. the stadium " tivoli ", opened in 1928, served as the venue for the team ' s home games and was well known for its incomparable atmosphere throughout the whole of the second division. before the old stadium ' s demolition in 2011, it was used by amateurs, whilst the bundesliga club held its games in the new stadium " neuer tivoli " – meaning new tivoli — a couple of metres down the road. the building work for the stadium which has a capacity of 32, 960, began in may 2008 and was completed by the beginning of 2009. the ladies in black women ' s volleyball team ( part of the " ptsv aachen " sports club since 2013 ) has played in the first german volleyball league ( dvl ) since 2008. in june 2022, the local basketball club bg aachen e. v. was promoted to the 1st regional league. transport rail aachen ' s railway station, the hauptbahnhof ( central station ), was constructed in 1841 for the cologne – aachen railway line. in 1905, it was moved closer to the city centre. it serves main lines to cologne, monchengladbach and liege as well as branch lines to heerlen, alsdorf, stolberg and eschweiler. ice high speed trains from brussels via cologne to frankfurt am main and thalys trains from paris to cologne also stop at aachen central station. four re lines and two rb lines connect aachen with the ruhrgebiet, monchengladbach, spa ( belgium ), dusseldorf and the siegerland. the euregiobahn, a regional railway system, reaches several minor cities in the aachen region. there are four smaller stations in aachen : aachen west, aachen schanz, aachen - rothe erde and eilendorf. slower trains stop at these. aachen west has gained in importance with the expansion of rwth aachen university. intercity bus stations there are two stations for intercity bus services in aachen : aachen west station, in the north - west of the city