to help celebrate his life, his wife asked guests not to wear black ( the traditional funeral color ) while attending his service, during which soloist jean macdonald sang a verse of robert louis stevenson ' s " requiem " : upon the conclusion of bell ' s funeral, for one minute at 6 : 25 p. m. eastern time, " every phone on the continent of north america was silenced in honor of the man who had given to mankind the means for direct communication at a distance ". alexander graham bell was buried atop beinn bhreagh mountain, on his estate where he had resided increasingly for the last 35 years of his life, overlooking bras d ' or lake. he was survived by his wife mabel, his two daughters, elsie may and marian, and nine of his grandchildren. legacy and honors honors and tributes flowed to bell in increasing numbers as his invention became ubiquitous and his personal fame grew. bell received numerous honorary degrees from colleges and universities to the point that the requests almost became burdensome. during his life, he also received dozens of major awards, medals, and other tributes. these included statuary monuments to both him and the new form of communication his telephone created, including the bell telephone memorial erected in his honor in alexander graham bell gardens in brantford, ontario, in 1917. a large number of bell ' s writings, personal correspondence, notebooks, papers, and other documents reside in both the united states library of congress manuscript division ( as the alexander graham bell family papers ), and at the alexander graham bell institute, cape breton university, nova scotia ; major portions of which are available for online viewing. a number of historic sites and other marks commemorate bell in north america and europe, including the first telephone companies in the united states and canada. among the major sites are : the alexander graham bell national historic site, maintained by parks canada, which incorporates the alexander graham bell museum, in baddeck, nova scotia, close to the bell estate beinn bhreagh the bell homestead national historic site, includes the bell family home, " melville house ", and farm overlooking brantford, ontario and the grand river. it was their first home in north america ; canada ' s first telephone company building, the " henderson home " of the late 1870s, a predecessor of the bell telephone company of canada ( officially chartered in 1880 ). in 1969, the building was carefully moved to the historic bell homestead national historic site in brantford, ontario, and was refurbished to become a telephone museum. the bell homestead, the henderson home telephone