many others have helped me with their documentation. everything they have taught me so far i had only suspected it – has confirmed and reinforced my fears ". the main points of afterthoughts were that the dictatorship of the proletariat became the dictatorship of stalin, and that the privileged bureaucracy became the new ruling class which profited by the workers ' surplus labour, spending the state budget on projects like the palace of soviets or to raise its own standards of living, while the working class lived in extreme poverty ; gide cited the official soviet newspapers to prove his statements. during the world war ii gide came to a conclusion that " absolute liberty destroys the individual and also society unless it be closely linked to tradition and discipline " ; he rejected the revolutionary idea of communism as breaking with the traditions, and wrote that " if civilization depended solely on those who initiated revolutionary theories, then it would perish, since culture needs for its survival a continuous and developing tradition. " in thesee, written in 1946, he showed that an individual may safely leave the maze only if " he had clung tightly to the thread which linked him with the past ". in 1947, he said that although during the human history the civilizations rose up and died, the christian civilization may be saved from doom " if we accepted the responsibility of the sacred charge laid on us by our traditions and our past. " he also said that he remained an individualist and protested against " the submersion of individual responsibility in organized authority, in that escape from freedom which is characteristic of our age. " gide contributed to the 1949 anthology the god that failed. he could not write an essay because of his state of health, so the text was written by enid starkie, based on paraphrases of return from the ussr, afterthoughts, from a discussion held in paris at l ' union pour la verite in 1935, and from his journal ; the text was approved by gide. 1930s and 1940s in 1930 gide published a book about the blanche monnier case called la sequestree de poitiers, changing little but the names of the protagonists. monnier was a young woman who was kept captive by her own mother for more than 25 years. in 1939, gide became the first living author to be published in the prestigious bibliotheque de la pleiade. he left france for africa in 1942 and lived in tunis from december 1942 until it was re - taken by french, british and american forces in may 1943 and he was