in which the entertainment and publishing industries have very strong lobbying power – have been amended repeatedly since their inception, to extend the length of this fixed period where the work is exclusively controlled by the copyright holder. technically, someone owns their work from the time it ' s created. a notable aspect of authorship emerges with copyright in that, in many jurisdictions, it can be passed down to another upon one ' s death. the person who inherits the copyright is not the author, but has access to the same legal benefits. intellectual property laws are complex. fiction work involves trademark law, likeness rights, fair use rights held by the public ( including the right to parody or satirize ), and many other interacting complications. authors may portion out different rights they hold to different parties, at different times, and for different purposes or uses, such as the right to adapt a plot into a film, but only with different character names, because the characters have already been optioned by another company for a television series or a video game. an author may also not have rights when working under contract that they would otherwise have, such as when creating a work for hire ( e. g., hired to write a city tour guide by a municipal government that totally owns the copyright to the finished work ), or when writing material using intellectual property owned by others ( such as when writing a novel or screenplay that is a new installment in an already established media franchise ). philosophical views of the nature of authorship in literary theory, critics find complications in the term author beyond what constitutes authorship in a legal setting. in the wake of postmodern literature, critics such as roland barthes and michel foucault have examined the role and relevance of authorship to the meaning or interpretation of a literary text. barthes challenges the idea that a text can be attributed to any single author. he writes, in his essay " death of the author " ( 1968 ), that " it is language which speaks, not the author. " the words and language of a text itself determine and expose meaning for barthes, and not someone possessing legal responsibility for the process of its production. every line of written text is a mere reflection of references from any of a multitude of traditions, or, as barthes puts it, " the text is a tissue of quotations drawn from the innumerable centers of culture " ; it is never original. with this, the perspective of the author is removed from the text, and the limits formerly imposed by the idea of one authorial voice, one ultimate