american free trade agreement includes : many international treaties use the terms american and american citizen : 1796 – the treaty between the united states and the dey of the regency of algiers on march 7, 1796, protected " american citizens ". 1806 – the louisiana purchase treaty between france and united states referred to " american citizens ". 1825 – the treaty between the united states and the cheyenne tribe refers to " american citizen " s. 1848 – the treaty of guadalupe hidalgo between mexico and the u. s. uses " american government " to refer to the united states, and " american tribunals " to refer to u. s. courts. 1858 – the treaty of amity and commerce between the united states and japan protected " american citizens " and also used " american " in other contexts. 1898 – the treaty of paris ending the spanish – american war, known in spanish as the ( " spain – united states war " ) uses " american " in reference to united states troops. 1966 – the united states – thailand treaty of amity protects " americans " and " american corporations ". u. s. commercial regulation products that are labeled, advertised, and marketed in the u. s. as " made in the usa " must be, as set by the federal trade commission ( ftc ), " all or virtually all made in the u. s. " the ftc, to prevent deception of customers and unfair competition, considers an unqualified claim of " american made " to expressly claim exclusive manufacture in the u. s : " the ftc act gives the commission the power to bring law enforcement actions against false or misleading claims that a product is of u. s. origin. " alternatives there are a number of alternatives to the demonym american as a citizen of the united states that do not simultaneously mean any inhabitant of the americas. one uncommon alternative is usonian, which usually describes a certain style of residential architecture designed by frank lloyd wright. other alternatives have also surfaced, but most have fallen into disuse and obscurity. merriam - webster ' s dictionary of english usage says : nevertheless, no alternative to american is common. see also americas ( terminology ) hyphenated americans names of the united states naming of the americas totum pro parte notes references works cited external links american culture english words geographical naming disputes definitions