aegean. this granting of power showed augustus ' s favor for agrippa, but it was also a measure to please members of his caesarian party by allowing one of their members to share a considerable amount of power with him. augustus ' s intent became apparent to make his grandsons gaius and lucius his heirs when he adopted them as his own children. he took the consulship in 5 and 2 bc so that he could personally usher them into their political careers, and they were nominated for the consulships of ad 1 and 4. augustus also showed favor to his stepsons, livia ' s children from her first marriage, nero claudius drusus germanicus ( henceforth referred to as drusus ) and tiberius claudius ( henceforth tiberius ), granting them military commands and public office, though seeming to favor drusus. after agrippa died in 12 bc, tiberius was ordered to divorce his own wife, vipsania agrippina, and marry augustus ' s widowed daughter, julia, as soon as a period of mourning for agrippa had ended. drusus ' s marriage to augustus ' s niece antonia was considered an unbreakable affair, whereas vipsania was " only " the daughter of the late agrippa from his first marriage. tiberius shared in augustus ' s tribune powers as of 6 bc but shortly thereafter went into retirement, reportedly wanting no further role in politics while he exiled himself to rhodes. no specific reason is known for his departure, though it could have been a combination of reasons, including a failing marriage with julia as well as a sense of envy and exclusion over augustus ' s apparent favouring of the younger gaius and lucius. ( gaius and lucius joined the college of priests at an early age, were presented to spectators in a more favorable light, and were introduced to the army in gaul. ) after the deaths of both lucius and gaius in ad 2 and 4 respectively, and the earlier death of his brother drusus ( 9 bc ), tiberius was recalled to rome in june ad 4, where he was adopted by augustus on the condition that he, in turn, adopt his nephew germanicus. this continued the tradition of presenting at least two generations of heirs. in that year, tiberius was also granted the powers of a tribune and proconsul, emissaries from foreign kings had to pay their respects to him and by ad 13 was awarded with his second triumph and equal level of imperium with that of augustus. the only other possible claimant as heir was agrip