singapore. call centers and business process outsourcing ( bpos ) are becoming major employers in india and the philippines due to the availability of a large pool of highly skilled, english - speaking workers. the increased use of outsourcing has assisted the rise of india and the china as financial centers. due to its large and extremely competitive information technology industry, india has become a major hub for outsourcing. trade between asian countries and countries on other continents is largely carried out on the sea routes that are important for asia. individual main routes have emerged from this. the main route leads from the chinese coast south via hanoi to jakarta, singapore and kuala lumpur through the strait of malacca via the sri lankan colombo to the southern tip of india via male to east africa mombasa, from there to djibouti, then through the red sea over the suez canal into mediterranean, there via haifa, istanbul and athens to the upper adriatic to the northern italian hub of trieste with its rail connections to central and eastern europe or further to barcelona and around spain and france to the european northern ports. a far smaller part of the goods traffic runs via south africa to europe. a particularly significant part of the asian goods traffic is carried out across the pacific towards los angeles and long beach. in contrast to the sea routes, the silk road via the land route to europe is on the one hand still under construction and on the other hand is much smaller in terms of scope. intra - asian trade, including sea trade, is growing rapidly. in 2010, asia had 3. 3 million millionaires ( people with net worth over us $ 1 million excluding their homes ), slightly below north america with 3. 4 million millionaires. last year asia had toppled europe. citigroup in the wealth report 2012 stated that asian centa - millionaire overtook north america ' s wealth for the first time as the world ' s " economic center of gravity " continued moving east. at the end of 2011, there were 18, 000 asian people mainly in southeast asia, china and japan who have at least $ 100 million in disposable assets, while north america with 17, 000 people and western europe with 14, 000 people. tourism with growing regional tourism with domination of chinese visitors, mastercard has released global destination cities index 2013 with 10 of 20 are dominated by asia and pacific region cities and also for the first time a city of a country from asia ( bangkok ) set in the top - ranked with 15. 98 million international visitors. demographics east asia had by far the strongest