, atomic number, and symbolized z ). this eventually proved to be the case. moseley ' s 1913 experiment the experimental position improved dramatically after research by henry moseley in 1913. moseley, after discussions with bohr who was at the same lab ( and who had used van den broek ' s hypothesis in his bohr model of the atom ), decided to test van den broek ' s and bohr ' s hypothesis directly, by seeing if spectral lines emitted from excited atoms fitted the bohr theory ' s postulation that the frequency of the spectral lines be proportional to the square of z. to do this, moseley measured the wavelengths of the innermost photon transitions ( k and l lines ) produced by the elements from aluminium ( z = 13 ) to gold ( z = 79 ) used as a series of movable anodic targets inside an x - ray tube. the square root of the frequency of these photons increased from one target to the next in an arithmetic progression. this led to the conclusion ( moseley ' s law ) that the atomic number does closely correspond ( with an offset of one unit for k - lines, in moseley ' s work ) to the calculated electric charge of the nucleus, i. e. the element number z. among other things, moseley demonstrated that the lanthanide series ( from lanthanum to lutetium inclusive ) must have 15 members — no fewer and no more — which was far from obvious from known chemistry at that time. missing elements after moseley ' s death in 1915, the atomic numbers of all known elements from hydrogen to uranium ( z = 92 ) were examined by his method. there were seven elements ( with z < 92 ) which were not found and therefore identified as still undiscovered, corresponding to atomic numbers 43, 61, 72, 75, 85, 87 and 91. from 1918 to 1947, all seven of these missing elements were discovered. by this time, the first four transuranium elements had also been discovered, so that the periodic table was complete with no gaps as far as curium ( z = 96 ). the proton and the idea of nuclear electrons in 1915, the reason for nuclear charge being quantized in units of z, which were now recognized to be the same as the element number, was not understood. an old idea called prout ' s hypothesis had postulated that the elements were all made of residues ( or " protyles " ) of the light