allows farmers to harvest during a gap in supply elsewhere in the world, thereby filling a niche in the flower market. alaska, with no counties, lacks county fairs. however, a small assortment of state and local fairs ( with the alaska state fair in palmer the largest ), are held mostly in the late summer. the fairs are mostly located in communities with historic or current agricultural activity, and feature local farmers exhibiting produce in addition to more high - profile commercial activities such as carnival rides, concerts and food. " alaska grown " is used as an agricultural slogan. alaska has an abundance of seafood, with the primary fisheries in the bering sea and the north pacific. seafood is one of the few food items that is often cheaper within the state than outside it. many alaskans take advantage of salmon seasons to harvest portions of their household diet while fishing for subsistence, as well as sport. this includes fish taken by hook, net or wheel. hunting for subsistence, primarily caribou, moose, and dall sheep is still common in the state, particularly in remote bush communities. an example of a traditional native food is akutaq, the eskimo ice cream, which can consist of reindeer fat, seal oil, dried fish meat and local berries. alaska ' s reindeer herding is concentrated on seward peninsula, where wild caribou can be prevented from mingling and migrating with the domesticated reindeer. most food in alaska is transported into the state from " outside " ( the other 49 us states ), and shipping costs make food in the cities relatively expensive. in rural areas, subsistence hunting and gathering is an essential activity because imported food is prohibitively expensive. although most small towns and villages in alaska lie along the coastline, the cost of importing food to remote villages can be high, because of the terrain and difficult road conditions, which change dramatically, due to varying climate and precipitation changes. the cost of transport can reach as high as 50¢ per pound ( $ 1. 10 / kg ) or more in some remote areas, during the most difficult times, if these locations can be reached at all during such inclement weather and terrain conditions. the cost of delivering a of milk is about $ 3. 50 in many villages where per capita income can be $ 20, 000 or less. fuel cost per gallon is routinely twenty to thirty cents higher than the contiguous united states average, with only hawaii having higher prices. culture some of alaska ' s popular annual events are the iditarod trail sled dog race from anchorage to no