of hereford and ramsbury. ealdred also administered winchcombe abbey and gloucester abbey. the authors of the handbook of british chronology third edition say he was named bishop of hereford in 1056, holding the see until he resigned it in 1060, but other sources say he merely administered the see while it was vacant, or that he was bishop of hereford from 1055 to 1060. ealdred became involved with the see of ramsbury after its bishop herman got into a dispute with king edward over the movement of the seat of his bishopric to malmesbury abbey. herman wished to move the seat of his see, but edward refused permission for the move. ealdred was a close associate of herman ' s, and the historian h. r. loyn called herman " something of an alter ego " to ealdred. according to the medieval chronicler john of worcester, ealdred was given the see of ramsbury to administer while herman remained outside england. herman returned in 1058, and resumed his bishopric. there is no contemporary documentary evidence of ealdred ' s administration of ramsbury. welsh affairs, jerusalem, and worcester the king again employed ealdred as a diplomat in 1056, when he assisted earls harold and leofric in negotiations with the welsh. edward sent ealdred after the death in battle of bishop leofgar of hereford, who had attacked gruffydd ap llywelyn after encouragement from the king. however, leofgar lost the battle and his life, and edward had to sue for peace. although details of the negotiations are lacking, gruffydd ap llywelyn swore loyalty to king edward, but the oath may not have had any obligations on gruffydd ' s part to edward. the exact terms of the submission are not known in total, but gruffydd was not required to assist edward in war nor attend edward ' s court. ealdred was rewarded with the administration of the see of hereford, which he held until 1061, and was appointed archbishop of york. the diocese had suffered a serious raid from the welsh in 1055, and during his administration, ealdred continued the rebuilding of the cathedral church as well as securing the cathedral chapter ' s rights. ealdred was granted the administration so that the area might have someone with experience with the welsh in charge. in 1058 ealdred made a pilgrimage to jerusalem, the first english bishop to make the journey. he travelled through hungary, and the anglo - saxon chronicle said that