12 months ) dapt in high risk patients. in conclusion, the optimal duration of dapt after pcis should be personalized after outweighing each patient ' s risks of ischemic events and risks of bleeding events with consideration of multiple patient - related and procedure - related factors. moreover, aspirin should be continued indefinitely after dapt is complete. the status of the use of aspirin for the primary prevention in cardiovascular disease is conflicting and inconsistent, with recent changes from previously recommending it widely decades ago, and that some referenced newer trials in clinical guidelines show less of benefit of adding aspirin alongside other anti - hypertensive and cholesterol lowering therapies. the ascend study demonstrated that in high - bleeding risk diabetics with no prior cardiovascular disease, there is no overall clinical benefit ( 12 % decrease in risk of ischaemic events v / s 29 % increase in gi bleeding ) of low dose aspirin in preventing the serious vascular events over a period of 7. 4 years. similarly, the results of the arrive study also showed no benefit of same dose of aspirin in reducing the time to first cardiovascular outcome in patients with moderate risk of cardiovascular disease over a period of five years. aspirin has also been suggested as a component of a polypill for prevention of cardiovascular disease. complicating the use of aspirin for prevention is the phenomenon of aspirin resistance. for people who are resistant, aspirin ' s efficacy is reduced. some authors have suggested testing regimens to identify people who are resistant to aspirin. as of, the united states preventive services task force ( uspstf ) determined that there was a " small net benefit " for patients aged 40 – 59 with a 10 % or greater 10 - year cardiovascular disease ( cvd ) risk, and " no net benefit " for patients aged over 60. determining the net benefit was based on balancing the risk reduction of taking aspirin for heart attacks and ischaemic strokes, with the increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding, intracranial bleeding, and hemorrhagic strokes. their recommendations state that age changes the risk of the medicine, with the magnitude of the benefit of aspirin coming from starting at a younger age, while the risk of bleeding, while small, increases with age, particular for adults over 60, and can be compounded by other risk factors such as diabetes and a history of gastrointestinal bleeding. as a result,