and issues of gender and war, and is influenced by events such as the american civil war, the reconstruction era, the civil rights movement, and the vietnam war. some notable examples of alabama literature include harper lee ' s to kill a mockingbird, winston groom ' s forrest gump, fannie flagg ' s fried green tomatoes at the whistlestop cafe, and the biographies of rosa parks and martin luther king jr. sports professional sports alabama has several professional and semi - professional sports teams, including three minor league baseball teams. the talladega superspeedway motorsports complex hosts a series of nascar events. it has a seating capacity of 143, 000 and is the thirteenth largest stadium in the world and sixth largest stadium in america. also, the barber motorsports park has hosted indycar series and rolex sports car series races. the atp birmingham was a world championship tennis tournament held from 1973 to 1980. alabama has hosted several professional golf tournaments, such as the 1984 and 1990 pga championship at shoal creek, the barbasol championship ( pga tour ), the mobile lpga tournament of champions, airbus lpga classic, and yokohama tire lpga classic ( lpga tour ), and the tradition ( champions tour ). college sports college football is extremely popular in alabama, particularly the university of alabama crimson tide and auburn university tigers, rivals in the southeastern conference. alabama averages over 100, 000 fans per game and auburn averages over 80, 000 — both numbers among the top twenty in the nation. bryant – denny stadium is the home of the alabama football team, and has a seating capacity of 101, 821, and is the fifth largest stadium in america. jordan - hare stadium is the home field of the auburn football team and seats up to 87, 451. protective stadium is home of the uab blazers football program and the birmingham bowl. it seats 45, 000. ladd – peebles stadium in mobile is the home of the university of south alabama football team, and serves as the home of the ncaa senior bowl, lendingtree bowl, and alabama - mississippi all star classic ; the stadium seats 40, 646. in 2009, bryant – denny stadium and jordan - hare stadium became the homes of the alabama high school athletic association state football championship games, after previously being held at legion field in birmingham. transportation aviation major airports with sustained operations in alabama include birmingham - shuttlesworth international airport ( bhm ), huntsville international airport ( hsv ), dothan regional airport ( dhn ), mobile regional airport ( mob ), montgomery