, indiana ; two men, thomas shipp and abram smith, are killed. 1933 – the kingdom of iraq slaughters over 3, 000 assyrians in the village of simele. this date is recognized as martyrs day or national day of mourning by the assyrian community in memory of the simele massacre. 1942 – world war ii : the battle of guadalcanal begins as the united states marines initiate the first american offensive of the war with landings on guadalcanal and tulagi in the solomon islands. 1944 – ibm dedicates the first program - controlled calculator, the automatic sequence controlled calculator ( known best as the harvard mark i ). 1946 – the government of the soviet union presented a note to its turkish counterparts which refuted the latter ' s sovereignty over the turkish straits, thus beginning the turkish straits crisis. 1947 – thor heyerdahl ' s balsa wood raft, the kon - tiki, smashes into the reef at raroia in the tuamotu islands after a 101 - day, journey across the pacific ocean in an attempt to prove that pre - historic peoples could have traveled from south america. 1947 – the bombay municipal corporation formally takes over the bombay electric supply and transport ( best ). 1959 – explorer program : explorer 6 launches from the atlantic missile range in cape canaveral, florida. 1960 – ivory coast becomes independent from france. 1962 – canadian - born american pharmacologist frances oldham kelsey is awarded the u. s. president ' s award for distinguished federal civilian service for her refusal to authorize thalidomide. 1964 – vietnam war : the u. s. congress passes the gulf of tonkin resolution giving u. s. president lyndon b. johnson broad war powers to deal with north vietnamese attacks on american forces. 1969 – richard nixon appoints luis r. bruce, a mohawk - oglala sioux and co - founder of the national congress of american indians, as the new commissioner of the bureau of indian affairs. 1970 – california judge harold haley is taken hostage in his courtroom and killed during an effort to free george jackson from police custody. 1974 – philippe petit performs a high wire act between the twin towers of the world trade center in the air. 1976 – viking program : viking 2 enters orbit around mars. 1978 – u. s. president jimmy carter declares a federal emergency at love canal due to toxic waste that had been disposed of negligently. 1981 – the washington star ceases all operations after 128 years of publication. 1985