in algorithmic information theory ( a subfield of computer science and mathematics ), the kolmogorov complexity of an object, such as a piece of text, is the length of a shortest computer program ( in a predetermined programming language ) that produces the object as output. it is a measure of the computational resources needed to specify the object, and is also known as algorithmic complexity, solomonoff – kolmogorov – chaitin complexity, program - size complexity, descriptive complexity, or algorithmic entropy. it is named after andrey kolmogorov, who first published on the subject in 1963 and is a generalization of classical information theory. the notion of kolmogorov complexity can be used to state and prove impossibility results akin to cantor ' s diagonal argument, godel ' s incompleteness theorem, and turing ' s halting problem. in particular, no program p computing a lower bound for each text ' s kolmogorov complexity can return a value essentially larger than p ' s own length ( see section ) ; hence no single program can compute the exact kolmogorov complexity for infinitely many texts. definition consider the following two strings of 32 lowercase letters and digits : abababababababababababababababab, and 4c1j5b2p0cv4w1x8rx2y39umgw5q85s7 the first string has a short english - language description, namely " write ab 16 times ", which consists of 17 characters. the second one has no obvious simple description ( using the same character set ) other than writing down the string itself, i. e., " write 4c1j5b2p0cv4w1x8rx2y39umgw5q85s7 " which has 38 characters. hence the operation of writing the first string can be said to have " less complexity " than writing the second. more formally, the complexity of a string is the length of the shortest possible description of the string in some fixed universal description language ( the sensitivity of complexity relative to the choice of description language is discussed below ). it can be shown that the kolmogorov complexity of any string cannot be more than a few bytes larger than the length of the string itself. strings like the abab example above, whose kolmogorov complexity is small relative to the string ' s size, are not considered to be complex. the kolm