transcontinental, who tries to prevent the taggart tunnel disaster. cherryl brooks is a dime store shopgirl who marries james taggart after a chance encounter in her store the night the john galt line was falsely deemed his greatest success. she marries him thinking he is the heroic person behind taggart transcontinental. cherryl is at first harsh towards dagny, having believed jim taggart ' s descriptions of his sister, until she questions employees of the railroad. upon learning that her scorn had been misdirected, cherryl puts off apologizing to dagny out of shame, but eventually admits to dagny that when she married jim, she thought he had the heroic qualities that she had looked up to - she thought she was marrying someone like dagny. shortly after making this admission, she commits suicide by jumping over a stone parapet and into the river, unable to live with her evil husband and seeing no way to escape him. emma chalmers, kip chalmers ' mother, gains some influence after his death. known as " kip ' s ma, " she starts a soybean - growing project in louisiana and commandeers thousands of railroad freight cars to move the harvest. as a result, the year ' s wheat crop from minnesota never reaches the rest of the country, but instead rots in storage ; also, the soybean crop is lost, having been reaped too early. kip chalmers is a washington man who has decided to run for election as legislator from california. on the way to a campaign rally, the taggart transcontinental train that is carrying him encounters a split rail, resulting in the destruction of its diesel engine. his demands lead to a coal - burning steam engine being attached to his train in its stead and used to pull it through an eight - mile tunnel. the result is the suffocation of all passengers and the destruction of the taggart tunnel. tom colby is the head of the rearden steel workers union. dan conway is the middle - aged president of the phoenix - durango railroad. running a railroad is just about the only thing he knows. when the anti - dog - eat - dog rule is used to drive his business out of colorado, he loses the will to fight, and resigns himself to a quiet life of books and fishing. he is not one of those who joined john galt ' s strike, his resignation being a personal choice of his own. ken danagger owns danagger coal in pennsylvania. he helps hank