ban on the duke, and agitation against him soon died away. in imperial politics albert was fairly active. joining the league of torgau in 1526, he acted in unison with the protestants, and was among the princes who banded and plotted together to overthrow charles v after the issue of the augsburg interim in may 1548. for various reasons, however, poverty and personal inclination among others, he did not take a prominent part in the military operations of this period. the early years of albert ' s rule in prussia were fairly prosperous. although he had some trouble with the peasantry, the lands and treasures of the church enabled him to propitiate the nobles and for a time to provide for the expenses of the court. he did something for the furtherance of learning by establishing schools in every town and by freeing serfs who adopted a scholastic life. in 1544, in spite of some opposition, he founded konigsberg university, where he appointed his friend andreas osiander to a professorship in 1549. albert also paid for the printing of the astronomical " prutenic tables " compiled by erasmus reinhold and the first maps of prussia by caspar hennenberger. osiander ' s appointment was the beginning of the troubles which clouded the closing years of albert ' s reign. osiander ' s divergence from luther ' s doctrine of justification by faith involved him in a violent quarrel with philip melanchthon, who had adherents in konigsberg, and these theological disputes soon created an uproar in the town. the duke strenuously supported osiander, and the area of the quarrel soon broadened. there were no longer church lands available with which to conciliate the nobles, the burden of taxation was heavy, and albert ' s rule became unpopular. after osiander ' s death in 1552, albert favoured a preacher named johann funck, who, with an adventurer named paul skalic, exercised great influence over him and obtained considerable wealth at public expense. the state of turmoil caused by these religious and political disputes was increased by the possibility of albert ' s early death and the need, should that happen, to appoint a regent, as his only son, albert frederick was still a mere youth. the duke was forced to consent to a condemnation of the teaching of osiander, and the climax came in 1566 when the estates appealed to king sigismund ii augustus of poland, albert ' s cousin, who sent a commission to konigsberg. skalic saved his life by flight,