, thinking that he was slaying the seducer, and killed her. leucippus, failing to recognize his father at first, slew him. when the truth was revealed, he had to leave the country and took part in colonization of crete and the lands in asia minor. queen cenchreis of cyprus, wife of king cinyras, bragged that her daughter myrrha was more beautiful than aphrodite. therefore, myrrha was cursed by aphrodite with insatiable lust for her own father, king cinyras of cyprus and he slept with her unknowingly in the dark. she eventually transformed into the myrrh tree and gave birth to adonis in this form. cinyras also had three other daughters : braesia, laogora, and orsedice. these girls by the wrath of aphrodite ( reasons unknown ) cohabited with foreigners and ended their life in egypt. the muse clio derided the goddess ' own love for adonis. therefore, clio fell in love with pierus, son of magnes and bore hyacinth. aegiale was a daughter of adrastus and amphithea and was married to diomedes. because of anger of aphrodite, whom diomedes had wounded in the war against troy, she had multiple lovers, including a certain hippolytus. when aegiale went so far as to threaten his life, he fled to italy. according to stesichorus and hesiod while tyndareus sacrificing to the gods he forgot aphrodite, therefore goddess made his daughters twice and thrice wed and deserters of their husbands. timandra deserted echemus and went and came to phyleus and clytaemnestra deserted agamemnon and lay with aegisthus who was a worse mate for her and eventually killed her husband with her lover and finally, helen of troy deserted menelaus under the influence of aphrodite for paris and her unfaitfulness eventually causes the war of troy. as a result of her actions, aphrodite caused the war of troy in order to take priam ' s kingdom and pass it down to her descendants. in one of the versions of the legend, pasiphae did not make offerings to the goddess venus [ aphrodite ]. because of this venus [ aphrodite ] inspired in her an unnatural love for