after program optimization. empirical tests cannot replace formal analysis, though, and are not trivial to perform in a fair manner. execution efficiency to illustrate the potential improvements possible even in well - established algorithms, a recent significant innovation, relating to fft algorithms ( used heavily in the field of image processing ), can decrease processing time up to 1, 000 times for applications like medical imaging. in general, speed improvements depend on special properties of the problem, which are very common in practical applications. speedups of this magnitude enable computing devices that make extensive use of image processing ( like digital cameras and medical equipment ) to consume less power. classification there are various ways to classify algorithms, each with its own merits. by implementation one way to classify algorithms is by implementation means. recursion a recursive algorithm is one that invokes ( makes reference to ) itself repeatedly until a certain condition ( also known as termination condition ) matches, which is a method common to functional programming. iterative algorithms use repetitive constructs like loops and sometimes additional data structures like stacks to solve the given problems. some problems are naturally suited for one implementation or the other. for example, towers of hanoi is well understood using recursive implementation. every recursive version has an equivalent ( but possibly more or less complex ) iterative version, and vice versa. serial, parallel or distributed algorithms are usually discussed with the assumption that computers execute one instruction of an algorithm at a time. those computers are sometimes called serial computers. an algorithm designed for such an environment is called a serial algorithm, as opposed to parallel algorithms or distributed algorithms. parallel algorithms are algorithms that take advantage of computer architectures where multiple processors can work on a problem at the same time. distributed algorithms are algorithms that use multiple machines connected with a computer network. parallel and distributed algorithms divide the problem into more symmetrical or asymmetrical subproblems and collect the results back together. for example, a cpu would be an example of a parallel algorithm. the resource consumption in such algorithms is not only processor cycles on each processor but also the communication overhead between the processors. some sorting algorithms can be parallelized efficiently, but their communication overhead is expensive. iterative algorithms are generally parallelizable, but some problems have no parallel algorithms and are called inherently serial problems. deterministic or non - deterministic deterministic algorithms solve the problem with exact decision at every step of the algorithm whereas non - deterministic algorithms solve problems via guessing although typical guesses are made more accurate through the use of heuri