the astronomical unit ( symbol : au, or or au ) is a unit of length, roughly the distance from earth to the sun and approximately equal to or 8. 3 light - minutes. the actual distance from earth to the sun varies by about 3 % as earth orbits the sun, from a maximum ( aphelion ) to a minimum ( perihelion ) and back again once each year. the astronomical unit was originally conceived as the average of earth ' s aphelion and perihelion ; however, since 2012 it has been defined as exactly. the astronomical unit is used primarily for measuring distances within the solar system or around other stars. it is also a fundamental component in the definition of another unit of astronomical length, the parsec. history of symbol usage a variety of unit symbols and abbreviations have been in use for the astronomical unit. in a 1976 resolution, the international astronomical union ( iau ) had used the symbol a to denote a length equal to the astronomical unit. in the astronomical literature, the symbol au was ( and remains ) common. in 2006, the international bureau of weights and measures ( bipm ) had recommended ua as the symbol for the unit, from the french " unite astronomique ". in the non - normative annex c to iso 80000 - 3 : 2006 ( now withdrawn ), the symbol of the astronomical unit was also ua. in 2012, the iau, noting " that various symbols are presently in use for the astronomical unit ", recommended the use of the symbol " au ". the scientific journals published by the american astronomical society and the royal astronomical society subsequently adopted this symbol. in the 2014 revision and 2019 edition of the si brochure, the bipm used the unit symbol " au ". iso 80000 - 3 : 2019, which replaces iso 80000 - 3 : 2006, does not mention the astronomical unit. development of unit definition earth ' s orbit around the sun is an ellipse. the semi - major axis of this elliptic orbit is defined to be half of the straight line segment that joins the perihelion and aphelion. the centre of the sun lies on this straight line segment, but not at its midpoint. because ellipses are well - understood shapes, measuring the points of its extremes defined the exact shape mathematically, and made possible calculations for the entire orbit as well as predictions based on observation. in addition, it mapped out exactly the largest straight - line distance that earth traverses over the course of a