producer of conventional crude oil, synthetic crude, natural gas and gas products in canada. alberta is the world ' s second - largest exporter of natural gas and the fourth - largest producer. two of the largest producers of petrochemicals in north america are located in central and north - central alberta. in both red deer and edmonton, polyethylene and vinyl manufacturers produce products that are shipped all over the world. edmonton ' s oil refineries provide the raw materials for a large petrochemical industry to the east of edmonton. the athabasca oil sands surrounding fort mcmurray have estimated unconventional oil reserves approximately equal to the conventional oil reserves of the rest of the world, estimated to be 1. 6 trillion barrels ( 254 km3 ). many companies employ both conventional strip mining and non - conventional in situ methods to extract the bitumen from the oil sands. as of late 2006, there were over $ 100 billion in oil sands projects under construction or in the planning stages in northeastern alberta. another factor determining the viability of oil extraction from the oil sands is the price of oil. the oil price increases since 2003 have made it profitable to extract this oil, which in the past would give little profit or even a loss. by mid - 2014, rising costs and stabilizing oil prices threatened the economic viability of some projects. an example of this was the shelving of the joslyn north project in the athabasca region in may 2014. with concerted effort and support from the provincial government, several high - tech industries have found their birth in alberta, notably patents related to interactive liquid - crystal display systems. with a growing economy, alberta has several financial institutions dealing with civil and private funds. tourism alberta has been a tourist destination from the early days of the 20th century, with attractions including outdoor locales for skiing, hiking, and camping, shopping locales such as west edmonton mall, calgary stampede, outdoor festivals, professional athletic events, international sporting competitions such as the commonwealth games and olympic games, as well as more eclectic attractions. according to alberta economic development, calgary and edmonton both host over four million visitors annually. banff, jasper and the rocky mountains are visited by about three million people per year. alberta tourism relies heavily on southern ontario tourists, as well as tourists from other parts of canada, the united states, and many other countries. there are also natural attractions like elk island national park, wood buffalo national park, and the columbia icefield. alberta ' s rockies include well - known tourist