his final attack on agrippina until after the death of livia in ad 29. tacitus reports a letter being sent to the senate from tiberius denouncing agrippina for her arrogance and prideful attitude, and nero for engaging in shameful sexual activities. the senate would not begin these highly unpopular prosecutions against her or her son until it received clear instructions from tiberius to do so. despite public outcry, agrippina and nero were declared public enemies ( hostes ) following a repeat of the accusations by the emperor. they were both exiled ; nero to pontia where he was killed or encouraged to commit suicide in ad 31, and agrippina to the island of pandateria ( the same place her mother was exiled to ). suetonius says that while on the island of pandateria, she lost an eye when she was beaten by a centurion. she would remain on the island until her death in ad 33. accounts of her death vary. she is said to have died from starvation, but it is not certain whether or not it was self - imposed. tacitus says food was withheld from her in an effort to make her death seem like a suicide. post mortem her son drusus was later also exiled on charges of sexual misdemeanors. sejanus remained powerful until his sudden downfall and summary execution in october ad 31, just after the death of nero, the exact cause for which remains unclear. alston suggests that sejanus may have been acting in tiberius ' favor to remove germanicus ' family from power, noting that agrippina and nero ' s brother drusus were left in exile even after sejanus ' death. the deaths of agrippina ' s older sons elevated her youngest son caligula to the position of successor and he became princeps when tiberius died in ad 37. drusus the younger ' s son tiberius gemellus was summoned to capri by his grandfather tiberius, where he and caligula were made joint - heirs. when caligula assumed power he made gemellus his adopted son, but caligula soon had gemellus killed for plotting against him. according to philo, caligula ' s pretended reason was a conspiracy. after he became emperor, caligula took on the role of a dutiful son and brother in a public show of pietas ( " piety " ). he went out to the islands of pontia and pandateria in order