was lost until a few years later, when americans donated one of them to the moma, where it is on display. with restoration initiatives launched in 1987, the facade was rejoined to some pieces of stone that had fallen. in order to respect the fidelity of the original, material was obtained from the villefranche quarry, even though by then it was no longer operating. hall and courtyards the building uses a completely original solution to solve the issue of a lobby being too closed and dark. its open and airy courtyards provide a place of transit and are directly visible to those accessing the building. there are two patios on the side of the passeig de gracia and of the street provence. patios patios, structurally, are key as supporting loads of interior facades. the floor of the courtyard is supported by pillars of cast iron. in the courtyard, there are traditional elliptical beams and girders but gaudi applied an ingenious solution of using two concentric cylindrical beams with stretched radial beams, like the spokes of a bicycle. they form a point outside of the beam to two points above and below, making the function of the central girder a keystone and working in tension and compression simultaneously. this supported structure is twelve feet in diameter and is considered " the soul of the building " with a clear resemblance to gothic crypts. the centerpiece was built in a shipyard by josep maria carandell who copied a steering wheel, interpreting gaudi ' s intent as to represent the helm of the ship of life. interior, gates access is protected by a massive iron gate with a design attributed to jujol. it was originally used by both people and cars, as access to the garage is in the basement, now an auditorium. the two halls are fully polychrome with oil paintings on the plaster surfaces, with eclectic references to mythology and flowers. during construction there was a problem including a basement as a garage for cars, the new invention that was thrilling the bourgeois at the time. the future neighbor felix anthony meadows, owner of industrial linera, requested a change because his rolls - royce could not access it. gaudi agreed to remove a pillar on the ramp that led into the garage so that felix, who was establishing sales and factory in parets del valles, could go to both places with his car from la pedrera. for the floors of casa mila, gaudi used a model of floor forms of square timbers with two colors, and the hydraulic pavement hexagonal pieces of