##nhauer ' s dissertation made an impression on goethe, to whom he sent it as a gift. although it is doubtful that goethe agreed with schopenhauer ' s philosophical positions, he was impressed by his intellect and extensive scientific education. their subsequent meetings and correspondence were a great honor to a young philosopher, who was finally acknowledged by his intellectual hero. they mostly discussed goethe ' s newly published ( and somewhat lukewarmly received ) work on color theory. schopenhauer soon started writing his own treatise on the subject, on vision and colors, which in many points differed from his teacher ' s. although they remained polite towards each other, their growing theoretical disagreements — and especially schopenhauer ' s extreme self - confidence and tactless criticisms — soon made goethe become distant again and after 1816 their correspondence became less frequent. schopenhauer later admitted that he was greatly hurt by this rejection, but he continued to praise goethe, and considered his color theory a great introduction to his own. another important experience during his stay in weimar was his acquaintance with friedrich majer — a historian of religion, orientalist and disciple of herder — who introduced him to eastern philosophy ( see also indology ). schopenhauer was immediately impressed by the upanishads ( he called them " the production of the highest human wisdom ", and believed that they contained superhuman concepts ) and the buddha, and put them on a par with plato and kant. he continued his studies by reading the bhagavad gita, an amateurish german journal asiatisches magazin and asiatick researches by the asiatic society. schopenhauer held a profound respect for indian philosophy ; although he loved hindu texts, he never revered a buddhist text but regarded buddhism as the most distinguished religion. his studies on hindu and buddhist texts were constrained by the lack of adequate literature, and the latter were mostly restricted to theravada buddhism. he also claimed that he formulated most of his ideas independently, and only later realized the similarities with buddhism. schopenhauer read the latin translation and praised the upanishads in his main work, the world as will and representation ( 1819 ), as well as in his parerga and paralipomena ( 1851 ), and commented, in the whole world there is no study so beneficial and so elevating as that of the upanishads. it has been the solace of my life, it will be the solace of my death. as the relationship with his