stroke that resulted from hitting his head during a fall. he died in toronto and was buried in lakeview cemetery in sarnia, ontario. character mackenzie ' s first biography in 1892 referred to him as canada ' s stainless statesman. he was a devout baptist and teetotaller who found refuge in, and drew strength from, his family, friends, and faith. he was also a loyal friend and an incorrigible prankster ( stuffed chimney on young in - laws ; rolled boulder down thunder cape towards friend a. mckellar ; burned tory campaign placards in hotel woodstove early in morning ). unpretentious and down to earth, his public official austerity was in striking contrast to private compassion and giving nature. he was the soul of honour and integrity, a proud man who sought no recognition or personal enrichment and accepted gifts reluctantly. he preferred to follow than to lead ( unreferenced – many times he refused leadership offers ) and often found that duty outweighed the heavy burden of office. he was uncompromising on his principles, perhaps too much so. an historian at the time said, " he was, and ever will remain, the sir galahad of canadian politics. " very proud of his scottish heritage, he was forever a scot : " nemo me impune lacessit " ( no one attacks me with impunity ). the upper canada rebellion leader w. l. mackenzie said of him, " he is every whit a self - made, self - educated man. has large mental capacity and indomitable energy. " canada ' s governor general, lord dufferin, said he was " as pure as crystal, and as true as steel, with lots of common sense. " a close friend, chief justice sir louis davies, said he was " the best debater the house of commons has ever known. " a friend and colleague in cabinet who went on to become prime minister of canada, sir wilfrid laurier, said he was " one of the truest and strongest characters to be met within canadian history. he was endowed with a warm heart and a copious and rich fancy, though veiled by a somewhat reticent exterior, and he was of friends the most tender and true. " another friend and colleague, who went on to become premier of ontario, sir george ross, said, " mackenzie was sui generis a debater. his humorous sallies blistered like a blast from a flaming smelter. his sterling