third term as governor, with an eye towards election to the u. s. senate. in 1857, while returning from washington, his train derailed, causing serious damage to his right arm. this injury would trouble him in the years to come. united states senator homestead bill advocate the victors in the 1857 state legislative campaign would, once they convened in october, elect a united states senator. former whig governor william b. campbell wrote to his uncle, " the great anxiety of the whigs is to elect a majority in the legislature so as to defeat andrew johnson for senator. should the democrats have the majority, he will certainly be their choice, and there is no man living to whom the americans and whigs have as much antipathy as johnson. " the governor spoke widely in the campaign, and his party won the gubernatorial race and control of the legislature. johnson ' s final address as governor gave him the chance to influence his electors, and he made proposals popular among democrats. two days later the legislature elected him to the senate. the opposition was appalled, with the richmond whig newspaper referring to him as " the vilest radical and most unscrupulous demagogue in the union ". johnson gained high office due to his proven record as a man popular among the small farmers and self - employed tradesmen who made up much of tennessee ' s electorate. he called them the " plebeians " ; he was less popular among the planters and lawyers who led the state democratic party, but none could match him as a vote - getter. after his death, one tennessee voter wrote of him, " johnson was always the same to everyone... the honors heaped upon him did not make him forget to be kind to the humblest citizen. " always seen in impeccably tailored clothing, he cut an impressive figure, and had the stamina to endure lengthy campaigns with daily travel over bad roads leading to another speech or debate. mostly denied the party ' s machinery, he relied on a network of friends, advisers, and contacts. one friend, hugh douglas, stated in a letter to him, " you have been in the way of our would be great men for a long time. at heart many of us never wanted you to be governor only none of the rest of us could have been elected at the time and we only wanted to use you. then we did not want you to go to the senate but the people would send you. " the new senator took his seat when congress convened in december 1857 (