##d intelligence, and st. mary mead, over her lifetime, has given her seemingly infinite examples of the negative side of human nature. crimes always remind her of a previous incident, although acquaintances may be bored by analogies that often lead her to a deeper realisation about the true nature of a crime. she also has a remarkable ability to latch onto a casual comment and connect it to the case at hand. in several stories, she is able to rely on her acquaintance with sir henry clithering, a retired commissioner of the metropolitan police, for official information when required. miss marple never married and has no close living relatives. her nephew, the " well - known author " raymond west, appears in some stories, including the thirteen problems, sleeping murder, and ingots of gold ( which also feature his wife, joyce lempriere ). raymond overestimates himself and underestimates his aunt ' s mental acuity. miss marple employs young women ( including clara, emily, alice, esther, gwenda, and amy ) from a nearby orphanage, whom she trains for service as general housemaids after the retirement of her long - time maid - housekeeper, faithful florence. she was briefly looked after by her irritating companion, miss knight. in her later years, companion cherry baker, first introduced in the mirror crack ' d from side to side, lives in. miss marple has never worked for her living and is of independent means, although she benefits in her old age from the financial support of her nephew raymond. she is not from the aristocracy or landed gentry, but is quite at home among them ; as a gentlewoman, miss marple may thus be considered a female version of the gentleman detective, a staple of british detective fiction. she demonstrates a remarkably thorough education, including some art courses that involved the study of human anatomy using human cadavers. in they do it with mirrors ( 1952 ), it is revealed that miss marple grew up in a cathedral close, and that she studied at an italian finishing school with american sisters ruth van rydock and caroline " carrie " louise serrocold. while miss marple is described as " an old lady " in many of the stories, her age is rarely mentioned and is not consistently presented. in at bertram ' s hotel, published in 1965, it is said she visited the hotel when she was 14 and almost 60 years have passed since then, implying that she is nearly 75 years old ; but in 4 : 50 from paddington, published almost a decade