branch as a traditional symbol of peace ; and a silicon message disk carrying the goodwill statements by presidents eisenhower, kennedy, johnson, and nixon along with messages from leaders of 73 countries around the world. the disk also carries a listing of the leadership of the us congress, a listing of members of the four committees of the house and senate responsible for the nasa legislation, and the names of nasa ' s past and then - current top management. after about seven hours of rest, the crew was awakened by houston to prepare for the return flight. two and a half hours later, at 17 : 54 : 00 utc, they lifted off in eagle ascent stage to rejoin collins aboard columbia in lunar orbit. film taken from the lm ascent stage upon liftoff from the moon reveals the american flag, planted some from the descent stage, whipping violently in the exhaust of the ascent stage engine. aldrin looked up in time to witness the flag topple : " the ascent stage of the lm separated... i was concentrating on the computers, and neil was studying the attitude indicator, but i looked up long enough to see the flag fall over. " subsequent apollo missions planted their flags farther from the lm. columbia in lunar orbit during his day flying solo around the moon, collins never felt lonely. although it has been said " not since adam has any human known such solitude ", collins felt very much a part of the mission. in his autobiography he wrote : " this venture has been structured for three men, and i consider my third to be as necessary as either of the other two ". in the 48 minutes of each orbit when he was out of radio contact with the earth while columbia passed round the far side of the moon, the feeling he reported was not fear or loneliness, but rather " awareness, anticipation, satisfaction, confidence, almost exultation ". one of collins ' first tasks was to identify the lunar module on the ground. to give collins an idea where to look, mission control radioed that they believed the lunar module landed about off target. each time he passed over the suspected lunar landing site, he tried in vain to find the module. on his first orbits on the back side of the moon, collins performed maintenance activities such as dumping excess water produced by the fuel cells and preparing the cabin for armstrong and aldrin to return. just before he reached the dark side on the third orbit, mission control informed collins there was a problem with the temperature of the coolant. if it became too cold, parts of columbia might