when an equal amount is taken from equals, an equal amount results. at the foundation of the various sciences lay certain additional hypotheses that were accepted without proof. such a hypothesis was termed a postulate. while the axioms were common to many sciences, the postulates of each particular science were different. their validity had to be established by means of real - world experience. aristotle warns that the content of a science cannot be successfully communicated if the learner is in doubt about the truth of the postulates. the classical approach is well - illustrated by euclid ' s elements, where a list of postulates is given ( common - sensical geometric facts drawn from our experience ), followed by a list of " common notions " ( very basic, self - evident assertions ). postulates it is possible to draw a straight line from any point to any other point. it is possible to extend a line segment continuously in both directions. it is possible to describe a circle with any center and any radius. it is true that all right angles are equal to one another. ( " parallel postulate " ) it is true that, if a straight line falling on two straight lines make the interior angles on the same side less than two right angles, the two straight lines, if produced indefinitely, intersect on that side on which are the angles less than the two right angles. common notions things which are equal to the same thing are also equal to one another. if equals are added to equals, the wholes are equal. if equals are subtracted from equals, the remainders are equal. things which coincide with one another are equal to one another. the whole is greater than the part. modern development a lesson learned by mathematics in the last 150 years is that it is useful to strip the meaning away from the mathematical assertions ( axioms, postulates, propositions, theorems ) and definitions. one must concede the need for primitive notions, or undefined terms or concepts, in any study. such abstraction or formalization makes mathematical knowledge more general, capable of multiple different meanings, and therefore useful in multiple contexts. alessandro padoa, mario pieri, and giuseppe peano were pioneers in this movement. structuralist mathematics goes further, and develops theories and axioms ( e. g. field theory, group theory, topology, vector spaces ) without any particular application in mind. the distinction between an " axiom " and a " postulate " disappears. the postulates of euclid are profitably motivated by