atom has a lower energy than an unbound system of the nucleus and electrons. where the temperature is much higher than ionization potential, the matter exists in the form of plasma — a gas of positively charged ions ( possibly, bare nuclei ) and electrons. when the temperature drops below the ionization potential, atoms become statistically favorable. atoms ( complete with bound electrons ) became to dominate over charged particles 380, 000 years after the big bang — an epoch called recombination, when the expanding universe cooled enough to allow electrons to become attached to nuclei. since the big bang, which produced no carbon or heavier elements, atomic nuclei have been combined in stars through the process of nuclear fusion to produce more of the element helium, and ( via the triple alpha process ) the sequence of elements from carbon up to iron ; see stellar nucleosynthesis for details. isotopes such as lithium - 6, as well as some beryllium and boron are generated in space through cosmic ray spallation. this occurs when a high - energy proton strikes an atomic nucleus, causing large numbers of nucleons to be ejected. elements heavier than iron were produced in supernovae and colliding neutron stars through the r - process, and in agb stars through the s - process, both of which involve the capture of neutrons by atomic nuclei. elements such as lead formed largely through the radioactive decay of heavier elements. earth most of the atoms that make up the earth and its inhabitants were present in their current form in the nebula that collapsed out of a molecular cloud to form the solar system. the rest are the result of radioactive decay, and their relative proportion can be used to determine the age of the earth through radiometric dating. most of the helium in the crust of the earth ( about 99 % of the helium from gas wells, as shown by its lower abundance of helium - 3 ) is a product of alpha decay. there are a few trace atoms on earth that were not present at the beginning ( i. e., not " primordial " ), nor are results of radioactive decay. carbon - 14 is continuously generated by cosmic rays in the atmosphere. some atoms on earth have been artificially generated either deliberately or as by - products of nuclear reactors or explosions. of the transuranic elements — those with atomic numbers greater than 92 — only plutonium and neptunium occur naturally on earth. transuranic elements have radioactive lifetimes shorter than the current age of the earth and thus identifiable quantities of these elements have long