remote northern areas of what is now pakistan. in addition, scholarship programmes, established at the time of the golden jubilee to give assistance to needy students, were progressively expanded. in east africa, major social welfare and economic development institutions were established. those involved in social welfare included the accelerated development of schools and community centres and a modern, fully equipped hospital in nairobi. among the economic development institutions established in east africa were companies such as the diamond jubilee investment trust ( now diamond trust of kenya ) and the jubilee insurance company, which are quoted on the nairobi stock exchange and have become major players in national development. sir sultan mahomed shah also introduced organisational reforms that gave ismaʿili communities the means to structure and regulate their own affairs. these were built on the muslim tradition of a communitarian ethic on the one hand and a responsible individual conscience with the freedom to negotiate one ' s own moral commitment and destiny on the other. in 1905, he ordained the first isma ' ili constitution for the social governance of the community in east africa. the new administration for the community ' s affairs was organised into a hierarchy of councils at the local, national, and regional levels. the constitution also set out rules in such matters as marriage, divorce, and inheritance, guidelines for mutual cooperation and support among isma ' ilis, and their interface with other communities. similar constitutions were promulgated in india, and all were periodically revised to address emerging needs and circumstances in diverse settings. in 1905, the aga khan was involved in the haji bibi case, where he was questioned about the origin of his followers. in his response, in addition to enumerating his followers in iran, russia, afghanistan, central asia, syria and other places, he also noted that “ in hindustan and africa there are many guptis who believe in me … i consider them shi ’ i imami ismailis ; by caste they are hindus ”. following the second world war, far - reaching social, economic and political changes profoundly affected a number of areas where ismaʿilis resided. in 1947, british rule in the indian subcontinent was replaced by the sovereign, independent nations of india, pakistan and later bangladesh, resulting in the migration of millions people and significant loss of life and property. in the middle east, the suez crisis of 1956 as well as the preceding crisis in iran, demonstrated the sharp upsurge of nationalism, which was as assertive of the region ' s social and economic aspirations as of its political independence. africa was also