##clave and the centre of amsterdam. further plans were to build a new highway above the metro to connect amsterdam centraal and the city centre with other parts of the city. the required large - scale demolitions began in amsterdam ' s former jewish neighborhood. smaller streets, such as the jodenbreestraat and weesperstraat, were widened and almost all houses and buildings were demolished. at the peak of the demolition, the nieuwmarktrellen ( nieuwmarkt riots ) broke out ; the rioters expressed their fury about the demolition caused by the restructuring of the city. as a result, the demolition was stopped and the highway into the city ' s centre was never fully built ; only the metro was completed. only a few streets remained widened. the new city hall was built on the almost completely demolished waterlooplein. meanwhile, large private organizations, such as stadsherstel amsterdam, were founded to restore the entire city centre. although the success of this struggle is visible today, efforts for further restoration are still ongoing. the entire city centre has reattained its former splendour and, as a whole, is now a protected area. many of its buildings have become monuments, and in july 2010 the grachtengordel ( the three concentric canals : herengracht, keizersgracht, and prinsengracht ) was added to the unesco world heritage list. in the 21st century, the amsterdam city centre has attracted large numbers of tourists : between 2012 and 2015, the annual number of visitors rose from 10 to 17 million. real estate prices have surged, and local shops are making way for tourist - oriented ones, making the centre unaffordable for the city ' s inhabitants. these developments have evoked comparisons with venice, a city thought to be overwhelmed by the tourist influx. construction of a new metro line connecting the part of the city north of the ij to its southern part was started in 2003. the project was controversial because its cost had exceeded its budget by a factor of three by 2008, because of fears of damage to buildings in the centre, and because construction had to be halted and restarted multiple times. the new metro line was completed in 2018. since 2014, renewed focus has been given to urban regeneration and renewal, especially in areas directly bordering the city centre, such as frederik hendrikbuurt. this urban renewal and expansion of the traditional centre of the city — with the construction on artificial islands of the new eastern ijburg neighbourhood — is