##ings such as mottled browns, greys and olives to blend into the background. some salamanders adopt defensive poses when faced by a potential predator such as the north american northern short - tailed shrew ( blarina brevicauda ). their bodies writhe and they raise and lash their tails which makes it difficult for the predator to avoid contact with their poison - producing granular glands. a few salamanders will autotomise their tails when attacked, sacrificing this part of their anatomy to enable them to escape. the tail may have a constriction at its base to allow it to be easily detached. the tail is regenerated later, but the energy cost to the animal of replacing it is significant. some frogs and toads inflate themselves to make themselves look large and fierce, and some spadefoot toads ( pelobates spp ) scream and leap towards the attacker. giant salamanders of the genus andrias, as well as ceratophrine and pyxicephalus frogs possess sharp teeth and are capable of drawing blood with a defensive bite. the blackbelly salamander ( desmognathus quadramaculatus ) can bite an attacking common garter snake ( thamnophis sirtalis ) two or three times its size on the head and often manages to escape. cognition in amphibians, there is evidence of habituation, associative learning through both classical and instrumental learning, and discrimination abilities. amphibians are widely considered to be sentient, able to feel emotions such as anxiety and fear. in one experiment, when offered live fruit flies ( drosophila virilis ), salamanders chose the larger of 1 vs 2 and 2 vs 3. frogs can distinguish between low numbers ( 1 vs 2, 2 vs 3, but not 3 vs 4 ) and large numbers ( 3 vs 6, 4 vs 8, but not 4 vs 6 ) of prey. this is irrespective of other characteristics, i. e. surface area, volume, weight and movement, although discrimination among large numbers may be based on surface area. conservation dramatic declines in amphibian populations, including population crashes and mass localized extinction, have been noted since the late 1980s from locations all over the world, and amphibian declines are thus perceived to be one of the most critical threats to global biodiversity. in 2004, the international union for conservation of nature ( iucn ) reported stating that currently birds, mammals,