his death in 1135, which indicates his closer proximity to the prince. in an effort to pursue a larger share in the leonese inheritance, his mother teresa joined forces with fernando perez de trava, the most powerful count in galicia. the portuguese nobility disliked the alliance between galicia and portugal and rallied around afonso. the archbishop of braga was also concerned with the dominance of galicia, apprehensive of the ecclesiastical pretensions of his new rival the galician archbishop of santiago de compostela, diego gelmirez, who had claimed an alleged discovery of relics of saint james in his town, as a way to gain power and riches over the other cathedrals in the iberian peninsula. in order to stop her son afonso from overthrowing her, teresa exiled him when he was twelve in the year 1120. in 1122, afonso turned fourteen, the adult age in the 12th century. in symmetry with his cousin, afonso made himself a knight on his own account in the cathedral of zamora in 1125. after the military campaign of alfonso vii against his mother in 1127, afonso revolted against her and proceeded to take control of the county from its queen. sole count in 1128, near guimaraes at the battle of sao mamede, afonso and his supporters overcame troops under both his mother and her lover, count fernando perez de traba of galicia. afonso exiled his mother to galicia, and took over rule of the county of portucale. thus the possibility of re - incorporating portucale into a kingdom of portugal and galicia as before was eliminated and afonso became sole ruler following demands for greater independence from the county ' s church and nobles. the battle was mostly ignored by the leonese suzerain who was occupied at the time with a revolt in castille. he was also, most likely, waiting for the reaction of the galician families. after teresa ' s death in 1131, alfonso vii of leon proceeded to demand vassalage from his cousin. on 6 april 1129, afonso henriques dictated the writ in which he proclaimed himself prince of portugal or prince of the portuguese, an act informally allowed by afonso vii, as it was thought to be afonso henriques ' s right by blood, as one of two grandsons of the emperor of hispania. afonso then turned his arms against the persistent problem of the moors in the south. his campaigns were successful and, on 25 july