" theophile gautier declared : " nothing remains of the marvelous painting of the greeks, but surely if anything could give the idea of antique painting as it was conceived following the statues of phidias and the poems of homer, it is m. ingres ' s painting : the venus anadyomene of apelles has been found. " other critics dismissed it as a piece of unimaginative, sentimental kitsch, but ingres himself considered it to be among his greatest works and used the same figure as the model for his later 1856 painting la source. paintings of venus were favorites of the late nineteenth - century academic artists in france. in 1863, alexandre cabanel won widespread critical acclaim at the paris salon for his painting the birth of venus, which the french emperor napoleon iii immediately purchased for his own personal art collection. edouard manet ' s 1865 painting olympia parodied the nude venuses of the academic painters, particularly cabanel ' s birth of venus. in 1867, the english academic painter frederic leighton displayed his venus disrobing for the bath at the academy. the art critic j. b. atkinson praised it, declaring that " mr leighton, instead of adopting corrupt roman notions regarding venus such as rubens embodied, has wisely reverted to the greek idea of aphrodite, a goddess worshipped, and by artists painted, as the perfection of female grace and beauty. " a year later, the english painter dante gabriel rossetti, a founding member of the pre - raphaelite brotherhood, painted venus verticordia ( latin for " aphrodite, the changer of hearts " ), showing aphrodite as a nude red - headed woman in a garden of roses. though he was reproached for his outre subject matter, rossetti refused to alter the painting and it was soon purchased by j. mitchell of bradford. in 1879, william adolphe bouguereau exhibited at the paris salon his own birth of venus, which imitated the classical tradition of contrapposto and was met with widespread critical acclaim, rivalling the popularity of cabanel ' s version from nearly two decades prior. literature william shakespeare ' s erotic narrative poem venus and adonis ( 1593 ), a retelling of the courtship of aphrodite and adonis from ovid ' s metamorphoses, was the most popular of all his works published within his own lifetime. six editions of it were published before shakespeare ' s death ( more than