for connecting flights to british columbia, eastern canada, fifteen major united states centres, nine european airports, one asian airport and four destinations in mexico and the caribbean. edmonton ' s airport acts as a hub for the canadian north and has connections to all major canadian airports as well as airports in the united states, europe, mexico, and the caribbean. public transit calgary, edmonton, red deer, medicine hat, and lethbridge have substantial public transit systems. in addition to buses, calgary and edmonton operate light rail transit ( lrt ) systems. edmonton lrt, which is underground in the downtown core and on the surface outside the downtown core was the first of the modern generation of light rail systems to be built in north america, while the calgary c train has one of the highest numbers of daily riders of any lrt system in north america. rail there are more than of operating mainline railway in alberta. the vast majority of this trackage is owned by the canadian pacific kansas city ( cpkc ) and canadian national railway ( cn ) companies, which operate freight transport across the province. additional railfreight service in the province is provided by two shortline railways : the battle river railway and forty mile rail. passenger trains include via rail ' s canadian ( toronto – vancouver ) and jasper – prince rupert trains, which use the cn mainline and pass through jasper national park and parallel the yellowhead highway during at least part of their routes. the rocky mountaineer operates two sections : one from vancouver to banff over cp tracks, and a section that travels over cn tracks to jasper. road alberta has over of highways and roads in its road network, of which nearly are paved. the main north – south corridor is highway 2, which begins south of cardston at the carway border crossing and is part of the canamex corridor. beginning at the coutts border crossing and ending at lethbridge, highway 4, effectively extends interstate 15 into alberta and is the busiest united states gateway to the province. highway 3 joins lethbridge to fort macleod and links highway 2 to highway 4. highway 2 travels north through fort macleod, calgary, red deer, and edmonton. north of edmonton, the highway continues to athabasca, then northwesterly along the south shore of lesser slave lake into high prairie, north to peace river, west to fairview and finally south to grande prairie, where it ends at an interchange with highway 43. the section of highway 2 between calgary and edmonton has been named the queen elizabeth ii highway to commemorate the visit