of a. louisae was found nearby cm11162 and cm3018. the skull was accepted as belonging to the apatosaurus specimen by douglass and carnegie museum director william h. holland, although other scientistsmost notably osbornrejected this identification. holland defended his view in 1914 in an address to the paleontological society of america, yet he left the carnegie museum mount headless. while some thought holland was attempting to avoid conflict with osborn, others suspected holland was waiting until an articulated skull and neck were found to confirm the association of the skull and skeleton. after holland ' s death in 1934, museum staff placed a cast of a camarasaurus skull on the mount. while most other museums were using cast or sculpted camarasaurus skulls on apatosaurus mounts, the yale peabody museum decided to sculpt a skull based on the lower jaw of a camarasaurus, with the cranium based on marsh ' s 1891 illustration of the skull. the skull also included forward - pointing nasalssomething unusual for any dinosaurand fenestrae differing from both the drawing and other skulls. no apatosaurus skull was mentioned in literature until the 1970s when john stanton mcintosh and david berman redescribed the skulls of diplodocus and apatosaurus. they found that though he never published his opinion, holland was almost certainly correct, that apatosaurus had a diplodocus - like skull. according to them, many skulls long thought to pertain to diplodocus might instead be those of apatosaurus. they reassigned multiple skulls to apatosaurus based on associated and closely associated vertebrae. even though they supported holland, it was noted that apatosaurus might have possessed a camarasaurus - like skull, based on a disarticulated camarasaurus - like tooth found at the precise site where an apatosaurus specimen was found years before. on october20, 1979, after the publications by mcintosh and berman, the first true skull of apatosaurus was mounted on a skeleton in a museum, that of the carnegie. in 1998, it was suggested that the felch quarry skull that marsh had included in his 1896 skeletal restoration instead belonged to brachiosaurus. recent discoveries and reassesment in 2011, the first specimen of apatosaurus where a skull was found articulated with its cervical vertebrae was described. this specimen, cmcvp7180, was found to differ in both skull and neck features from a. louisae, but shared many features of the cervical vertebrae with