ammonia is an inorganic chemical compound of nitrogen and hydrogen with the formula. a stable binary hydride and the simplest pnictogen hydride, ammonia is a colourless gas with a distinct pungent smell. biologically, it is a common nitrogenous waste, and it contributes significantly to the nutritional needs of terrestrial organisms by serving as a precursor to fertilisers. around 70 % of ammonia produced industrially is used to make fertilisers in various forms and composition, such as urea and diammonium phosphate. ammonia in pure form is also applied directly into the soil. ammonia, either directly or indirectly, is also a building block for the synthesis of many pharmaceutical products and is used in many commercial cleaning products. it is mainly collected by downward displacement of both air and water. although common in nature — both terrestrially and in the outer planets of the solar system — and in wide use, ammonia is both caustic and hazardous in its concentrated form. in many countries it is classified as an extremely hazardous substance, and is subject to strict reporting requirements by facilities that produce, store, or use it in significant quantities. the global industrial production of ammonia in 2021 was 235 million tonnes. industrial ammonia is sold either as ammonia liquor ( usually 28 % ammonia in water ) or as pressurised or refrigerated anhydrous liquid ammonia transported in tank cars or cylinders. for fundamental reasons, the production of ammonia from the elements hydrogen and nitrogen is difficult, requiring high pressures and high temperatures. the haber process that enabled industrial production was invented at the beginning of the 20th century, revolutionizing agriculture. boils at at a pressure of one atmosphere, so the liquid must be stored under pressure or at low temperature. household ammonia or ammonium hydroxide is a solution of in water. the concentration of such solutions is measured in units of the baume scale ( density ), with 26 degrees baume ( about 30 % of ammonia by weight at ) being the typical high - concentration commercial product. etymology pliny, in book xxxi of his natural history, refers to a salt named hammoniacum, so called because of its proximity to the nearby temple of jupiter amun ( greek αμμων ammon ) in the roman province of cyrenaica. however, the description pliny gives of the salt does not conform to the properties of ammonium chloride. according to herbert hoover ' s commentary in his english translation of georgius agricola ' s de re metallica, it is