. ollongren was succeeded as acting mayor by eric van der burg on 26 october 2017 and by jozias van aartsen on 4 december 2017. unlike most other dutch municipalities, amsterdam is subdivided into eight boroughs, called stadsdelen or ' districts ', and the urban area of weesp, a system that was implemented gradually in the 1980s to improve local governance. the boroughs are responsible for many activities that had previously been run by the central city. in 2010, the number of amsterdam boroughs reached fifteen. fourteen of those had their own district council ( deelraad ), elected by a popular vote. the fifteenth, westpoort, covers the harbour of amsterdam and had very few residents. therefore, it was governed by the central municipal council. under the borough system, municipal decisions are made at borough level, except for those affairs pertaining to the whole city such as major infrastructure projects, which are the jurisdiction of the central municipal authorities. in 2010, the borough system was restructured, in which many smaller boroughs merged into larger boroughs. in 2014, under a reform of the dutch municipalities act, the amsterdam boroughs lost much of their autonomous status, as their district councils were abolished. the municipal council of amsterdam voted to maintain the borough system by replacing the district councils with smaller, but still directly elected district committees ( bestuurscommissies ). under a municipal ordinance, the new district committees were granted responsibilities through delegation of regulatory and executive powers by the central municipal council. metropolitan area " amsterdam " is usually understood to refer to the municipality of amsterdam. colloquially, some areas within the municipality, such as the town of durgerdam, may not be considered part of amsterdam. statistics netherlands uses three other definitions of amsterdam : metropolitan agglomeration amsterdam ( grootstedelijke agglomeratie amsterdam, not to be confused with grootstedelijk gebied amsterdam, a synonym of groot amsterdam ), greater amsterdam ( groot amsterdam, a corop region ) and the urban region amsterdam ( stadsgewest amsterdam ). the amsterdam department for research and statistics uses a fourth conurbation, namely the stadsregio amsterdam ( ' city region of amsterdam ' ). the city region is similar to greater amsterdam but includes the municipalities of zaanstad and wormerland. it excludes graft - de rijp. the smallest of these areas is the municipality of amsterdam with a population of about 870, 000 in 2021. the larger conurbation had a population of over