boasts an approximately 5000 - year - old neolithic tomb. achillbeg (, little achill ) is a small island just off achill ' s southern tip. its inhabitants were resettled on achill in the 1960s. a plaque to johnny kilbane is situated on achillbeg and was erected to celebrate 100 years since his first championship win. the villages of dooniver and askill have picturesque scenery and the cycle route is popular with tourists. caislean ghrainne, also known as kildownet castle, is a small tower house built in the early 1400s. it is located in cloughmore, on the south of achill island. it is noted for its associations with grace o ' malley, along with the larger rockfleet castle in newport. economy while a number of attempts at setting up small industrial units on the island have been made, its economy is largely dependent on tourism. subventions from achill people working abroad allowed many families to remain living in achill throughout the 19th and 20th centuries. in the past, fishing was a significant activity but this aspect of the economy is small now. at one stage, the island was known for its shark fishing, basking shark in particular was fished for its valuable shark liver oil. there was a big spurt of growth in tourism in the 1960s and 1970s before which life was tough and difficult on the island. despite healthy visitor numbers each year, the common perception is that tourism in achill has been slowly declining since its heyday. currently, the largest employers on achill are two hotels. religion most people on achill are either roman catholic or anglican ( church of ireland ). overview of the churches catholic : bunnacurry church ( saint josephs ) the valley church ; only open for certain events. dookinella church currane church pollagh church derreens church dooega church belfarsed church achill sound church church of ireland : dugort church ( st. thomas ' s church ) innisbiggle island church other : house of prayer, achill artists for almost two centuries, a number of artists have had a close relationship with achill island, including the landscape painter paul henry. within the emerging irish free state, paul henry ' s landscapes from achill and other areas reinforced a vision of ireland of communities living in harmony with the land. he lived in achill for almost a decade with his wife, artist grace henry and, while using similar subject - matter, the pair developed very different styles. this