fearless response to soldier ants. hausa magicians make a charm from the heart, skin, forehead, and nails of the aardvark, which they then proceed to pound together with the root of a certain tree. wrapped in a piece of skin and worn on the chest, the charm is said to give the owner the ability to pass through walls or roofs at night. the charm is said to be used by burglars and those seeking to visit young girls without their parents ' permission. also, some tribes, such as the margbetu, ayanda, and logo, will use aardvark teeth to make bracelets, which are regarded as good luck charms. the meat, which has a resemblance to pork, is eaten in certain cultures. in the mythology of the dagbon people of ghana, the aardvark is believed to possess superpowers. the dagombas believe this animal can transfigure into and interact with humans. the ancient egyptian god set is usually depicted with the head of an unidentified animal, whose similarity to an aardvark has been noted in scholarship. the titular character and his families from arthur, an animated television series for children based on a book series and produced by wgbh, shown in more than 180 countries, is an aardvark. in the first book of the series, arthur ' s nose ( 1976 ), he has a long, aardvark - like nose, but in later books, his face becomes more rounded. otis the aardvark was a puppet character used on children ' s bbc programming. an aardvark features as the antagonist in the cartoon the ant and the aardvark as well as in the canadian animated series the raccoons. the supersonic fighter - bomber f - 111 / fb - 111 was nicknamed the aardvark because of its long nose resembling the animal. it also had similarities with its nocturnal missions flown at a very low level employing ordnance that could penetrate deep into the ground. in the us navy, the squadron vf - 114 was nicknamed the aardvarks, flying f - 4s and then f - 14s. the squadron mascot was adapted from the animal in the comic strip b. c., which the f - 4 was said to resemble. cerebus the aardvark is a 300 - issue comic book series by dave sim. footnotes references external links iucn / ssc afrotheria specialist group a youtube video introducing