of europe ' s leading companies carried out by global real estate consultant cushman & wakefield – amsterdam is one of the top european cities in which to locate an international business, ranking fifth in the survey. with the survey determining london, paris, frankfurt and barcelona as the four european cities surpassing amsterdam in this regard. a substantial number of large corporations and banks ' headquarters are located in the amsterdam area, including : akzonobel, heineken international, ing group, abn amro, tomtom, delta lloyd group, booking. com and philips. although many small offices remain along the historic canals, centrally based companies have increasingly relocated outside amsterdam ' s city centre. consequently, the zuidas ( english : south axis ) has become the new financial and legal hub of amsterdam, with the country ' s five largest law firms and several subsidiaries of large consulting firms, such as boston consulting group and accenture, as well as the world trade centre ( amsterdam ) located in the zuidas district. in addition to the zuidas, there are three smaller financial districts in amsterdam : around amsterdam sloterdijk railway station. where one can find the offices of several newspapers, such as de telegraaf. as well as those of deloitte, the gemeentelijk vervoerbedrijf ( municipal public transport company ), and the dutch tax offices ( belastingdienst ) ; around the johan cruyff arena in amsterdam zuidoost, with the headquarters of ing group ; around the amstel railway station in the amsterdam - oost district to the east of the historical city. amsterdam ' s tallest building, the rembrandt tower, is located here. as are the headquarters of philips, the dutch multinational conglomerate. amsterdam has been a leading city to reduce the use of raw materials and has created a plan to become a circular city by 2050. the adjoining municipality of amstelveen is the location of kpmg international ' s global headquarters. other non - dutch companies have chosen to settle in communities surrounding amsterdam since they allow freehold property ownership, whereas amsterdam retains ground rent. the amsterdam stock exchange ( aex ), now part of euronext, is the world ' s oldest stock exchange and, due to brexit, has overtaken lse as the largest bourse in europe. it is near dam square in the city centre. port of amsterdam the port of amsterdam is the fourth - largest port in europe, the 38th largest port