by apellicon and returned to athens in about. apellicon sought to recover the texts, many of which were seriously degraded at this point due to the conditions in which they were stored. he had them copied out into new manuscripts, and used his best guesswork to fill in the gaps where the originals were unreadable. when sulla seized athens in, he seized the library and transferred it to rome. there, andronicus of rhodes organized the texts into the first complete edition of aristotle ' s works ( and works attributed to him ). the aristotelian texts we have to day are based on these. legacy depictions paintings aristotle has been depicted by major artists including lucas cranach the elder, justus van gent, raphael, paolo veronese, jusepe de ribera, rembrandt, and francesco hayez over the centuries. among the best - known depictions is raphael ' s fresco the school of athens, in the vatican ' s apostolic palace, where the figures of plato and aristotle are central to the image, at the architectural vanishing point, reflecting their importance. rembrandt ' s aristotle with a bust of homer, too, is a celebrated work, showing the knowing philosopher and the blind homer from an earlier age : as the art critic jonathan jones writes, " this painting will remain one of the greatest and most mysterious in the world, ensnaring us in its musty, glowing, pitch - black, terrible knowledge of time. " sculptures eponyms the aristotle mountains in antarctica are named after aristotle. he was the first person known to conjecture, in his book meteorology, the existence of a landmass in the southern high - latitude region, which he called antarctica. aristoteles is a crater on the moon bearing the classical form of aristotle ' s name. see also aristotelian society conimbricenses perfectionism references notes citations sources further reading the secondary literature on aristotle is vast. the following is only a small selection. ackrill, j. l. ( 1997 ). essays on plato and aristotle, oxford university press. these translations are available in several places online ; see external links. bakalis, nikolaos. ( 2005 ). handbook of greek philosophy : from thales to the stoics analysis and fragments, trafford publishing,. bolotin, david ( 1998 ). an approach to aristotle ' s physics : with particular attention to the role of his manner of writing. albany : suny press. a