to live in the imperial residence. however, some degree of agrippina ' s influence over her son still lasted several more years, and they are considered the best years of nero ' s reign. but their relationship grew more hostile and nero gradually deprived his mother of honours and powers, and even removed her roman and german bodyguards. nero even threatened his mother that he would abdicate the throne and would go to live on the greek island of rhodes, a place where tiberius had lived after divorcing julia the elder. pallas also was dismissed from the court. the fall of pallas and the opposition of burrus and seneca to agrippina contributed to her scaling down of authority. in mid - 56, she was forced out of everyday and active participation in the governance of rome. while agrippina lived in her residence or when she went on short visits to rome, nero sent people to annoy her. although living in misenum, she was always hailed as " augusta ", and agrippina and nero would see each other on short visits. in late 58, agrippina and a group of soldiers and senators were accused of attempting to overthrow nero, and it was said they planned to move with gaius rubellius plautus. in addition, she revealed nero ' s relationship with poppaea sabina. death and aftermath the circumstances that surround agrippina ' s death are uncertain due to historical contradictions and anti - nero bias. all surviving stories of agrippina ' s death contradict themselves and each other, and are generally fantastical. tacitus ' s account according to tacitus, in 58, nero became involved with the noble woman poppaea sabina. she taunted him for being a " mummy ' s boy. " she also convinced him of the autonomy of any other emperor. with the reasoning that a divorce from octavia and a marriage to poppaea was not politically feasible with agrippina alive, nero decided to kill agrippina. yet, nero did not marry poppaea until 62, calling into question this motive. additionally, suetonius reveals that poppaea ' s husband, otho, was not sent away by nero until after agrippina ' s death in 59, making it highly unlikely that already married poppaea would be pressing nero. some modern historians theorise that nero ' s decision to kill agrippina was prompted by her plot to replace him with either gaius rubellius plautus ( nero ' s maternal second cousin