make no appearance at the trial, nor publicly comment about the proceedings, and except for a pair of interviews in april, he complied. johnson maneuvered to gain an acquittal ; for example, he pledged to iowa senator james w. grimes that he would not interfere with congress ' s reconstruction efforts. grimes reported to a group of moderates, many of whom voted for acquittal, that he believed the president would keep his word. johnson also promised to install the respected john schofield as war secretary. kansas senator edmund g. ross received assurances that the new, radical - influenced constitutions ratified in south carolina and arkansas would be transmitted to the congress without delay, an action which would give him and other senators political cover to vote for acquittal. one reason senators were reluctant to remove the president was that his successor would have been ohio senator wade, the president pro tempore of the senate. wade, a lame duck who left office in early 1869, was a radical who supported such measures as women ' s suffrage, placing him beyond the pale politically in much of the nation. additionally, a president wade was seen as an obstacle to grant ' s ambitions. with the dealmaking, johnson was confident of the result in advance of the verdict, and in the days leading up to the ballot, newspapers reported that stevens and his radicals had given up. on may 16, the senate voted on the 11th article of impeachment, accusing johnson of firing stanton in violation of the tenure of office of act once the senate had overturned his suspension. thirty - five senators voted " guilty " and 19 " not guilty ", thus falling short by a single vote of the two - thirds majority required for conviction under the constitution. ten republicans — senators grimes, ross, trumbull, james dixon, james rood doolittle, daniel sheldon norton, william pitt fessenden, joseph s. fowler, john b. henderson, and peter g. van winkle — voted to acquit the president. with stevens bitterly disappointed at the result, the senate then adjourned for the republican national convention ; grant was nominated for president. the senate returned on may 26 and voted on the second and third articles, with identical 35 – 19 results. faced with those results, johnson ' s opponents gave up and dismissed proceedings. stanton " relinquished " his office on may 26, and the senate subsequently confirmed schofield. when johnson renominated stanbery to return to his position as attorney general after his service as a defense manager, the senate