may belong to either alfred or his son edward, but this remains unproven. legacy henry vi of england attempted unsuccessfully to have alfred canonized by pope eugene iv in 1441. the current " roman martyrology " does not mention alfred. the anglican communion venerates him as a christian hero, with a lesser festival on 26 october, and he may often be found depicted in stained glass in church of england parish churches. in 2007 the holy synod of the russian orthodox church canonised " all saints of the british isles " including king alfred. he is honoured during the feast of all saints of the british isles on the third sunday after pentecost and on his feast day of 26 october. there is an orthodox mission named after st alfred in middleburg, florida. alfred commissioned bishop asser to write his biography, which inevitably emphasised alfred ' s positive aspects. later medieval historians such as geoffrey of monmouth also reinforced alfred ' s favourable image. by the time of the reformation, alfred was seen as a pious christian ruler who promoted the use of english rather than latin, and so the translations that he commissioned were viewed as untainted by the later roman catholic influences of the normans. consequently, it was writers of the 16th century who gave alfred his epithet as " the great ", not any of alfred ' s contemporaries. the epithet was retained by succeeding generations who admired alfred ' s patriotism, success against barbarism, promotion of education, and establishment of the rule of law. a number of educational establishments are named in alfred ' s honour : the university of winchester created from the former king alfred ' s college, winchester ( 1928 to 2004 ) alfred university and alfred state college in alfred, new york ; the local telephone exchange for alfred university is 871 in commemoration of the year of alfred ' s ascension to the throne. additionally, the mascot of alfred university is named lil ' alf and is modeled after the king the university of liverpool created a king alfred chair of english literature king alfred ' s academy, a secondary school in wantage, oxfordshire, the birthplace of alfred king ' s lodge school in chippenham, wiltshire, so named because king alfred ' s hunting lodge is reputed to have stood on or near the site of the school the king alfred school and specialist sports academy, burnham road, highbridge, so named due to its rough proximity to brent knoll ( a beacon site ) and athelney the king alfred school in barnet, north london, uk king alfred ' s house in bishop stopford ' s school at