ashes, australia ' s captains bob simpson and bill lawry were happy to adopt safety - first tactics and their strategy of sedate batting saw many draws. during this period, spectator attendances dropped and media condemnation increased, but simpson and lawry flatly disregarded the public dissatisfaction. it was in the 1960s that the bipolar dominance of england and australia in world cricket was seriously challenged for the first time. west indies defeated england twice in the mid - 1960s and south africa, in two series before they were banned for apartheid, completely outplayed australia 3 – 1 and 4 – 0. australia had lost 2 – 1 during a tour of the west indies in 1964 – 65, the first time it had lost a series to any team other than england. in 1970 – 71, ray illingworth led england to a 2 – 0 win in australia, mainly due to john snow ' s fast bowling, and the prolific batting of geoffrey boycott and john edrich. it was not until the last session of what was the 7th test ( one match having been abandoned without a ball bowled ) that england ' s success was secured. lawry was sacked after the sixth test after the selectors finally lost patience with australia ' s lack of success and dour strategy. lawry was not informed of the decision privately and heard his fate over the radio. 1972 to 1987 the 1972 series finished 2 – 2, with england under illingworth retaining the ashes. in the 1974 – 75 series, with the england team breaking up and their best batsman geoff boycott refusing to play, australian pace bowlers jeff thomson and dennis lillee wreaked havoc. a 4 – 1 result was a fair reflection as england were left shell shocked. england then lost the 1975 series 0 – 1, but at least restored some pride under new captain tony greig. australia won the 1977 centenary test which was not an ashes contest, but then a storm broke as kerry packer announced his intention to form world series cricket. wsc affected all test - playing nations but it weakened australia especially as the bulk of its players had signed up with packer ; the australian cricket board ( acb ) would not select wsc - contracted players and an almost completely new test team had to be formed. wsc came after an era during which the duopoly of australian and english dominance dissipated ; the ashes had long been seen as a cricket world championship but the rise of the west indies in the late 1970s challenged that view. the west indies would go on to record resounding test series wins over