##sh and bered. she then did as she was instructed by returning to her mistress in order to have her child. abram was 86 years of age when ishmael was born. sarah thirteen years later, when abram was 99 years of age, god declared abram ' s new name : " abraham " – " a father of many nations ". abraham then received the instructions for the covenant of the pieces, of which circumcision was to be the sign. god declared sarai ' s new name : " sarah ", blessed her, and told abraham, " i will give thee a son also of her ". abraham laughed, and " said in his heart, ' shall a child be born unto him that is a hundred years old? and shall sarah, that is ninety years old, bear [ a child ]? ' " immediately after abraham ' s encounter with god, he had his entire household of men, including himself ( age 99 ) and ishmael ( age 13 ), circumcised. three visitors not long afterward, during the heat of the day, abraham had been sitting at the entrance of his tent by the terebinths of mamre. he looked up and saw three men in the presence of god. then he ran and bowed to the ground to welcome them. abraham then offered to wash their feet and fetch them a morsel of bread, to which they assented. abraham rushed to sarah ' s tent to order ash cakes made from choice flour, then he ordered a servant - boy to prepare a choice calf. when all was prepared, he set curds, milk and the calf before them, waiting on them, under a tree, as they ate. one of the visitors told abraham that upon his return next year, sarah would have a son. while at the tent entrance, sarah overheard what was said and she laughed to herself about the prospect of having a child at their ages. the visitor inquired of abraham why sarah laughed at bearing a child at her age, as nothing is too hard for god. frightened, sarah denied laughing. abraham ' s plea after eating, abraham and the three visitors got up. they walked over to the peak that overlooked the ' cities of the plain ' to discuss the fate of sodom and gomorrah for their detestable sins that were so great, it moved god to action. because abraham ' s nephew was living in sodom, god revealed plans to confirm and judge these cities. at this point, the two other