psychosis, can be reversible with treatment. complications may include a neurological complex known as subacute combined degeneration of spinal cord, and other neurological disorders. hypothyroidism symptoms of neurological dysfunction may be the presenting feature in some patients with hypothyroidism. these include reversible cerebellar ataxia, dementia, peripheral neuropathy, psychosis and coma. most of the neurological complications improve completely after thyroid hormone replacement therapy. causes of isolated sensory ataxia peripheral neuropathies may cause generalised or localised sensory ataxia ( e. g. a limb only ) depending on the extent of the neuropathic involvement. spinal disorders of various types may cause sensory ataxia from the lesioned level below, when they involve the dorsal columns. non - hereditary cerebellar degeneration non - hereditary causes of cerebellar degeneration include chronic alcohol use disorder, head injury, paraneoplastic and non - paraneoplastic autoimmune ataxia, high altitude cerebral oedema, coeliac disease, normal pressure hydrocephalus and infectious or post - infectious cerebellitis. hereditary ataxias ataxia may depend on hereditary disorders consisting of degeneration of the cerebellum or of the spine ; most cases feature both to some extent, and therefore present with overlapping cerebellar and sensory ataxia, even though one is often more evident than the other. hereditary disorders causing ataxia include autosomal dominant ones such as spinocerebellar ataxia, episodic ataxia, and dentatorubropallidoluysian atrophy, as well as autosomal recessive disorders such as friedreich ' s ataxia ( sensory and cerebellar, with the former predominating ) and niemann pick disease, ataxia - telangiectasia ( sensory and cerebellar, with the latter predominating ), autosomal recessive spinocerebellar ataxia - 14 and abetalipoproteinaemia. an example of x - linked ataxic condition is the rare fragile x - associated tremor / ataxia syndrome or fxtas. arnold – chiari malformation ( congenital ataxia ) arnold – chiari malformation is a malformation of the brain. it consists of a downward displacement of the cerebellar tonsils and the medulla through the foramen magnum, sometimes causing hydrocepha