and became lost to history. the vandalic war of 533 – 534 dispersed the defeated vandals. following their final defeat at the battle of mons lactarius in 553, the ostrogoths went back north and ( re ) settled in south austria. from the 5th to the 7th century much of south - eastern europe and central europe, including many of the goths and vandals respectively, had embraced arianism ( the visigoths converted to arian christianity in 376 through their bishop wulfila ), which led to arianism being a religious factor in various wars in the roman empire. in the west, organized arianism survived in north africa, in hispania, and parts of italy until it was finally suppressed in the 6th and 7th centuries. visigothic spain converted to nicene christianity through their king reccared i at the third council of toledo in 589. grimoald, king of the lombards ( 662 – 671 ), and his young son and successor garibald ( 671 ), were the last arian kings in europe. from the 16th to the 19th century following the protestant reformation from 1517, it did not take long for arian and other nontrinitarian views to resurface. the first recorded english antitrinitarian was john assheton, who was forced to recant before thomas cranmer in 1548. at the anabaptist council of venice 1550, the early italian instigators of the radical reformation committed to the views of michael servetus, who was burned alive by the orders of john calvin in 1553, and these were promulgated by giorgio biandrata and others into poland and transylvania. the antitrinitarian wing of the polish reformation separated from the calvinist ecclesia maior to form the ecclesia minor or polish brethren. these were commonly referred to as " arians " due to their rejection of the trinity, though in fact the socinians, as they were later known, went further than arius to the position of photinus. the epithet " arian " was also applied to the early unitarians such as john biddle, though in denial of the pre - existence of christ they were again largely socinians, not arians. in 1683, when anthony ashley cooper, 1st earl of shaftesbury, lay dying in amsterdam — driven into exile by his outspoken opposition to king charles ii — he spoke to the minister robert ferguson