validate law enforcement requests and detect abuse. " corporate affairs leadership senior management as of march 16, 2021, the management of apple inc. includes : tim cook ( chief executive officer ) jeff williams ( chief operating officer ) luca maestri ( senior vice president and chief financial officer ) katherine l. adams ( senior vice president and general counsel ) eddy cue ( senior vice president – internet software and services ) craig federighi ( senior vice president – software engineering ) john giannandrea ( senior vice president – machine learning and ai strategy ) deirdre o ' brien ( senior vice president – retail + people ) john ternus ( senior vice president – hardware engineering ) greg josiwak ( senior vice president – worldwide marketing ) johny srouji ( senior vice president – hardware technologies ) sabih khan ( senior vice president – operations ) board of directors as of january 20, 2023, the board of directors of apple inc. includes : arthur d. levinson ( chairman ) tim cook ( executive director and ceo ) james a. bell al gore alex gorsky andrea jung monica lozano ronald sugar susan wagner previous ceos michael scott ( 1977 – 1981 ) mike markkula ( 1981 – 1983 ) john sculley ( 1983 – 1993 ) michael spindler ( 1993 – 1996 ) gil amelio ( 1996 – 1997 ) steve jobs ( 1997 – 2011 ) corporate culture apple is one of several highly successful companies founded in the 1970s that bucked the traditional notions of corporate culture. jobs often walked around the office barefoot even after apple became a fortune 500 company. by the time of the " 1984 " television advertisement, apple ' s informal culture had become a key trait that differentiated it from its competitors. according to a 2011 report in fortune, this has resulted in a corporate culture more akin to a startup rather than a multinational corporation. in a 2017 interview, wozniak credited watching star trek and attending star trek conventions while in his youth as a source of inspiration for his co - founding apple. as the company has grown and been led by a series of differently opinionated chief executives, it has arguably lost some of its original character. nonetheless, it has maintained a reputation for fostering individuality and excellence that reliably attracts talented workers, particularly after jobs returned to the company. numerous apple employees have stated that projects without jobs ' s involvement often took longer than projects with it. to recognize the best of its employees, apple created the apple fellows program which awards individuals who make extraordinary technical or leadership contributions to personal