as " undisputed masterpieces ". hitchcock had intended to film marnie first, and in march 1962 it was announced that grace kelly, princess grace of monaco since 1956, would come out of retirement to star in it. when kelly asked hitchcock to postpone marnie until 1963 or 1964, he recruited evan hunter, author of the blackboard jungle ( 1954 ), to develop a screenplay based on a daphne du maurier short story, " the birds " ( 1952 ), which hitchcock had republished in his my favorites in suspense ( 1959 ). he hired tippi hedren to play the lead role. it was her first role ; she had been a model in new york when hitchcock saw her, in october 1961, in an nbc television advert for sego, a diet drink : " i signed her because she is a classic beauty. movies don ' t have them any more. grace kelly was the last. " he insisted, without explanation, that her first name be written in single quotation marks : ' tippi '. in the birds, melanie daniels, a young socialite, meets lawyer mitch brenner ( rod taylor ) in a bird shop ; jessica tandy plays his possessive mother. hedren visits him in bodega bay ( where the birds was filmed ) carrying a pair of lovebirds as a gift. suddenly waves of birds start gathering, watching, and attacking. the question : " what do the birds want? " is left unanswered. hitchcock made the film with equipment from the revue studio, which made alfred hitchcock presents. he said it was his most technically challenging film, using a combination of trained and mechanical birds against a backdrop of wild ones. every shot was sketched in advance. an hbo / bbc television film, the girl ( 2012 ), depicted hedren ' s experiences on set ; she said that hitchcock became obsessed with her and sexually harassed her. he reportedly isolated her from the rest of the crew, had her followed, whispered obscenities to her, had her handwriting analysed and had a ramp built from his private office directly into her trailer. diane baker, her co - star in marnie, said : " [ n ] othing could have been more horrible for me than to arrive on that movie set and to see her being treated the way she was. " while filming the attack scene in the attic — which took a week to film — she was placed in a caged room while two men wearing elbow - length protective gloves threw