. acacia arabica ) is the gum arabic tree of india, but yields a gum inferior to the true gum arabic. gum arabic is used in a wide variety of food products, including some soft drinks and confections. the ancient egyptians used acacia gum in paints. the gum of acacia xanthophloea and acacia karroo has a high sugar content and is sought out by the lesser bushbaby. acacia karroo gum was once used for making confectionery and traded under the name " cape gum ". it was also used medicinally to treat cattle suffering poisoning by moraea species. uses in folk medicine acacia species have possible uses in folk medicine. a 19th - century ethiopian medical text describes a potion made from an ethiopian species ( known as grar ) mixed with the root of the tacha, then boiled, as a cure for rabies. an astringent medicine high in tannins, called catechu or cutch, is procured from several species, but more especially from senegalia catechu ( syn. acacia catechu ), by boiling down the wood and evaporating the solution so as to get an extract. the catechu extract from a. catechu figures in the history of chemistry in giving its name to the catechin, catechol, and catecholamine chemical families ultimately derived from it. ornamental uses a few species are widely grown as ornamentals in gardens ; the most popular perhaps is a. dealbata ( silver wattle ), with its attractive glaucous to silvery leaves and bright yellow flowers ; it is erroneously known as " mimosa " in some areas where it is cultivated, through confusion with the related genus mimosa. another ornamental acacia is the fever tree. southern european florists use a. baileyana, a. dealbata, a. pycnantha and a. retinodes as cut flowers and the common name there for them is mimosa. ornamental species of acacias are also used by homeowners and landscape architects for home security. the sharp thorns of some species are a deterrent to trespassing, and may prevent break - ins if planted under windows and near drainpipes. the aesthetic characteristics of acacia plants, in conjunction with their home security qualities, makes them a reasonable alternative to constructed fences and walls. perfume acacia farnesiana is used in the perfume industry due to its strong fragrance. the use of acacia as a fragrance dates back centuries