##gatashoka, sudatta ( so - ta - to in a - yi - uang - chuan ), or sugatra ( siu - ka - tu - lu in fen - pie - kung - te - hun ). the figures such as 99 and 100 are exaggerated and seem to be a way of stating that ashoka killed several of his brothers. taranatha states that ashoka, who was an illegitimate son of his predecessor, killed six legitimate princes to ascend the throne. it is possible that ashoka was not the rightful heir to the throne and killed a brother ( or brothers ) to acquire the throne. however, the buddhist sources have exaggerated the story, which attempts to portray him as evil before his conversion to buddhism. ashoka ' s rock edict no. 5 mentions officers whose duties include supervising the welfare of " the families of his brothers, sisters, and other relatives ". this suggests that more than one of his brothers survived his ascension. however, some scholars oppose this suggestion, arguing that the inscription talks only about the families of his brothers, not the brothers themselves. date of ascension according to the sri lankan texts mahavamsa and the dipavamsa, ashoka ascended the throne 218 years after the death of gautama buddha and ruled for 37 years. the date of the buddha ' s death is itself a matter of debate, and the north indian tradition states that ashoka ruled a hundred years after the buddha ' s death, which has led to further debates about the date. assuming that the sri lankan tradition is correct, and assuming that the buddha died in 483 bce – a date proposed by several scholars – ashoka must have ascended the throne in 265 bce. the puranas state that ashoka ' s father bindusara reigned for 25 years, not 28 years as specified in the sri lankan tradition. if this is true, ashoka ' s ascension can be dated three years earlier, to 268 bce. alternatively, if the sri lankan tradition is correct, but if we assume that the buddha died in 486 bce ( a date supported by the cantonese dotted record ), ashoka ' s ascension can be dated to 268 bce. the mahavamsa states that ashoka consecrated himself as the king four years after becoming a sovereign. this interregnum can be explained assuming that he fought a war of succession with other sons of bindusara during these four years. the ashokavadana contains a story about ashoka ' s minister yashas hiding the