ashes series was regarded as a turning point for both sides. australia were criticised for being too reliant on captain steve smith and vice - captain david warner, while england was said to have a shoddy middle to lower order. off the field, england all - rounder ben stokes was ruled out of the side indefinitely due to a police investigation. australia won the first test match in brisbane by 10 wickets and the second test at adelaide by 120 runs in the first ever day - night ashes test match. australia regained the ashes with an innings and 41 run win in the third test at perth ; the final ashes test at the waca ground. prior to the 2019 ashes series, both teams were considered to have very strong bowling attacks but struggling batting orders. australia had its top - order batsmen david warner, steve smith and cameron bancroft available for international selection after being banned from international cricket for 9 – 12 months following the ball - tampering scandal in south africa, during which time india had won its first ever test series in australia. however, australia recovered to win the test series against sri lanka 2 – 0. despite winning the cricket world cup in july 2019 for the first time, england had also been criticised for its fragile top - order in tests. the retirement of opener alastair cook in august 2018 ensured potential top - order batsmen rory burns, joe denly and jason roy were able to secure a place in the side. despite losing a test series 2 – 1 in their tour of the west indies, england then improved to win the one - off test against ireland, by 143 runs. the 2019 series was eventually drawn 2 – 2, with australia retaining the ashes. the 2021 ashes series was played from december 2021 through january 2022, and featured the first ashes test match to be played in tasmania, at hobart ' s bellerive oval. australia retained the ashes in the 2021 – 22 ashes series, after comfortably beating england 4 – 0. england were the hosts of five test matches of the 2023 ashes series. the series got off to a good start for australia as they won the first two tests to go 0 - 2 up. the hosts won the third test to put the series at 1 - 2 for the visitors. england needed to win the fourth test in a hope to not only level the series but prevent australia from retaining the ashes. the match looked good for england to win, but rain intervened on the last two days and forced a draw, thus australia retained the ashes with the series at 1 - 2 after four tests