the austrian school is a heterodox school of economic thought that advocates strict adherence to methodological individualism, the concept that social phenomena result exclusively from the motivations and actions of individuals. austrian school theorists hold that economic theory should be exclusively derived from basic principles of human action. the austrian school originated in vienna with the work of carl menger, eugen von bohm - bawerk, friedrich von wieser, and others. it was methodologically opposed to the historical school ( based in germany ), in a dispute known as methodenstreit, or methodology struggle. current - day economists working in this tradition are located in many different countries, but their work is still referred to as austrian economics. among the theoretical contributions of the early years of the austrian school are the subjective theory of value, marginalism in price theory and the formulation of the economic calculation problem, each of which has become an accepted part of mainstream economics. in the 1970s, the austrian school attracted some renewed interest after friedrich hayek shared the 1974 nobel memorial prize in economic sciences with gunnar myrdal. history etymology the austrian school owes its name to members of the german historical school of economics, who argued against the austrians during the late 19th - century methodenstreit ( " methodology struggle " ), in which the austrians defended the role of theory in economics as distinct from the study or compilation of historical circumstance. in 1883, menger published investigations into the method of the social sciences with special reference to economics, which attacked the methods of the historical school. gustav von schmoller, a leader of the historical school, responded with an unfavorable review, coining the term " austrian school " in an attempt to characterize the school as outcast and provincial. the label endured and was adopted by the adherents themselves. first wave the school originated in vienna in the austrian empire. carl menger ' s 1871 book principles of economics is generally considered the founding of the austrian school. the book was one of the first modern treatises to advance the theory of marginal utility. the austrian school was one of three founding currents of the marginalist revolution of the 1870s, with its major contribution being the introduction of the subjectivist approach in economics. despite such claim, john stuart mill had used value in use in this sense in 1848 in principles of political economy, where he wrote : " value in use, or as mr. de quincey calls it, teleologic value, is the extreme limit of value in exchange. the exchange value of a thing