azerbaijan democratic republic in 1918 when the national army of the newly formed azerbaijan democratic republic was created on 26 june 1918. when azerbaijan gained independence after the dissolution of the soviet union, the armed forces of the republic of azerbaijan were created according to the law on the armed forces of 9 october 1991. the original date of the establishment of the short - lived national army is celebrated as army day ( 26 june ) in today ' s azerbaijan. as of 2021, azerbaijan had 126, 000 active personnel in its armed forces. there are also 17, 000 paramilitary troops and 330, 00 reserve personnel. the armed forces have three branches : the land forces, the air forces and the navy. additionally the armed forces embrace several military sub - groups that can be involved in state defense when needed. these are the internal troops of the ministry of internal affairs and the state border service, which includes the coast guard as well. the azerbaijan national guard is a further paramilitary force. it operates as a semi - independent entity of the special state protection service, an agency subordinate to the president. azerbaijan adheres to the treaty on conventional armed forces in europe and has signed all major international arms and weapons treaties. azerbaijan closely cooperates with nato in programs such as partnership for peace and individual partnership action plan / pfp and ipa. azerbaijan has deployed 151 of its peacekeeping forces in iraq and another 184 in afghanistan. azerbaijan spent $ 2. 24 billion on its defence budget, which amounted to 5. 4 % of its total gdp, and some 12. 7 % of general government expenditure. azerbaijani defense industry manufactures small arms, artillery systems, tanks, armors and night vision devices, aviation bombs, uav ' s / unmanned aerial vehicle, various military vehicles and military planes and helicopters. administrative divisions azerbaijan is administratively divided into 14 economic regions ; 66 rayons (, singular ) and 11 cities (, singular ) under the direct authority of the republic. moreover, azerbaijan includes the autonomous republic ( ) of nakhchivan. the president of azerbaijan appoints the governors of these units, while the government of nakhchivan is elected and approved by the parliament of nakhchivan autonomous republic. economy after gaining independence in 1991, azerbaijan became a member of the international monetary fund, the world bank, the european bank for reconstruction and development, the islamic development bank, and the asian development bank. the banking system of azerbaijan consists of the central bank of azerbaijan, commercial banks, and non - banking credit organizations. the national ( now central ) bank was created in 1992 based on the azerbaijan state