professional subcultures ", as in the ability to treat the world as a detached entity within a delimited sphere of activity. human beings continue to create personal relationships with elements of the aforementioned objective world, such as pets, cars, or teddy bears, which are recognized as subjects. as such, these entities are " approached as communicative subjects rather than the inert objects perceived by modernists. " these approaches aim to avoid the modernist assumption that the environment consists of a physical world distinct from the world of humans, as well as the modernist conception of the person being composed dualistically of a body and a soul. nurit bird - david argues that : she explains that animism is a " relational epistemology " rather than a failure of primitive reasoning. that is, self - identity among animists is based on their relationships with others, rather than any distinctive features of the " self ". instead of focusing on the essentialized, modernist self ( the " individual " ), persons are viewed as bundles of social relationships ( " dividuals " ), some of which include " superpersons " ( i. e. non - humans ). stewart guthrie expressed criticism of bird - david ' s attitude towards animism, believing that it promulgated the view that " the world is in large measure whatever our local imagination makes it. " this, he felt, would result in anthropology abandoning " the scientific project. " like bird - david, tim ingold argues that animists do not see themselves as separate from their environment : rane willerslev extends the argument by noting that animists reject this cartesian dualism and that the animist self identifies with the world, " feeling at once within and apart from it so that the two glide ceaselessly in and out of each other in a sealed circuit ". the animist hunter is thus aware of himself as a human hunter, but, through mimicry, is able to assume the viewpoint, senses, and sensibilities of his prey, to be one with it. shamanism, in this view, is an everyday attempt to influence spirits of ancestors and animals, by mirroring their behaviors, as the hunter does its prey. ethical and ecological understanding cultural ecologist and philosopher david abram proposed an ethical and ecological understanding of animism, grounded in the phenomenology of sensory experience. in his books the spell of the sensuous and becoming animal, abram suggests that material things are never entirely passive