born from metis, zeus, and herself ; various legends list her as being the first child after artemis and apollo, though other legends identify her as zeus ' first child. several scholars have suggested a connection to the rigvedic god trita, who was sometimes grouped in a body of three mythological poets. michael janda has connected the myth of trita to the scene in the iliad in which the " three brothers " zeus, poseidon, and hades divide the world between them, receiving the " broad sky ", the sea, and the underworld respectively. janda further connects the myth of athena being born of the head ( i. e. the uppermost part ) of zeus, understanding trito - ( which perhaps originally meant " the third " ) as another word for " the sky ". in janda ' s analysis of indo - european mythology, this heavenly sphere is also associated with the mythological body of water surrounding the inhabited world ( cfr. triton ' s mother, amphitrite ). yet another possible meaning is mentioned in diogenes laertius ' biography of democritus, that athena was called " tritogeneia " because three things, on which all mortal life depends, come from her. cult and patronages panhellenic and athenian cult in her aspect of athena polias, athena was venerated as the goddess of the city and the protectress of the citadel. in athens, the plynteria, or " feast of the bath ", was observed every year at the end of the month of thargelion. the festival lasted for five days. during this period, the priestesses of athena, or plyntrides, performed a cleansing ritual within the erechtheion, a sanctuary devoted to athena and poseidon. here athena ' s statue was undressed, her clothes washed, and body purified. athena was worshipped at festivals such as chalceia as athena ergane, the patroness of various crafts, especially weaving. she was also the patron of metalworkers and was believed to aid in the forging of armor and weapons. during the late fifth century bc, the role of goddess of philosophy became a major aspect of athena ' s cult. as athena promachos, she was believed to lead soldiers into battle. athena represented the disciplined, strategic side of war, in contrast to her brother ares, the patron of violence, bloodlust, and slaughter — " the raw force of war ". athena was believed to only support