of waves it would " bend and spread every way " into the shadows. huygens ' s theory neatly explained the law of ordinary reflection and the law of ordinary refraction ( " snell ' s law " ), provided that the secondary waves traveled slower in denser media ( those of higher refractive index ). the corpuscular theory, with the hypothesis that the corpuscles were subject to forces acting perpendicular to surfaces, explained the same laws equally well, albeit with the implication that light traveled faster in denser media ; that implication was wrong, but could not be directly disproven with the technology of newton ' s time or even fresnel ' s time. similarly inconclusive was stellar aberration — that is, the apparent change in the position of a star due to the velocity of the earth across the line of sight ( not to be confused with stellar parallax, which is due to the displacement of the earth across the line of sight ). identified by james bradley in 1728, stellar aberration was widely taken as confirmation of the corpuscular theory. but it was equally compatible with the wave theory, as euler noted in 1746 — tacitly assuming that the aether ( the supposed wave - bearing medium ) near the earth was not disturbed by the motion of the earth. the outstanding strength of huygens ' s theory was his explanation of the birefringence ( double refraction ) of " iceland crystal " ( transparent calcite ), on the assumption that the secondary waves are spherical for the ordinary refraction ( which satisfies snell ' s law ) and spheroidal for the extraordinary refraction ( which does not ). in general, huygens ' s common - tangent construction implies that rays are paths of least time between successive positions of the wavefront, in accordance with fermat ' s principle. in the special case of isotropic media, the secondary wavefronts must be spherical, and huygens ' s construction then implies that the rays are perpendicular to the wavefront ; indeed, the law of ordinary refraction can be separately derived from that premise, as ignace - gaston pardies did before huygens. although newton rejected the wave theory, he noticed its potential to explain colors, including the colors of " thin plates " ( e. g., " newton ' s rings ", and the colors of skylight reflected in soap bubbles ), on the assumption that light consists of periodic waves, with the lowest frequencies ( longest