##asaka, and records his faith in the buddha and the sangha. in the major rock edict 8, he records his visit to sambodhi ( the sacred bodhi tree at bodh gaya ), ten years after his coronation. in the lumbini ( rumminidei ) inscription, he records his visit to the buddha ' s birthplace, and declares his reverence for the buddha and the sangha. in the nigalisagar inscription, he records his doubling in size of a stupa dedicated to a former buddha, and his visit to the site for worship. some of his inscriptions reflect his interest in maintaining the buddhist sangha ( see # purification of sangha below ). the saru maru inscription states that ashoka dispatched the message while travelling to upunita - vihara in manema - desha. although the identity of the destination is not certain, it was obviously a buddhist monastery ( vihara ). other religions a legend in the buddhist text vamsatthapakasini states that an ajivika ascetic invited to interpret a dream of ashoka ' s mother had predicted that he would patronise buddhism and destroy 96 heretical sects. however, such assertions are directly contradicted by ashoka ' s own inscriptions. ashoka ' s edicts, such as the rock edicts 6, 7, and 12, emphasise tolerance of all sects. similarly, in his rock edict 12, ashoka honours people of all faiths. in his inscriptions, ashoka dedicates caves to non - buddhist ascetics, and repeatedly states that both brahmins and shramanas deserved respect. he also tells people " not to denigrate other sects, but to inform themselves about them ". in fact, there is no evidence that buddhism was a state religion under ashoka. none of ashoka ' s extant edicts record his direct donations to the buddhists. one inscription records donations by his queen karuvaki, while the emperor is known to have donated the barabar caves to the ajivikas. there are some indirect references to his donations to buddhists. for example, the nigalisagar pillar inscription records his enlargement of the konakamana stupa. similarly, the lumbini ( rumminidei ) inscription states that he exempted the village of buddha ' s birth from the land tax, and reduced the revenue tax to one - eighth. ashoka appointed the dhamma - maha