year 1853. santan traders, a group comprised mostly of the ulchi, nanai, and oroch peoples of the amur river, commonly interacted with the ainu people independent of the japanese government, especially in the north part of hokkaido. in addition to their trading ventures, santan traders sometimes kidnapped or purchased ainu women from rishiri to become their wives. this further escalated japan ' s presence in the area, as the tokugawa shogunate believed a monopoly on santan trade would better protect the ainu people. contrary to popular belief, it is now thought that the ainu were not the first settlers of the island of hokkaido. archeological evidence suggests that ancient japanese jomon people inhabited hokkaido early on, and the ainu people may have only appeared after the 13th century. they likely migrated from more northern islands and what is now far east russia. japanese annexation of hokkaido in 1869, the imperial government established the hokkaido development commission as part of the meiji restoration. researcher katarina sjoberg quotes baba ' s 1890 account of the japanese government ' s reasoning :... the development of japan ' s large northern island had several objectives : first, it was seen as a means to defend japan from a rapidly developing and expansionist russia. second... it offered a solution to the unemployment for the former samurai class... finally, development promised to yield the needed natural resources for a growing capitalist economy. as a result of the treaty of saint petersburg ( 1875 ), the kuril islandsalong with their ainu inhabitantscame under japanese administration. in 1899, the japanese government passed an act labelling the ainu as " former aborigines ", with the idea that they would assimilate. this resulted in the japanese government taking the land where the ainu people lived and placing it from then on under japanese control. also at this time, the ainu were granted automatic japanese citizenship, effectively denying them the status of an indigenous group. the ainu went from being a relatively isolated group of people to having their land, language, religion and customs assimilated into those of the japanese. their land was distributed to the yamato japanese settlers to create and maintain farms in the model of western industrial agriculture. it was known as " colonization " ( ) at the time, but later by the euphemism, " opening up undeveloped land " ( ). additionally, factories like flour mills and beer breweries, along with mining practices, resulted in the creation of infrastructure such