of hell ( one could leave but would never want to ), and that all angels or devils were once people on earth. the catholic church the catholic conception of the afterlife teaches that after the body dies, the soul is judged, the righteous and free of sin enter heaven. however, those who die in unrepented mortal sin go to hell. in the 1990s, the catechism of the catholic church defined hell not as punishment imposed on the sinner but rather as the sinner ' s self - exclusion from god. unlike other christian groups, the catholic church teaches that those who die in a state of grace, but still carry venial sin, go to a place called purgatory where they undergo purification to enter heaven. limbo despite popular opinion, limbo, which was elaborated upon by theologians beginning in the middle ages, was never recognized as a dogma of the catholic church, yet, at times, it has been a very popular theological theory within the church. limbo is a theory that unbaptized but innocent souls, such as those of infants, virtuous individuals who lived before jesus christ was born on earth, or those that die before baptism exist in neither heaven nor hell proper. therefore, these souls neither merit the beatific vision, nor are subjected to any punishment, because they are not guilty of any personal sin although they have not received baptism, so still bear original sin. so they are generally seen as existing in a state of natural, but not supernatural, happiness, until the end of time. in other christian denominations it has been described as an intermediate place or state of confinement in oblivion and neglect. purgatory the notion of purgatory is associated particularly with the catholic church. in the catholic church, all those who die in god ' s grace and friendship, but still imperfectly purified, are indeed assured of their eternal salvation ; but after death they undergo purification, so as to achieve the holiness necessary to enter the joy of heaven or the final purification of the elect, which is entirely different from the punishment of the damned. the tradition of the church, by reference to certain texts of scripture, speaks of a " cleansing fire " although it is not always called purgatory. anglicans of the anglo - catholic tradition generally also hold to the belief. john wesley, the founder of methodism, believed in an intermediate state between death and the resurrection of the dead and in the possibility of " continuing to grow in holiness there ", but methodism does not officially affirm