mother. he left the gymnasium after writing a satirical poem about one of the schoolmasters. although arthur claimed that he left voluntarily, his mother ' s letter indicates that he may have been expelled. arthur spent two years as a merchant in honor of his dead father. during this time, he had doubts about being able to start a new life as a scholar. most of his prior education was as a practical merchant and he had trouble learning latin ; a prerequisite for an academic career. his mother moved away, with her daughter adele, to weimar — then the centre of german literature — to enjoy social life among writers and artists. arthur and his mother did not part on good terms. in one letter, she wrote : " you are unbearable and burdensome, and very hard to live with ; all your good qualities are overshadowed by your conceit, and made useless to the world simply because you cannot restrain your propensity to pick holes in other people. " his mother, johanna, was generally described as vivacious and sociable. she died 24 years later. some of arthur ' s negative opinions about women may be rooted in his troubled relationship with his mother. arthur moved to hamburg to live with his friend jean anthime, who was also studying to become a merchant. education he moved to weimar but did not live with his mother, who even tried to discourage him from coming by explaining that they would not get along very well. their relationship deteriorated even further due to their temperamental differences. he accused his mother of being financially irresponsible, flirtatious and seeking to remarry, which he considered an insult to his father ' s memory. his mother, while professing her love to him, criticized him sharply for being moody, tactless, and argumentative, and urged him to improve his behavior so that he would not alienate people. arthur concentrated on his studies, which were now going very well, and he also enjoyed the usual social life such as balls, parties and theater. by that time johanna ' s famous salon was well established among local intellectuals and dignitaries, the most celebrated of them being goethe. arthur attended her parties, usually when he knew that goethe would be there — although the famous writer and statesman seemed not even to notice the young and unknown student. it is possible that goethe kept a distance because johanna warned him about her son ' s depressive and combative nature, or because goethe was then on bad terms with arthur ' s language instructor and roommate, franz passow. sc