muirfield primary school, skene square primary school, and st. joseph ' s primary school. state secondary schools in aberdeen include aberdeen grammar school, albyn school, bridge of don academy, bucksburn academy, cults academy, dyce academy, harlaw academy, hazlehead academy, lochside academy, northfield academy, oldmachar academy, robert gordon ' s college, st machar academy, st margaret ' s school for girls, and the international school aberdeen. independent primary schools in aberdeen include albyn school, robert gordon ' s college, st margaret ' s school for girls, and the international school of aberdeen. culture the city has a wide range of cultural activities, amenities, and museums, and is regularly visited by scotland ' s national arts companies. it was awarded the nicholson trophy for the best - kept town at the britain in bloom contest in 1975. museums and galleries the aberdeen art gallery houses a collection of impressionist, victorian, scottish and 20th - century british paintings as well as collections of silver and glass. it also includes the alexander macdonald bequest, a collection of late 19th - century works donated by the museum ' s first benefactor and a constantly changing collection of contemporary work and regular visiting exhibitions. the aberdeen art gallery reopened in 2019 after a four - year refurbishment costing £34. 6m. the aberdeen maritime museum, located in shiprow, tells the story of aberdeen ' s links with the sea from the days of sail and clipper ships to the latest oil and gas exploration technology. it includes an model of the murchison oil production platform and a 19th - century assembly taken from rattray head lighthouse provost ross ' house is the second oldest dwelling house in the city. it was built in 1593 and became the residence of provost john ross of arnage in 1702. the house retains some original medieval features, including a kitchen, fireplaces and beam - and - board ceilings. the gordon highlanders museum tells the story of one of scotland ' s best known regiments. provost skene ' s house on flourmill lane dates from 1545 and is the oldest surviving townhouse in the city. it reopened in october 2021 after significant refurbishment costing £3. 8m. one of the new exhibitions is a hall of heroes featuring 100 aberdonians who have made a significant contribution to the city. the tollbooth museum on the castlegate ( currently closed to visitors ) is a former jail, which first opened as a public museum in 1995. the aberdeen treasure hub is a storage facility for aberdeen museums