: ada was required for nato systems involving command and control and other functions, and ada was the mandated or preferred language for defense - related applications in countries such as sweden, germany, and canada. by the late 1980s and early 1990s, ada compilers had improved in performance, but there were still barriers to fully exploiting ada ' s abilities, including a tasking model that was different from what most real - time programmers were used to. because of ada ' s safety - critical support features, it is now used not only for military applications, but also in commercial projects where a software bug can have severe consequences, e. g., avionics and air traffic control, commercial rockets such as the ariane 4 and 5, satellites and other space systems, railway transport and banking. for example, the primary flight control system, the fly - by - wire system software in the boeing 777, was written in ada, as were the fly - by - wire systems for the aerodynamically unstable eurofighter, gripen, f - 22 raptor and the dfcs replacement flight control system for the f - 14 tomcat. the canadian automated air traffic system was written in 1 million lines of ada ( sloc count ). it featured advanced distributed processing, a distributed ada database, and object - oriented design. ada is also used in other air traffic systems, e. g., the uk ' s next - generation interim future area control tools support ( ) air traffic control system is designed and implemented using spark ada. it is also used in the french tvm in - cab signalling system on the tgv high - speed rail system, and the metro suburban trains in paris, london, hong kong and new york city. standardization preliminary ada can be found in acm sigplan notices vol 14, no 6, june 1979. ada was first published in 1980 as an ansi standard ansi / mil - std 1815. as this very first version held many errors and inconsistencies ( see summary of ada language changes ), the revised edition was published in 1983 as ansi / mil - std 1815a. without any further changes, it became an iso standard in 1987, iso 8652 : 1987. this version of the language is commonly known as ada 83, from the date of its adoption by ansi, but is sometimes referred to also as ada 87, from the date of its adoption by iso. this is the ada 83 reference manual. there is also a french translation ; din translated it into german as