media that rely on the rapid display of sequential images include the phenakisticope, zoetrope, flip book, praxinoscope, and film. television and video are popular electronic animation media that originally were analog and now operate digitally. for display on computers, technology such as the animated gif and flash animation were developed. in addition to short films, feature films, television series, animated gifs, and other media dedicated to the display of moving images, animation is also prevalent in video games, motion graphics, user interfaces, and visual effects. the physical movement of image parts through simple mechanics — for instance, moving images in magic lantern shows — can also be considered animation. the mechanical manipulation of three - dimensional puppets and objects to emulate living beings has a very long history in automata. electronic automata were popularized by disney as animatronics. etymology the word " animation " stems from the latin " animation ", stem of " animatio ", meaning " a bestowing of life ". the earlier meaning of the english word is " liveliness " and has been in use much longer than the meaning of " moving image medium ". history before cinematography hundreds of years before the introduction of true animation, people all over the world enjoyed shows with moving figures that were physically manipulated ( manually, or sometimes mechanically ) in puppetry, automata, shadow play, and the magic lantern ( especially in phantasmagoria shows ). in 1833, the stroboscopic disc ( better known as the phenakisticope ) introduced the principle of modern animation, which would also be applied in the zoetrope ( introduced in 1866 ), the flip book ( 1868 ), the praxinoscope ( 1877 ) and film. silent era when cinematography eventually broke through in the 1890s, the wonder of the realistic details in the new medium was seen as its biggest accomplishment. it took years before animation found its way to the cinemas. the successful short the haunted hotel ( 1907 ) by j. stuart blackton popularized stop - motion and reportedly inspired emile cohl to create fantasmagorie ( 1908 ), regarded as the oldest known example of a complete traditional ( hand - drawn ) animation on standard cinematographic film. other great artistic and very influential short films were created by ladislas starevich with his puppet animations since 1910 and by winsor mccay with detailed hand - drawn animation in films such as little nemo ( 1911 ) and gertie the dinosaur ( 1914 ). during