although a few were in the hinterland ). it is possible that the reguli were the rulers of the two pagi in each kingdom. underneath the royal class were the nobles ( called optimates by the romans ) and warriors ( called armati by the romans ). the warriors consisted of professional warbands and levies of free men. each nobleman could raise an average of c. 50 warriors. religion the christianization of the alemanni took place during merovingian times ( sixth to eighth centuries ). we know that in the sixth century, the alemanni were predominantly pagan, and in the eighth century, they were predominantly christian. the intervening seventh century was a period of genuine syncretism during which christian symbolism and doctrine gradually grew in influence. some scholars have speculated that members of the alemannic elite such as king gibuld due to visigothic influence may have been converted to arianism even in the later fifth century. in the mid - 6th century, the byzantine historian agathias records, in the context of the wars of the goths and franks against byzantium, that the alemanni fighting among the troops of frankish king theudebald were like the franks in all respects except religion, since he also spoke of the particular ruthlessness of the alemanni in destroying christian sanctuaries and plundering churches while the genuine franks were respectful towards those sanctuaries. agathias expresses his hope that the alemanni would assume better manners through prolonged contact with the franks, which is by all appearances, in a manner of speaking, what eventually happened. apostles of the alemanni were columbanus and his disciple saint gall. jonas of bobbio records that columbanus was active in bregenz, where he disrupted a beer sacrifice to wodan. despite these activities, for some time, the alemanni seem to have continued their pagan cult activities, with only superficial or syncretistic christian elements. in particular, there is no change in burial practice, and tumulus warrior graves continued to be erected throughout merovingian times. syncretism of traditional germanic animal - style with christian symbolism is also present in artwork, but christian symbolism becomes more and more prevalent during the seventh century. unlike the later christianization of the saxons and of the slavs, the alemanni seem to have adopted christianity gradually, and voluntarily, spread in emulation of the merovingian elite. from c. the 520s to the 620s, there