prospect of bowling at this line - up that caused england ' s 1932 – 33 captain douglas jardine to adopt the tactic of fast leg theory, better known as bodyline. jardine instructed his fast bowlers, most notably harold larwood and bill voce, to bowl at the bodies of the australian batsmen, with the goal of forcing them to defend their bodies with their bats, thus providing easy catches to a stacked leg - side field. jardine insisted that the tactic was legitimate and called it " leg theory " but it was widely disparaged by its opponents, who dubbed it " bodyline " ( from " on the line of the body " ). although england decisively won the ashes 4 – 1, bodyline caused such a furore in australia that diplomats had to intervene to prevent serious harm to anglo - australian relations, and the mcc eventually changed the laws of cricket to curtail the number of leg side fielders. jardine ' s comment was : " i ' ve not travelled 6, 000 miles to make friends. i ' m here to win the ashes ". some of the australians wanted to use bodyline in retaliation, but woodfull flatly refused. he famously told england manager pelham warner, " there are two teams out there. one is playing cricket ; the other is making no attempt to do so " after the latter had come into the australian rooms to express sympathy after a larwood bouncer had struck the australian skipper in the heart and felled him. 1934 to 1953 on the batting - friendly wickets that prevailed in the late 1930s, most tests up to the second world war still gave results. it should be borne in mind that tests in australia prior to the war were all played to a finish, with many batting records set during this period. the 1934 ashes series began with the notable absence of larwood, voce and jardine. the mcc had made it clear, in light of the revelations of the bodyline series, that these players would not face australia. the mcc, although it had earlier condoned and encouraged bodyline tactics in the 1932 – 33 series, laid the blame on larwood when relations turned sour. larwood was forced by the mcc to either apologise or be removed from the test side. he went for the latter. australia recovered the ashes in 1934 and held them until 1953, though no test cricket was played during the second world war. as in 1930, the 1934 series was decided in the final test at the oval. australia, batting first, posted