black voting, the new restrictions resulted in their disenfranchisement as well, due mostly to the imposition of a cumulative poll tax. by 1941, whites constituted a slight majority of those disenfranchised by these laws : 600, 000 whites vs. 520, 000 african americans. nearly all blacks had lost the ability to vote. despite numerous legal challenges which succeeded in overturning certain provisions, the state legislature would create new ones to maintain disenfranchisement. the exclusion of blacks from the political system persisted until after passage of federal civil rights legislation in 1965 to enforce their constitutional rights as citizens. the rural - dominated alabama legislature consistently underfunded schools and services for the disenfranchised african americans, but it did not relieve them of paying taxes. partially as a response to chronic underfunding of education for african americans in the south, the rosenwald fund began funding the construction of what came to be known as rosenwald schools. in alabama, these schools were designed, and the construction partially financed with rosenwald funds, which paid one - third of the construction costs. the fund required the local community and state to raise matching funds to pay the rest. black residents effectively taxed themselves twice, by raising additional monies to supply matching funds for such schools, which were built in many rural areas. they often donated land and labor as well. beginning in 1913, the first 80 rosenwald schools were built in alabama for african american children. a total of 387 schools, seven teachers ' houses, and several vocational buildings were completed by 1937 in the state. several of the surviving school buildings in the state are now listed on the national register of historic places. continued racial discrimination and lynchings, agricultural depression, and the failure of the cotton crops due to boll weevil infestation led tens of thousands of african americans from rural alabama and other states to seek opportunities in northern and midwestern cities during the early decades of the 20th century as part of the great migration out of the south. reflecting this emigration, the population growth rate in alabama ( see " historical populations " table below ) dropped by nearly half from 1910 to 1920. at the same time, many rural people migrated to the city of birmingham to work in new industrial jobs. birmingham experienced such rapid growth it was called the " magic city ". by 1920, birmingham was the 36th - largest city in the united states. heavy industry and mining were the basis of its economy. its residents were under - represented for decades in the state legislature,