s macintosh division. wozniak and raskin had envisioned the macintosh as a low - cost computer with a text - based interface like the apple ii, but a plane crash in 1981 forced wozniak to step back from the project. jobs quickly redefined the macintosh as a graphical system that would be cheaper than the lisa, undercutting his former division. jobs was also hostile to the apple ii division, which at the time, generated most of the company ' s revenue. in 1984, apple launched the macintosh, the first personal computer to be sold without a programming language. its debut was signified by " 1984 ", a $ 1. 5 million television advertisement directed by ridley scott that aired during the third quarter of super bowl xviii on january 22, 1984. this is now hailed as a watershed event for apple ' s success and was called a " masterpiece " by cnn and one of the greatest tv advertisements of all time by tv guide. the advertisement created great interest in the original macintosh, and sales were initially good, but began to taper off dramatically after the first three months as reviews started to come in. jobs had made the decision to equip the original macintosh with 128 kilobytes of ram, attempting to reach a price point, which limited its speed and the software that could be used. the macintosh would eventually ship for, a price panned by critics in light of its slow performance. in early 1985, this sales slump triggered a power struggle between steve jobs and ceo john sculley, who had been hired away from pepsi two years earlier by jobs saying, " do you want to sell sugar water for the rest of your life or come with me and change the world? " sculley decided to remove jobs as the head of the macintosh division, with unanimous support from the apple board of directors. the board of directors instructed sculley to contain jobs and his ability to launch expensive forays into untested products. rather than submit to sculley ' s direction, jobs attempted to oust him from his leadership role at apple. informed by jean - louis gassee, sculley found out that jobs had been attempting to organize a boardroom coup and called an emergency meeting at which apple ' s executive staff sided with sculley and stripped jobs of all operational duties. jobs resigned from apple in september 1985 and took a number of apple employees with him to found next. wozniak had also quit his active employment at apple earlier in 1985 to pursue other ventures, expressing