united nations secretary - general antonio guterres received a letter from acting minister of foreign affairs amir khan muttaqi to formally claim afghanistan ' s seat as a member state for their official spokesman in doha, suhail shaheen. the united nations did not recognize the previous taliban government and chose to work with the then - government in exile instead. western nations suspended most of their humanitarian aid to afghanistan following the taliban ' s august 2021 takeover of the country ; the world bank and international monetary fund also halted their payments. more than half of afghanistan ' s 39 million people faced an acute food shortage in october 2021. human rights watch reported on 11 november 2021 that afghanistan was facing widespread famine due to an economic and banking crisis. the taliban have significantly tackled corruption, now being placed as 150th on the corruption watchdog perception index. the taliban have also reportedly reduced bribery and extortion in public service areas. at the same time, the human rights situation in the country has deteriorated. following the 2001 invasion, more than 5. 7 million refugees returned to afghanistan ; however, in 2021, 2. 6 million afghans remained refugees, primarily in iran and pakistan, and another 4 million were internally displaced. geography afghanistan is located in southern - central asia. the region centered at afghanistan is considered the " crossroads of asia ", and the country has had the nickname heart of asia. the renowned urdu poet allama iqbal once wrote about the country : at over, afghanistan is the world ' s 41st largest country, slightly bigger than france and smaller than myanmar, and about the size of texas in the united states. there is no coastline, as afghanistan is landlocked. afghanistan shares its longest land border ( the durand line ) with pakistan to the east and south, followed by borders with tajikistan to the northeast, iran to the west, turkmenistan to the north - west, uzbekistan to the north and china to the far northeast ; india recognizes a border with afghanistan through pakistani - administered kashmir. clockwise from south - west, afghanistan shares borders with the sistan and baluchestan province, south khorasan province and razavi khorasan province of iran ; ahal region, mary region and lebap region of turkmenistan ; surxondaryo region of uzbekistan ; khatlon region and gorno - badakhshan autonomous region of tajikistan ; xinjiang uyghur autonomous region of china ; and the gilgit - baltistan territory, khyber pakhtunkhwa province and balochistan province of pakistan. the geography in afghanistan is varied, but is mostly mountainous