moore ' s bring the jubilee, the protagonist lives in an alternate history in which the confederacy has won the american civil war. he travels backward through time and brings about a union victory at the battle of gettysburg. when a story ' s assumptions about the nature of time travel lead to the complete replacement of the visited time ' s future, rather than just the creation of an additional time line, the device of a " time patrol " is often used where guardians move through time to preserve the " correct " history. a more recent example is making history by stephen fry in which a time machine is used to alter history so that adolf hitler was never born. that ironically results in a more competent leader of nazi germany and results in the country ' s ascendancy and longevity in the altered timeline. cross - time stories h. g. wells ' " cross - time " or " many universes " variant ( see above ) was fully developed by murray leinster in his 1934 short story " sidewise in time ", in which sections of the earth ' s surface begin changing places with their counterparts in alternate timelines. fredric brown employed this subgenre to satirize the science fiction pulps and their adolescent readers — and fears of foreign invasion — in the classic what mad universe ( 1949 ). in clifford d. simak ' s ring around the sun ( 1953 ), the hero ends up in an alternate earth of thick forests in which humanity never developed but a band of mutants is establishing a colony ; the story line appears to frame the author ' s anxieties regarding mccarthyism and the cold war. quantum theory of many worlds while many justifications for alternate histories involve a multiverse, the " many world " theory would naturally involve many worlds, in fact a continually exploding array of universes. in quantum theory, new worlds would proliferate with every quantum event, and even if the writer uses human decisions, every decision that could be made differently would result in a different timeline. a writer ' s fictional multiverse may, in fact, preclude some decisions as humanly impossible, as when, in night watch, terry pratchett depicts a character informing vimes that while anything that can happen, has happened, nevertheless there is no history whatsoever in which vimes has ever murdered his wife. when the writer explicitly maintains that all possible decisions are made in all possible ways, one possible conclusion is that the characters were neither brave, nor clever, nor skilled, but simply lucky enough to happen on the universe in which they did not choose