- alsun in 1836 and led a translation campaign that highlighted the need for a lexical injection in arabic, to suit concepts of the industrial and post - industrial age ( such as sayara ' automobile ' or bakhira ' steamship ' ). in response, a number of arabic academies modeled after the were established with the aim of developing standardized additions to the arabic lexicon to suit these transformations, first in damascus ( 1919 ), then in cairo ( 1932 ), baghdad ( 1948 ), rabat ( 1960 ), amman ( 1977 ), ( 1993 ), and tunis ( 1993 ). they review language development, monitor new words and approve inclusion of new words into their published standard dictionaries. they also publish old and historical arabic manuscripts. in 1997, a bureau of arabization standardization was added to the educational, cultural, and scientific organization of the arab league. these academies and organizations have worked toward the arabization of the sciences, creating terms in arabic to describe new concepts, toward the standardization of these new terms throughout the arabic - speaking world, and toward the development of arabic as a world language. this gave rise to what western scholars call modern standard arabic. from the 1950s, arabization became a postcolonial nationalist policy in countries such as tunisia, algeria, morocco, and sudan. classical, modern standard and spoken arabic arabic usually refers to standard arabic, which western linguists divide into classical arabic and modern standard arabic. it could also refer to any of a variety of regional vernacular arabic dialects, which are not necessarily mutually intelligible. classical arabic is the language found in the quran, used from the period of pre - islamic arabia to that of the abbasid caliphate. classical arabic is prescriptive, according to the syntactic and grammatical norms laid down by classical grammarians ( such as sibawayh ) and the vocabulary defined in classical dictionaries ( such as the lisan al - ʻarab ). modern standard arabic ( msa ) largely follows the grammatical standards of classical arabic and uses much of the same vocabulary. however, it has discarded some grammatical constructions and vocabulary that no longer have any counterpart in the spoken varieties and has adopted certain new constructions and vocabulary from the spoken varieties. much of the new vocabulary is used to denote concepts that have arisen in the industrial and post - industrial era, especially in modern times. due to its grounding in classical arabic, modern standard arabic is removed over a millennium from everyday speech, which is construed as a multitude of dialects of this language.