is a rounded head. distribution the haliotid family has a worldwide distribution, along the coastal waters of every continent, except the pacific coast of south america, the atlantic coast of north america, the arctic, and antarctica. the majority of abalone species are found in cold waters, such as off the coasts of new zealand, south africa, australia, western north america, and japan. structure and properties of the shell the shell of the abalone is exceptionally strong and is made of microscopic calcium carbonate tiles stacked like bricks. between the layers of tiles is a clingy protein substance. when the abalone shell is struck, the tiles slide instead of shattering and the protein stretches to absorb the energy of the blow. material scientists around the world are studying this tiled structure for insight into stronger ceramic products such as body armor. the dust created by grinding and cutting abalone shell is dangerous ; appropriate safeguards must be taken to protect people from inhaling these particles. diseases and pests abalones are subject to various diseases. the victorian department of primary industries said in 2007 that ganglioneuritis killed up to 90 % of stock in affected regions. abalone are also severe hemophiliacs, as their fluids will not clot in the case of a laceration or puncture wound. members of the spionidae of the polychaetes are known as pests of abalone. human use abalone has been harvested worldwide for centuries as a source of food and decorative items. abalone shells and associated materials, like their claw - like pearls and nacre, have been used as jewelry and for buttons, buckles, and inlay. these shells have been found in archaeological sites around the world, ranging from 100, 000 - year - old deposits at blombos cave in south africa to historic chinese abalone middens on california ' s northern channel islands. for at least 12, 000 years, abalones were harvested to such an extent around the channel islands that shells in the area decreased in size four thousand years ago. farming farming of abalone began in the late 1950s and early 1960s in japan and china. since the mid - 1990s, there have been many increasingly successful endeavors to commercially farm abalone for the purpose of consumption. overfishing and poaching have reduced wild populations to such an extent that farmed abalone now supplies most of the abalone meat consumed. the principal abalone farming regions are china, taiwan, japan, and korea. abalone is also farmed in australia, canada