##a were also influenced by crowley, with djurdjevic observing that " crowley ' s influence on twentieth - century and contemporary esotericism has been enormous ". gerald gardner, founder of gardnerian wicca, made use of much of crowley ' s published material when composing the gardnerian ritual liturgy, and the australian witch rosaleen norton was also heavily influenced by crowley ' s ideas. more widely, crowley became " a dominant figure " in the modern pagan community. l. ron hubbard, the american founder of scientology, was involved in thelema in the early 1940s ( with jack parsons ), and it has been argued that crowley ' s ideas influenced some of hubbard ' s work. the scholars of religion asbjørn dyrendel, james r. lewis, and jesper petersen noted that despite the fact that crowley was not a satanist, he " in many ways embodies the pre - satanist esoteric discourse on satan and satanism through his lifestyle and his philosophy ", with his " image and ought " becoming an " important influence " on the later development of religious satanism. for instance, two prominent figures in religious satanism, anton lavey and michael aquino, were influenced by crowley ' s work. in popular culture crowley also had a wider influence in british popular culture. after his time in cefalu which had brought him to public attention in britain, various " literary crowleys " appeared : characters in fiction based upon him. one of the earliest was the character of the poet shelley arabin in john buchan ' s 1926 novel the dancing floor. in his novel the devil rides out, the writer dennis wheatley used crowley as a partial basis for the character of damien morcata, a portly bald defrocked priest who engages in black magic. the occultist dion fortune used crowley as a basis for characters in her books the secrets of doctor taverner ( 1926 ) and the winged bull ( 1935 ). he was included as one of the figures on the cover art of the beatles ' album sgt. pepper ' s lonely hearts club band ( 1967 ), and his motto of " do what thou wilt " was inscribed on the vinyl of led zeppelin ' s album led zeppelin iii ( 1970 ). led zeppelin co - founder jimmy page bought boleskine in 1971, and part of the band ' s film the song remains the same was filmed in the grounds. he sold it in 1992. though david bowie makes but a fleeting reference to crowley in the lyrics of his song