##ria ( the branching structures at the end of the axon ) can also differ from one nerve fiber to the next. axons in the central nervous system ( cns ) typically show multiple telodendria, with many synaptic end points. in comparison, the cerebellar granule cell axon is characterized by a single t - shaped branch node from which two parallel fibers extend. elaborate branching allows for the simultaneous transmission of messages to a large number of target neurons within a single region of the brain. there are two types of axons in the nervous system : myelinated and unmyelinated axons. myelin is a layer of a fatty insulating substance, which is formed by two types of glial cells : schwann cells and oligodendrocytes. in the peripheral nervous system schwann cells form the myelin sheath of a myelinated axon. oligodendrocytes form the insulating myelin in the cns. along myelinated nerve fibers, gaps in the myelin sheath known as nodes of ranvier occur at evenly spaced intervals. the myelination enables an especially rapid mode of electrical impulse propagation called saltatory conduction. the myelinated axons from the cortical neurons form the bulk of the neural tissue called white matter in the brain. the myelin gives the white appearance to the tissue in contrast to the grey matter of the cerebral cortex which contains the neuronal cell bodies. a similar arrangement is seen in the cerebellum. bundles of myelinated axons make up the nerve tracts in the cns. where these tracts cross the midline of the brain to connect opposite regions they are called commissures. the largest of these is the corpus callosum that connects the two cerebral hemispheres, and this has around 20 million axons. the structure of a neuron is seen to consist of two separate functional regions, or compartmentsthe cell body together with the dendrites as one region, and the axonal region as the other. axonal region the axonal region or compartment, includes the axon hillock, the initial segment, the rest of the axon, and the axon telodendria, and axon terminals. it also includes the myelin sheath. the nissl bodies that produce the neuronal proteins are absent in the axonal region. proteins needed for the growth of the axon, and the removal of waste materials, need a framework for transport. this