jar but they fell asleep while performing this duty. while they were asleep, the wine jar was broken by the swine their family kept. when the sisters woke up and saw what had happened, they threw themselves off a cliff in fear of their father ' s wrath. apollo, who was passing by, caught them and carried them to two different cities in chersonesus, molpadia to castabus and parthenos to bubastus. he turned them into goddesses and they both received divine honors. molpadia ' s name was changed to hemithea upon her deification. prometheus prometheus was the titan who was punished by zeus for stealing fire. he was bound to a rock, where each day an eagle was sent to eat prometheus ' liver, which would then grow back overnight to be eaten again the next day. seeing his plight, apollo pleaded with zeus to release the kind titan, while artemis and leto stood behind him with tears in their eyes. zeus, moved by apollo ' s words and the tears of the goddesses, finally sent heracles to free prometheus. heracles after heracles ( then named alcides ) was struck with madness and killed his family, he sought to purify himself and consulted the oracle of apollo. apollo, through the pythia, commanded him to serve king eurystheus for twelve years and complete the ten tasks the king would give him. only then would alcides be absolved of his sin. apollo also renamed him heracles. to complete his third task, heracles had to capture the ceryneian hind, a hind sacred to artemis, and bring back it alive. after chasing the hind for one year, the animal eventually got tired, and when it tried crossing the river ladon, heracles captured it. while he was taking it back, he was confronted by apollo and artemis, who were angered at heracles for this act. however, heracles soothed the goddess and explained his situation to her. after much pleading, artemis permitted him to take the hind and told him to return it later. after he was freed from his servitude to eurystheus, heracles fell in conflict with iphytus, a prince of oechalia, and murdered him. soon after, he contracted a terrible disease. he consulted the oracle of apollo once again, in the hope of ridding himself of the disease. the pythia