36, appendix a. title iii also has applications to existing facilities. one of the definitions of " discrimination " under title iii of the ada is a " failure to remove " architectural barriers in existing facilities. see. this means that even facilities that have not been modified or altered in any way after the ada was passed still have obligations. the standard is whether " removing barriers " ( typically defined as bringing a condition into compliance with the adaag ) is " readily achievable ", defined as "... easily accomplished without much difficulty or expense ". the statutory definition of " readily achievable " calls for a balancing test between the cost of the proposed " fix " and the wherewithal of the business and / or owners of the business. thus, what might be " readily achievable " for a sophisticated and financially capable corporation might not be readily achievable for a small or local business. there are exceptions to this title ; many private clubs and religious organizations may not be bound by title iii. with regard to historic properties ( those properties that are listed or that are eligible for listing in the national register of historic places, or properties designated as historic under state or local law ), those facilities must still comply with the provisions of title iii of the ada to the " maximum extent feasible " but if following the usual standards would " threaten to destroy the historic significance of a feature of the building " then alternative standards may be used. under 2010 revisions of department of justice regulations, newly constructed or altered swimming pools, wading pools, and spas must have an accessible means of entrance and exit to pools for disabled people. however, the requirement is conditioned on whether providing access through a fixed lift is " readily achievable ". other requirements exist, based on pool size, include providing a certain number of accessible means of entry and exit, which are outlined in section 242 of the standards. however, businesses are free to consider the differences in the application of the rules depending on whether the pool is new or altered, or whether the swimming pool was in existence before the effective date of the new rule. full compliance may not be required for existing facilities ; section 242 and 1009 of the 2010 standards outline such exceptions. service animals the ada provides explicit coverage for service animals. guidelines have been developed not only to protect persons with disabilities but also to indemnify businesses from damages related to granting access to service animals on their premises. businesses are allowed to ask if the animal is a service animal and ask what tasks