california and pass legislation sought by each side. johnson voted for all the provisions except for the abolition of slavery in the nation ' s capital. he pressed resolutions for constitutional amendments to provide for popular election of senators ( then elected by state legislatures ) and of the president ( chosen by the electoral college ), and limiting the tenure of federal judges to 12 years. these were all defeated. a group of democrats nominated landon carter haynes to oppose johnson as he sought a fifth term ; the whigs were so pleased with the internecine battle among the democrats in the general election that they did not nominate a candidate of their own. the campaign included fierce debates : johnson ' s main issue was the passage of the homestead bill ; haynes contended it would facilitate abolition. johnson won the election by more than 1600 votes. though he was not enamored of the party ' s presidential nominee in 1852, former new hampshire senator franklin pierce, johnson campaigned for him. pierce was elected, but he failed to carry tennessee. in 1852, johnson managed to get the house to pass his homestead bill, but it failed in the senate. the whigs had gained control of the tennessee legislature, and, under the leadership of gustavus henry, redrew the boundaries of johnson ' s first district to make it a safe seat for their party. the nashville union termed this " henry - mandering " ; lamented johnson, " i have no political future. " governor of tennessee ( 1853 – 1857 ) if johnson considered retiring from politics upon deciding not to seek reelection, he soon changed his mind. his political friends began to maneuver to get him the nomination for governor. the democratic convention unanimously named him, though some party members were not happy at his selection. the whigs had won the past two gubernatorial elections, and still controlled the legislature. that party nominated henry, making the " henry - mandering " of the first district an immediate issue. the two men debated in county seats the length of tennessee before the meetings were called off two weeks before the august 1853 election due to illness in henry ' s family. johnson won the election by 63, 413 votes to 61, 163 ; some votes for him were cast in return for his promise to support whig nathaniel taylor for his old seat in congress. tennessee ' s governor had little power : johnson could propose legislation but not veto it, and most appointments were made by the whig - controlled legislature. nevertheless, the office was a " bully pulpit " that allowed him to publicize himself and his political views. he succeeded in