in east tennessee, but was suppressed by the confederacy, which arrested over 3, 000 men suspected of being loyal to the union. they were held without trial. war the civil war was a contest marked by the ferocity and frequency of battle. over four years, 237 named battles were fought, as were many more minor actions and skirmishes, which were often characterized by their bitter intensity and high casualties. in his book the american civil war, british historian john keegan writes that " the american civil war was to prove one of the most ferocious wars ever fought ". in many cases, without geographic objectives, the only target for each side was the enemy ' s soldier. mobilization as the first seven states began organizing a confederacy in montgomery, the entire u. s. army numbered 16, 000. however, northern governors had begun to mobilize their militias. the confederate congress authorized the new nation up to 100, 000 troops sent by governors as early as february. by may, jefferson davis was pushing for 100, 000 soldiers for one year or the duration, and that was answered in kind by the u. s. congress. in the first year of the war, both sides had far more volunteers than they could effectively train and equip. after the initial enthusiasm faded, reliance on the cohort of young men who came of age every year and wanted to join was not enough. both sides used a draft law — conscription — as a device to encourage or force volunteering ; relatively few were drafted and served. the confederacy passed a draft law in april 1862 for young men aged 18 to 35 ; overseers of slaves, government officials, and clergymen were exempt. the u. s. congress followed in july, authorizing a militia draft within a state when it could not meet its quota with volunteers. european immigrants joined the union army in large numbers, including 177, 000 born in germany and 144, 000 born in ireland. when the emancipation proclamation went into effect in january 1863, ex - slaves were energetically recruited by the states and used to meet the state quotas. states and local communities offered higher and higher cash bonuses for white volunteers. congress tightened the law in march 1863. men selected in the draft could provide substitutes or, until mid - 1864, pay commutation money. many eligibles pooled their money to cover the cost of anyone drafted. families used the substitute provision to select which man should go into the army and which should stay home. there was much evasion and overt resistance to the draft, especially in