can do to mourn adonis ' s death. aphrodite replies that they must beat their breasts and tear their tunics. later references flesh out the story with more details. according to the retelling of the story found in the poem metamorphoses by the roman poet ovid ( 43 bc – 17 / 18 ad ), adonis was the son of myrrha, who was cursed by aphrodite with insatiable lust for her own father, king cinyras of cyprus, after myrrha ' s mother bragged that her daughter was more beautiful than the goddess. driven out after becoming pregnant, myrrha was changed into a myrrh tree, but still gave birth to adonis. aphrodite found the baby and took him to the underworld to be fostered by persephone. she returned for him once he was grown and discovered him to be strikingly handsome. persephone wanted to keep adonis, resulting in a custody battle between the two goddesses over whom should rightly possess adonis. zeus settled the dispute by decreeing that adonis would spend one third of the year with aphrodite, one third with persephone, and one third with whomever he chose. adonis chose to spend that time with aphrodite. then, one day, while adonis was hunting, he was wounded by a wild boar and bled to death in aphrodite ' s arms. in a semi - mocking work, the dialogues of the gods, the satirical author lucian comedically relates how a frustrated aphrodite complains to the moon goddess selene about her son eros making persephone fall in love with adonis and now she has to share him with her. in different versions of the story, the boar was either sent by ares, who was jealous that aphrodite was spending so much time with adonis, or by artemis, who wanted revenge against aphrodite for having killed her devoted follower hippolytus. in another version, apollo in fury changed himself into a boar and killed adonis because aphrodite had blinded his son erymanthus when he stumbled upon aphrodite naked as she was bathing after intercourse with adonis. the story also provides an etiology for aphrodite ' s associations with certain flowers. reportedly, as she mourned adonis ' s death, she caused anemones to grow wherever his blood fell and declared a festival on