##mposed branches or other buried organic material. if silica - rich fluids are able to penetrate into these cavities agates can be formed. types lace agate is a variety that exhibits a lace - like pattern with forms such as eyes, swirls, bands or zigzags. blue lace agate is found in africa and is especially hard. crazy lace agate, typically found in mexico, is often brightly colored with a complex pattern, demonstrating randomized distribution of contour lines and circular droplets, scattered throughout the rock. the stone is typically coloured red and white but is also seen to exhibit yellow and grey combinations as well. moss agate, as the name suggests, exhibits a moss - like pattern and is of a greenish colour. the coloration is not created by any vegetative growth, but rather through the mixture of chalcedony and oxidized iron hornblende. dendritic agate also displays vegetative features, including fern - like patterns formed due to the presence of manganese and iron oxides. turritella agate ( elimia tenera ) is formed from the shells of fossilized freshwater turritella gastropods with elongated spiral shells. similarly, coral, petrified wood, porous rocks and other organic remains can also form agate. coldwater agates, such as the lake michigan cloud agate, did not form under volcanic processes, but instead formed within the limestone and dolomite strata of marine origin. like volcanic - origin agates, coldwater agates formed from silica gels that lined pockets and seams within the bedrock. these agates are typically less colorful, with banded lines of grey and white chalcedony. greek agate is a name given to pale white to tan colored agate found in the former greek colony of sicily as early as 400 bce. the greeks used it for making jewelry and beads. brazilian agate is found as sizable geodes of layered nodules. these occur in brownish tones inter - layered with white and gray. it is often dyed in various colors for ornamental purposes. polyhedroid agate forms in a flat - sided shape similar to a polyhedron. when sliced, it often shows a characteristic layering of concentric polygons. it has been suggested that growth is not crystallographically controlled but is due to the filling - in of spaces between pre - existing crystals which have since dissolved. iris agate is a finely - banded and usually colorless agate, that when thin