los angeles in 1906. this revival was led by william j. seymour ( 1870 – 1922 ). due to the methodist and holiness background of many early pentecostal preachers, the pentecostal churches usually possessed practices that arose from the wesleyan arminianism. during the 20th century, as pentecostal churches began to settle and incorporate more standard forms, they started to formulate theology that was fully arminian. currently, the two largest pentecostal denominations in the world, the assemblies of god and the pentecostal church of god denominations, hold officially to arminian views such as resistible grace, conditional election, or conditional security of the believer for the first. current landscape protestant denominations advocates of arminianism find a home in many protestant denominations, and sometimes other beliefs such as calvinism exist within the same denomination. the lutheran theological tradition bears certain similarities to arminianism and there may be some lutheran churches that are open to it. faiths leaning at least in part in the arminian direction include some of high - church anglicanism. anabaptist denominations, such as the mennonites, hutterites, amish and schwarzenau brethren, adhere to anabaptist theology, which espouses a soteriology that is similar to arminianism " in some respects ". arminianism is found within the general baptists, including the subset of general baptists known as free will baptists. the majority of southern baptists accept arminianism, with an exception allowing for a doctrine of eternal security, though many see calvinism as growing in acceptance. certain proponents of arminianism may be found within the restoration movement in the christian churches and churches of christ. additionally, it is found in the seventh - day adventist church. arminianism ( specifically wesleyan – arminian theology ) is taught in the methodist churches, inclusive of those denominations aligned with the holiness movement such as the evangelical methodist church, church of the nazarene, the free methodist church, the wesleyan church, and the salvation army. it is also found in a part of the charismatics, including the pentecostals. scholarly support the current scholarly support for arminianism is varied : among baptist theologians, roger e. olson, f. leroy forlines, robert picirilli, and j. matthew pinson are four supporters of a return to the teachings of arminius. methodist theologian thomas oden, " evangelical methodists " bible scholar ben witherington iii, and christian apologist david pawson are