the alphorn or alpenhorn or alpine horn is a labrophone, consisting of a straight several - meter - long wooden natural horn of conical bore, with a wooden cup - shaped mouthpiece. traditionally the alphorn was made of one single piece, or two parts at most, of the wood of a red pine tree. sometimes the trees would bend from the weight of snow in winter, and this caused them to have the larger and bent mouthpiece at their ends. modern alphorns are sometimes made from three distinct parts that can be attached together : this is to make them easier to transport by car, or even to carry them by hand, and today they are more frequently made from the wood of a spruce tree or fir tree. the alphorn is used by mountain dwellers in the swiss alps. similar wooden horns were used for communication in most mountainous regions of europe, from the alps to the carpathians. alphorns are today used as musical instruments. history for a long time, scholars believed that the alphorn had been derived from the roman - etruscan lituus, because of their resemblance in shape, and because of the word liti, meaning alphorn in the dialect of obwalden. there is no documented evidence for this theory however, and also the word liti was probably borrowed from 16th – 18th century writings in latin, where the word lituus could describe various wind instruments, such as the horn, the crumhorn, or the cornett. swiss naturalist conrad gesner used the words lituum alpinum for the first known detailed description of the alphorn in his de raris et admirandis herbis in 1555. the oldest known document using the german word alphorn is a page from a 1527 account book from the former cistercian abbey of st. urban near pfaffnau, mentioning the payment of two batzen to an itinerant alphorn player from the valais. 17th – 19th century collections of alpine myths and legends suggest that alphorn - like instruments had frequently been used as signal instruments in village communities in ancient times, sometimes instead of church bells. surviving artifacts, dating back to as far as around 1400, include wooden labrophones in their stretched form, like the alphorn, or coiled versions, such as the buchel and the allgauisches waldhorn or ackerhorn. the alphorn ' s exact origins remain indeterminate, and