##s " have commonly avoided the issue of animism and even the term itself, rather than revisit this prevalent notion in light of their new and rich ethnographies. " according to anthropologist tim ingold, animism shares similarities with totemism but differs in its focus on individual spirit beings which help to perpetuate life, whereas totemism more typically holds that there is a primary source, such as the land itself or the ancestors, who provide the basis to life. certain indigenous religious groups such as the australian aboriginals are more typically totemic in their worldview, whereas others like the inuit are more typically animistic. from his studies into child development, jean piaget suggested that children were born with an innate animist worldview in which they anthropomorphized inanimate objects and that it was only later that they grew out of this belief. conversely, from her ethnographic research, margaret mead argued the opposite, believing that children were not born with an animist worldview but that they became acculturated to such beliefs as they were educated by their society. stewart guthrie saw animism — or " attribution " as he preferred it — as an evolutionary strategy to aid survival. he argued that both humans and other animal species view inanimate objects as potentially alive as a means of being constantly on guard against potential threats. his suggested explanation, however, did not deal with the question of why such a belief became central to the religion. in 2000, guthrie suggested that the " most widespread " concept of animism was that it was the " attribution of spirits to natural phenomena such as stones and trees. " " new animism " non - archaic definitions many anthropologists ceased using the term animism, deeming it to be too close to early anthropological theory and religious polemic. however, the term had also been claimed by religious groups — namely, indigenous communities and nature worshippers — who felt that it aptly described their own beliefs, and who in some cases actively identified as " animists. " it was thus readopted by various scholars, who began using the term in a different way, placing the focus on knowing how to behave toward other beings, some of whom are not human. as religious studies scholar graham harvey stated, while the " old animist " definition had been problematic, the term animism was nevertheless " of considerable value as a critical, academic term for a style of