that the lower court judge erred in the application of law, but it may also be possible to appeal on the basis of court misconduct, or that a finding of fact was entirely unreasonable to make on the evidence. the appellant in the new case can be either the plaintiff ( or claimant ), defendant, third - party intervenor, or respondent ( appellee ) from the lower case, depending on who was the losing party. the winning party from the lower court, however, is now the respondent. in unusual cases the appellant can be the victor in the court below, but still appeal. an appellee is the party to an appeal in which the lower court judgment was in its favor. the appellee is required to respond to the petition, oral arguments, and legal briefs of the appellant. in general, the appellee takes the procedural posture that the lower court ' s decision should be affirmed. ability to appeal an appeal " as of right " is one that is guaranteed by statute or some underlying constitutional or legal principle. the appellate court cannot refuse to listen to the appeal. an appeal " by leave " or " permission " requires the appellant to obtain leave to appeal ; in such a situation either or both of the lower court and the court may have the discretion to grant or refuse the appellant ' s demand to appeal the lower court ' s decision. in the supreme court, review in most cases is available only if the court exercises its discretion and grants a writ of certiorari. in tort, equity, or other civil matters either party to a previous case may file an appeal. in criminal matters, however, the state or prosecution generally has no appeal " as of right ". and due to the double jeopardy principle, the state or prosecution may never appeal a jury or bench verdict of acquittal. but in some jurisdictions, the state or prosecution may appeal " as of right " from a trial court ' s dismissal of an indictment in whole or in part or from a trial court ' s granting of a defendant ' s suppression motion. likewise, in some jurisdictions, the state or prosecution may appeal an issue of law " by leave " from the trial court or the appellate court. the ability of the prosecution to appeal a decision in favor of a defendant varies significantly internationally. all parties must present grounds to appeal, or it will not be heard. by convention in some law reports, the appellant is named first. this can mean that where it is the defendant who appeals