mass is less than the sum of the masses of two free protons and two free neutrons. this increases the disintegration energy. computing the total disintegration energy given by the equation where is the initial mass of the nucleus, is the mass of the nucleus after particle emission, and is the mass of the emitted ( alpha - ) particle, one finds that in certain cases it is positive and so alpha particle emission is possible, whereas other decay modes would require energy to be added. for example, performing the calculation for uranium - 232 shows that alpha particle emission releases 5. 4 mev of energy, while a single proton emission would require 6. 1 mev. most of the disintegration energy becomes the kinetic energy of the alpha particle, although to fulfill conservation of momentum, part of the energy goes to the recoil of the nucleus itself ( see atomic recoil ). however, since the mass numbers of most alpha - emitting radioisotopes exceed 210, far greater than the mass number of the alpha particle ( 4 ), the fraction of the energy going to the recoil of the nucleus is generally quite small, less than 2 %. nevertheless, the recoil energy ( on the scale of kev ) is still much larger than the strength of chemical bonds ( on the scale of ev ), so the daughter nuclide will break away from the chemical environment the parent was in. the energies and ratios of the alpha particles can be used to identify the radioactive parent via alpha spectrometry. these disintegration energies, however, are substantially smaller than the repulsive potential barrier created by the interplay between the strong nuclear and the electromagnetic force, which prevents the alpha particle from escaping. the energy needed to bring an alpha particle from infinity to a point near the nucleus just outside the range of the nuclear force ' s influence is generally in the range of about 25 mev. an alpha particle within the nucleus can be thought of as being inside a potential barrier whose walls are 25 mev above the potential at infinity. however, decay alpha particles only have energies of around 4 to 9 mev above the potential at infinity, far less than the energy needed to overcome the barrier and escape. quantum mechanics, however, allows the alpha particle to escape via quantum tunneling. the quantum tunneling theory of alpha decay, independently developed by george gamow and by ronald wilfred gurney and edward condon in 1928, was hailed as a very striking confirmation of quantum theory. essentially, the alpha particle escapes from the nucleus not