in return, the ants add protection to the plant against herbivores. some species of ants will also remove competing plants around the acacia, cutting off the offending plants ' leaves with their jaws and ultimately killing them. other associated ant species appear to do nothing to benefit their hosts. similar mutualisms with ants occur on acacia trees in africa, such as the whistling thorn acacia. the acacias provide shelter for ants in similar swollen stipules and nectar in extrafloral nectaries for their symbiotic ants, such as crematogaster mimosae. in turn, the ants protect the plant by attacking large mammalian herbivores and stem - boring beetles that damage the plant. the predominantly herbivorous spider bagheera kiplingi, which is found in central america and mexico, feeds on nubs at the tips of the acacia leaves, known as beltian bodies, which contain high concentrations of protein. these nubs are produced by the acacia as part of a symbiotic relationship with certain species of ant, which also eat them. pests in australia, acacia species are sometimes used as food plants by the larvae of hepialid moths of the genus aenetus including a. ligniveren. these burrow horizontally into the trunk then vertically down. other lepidoptera larvae which have been recorded feeding on acacia include brown - tail, endoclita malabaricus and turnip moth. the leaf - mining larvae of some bucculatricid moths also feed on acacia ; bucculatrix agilis feeds exclusively on acacia horrida and bucculatrix flexuosa feeds exclusively on acacia nilotica. acacias contain a number of organic compounds that defend them from pests and grazing animals. uses use as human food acacia seeds are often used for food and a variety of other products. in myanmar, laos, and thailand, the feathery shoots of acacia pennata ( common name cha - om, and su pout ywet in burmese ) are used in soups, curries, omelettes, and stir - fries. gum various species of acacia yield gum. true gum arabic is the product of acacia senegal, abundant in dry tropical west africa from senegal to northern nigeria. acacia nilotica ( syn. acacia arabica ) is the gum arabic tree of india, but yields a gum inferior to the true gum arabic. gum arabic is used in a wide variety of food products, including some soft drinks and confections. the ancient egyptians used acacia