alexios ii komnenos ( ; 14 september 1169september 1183 ), latinized alexius ii comnenus, was byzantine emperor from 1180 to 1183. he ascended to the throne as a minor. for the duration of his short reign, the imperial power was de facto held by regents. biography early years born in the purple at constantinople, alexios was the long - awaited son of emperor manuel i komnenos ( who gave him a name that began with the letter alpha as a fulfillment of the aima prophecy ) and maria of antioch. in 1171 he was crowned co - emperor, and in 1175 he accompanied his father at dorylaion in asia minor in order to have the city rebuilt. on 2 march 1180, at the age of eleven, he was married to agnes of france aged 10, daughter of king louis vii of france. she was thereafter known as anna, and after alexios ' murder three years later, anna would be remarried to the person responsible, andronikos, then aged 65. regency of maria and alexios when manuel i died in september 1180, alexios ii succeeded him as emperor. at this time, however, he was an uneducated boy with only amusement in mind. the imperial regency was then undertaken by the dowager empress and the protosebastos alexios komnenos ( a namesake cousin of alexios ii ), who was popularly believed to be her lover. the regents depleted the imperial treasury by granting privileges to italian merchants and to the byzantine aristocracy. when bela iii of hungary and kilij arslan ii of rum began raiding within the byzantine western and eastern borders respectively, the regents were forced to ask for help to the pope and to saladin. furthermore, a party supporting alexios ii ' s right to reign, led by his half - sister maria komnene and her husband the caesar john, stirred up riots in the streets of the capital. the regents managed to defeat the party on april 1182, but andronikos komnenos, a first cousin of manuel i, took advantage of the disorder to aim at the crown. he entered constantinople, received with almost divine honours, and overthrew the government. his arrival was celebrated by a massacre of the latins in constantinople, especially the venetian merchants, which he made no attempt to stop. regency of andronikos and death on 16 may 1182 andronikos, posing as alexios ' protector, officially