its superstition that the ghosts of those who are doomed to die within the year will be seen to pass into the church, falls on the twenty - fourth. in china the symbolic ploughing of the earth by the emperor and princes of the blood took place in their third month, which frequently corresponds to april. in finnish april is huhtikuu, meaning slash - and - burn moon, when gymnosperms for beat and burn clearing of farmland were felled. in slovene, the most established traditional name is mali traven, meaning the month when plants start growing. it was first written in 1466 in the skofja loka manuscript. the month aprilis originally had 30 days ; numa pompilius made it 29 days long ; finally, julius caesar ' s calendar reform made it 30 days long again, which was not changed in the calendar revision of augustus caesar in 8 bc. in ancient rome, the festival of cerealia was held for seven days from mid - to - late april, but exact dates are uncertain. feriae latinae was also held in april, with the date varying. other ancient roman observances include veneralia ( april 1 ), megalesia ( april 10 – 16 ), fordicidia ( april 15 ), parilia ( april 21 ), vinalia urbana ( april 23 ), robigalia ( april 25 ), and serapia ( april 25 ). floralia was held april 27 during the republican era, or april 28 on the julian calendar, and lasted until may 3. however, these dates do not correspond to the modern gregorian calendar. the lyrids meteor shower appears on april 16 – april 26 each year, with the peak generally occurring on april 22. the eta aquariids meteor shower also appears in april. it is visible from about april 21 to about may 20 each year with peak activity on or around may 6. the pi puppids appear on april 23, but only in years around the parent comet ' s perihelion date. the virginids also shower at various dates in april. the " days of april " ( journees d ' avril ) is a name assigned in french history to a series of insurrections at lyons, paris and elsewhere, against the government of louis philippe in 1834, which led to violent repressive measures, and to a famous trial known as the proces d ' avril. symbols april ' s birthstone is the diamond. the birth flower is the common