arizona. the earliest salamander is beiyanerpeton jianpingensis from the late jurassic of northeastern china. authorities disagree as to whether salientia is a superorder that includes the order anura, or whether anura is a sub - order of the order salientia. the lissamphibia are traditionally divided into three orders, but an extinct salamander - like family, the albanerpetontidae, is now considered part of lissamphibia alongside the superorder salientia. furthermore, salientia includes all three recent orders plus the triassic proto - frog, triadobatrachus. evolutionary history the first major groups of amphibians developed in the devonian period, around 370 million years ago, from lobe - finned fish which were similar to the modern coelacanth and lungfish. these ancient lobe - finned fish had evolved multi - jointed leg - like fins with digits that enabled them to crawl along the sea bottom. some fish had developed primitive lungs that help them breathe air when the stagnant pools of the devonian swamps were low in oxygen. they could also use their strong fins to hoist themselves out of the water and onto dry land if circumstances so required. eventually, their bony fins would evolve into limbs and they would become the ancestors to all tetrapods, including modern amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals. despite being able to crawl on land, many of these prehistoric tetrapodomorph fish still spent most of their time in the water. they had started to develop lungs, but still breathed predominantly with gills. many examples of species showing transitional features have been discovered. ichthyostega was one of the first primitive amphibians, with nostrils and more efficient lungs. it had four sturdy limbs, a neck, a tail with fins and a skull very similar to that of the lobe - finned fish, eusthenopteron. amphibians evolved adaptations that allowed them to stay out of the water for longer periods. their lungs improved and their skeletons became heavier and stronger, better able to support the weight of their bodies on land. they developed " hands " and " feet " with five or more digits ; the skin became more capable of retaining body fluids and resisting desiccation. the fish ' s hyomandibula bone in the hyoid region behind the gills diminished in size and became the stapes of the amphibian ear, an adaptation necessary for hearing on dry land. an