it quickly and was killed soon afterwards. the palace and town of aachen had fortifying walls built by order of emperor frederick barbarossa between 1172 and 1176. over the next 500 years, most kings of germany destined to reign over the holy roman empire were crowned in aachen. the original audience hall built by charlemagne was torn down and replaced by the current city hall in 1330. the last king to be crowned here was ferdinand i in 1531. during the middle ages, aachen remained a city of regional importance, due to its proximity to flanders ; it achieved a modest position in the trade in woollen cloths, favoured by imperial privilege. the city remained a free imperial city, subject to the emperor only, but was politically far too weak to influence the policies of any of its neighbours. the only dominion it had was over burtscheid, a neighbouring territory ruled by a benedictine abbess. it was forced to accept that all of its traffic must pass through the " aachener reich ". even in the late 18th century the abbess of burtscheid was prevented from building a road linking her territory to the neighbouring estates of the duke of julich ; the city of aachen even deployed its handful of soldiers to chase away the road - diggers. as an imperial city, aachen held certain political privileges that allowed it to remain independent of the troubles of europe for many years. it remained a direct vassal of the holy roman empire throughout most of the middle ages. it was also the site of many important church councils, including the council of 837 and the council of 1166, a council convened by the antipope paschal iii. manuscript production aachen has proved an important site for the production of historical manuscripts. under charlemagne ' s purview, both the ada gospels and the coronation gospels may have been produced in aachen. in addition, quantities of the other texts in the court library were also produced locally. during the reign of louis the pious ( 814 – 840 ), substantial quantities of ancient texts were produced at aachen, including legal manuscripts such as the leges scriptorium group, patristic texts including the five manuscripts of the bamberg pliny group. finally, under lothair i ( 840 – 855 ), texts of outstanding quality were still being produced. this however marked the end of the period of manuscript production at aachen. 16th – 18th centuries in 1598, following the invasion of spanish troops from the netherlands, rudolf deposed all protestant office holders in aachen and even went as far as expelling them from the