gas, the gas is contained in an insulated container and then allowed to expand in a vacuum. because there is no external pressure for the gas to expand against, the work done by or on the system is zero. since this process does not involve any heat transfer or work, the first law of thermodynamics then implies that the net internal energy change of the system is zero. for an ideal gas, the temperature remains constant because the internal energy only depends on temperature in that case. since at constant temperature, the entropy is proportional to the volume, the entropy increases in this case, therefore this process is irreversible. derivation of p – v relation for adiabatic compression and expansion the definition of an adiabatic process is that heat transfer to the system is zero,. then, according to the first law of thermodynamics, where is the change in the internal energy of the system and is work done by the system. any work ( ) done must be done at the expense of internal energy, since no heat is being supplied from the surroundings. pressure – volume work done by the system is defined as however, does not remain constant during an adiabatic process but instead changes along with. it is desired to know how the values of and relate to each other as the adiabatic process proceeds. for an ideal gas ( recall ideal gas law ) the internal energy is given by where is the number of degrees of freedom divided by 2, is the universal gas constant and is the number of moles in the system ( a constant ). differentiating equation ( a3 ) yields equation ( a4 ) is often expressed as because. now substitute equations ( a2 ) and ( a4 ) into equation ( a1 ) to obtain factorize : and divide both sides by : after integrating the left and right sides from to and from to and changing the sides respectively, exponentiate both sides, substitute with, the heat capacity ratio and eliminate the negative sign to obtain therefore, and at the same time, the work done by the pressure – volume changes as a result from this process, is equal to since we require the process to be adiabatic, the following equation needs to be true by the previous derivation, rearranging ( b4 ) gives substituting this into ( b2 ) gives integrating we obtain the expression for work, substituting in second term, rearranging, using the ideal gas law and assuming a constant molar quantity ( as often happens in practical cases ), by the continuous formula