last of these may be heated under vacuum to generate cs2o. the alkali metals can also react analogously with the heavier chalcogens ( sulfur, selenium, tellurium, and polonium ), and all the alkali metal chalcogenides are known ( with the exception of francium ' s ). reaction with an excess of the chalcogen can similarly result in lower chalcogenides, with chalcogen ions containing chains of the chalcogen atoms in question. for example, sodium can react with sulfur to form the sulfide ( na2s ) and various polysulfides with the formula na2sx ( x from 2 to 6 ), containing the ions. due to the basicity of the se2− and te2− ions, the alkali metal selenides and tellurides are alkaline in solution ; when reacted directly with selenium and tellurium, alkali metal polyselenides and polytellurides are formed along with the selenides and tellurides with the and ions. they may be obtained directly from the elements in liquid ammonia or when air is not present, and are colourless, water - soluble compounds that air oxidises quickly back to selenium or tellurium. the alkali metal polonides are all ionic compounds containing the po2− ion ; they are very chemically stable and can be produced by direct reaction of the elements at around 300 – 400 °c. halides, hydrides, and pseudohalides the alkali metals are among the most electropositive elements on the periodic table and thus tend to bond ionically to the most electronegative elements on the periodic table, the halogens ( fluorine, chlorine, bromine, iodine, and astatine ), forming salts known as the alkali metal halides. the reaction is very vigorous and can sometimes result in explosions. all twenty stable alkali metal halides are known ; the unstable ones are not known, with the exception of sodium astatide, because of the great instability and rarity of astatine and francium. the most well - known of the twenty is certainly sodium chloride, otherwise known as common salt. all of the stable alkali metal halides have the formula mx where m is an alkali metal and x is a halogen. they are all white ionic crystalline solids that have high melting points. all the alkali metal halides are