electric, and the glenn l. martin company. meanwhile, nasa performed its own in - house spacecraft design studies led by maxime faget, to serve as a gauge to judge and monitor the three industry designs. political pressure builds in november 1960, john f. kennedy was elected president after a campaign that promised american superiority over the soviet union in the fields of space exploration and missile defense. up to the election of 1960, kennedy had been speaking out against the " missile gap " that he and many other senators felt had developed between the soviet union and the united states due to the inaction of president eisenhower. beyond military power, kennedy used aerospace technology as a symbol of national prestige, pledging to make the us not " first but, first and, first if, but first period ". despite kennedy ' s rhetoric, he did not immediately come to a decision on the status of the apollo program once he became president. he knew little about the technical details of the space program, and was put off by the massive financial commitment required by a crewed moon landing. when kennedy ' s newly appointed nasa administrator james e. webb requested a 30 percent budget increase for his agency, kennedy supported an acceleration of nasa ' s large booster program but deferred a decision on the broader issue. on april 12, 1961, soviet cosmonaut yuri gagarin became the first person to fly in space, reinforcing american fears about being left behind in a technological competition with the soviet union. at a meeting of the us house committee on science and astronautics one day after gagarin ' s flight, many congressmen pledged their support for a crash program aimed at ensuring that america would catch up. kennedy was circumspect in his response to the news, refusing to make a commitment on america ' s response to the soviets. on april 20, kennedy sent a memo to vice president lyndon b. johnson, asking johnson to look into the status of america ' s space program, and into programs that could offer nasa the opportunity to catch up. johnson responded approximately one week later, concluding that " we are neither making maximum effort nor achieving results necessary if this country is to reach a position of leadership. " his memo concluded that a crewed moon landing was far enough in the future that it was likely the united states would achieve it first. on may 25, 1961, twenty days after the first us crewed spaceflight freedom 7, kennedy proposed the crewed moon landing in a special message to the congress on urgent national needs : nasa expansion at the time