sensation de - qi ( ; " arrival of qi " ) refers to a claimed sensation of numbness, distension, or electrical tingling at the needling site. if these sensations are not observed then inaccurate location of the acupoint, improper depth of needle insertion, inadequate manual manipulation, are blamed. if de - qi is not immediately observed upon needle insertion, various manual manipulation techniques are often applied to promote it ( such as " plucking ", " shaking " or " trembling " ). once de - qi is observed, techniques might be used which attempt to " influence " the de - qi ; for example, by certain manipulation the de - qi can allegedly be conducted from the needling site towards more distant sites of the body. other techniques aim at " tonifying " ( ) or " sedating " ( ) qi. the former techniques are used in deficiency patterns, the latter in excess patterns. de qi is more important in chinese acupuncture, while western and japanese patients may not consider it a necessary part of the treatment. related practices acupressure, a non - invasive form of bodywork, uses physical pressure applied to acupressure points by the hand or elbow, or with various devices. acupuncture is often accompanied by moxibustion, the burning of cone - shaped preparations of moxa ( made from dried mugwort ) on or near the skin, often but not always near or on an acupuncture point. traditionally, acupuncture was used to treat acute conditions while moxibustion was used for chronic diseases. moxibustion could be direct ( the cone was placed directly on the skin and allowed to burn the skin, producing a blister and eventually a scar ), or indirect ( either a cone of moxa was placed on a slice of garlic, ginger or other vegetable, or a cylinder of moxa was held above the skin, close enough to either warm or burn it ). cupping therapy is an ancient chinese form of alternative medicine in which a local suction is created on the skin ; practitioners believe this mobilizes blood flow in order to promote healing. tui na is a tcm method of attempting to stimulate the flow of qi by various bare - handed techniques that do not involve needles. electroacupuncture is a form of acupuncture in which acupuncture needles are attached to a device that generates continuous electric pulses ( this has been described as " essentially transdermal electrical nerve stimulation [ tens