simply pointing out that there are reputational benefits of action may reduce them. this may be used as a derogatory tactic against altruists ( " you ' re just virtue signalling " ), especially by those who are non - cooperators. a counterargument is that doing good due to reputational concerns is better than doing no good. group selection. it has controversially been argued by some evolutionary scientists such as david sloan wilson that natural selection can act at the level of non - kin groups to produce adaptations that benefit a non - kin group, even if these adaptations are detrimental at the individual level. thus, while altruistic persons may under some circumstances be outcompeted by less altruistic persons at the individual level, according to group selection theory, the opposite may occur at the group level where groups consisting of the more altruistic persons may outcompete groups consisting of the less altruistic persons. such altruism may only extend to ingroup members while directing prejudice and antagonism against outgroup members ( see also in - group favoritism ). many other evolutionary scientists have criticized group selection theory. such explanations do not imply that humans consciously calculate how to increase their inclusive fitness when doing altruistic acts. instead, evolution has shaped psychological mechanisms, such as emotions, that promote certain altruistic behaviors. the benefits for the altruist may be increased, and the costs reduced by being more altruistic towards certain groups. research has found that people are more altruistic to kin than to no - kin, to friends than strangers, to those attractive than to those unattractive, to non - competitors than competitors, and to members in - groups than to members of out - groups. the study of altruism was the initial impetus behind george r. price ' s development of the price equation, a mathematical equation used to study genetic evolution. an interesting example of altruism is found in the cellular slime moulds, such as dictyostelium mucoroides. these protists live as individual amoebae until starved, at which point they aggregate and form a multicellular fruiting body in which some cells sacrifice themselves to promote the survival of other cells in the fruiting body. selective investment theory proposes that close social bonds, and associated emotional, cognitive, and neurohormonal mechanisms, evolved to facilitate long - term, high - cost altruism between those closely depending on one another for survival and reproductive success. such cooperative