mathematics of ancient mesopotamia ( modern iraq ). a sumerian clay tablet found in shuruppak near baghdad and dated to described the earliest division algorithm. during the hammurabi dynasty, babylonian clay tablets described algorithms for computing formulas. algorithms were also used in babylonian astronomy. babylonian clay tablets describe and employ algorithmic procedures to compute the time and place of significant astronomical events. algorithms for arithmetic are also found in ancient egyptian mathematics, dating back to the rhind mathematical papyrus. algorithms were later used in ancient hellenistic mathematics. two examples are the sieve of eratosthenes, which was described in the introduction to arithmetic by nicomachus, and the euclidean algorithm, which was first described in euclid ' s elements ( ). discrete and distinguishable symbols tally - marks : to keep track of their flocks, their sacks of grain and their money the ancients used tallying : accumulating stones or marks scratched on sticks or making discrete symbols in clay. through the babylonian and egyptian use of marks and symbols, eventually roman numerals and the abacus evolved ( dilson, p. 16 – 41 ). tally marks appear prominently in unary numeral system arithmetic used in turing machine and post – turing machine computations. manipulation of symbols as " place holders " for numbers : algebra muhammad ibn musa al - khwarizmi, a persian mathematician, wrote the al - jabr in the 9th century. the terms " algorism " and " algorithm " are derived from the name al - khwarizmi, while the term " algebra " is derived from the book al - jabr. in europe, the word " algorithm " was originally used to refer to the sets of rules and techniques used by al - khwarizmi to solve algebraic equations, before later being generalized to refer to any set of rules or techniques. this eventually culminated in leibniz ' s notion of the calculus ratiocinator ( ) : cryptographic algorithms the first cryptographic algorithm for deciphering encrypted code was developed by al - kindi, a 9th - century arab mathematician, in a manuscript on deciphering cryptographic messages. he gave the first description of cryptanalysis by frequency analysis, the earliest codebreaking algorithm. mechanical contrivances with discrete states the clock : bolter credits the invention of the weight - driven clock as " the key invention [ of europe in the middle ages ] ", in particular, the verge escapement that provides us with the tick and tock of a mechanical clock.