north, and from china, the top country of birth by a significant margin for a new arrivals there. there is a growing fujianese community in philadelphia as well, and fuzhou cuisine is readily available in the philadelphia chinatown. also, emerging vietnamese cuisine in philadelphia is contributing to evolution in local chinese cuisine, with some chinese - american restaurants adopting vietnamese influences or recipes. washington, d. c. although washington, d. c. ' s chinese community has not achieved as high of a local profile as that in other major cities along the mid - atlantic united states, it is now growing, and rapidly so, due to the gentrification of dc ' s chinatown and the status of washington, d. c., as the capital of the united states. the growing chinese community in dc. and its suburbs has revitalized the influence of chinese cuisine in the area. washington, d. c. ' s population is 1 % chinese, making them the largest single asian ancestry in the city. however, the chinese community in the dc area is no longer solely concentrated in the chinatown, which is about 15 % chinese and 25 % asian, but is mostly concentrated throughout various towns in suburban maryland and northern virginia. the largest concentration of chinese and taiwanese in the dc area is in rockville, maryland, in montgomery county. a popular dish localized in chinese american carryouts across the dmv region consists of whole fried chicken wings served with mumbo sauce ; a sweet, tangy ketchup - based condiment. in dc proper, there are chinese - owned restaurants specializing in both chinese american and authentic chinese cuisine. regional variations of chinese cuisine that restaurants in dc specialize in include shanghainese cuisine, cantonese cuisine, uyghur cuisine, mongolian cuisine, and sichuan cuisine. in the suburbs of dc in maryland and virginia, many of which have a much higher chinese population than dc, regional variations present aside from the ones previously mentioned include hong kong cuisine, hunan cuisine, shaanxi cuisine, taiwanese cuisine, and yunnan cuisine. puerto rico hawaii hawaiian - chinese food developed somewhat differently from chinese cuisine in the continental united states. owing to the diversity of pacific ethnicities in hawaii and the history of the chinese influence in hawaii, resident chinese cuisine forms a component of the cuisine of hawaii, which is a fusion of different culinary traditions. some chinese dishes are typically served as part of plate lunches in hawaii. the names of foods are different as well, such as manapua, from the hawaiian contraction of " mea ono pua ' a