also hunt aardvarks for meat. aardvarks can dig fast or run in zigzag fashion to elude enemies, but if all else fails, they will strike with their claws, tail and shoulders, sometimes flipping onto their backs lying motionless except to lash out with all four feet. they are capable of causing substantial damage to unprotected areas of an attacker. they will also dig to escape as they can. sometimes, when pressed, aardvarks can dig extremely quickly. feeding the aardvark is nocturnal and is a solitary creature that feeds almost exclusively on ants and termites ( myrmecophagy ) ; the only fruit eaten by aardvarks is the aardvark cucumber. in fact, the cucumber and the aardvark have a symbiotic relationship as they eat the subterranean fruit, then defecate the seeds near their burrows, which then grow rapidly due to the loose soil and fertile nature of the area. the time spent in the intestine of the aardvark helps the fertility of the seed, and the fruit provides needed moisture for the aardvark. they avoid eating the african driver ant and red ants. due to their stringent diet requirements, they require a large range to survive. an aardvark emerges from its burrow in the late afternoon or shortly after sunset, and forages over a considerable home range encompassing. while foraging for food, the aardvark will keep its nose to the ground and its ears pointed forward, which indicates that both smell and hearing are involved in the search for food. they zig - zag as they forage and will usually not repeat a route for 5 – 8 days as they appear to allow time for the termite nests to recover before feeding on it again. during a foraging period, they will stop to dig a " v " shaped trench with their forefeet and then sniff it profusely as a means to explore their location. when a concentration of ants or termites is detected, the aardvark digs into it with its powerful front legs, keeping its long ears upright to listen for predators, and takes up an astonishing number of insects with its long, sticky tongue — as many as 50, 000 in one night have been recorded. its claws enable it to dig through the extremely hard crust of a termite or ant mound quickly. it avoids inhaling the dust by sealing the nostrils. when successful, the aard