a drought that lasted for several years and jezebel ' s fanatical religious persecution of the prophets of yahweh, which ahab condoned. his reputation was so negative that in 1 kings 16 : 34, the author attributed to his reign the deaths of abiram and segub, the sons of hiel of bethel, caused by their father ' s invocation of joshua ' s curse several centuries before. according to, war later erupted between ahab and king hadadezer of aram - damascus ( which the bible refers to as " ben - hadad ii " ) and that ahab was able to defeat and capture him ; however, soon after that, a peace treaty was made between the two and alliance between israel and aram - damascus was formed. battle of qarqar the battle of qarqar is mentioned in extra - biblical records, and was perhaps at apamea, where shalmaneser iii of assyria fought a great confederation of princes from cilicia, northern syria, israel, ammon, and the tribes of the syrian desert ( 853 bce ), including arabs, ahab the israelite ( a - ha - ab - bu matsir - ' a - la - a - a ) and hadadezer ( adad - ' idri ). ahab ' s contribution was estimated at 2000 chariots and 10, 000 men. in reality, however, the number of chariots in ahab ' s forces was probably closer to a number in the hundreds ( based upon archaeological excavations of the area and the foundations of stables that have been found ). if, however, the numbers are referring to allies, they could possibly include forces from tyre, judah, edom, and moab. the assyrian king claimed a victory, but his immediate return and subsequent expeditions in 849 bc and 846 bc against a similar but unspecified coalition seem to show that he met with no lasting success. jezreel has been identified as ahab ' s fortified chariot and cavalry base. ahab and the prophets in the biblical text, ahab has five important encounters with prophets : the first encounter is with elijah, who predicts a drought because of ahab ' s sins. because of this, ahab refers to him as " the troubler of israel " ( 1 kings 18 : 17 ). this encounter ends with elijah ' s victory over the prophets of baal in a contest held for the sake of ahab and the israelites, to bring