although use of the aramaic alphabet has continued to some degree. al jazeera arabic also broadcast a program about western neo - aramaic and the villages in which it is spoken with the square script still in use. letters in aramaic writing, waw and yodh serve a double function. originally, they represented only the consonants w and y, but they were later adopted to indicate the long vowels u and i respectively as well ( often also o and e respectively ). in the latter role, they are known as or ' mothers of reading '. alap, likewise, has some of the characteristics of a because in initial positions, it indicates a glottal stop ( followed by a vowel ), but otherwise, it often also stands for the long vowels a or e. among jews, the influence of hebrew often led to the use of he instead, at the end of a word. the practice of using certain letters to hold vowel values spread to aramaic - derived writing systems, such as in arabic and hebrew, which still follow the practice. unicode the imperial aramaic alphabet was added to the unicode standard in october 2009, with the release of version 5. 2. the unicode block for imperial aramaic is u + 10840 – u + 1085f : the syriac aramaic alphabet was added to the unicode standard in september 1999, with the release of version 3. 0. the syriac abbreviation ( a type of overline ) can be represented with a special control character called the syriac abbreviation mark ( u + 070f ). the unicode block for syriac aramaic is u + 0700 – u + 074f : see also syriac alphabet mandaic alphabet references sources byrne, ryan. " middle aramaic scripts ". encyclopaedia of language and linguistics. elsevier. ( 2006 ) daniels, peter t., et al. eds. the world ' s writing systems. oxford. ( 1996 ) coulmas, florian. the writing systems of the world. blackwell publishers ltd, oxford. ( 1989 ) rudder, joshua. learn to write aramaic : a step - by - step approach to the historical & modern scripts. n. p. : createspace independent publishing platform, 2011. 220 pp.. includes a wide variety of aramaic scripts. ancient hebrew and aramaic on coins, reading and transliterating proto - hebrew, online edition ( judaea coin archive ). external links comparison of aramaic to related alphabets omniglot entry 8th - century bc establishments obsolete writing systems persian scripts right - to - left writing systems abjad writing