war. when penthesilea, queen of the amazons and daughter of ares, arrives in troy, priam hopes that she will defeat achilles. after his temporary truce with priam, achilles fights and kills the warrior queen, only to grieve over her death later. initially taken aback, he did not fight as intensely as usual. once he realized that his distraction was endangering his life, he refocused and killed her. following the death of patroclus, nestor ' s son antilochus becomes achilles ' closest companion. when memnon, son of the dawn goddess eos and king of ethiopia, slays antilochus, achilles once more obtains revenge on the battlefield, killing memnon. consequently, eos will not let the sun rise until zeus persuades her. the fight between achilles and memnon over antilochus echoes that of achilles and hector over patroclus, except that memnon ( unlike hector ) was also the son of a goddess. many homeric scholars argued that episode inspired many details in the iliads description of the death of patroclus and achilles ' reaction to it. the episode then formed the basis of the cyclic epic aethiopis, which was composed after the iliad, possibly in the 7th century bc. the aethiopis is now lost, except for scattered fragments quoted by later authors. achilles and patroclus the exact nature of achilles ' relationship with patroclus has been a subject of dispute in both the classical period and modern times. in the iliad, it appears to be the model of a deep and loyal friendship. homer does not suggest that achilles and his close friend patroclus had sexual relations. although there is no direct evidence in the text of the iliad that achilles and patroclus were lovers, this theory was expressed by some later authors. commentators from classical antiquity to the present have often interpreted the relationship through the lens of their own cultures. in 5th - century bc athens, the intense bond was often viewed in light of the greek custom of paiderasteia, which is the relationship between an older male and a younger one, usually a teenager. in patroclus and achilles ' case, achilles would have been the younger as patroclus is usually seen as his elder. in plato ' s symposium, the participants in a dialogue about love assume that achilles and patroclus were a couple ; phaedrus argues that achilles was the