the southeast of the united states and has already evolved resistances to dinitroaniline herbicides and acetolactate synthase inhibitors. this makes the proper identification of amaranthus species at the seedling stage essential for agriculturalists. proper weed control needs to be applied before the species successfully colonizes in the crop field and causes significant yield reductions. an evolutionary lineage of around 90 species within the genus has acquired the carbon fixation pathway, which increases their photosynthetic efficiency. this probably occurred in the miocene. uses all parts of the plant are considered edible, though some may have sharp spines that need to be removed before consumption. nutrition uncooked amaranth grain by weight is 12 % water, 65 % carbohydrates ( including 7 % dietary fiber ), 14 % protein, and 7 % fat ( table ). a reference serving of uncooked amaranth grain provides of food energy, and is a rich source ( 20 % or more of the daily value, dv ) of protein, dietary fiber, pantothenic acid, vitamin b6, folate, and several dietary minerals ( table ). uncooked amaranth is particularly rich in manganese ( 159 % dv ), phosphorus ( 80 % dv ), magnesium ( 70 % dv ), iron ( 59 % dv ), and selenium ( 34 % dv ). amaranth has a high oxalate content. cooking decreases its nutritional value substantially across all nutrients, with only dietary minerals remaining at moderate levels. cooked amaranth leaves are a rich source of vitamin a, vitamin c, calcium, and manganese, with moderate levels of folate, iron, magnesium, and potassium. amaranth does not contain gluten. history the native range of the genus is cosmopolitan. in pre - hispanic times, amaranth was cultivated by the aztec and their tributary communities in a quantity very similar to maize. known to the aztecs as, amaranth is thought to have represented up to 80 % of their energy consumption before the spanish conquest. another important use of amaranth throughout mesoamerica was in ritual drinks and foods. to this day, amaranth grains are toasted much like popcorn and mixed with honey, molasses, or chocolate to make a treat called, meaning " joy " in spanish. while all species are believed to be native to the americas, several have been cultivated and introduced to warm regions worldwide. amaranth '