at calumet, making gradual progress in stabilizing the mining operations, such that he was able to leave the mines under the control of a general manager and return to boston in 1868 before winter closed navigation. the mines continued to prosper and in may 1871, several mines were consolidated to form the calumet and hecla mining company with shaw as its first president. in august 1871, shaw " retired " to the board of directors and agassiz became president, a position he held until his death. until the turn of the century, this company was by far the largest copper producer in the united states, many years producing over half of the total. agassiz was a major factor in the mine ' s continued success and visited the mines twice a year. he innovated by installing a giant engine, known as the superior, which was able to lift 24 tons of rock from a depth of. he also built a railroad and dredged a channel to navigable waters. however, after a time the mines did not require his full - time, year - round, attention and he returned to his interests in natural history at harvard. out of his copper fortune, he gave some us $ 500, 000 to harvard for the museum of comparative zoology and other purposes. shortly after the death of his father in 1873, agassiz acquired a small peninsula in newport, rhode island, which features views of narragansett bay. here he built a substantial house and a laboratory for use as his summer residence. the house was completed in 1875 and today is known as the inn at castle hill. he was a member of the scientific - expedition to south america in 1875, where he inspected the copper mines of peru and chile, and made extended surveys of lake titicaca, besides collecting invaluable peruvian antiquities, which he gave to the museum of comparative zoology ( mcz ), of which he was first curator from 1874 to 1885 and then director until his death in 1910, his personal secretary elizabeth hodges clark running the day - to - day management of the mcz when his work took him abroad. he assisted charles wyville thomson in the examination and classification of the collections of the 1872 challenger expedition, and wrote the review of the echini ( 2 vols., 1872 – 1874 ) in the reports. between 1877 and 1880, he took part in the three dredging expeditions of the steamer blake of the coast survey, and presented a full account of them in two volumes ( 1888 ). also in 1875, he