old " city. the smyrnaeans sent ambassadors to the oracle at clarus to ask about this, and after the response from the oracle they decided to move to the " new " city. the city of pella, in modern jordan, was founded by veterans of alexander ' s army, and named it after the city of pella, in greece, which was the birthplace of alexander. modern cities still named after alexander the great include : alexandria ( egypt ), alexandreia ( greece ), iskenderun ( turkey ), iskandariya ( iraq ) and kandahar ( afghanistan ). funding of temples in 334 bc, alexander the great donated funds for the completion of the new temple of athena polias in priene, in modern - day western turkey. an inscription from the temple, now housed in the british museum, declares : " king alexander dedicated [ this temple ] to athena polias. " this inscription is one of the few independent archaeological discoveries confirming an episode from alexander ' s life. the temple was designed by pytheos, one of the architects of the mausoleum at halicarnassus. libanius wrote that alexander founded the temple of zeus bottiaios ( ), in the place where later the city of antioch was built. suda wrote that alexander built a big temple to sarapis. hellenization hellenization was coined by the german historian johann gustav droysen to denote the spread of greek language, culture, and population into the former persian empire after alexander ' s conquest. this process can be seen in such great hellenistic cities as alexandria, antioch and seleucia ( south of modern baghdad ). alexander sought to insert greek elements into persian culture and to hybridize greek and persian culture, homogenizing the populations of asia and europe. although his successors explicitly rejected such policies, hellenization occurred throughout the region, accompanied by a distinct and opposite ' orientalization ' of the successor states. the core of the hellenistic culture promulgated by the conquests was essentially athenian. the close association of men from across greece in alexander ' s army directly led to the emergence of the largely attic - based " koine ", or " common " greek dialect. koine spread throughout the hellenistic world, becoming the lingua franca of hellenistic lands and eventually the ancestor of modern greek. furthermore, town planning, education, local government, and art current in the hellenistic period were all based on classical greek ideals, evolving into distinct new forms commonly grouped as hellenistic. also, the