##s, which are occupied for six weeks at a time. there are two distinct populations : one in southern africa, and another in east and northeast africa. the species does not occur in the intermediary miombo forests. an adult pair, along with their most - recent offspring, occupies a territory of. behavior and ecology aardwolves are shy and nocturnal, sleeping in burrows by day. they will, on occasion during the winter, become diurnal feeders. this happens during the coldest periods as they then stay in at night to conserve heat. they are primarily solitary animals, though during mating season they form monogamous pairs which occupy a territory with their young. if their territory is infringed upon, they will chase the intruder away for up to or to the border. if the intruder is caught, which rarely happens, a fight will occur, which is accompanied by soft clucking, hoarse barking, and a type of roar. the majority of incursions occur during mating season, when they can occur once or twice per week. when food is scarce, the stringent territorial system may be abandoned and as many as three pairs may occupy a single territory. the territory is marked by both sexes, as they both have developed anal glands from which they extrude a black substance that is smeared on rocks or grass stalks in - long streaks. aardwolves also have scent glands on the forefoot and penile pad. they often mark near termite mounds within their territory every 20 minutes or so. if they are patrolling their territorial boundaries, the marking frequency increases drastically, to once every. at this rate, an individual may mark 60 marks per hour, and upwards of 200 per night. an aardwolf pair may have up to 10 dens, and numerous feces middens, within their territory. when they deposit excreta at their middens, they dig a small hole and cover it with sand. their dens are usually abandoned aardvark, springhare, or porcupine dens, or on occasion they are crevices in rocks. they will also dig their own dens, or enlarge dens started by springhares. they typically will only use one or two dens at a time, rotating through all of their dens every six months. during the summer, they may rest outside their den during the night and sleep underground during the heat of the day. aardwolves are not fast runners nor are they