quoted the first two lines of fr. 350, celebrating the return from babylon of alcaeus ' brother. the rest of fr. 350 was paraphrased in prose by the historian / geographer strabo. many fragments were supplied in quotes by athenaeus, principally on the subject of wine - drinking, but fr. 333, " wine, window into a man ", was quoted much later by the byzantine grammarian, john tzetzes. the first ' modern ' publication of alcaeus ' verses appeared in a greek and latin edition of fragments collected from the canonic nine lyrical poets by michael neander, published at basle in 1556. this was followed by another edition of the nine poets, collected by henricus stephanus and published in paris in 1560. fulvius ursinus compiled a fuller collection of alcaic fragments, including a commentary, which was published at antwerp in 1568. the first separate edition of alcaeus was by christian david jani and it was published at halle in 1780. the next separate edition was by august matthiae, leipzig 1827. some of the fragments quoted by ancient scholars were able to be integrated by scholars in the nineteenth century. thus for example two separate quotes by athenaeus were united by theodor bergk to form fr. 362. three separate sources were combined to form fr. 350, as mentioned above, including a prose paraphrase from strabo that first needed to be restored to its original meter, a synthesis achieved by the united efforts of otto hoffmann, karl otfried muller and franz heinrich ludolf ahrens. the discovery of the oxyrhynchus papyri towards the end of the nineteenth century dramatically increased the scope of scholarly research. in fact, eight important fragments have now been compiled from papyri – frs. 9, 38a, 42, 45, 34, 129, 130 and most recently s262. these fragments typically feature lacunae or gaps that scholars fill with ' educated guesses ', including for example a " brilliant supplement " by maurice bowra in fr. 34, a hymn to the dioscuri that includes a description of st. elmo ' s fire in the ship ' s rigging. working with only eight letters ( ; tr. pro... tr... ntes ), bowra conjured up a phrase that develops the meaning and the euphony of the poem ( ; tr. proton ' ontrechontes ), describing