the meroitic script. meroitic is the oldest written language in africa, other than egyptian, and was used from the 2nd century bc until the early 5th century ad. the cult of the goddess isis, for example, became popular in the roman empire, as obelisks and other relics were transported back to rome. the romans also imported building materials from egypt to erect egyptian - style structures. early historians such as herodotus, strabo, and diodorus siculus studied and wrote about the land, which romans came to view as a place of mystery. during the middle ages and the renaissance, egyptian pagan culture was in decline after the rise of christianity and later islam, but interest in egyptian antiquity continued in the writings of medieval scholars such as dhul - nun al - misri and al - maqrizi. in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, european travelers and tourists brought back antiquities and wrote stories of their journeys, leading to a wave of egyptomania across europe, as evident in symbolism like the eye of providence and the great seal of the united states. this renewed interest sent collectors to egypt, who took, purchased, or were given many important antiquities. napoleon arranged the first studies in egyptology when he brought some 150 scientists and artists to study and document egypt ' s natural history, which was published in the description de l ' egypte. in the 20th century, the egyptian government and archaeologists alike recognized the importance of cultural respect and integrity in excavations. since the 2010s, the ministry of tourism and antiquities has overseen excavations and the recovery of artifacts. see also egyptology glossary of ancient egypt artifacts index of ancient egypt – related articles outline of ancient egypt list of ancient egyptians list of ancient egyptian inventions and discoveries archaeology of ancient egypt archeological map of egypt british school of diffusionism notes citation references further reading external links bbc history : egyptiansprovides a reliable general overview and further links ancient egyptian science : a source book door marshall clagett, 1989 ancient egyptian metallurgy a site that shows the history of egyptian metalworking napoleon on the nile : soldiers, artists, and the rediscovery of egypt, art history. digital egypt for universities. scholarly treatment with broad coverage and cross references ( internal and external ). artifacts used extensively to illustrate topics. priests of ancient egypt in - depth - information about ancient egypt ' s priests, religious services and temples. much picture material and bibliography. in english and german. ucla encyclopedia of egyptology ancient egypt and the role of women by dr joann fletcher full -