25. 39, and being the first woman to set a pikes peak record. in 1986, audi formally left international rally racing following an accident in portugal involving driver joaquim santos in his ford rs200. santos swerved to avoid hitting spectators in the road, and left the track into the crowd of spectators on the side, killing three and injuring 30. bobby unser used an audi in that same year to claim a new record for the pikes peak hill climb at 11 : 09. 22. in 1987, walter rohrl claimed the title for audi setting a new pikes peak international hill climb record of 10 : 47. 85 in his audi s1, which he had retired from the wrc two years earlier. the audi s1 employed audi ' s time - tested inline - five - cylinder turbocharged engine, with the final version generating. the engine was mated to a six - speed gearbox and ran on audi ' s famous four - wheel drive system. all of audi ' s top drivers drove this car ; hannu mikkola, stig blomqvist, walter rohrl and michele mouton. this audi s1 started the range of audi ' s ' cars, which now represents an increased level of sports - performance equipment within the mainstream audi model range. in the united states as audi moved away from rallying and into circuit racing, they chose to move first into america with the trans - am in 1988. in 1989, audi moved to international motor sports association ( imsa ) gto with the audi 90, however as they avoided the two major endurance events ( daytona and sebring ) despite winning on a regular basis, they would lose out on the title. touring cars in 1990, having completed their objective to market cars in north america, audi returned to europe, turning first to the deutsche tourenwagen meisterschaft ( dtm ) series with the audi v8, and then in 1993, being unwilling to build cars for the new formula, they turned their attention to the fast - growing super touring series, which are a series of national championships. audi first entered in the french supertourisme and italian superturismo. in the following year, audi would switch to the german super tourenwagen cup ( known as stw ), and then to british touring car championship ( btcc ) the year after that. the federation internationale de l ' automobile ( fia ), having difficulty regulating the quattro four - wheel drive system, and the impact it had on