the earth, opening the way to greek astronomy. rovelli suggests that seeing the stars circling the pole star, and both vanishing below the horizon on one side and reappearing above it on the other, would suggest to the astronomer that there was a void both above and below the earth. cosmology anaximander ' s bold use of non - mythological explanatory hypotheses considerably distinguishes him from previous cosmology writers such as hesiod. it indicates a pre - socratic effort to demystify physical processes. his major contribution to history was writing the oldest prose document about the universe and the origins of life ; for this he is often called the " father of cosmology " and founder of astronomy. however, pseudo - plutarch states that he still viewed celestial bodies as deities. he placed the celestial bodies in the wrong order. he thought that the stars were nearest to the earth, then the moon, and the sun farthest away. his scheme is compatible with the indo - iranian philosophical traditions contained in the iranian avesta och the indian upanishads. at the origin, after the separation of hot and cold, a ball of flame appeared that surrounded earth like bark on a tree. this ball broke apart to form the rest of the universe. it resembled a system of hollow concentric wheels, filled with fire, with the rims pierced by holes like those of a flute. consequently, the sun was the fire that one could see through a hole the same size as the earth on the farthest wheel, and an eclipse corresponded with the occlusion of that hole. the diameter of the solar wheel was twenty - seven times that of the earth ( or twenty - eight, depending on the sources ) and the lunar wheel, whose fire was less intense, eighteen ( or nineteen ) times. its hole could change shape, thus explaining lunar phases. the stars and the planets, located closer, followed the same model. anaximander was the first astronomer to consider the sun as a huge mass, and consequently, to realize how far from earth it might be, and the first to present a system where the celestial bodies turned at different distances. furthermore, according to diogenes laertius ( ii, 2 ), he built a celestial sphere. this invention undoubtedly made him the first to realize the obliquity of the zodiac as the roman philosopher pliny the elder reports in natural history ( ii, 8 ). it is a little early to use the term eclip