better. " a 2013 meta - analysis found little evidence that the effectiveness of acupuncture on pain ( compared to sham ) was modified by the location of the needles, the number of needles used, the experience or technique of the practitioner, or by the circumstances of the sessions. the same analysis also suggested that the number of needles and sessions is important, as greater numbers improved the outcomes of acupuncture compared to non - acupuncture controls. there has been little systematic investigation of which components of an acupuncture session may be important for any therapeutic effect, including needle placement and depth, type and intensity of stimulation, and number of needles used. the research seems to suggest that needles do not need to stimulate the traditionally specified acupuncture points or penetrate the skin to attain an anticipated effect ( e. g. psychosocial factors ). a response to " sham " acupuncture in osteoarthritis may be used in the elderly, but placebos have usually been regarded as deception and thus unethical. however, some physicians and ethicists have suggested circumstances for applicable uses for placebos such as it might present a theoretical advantage of an inexpensive treatment without adverse reactions or interactions with drugs or other medications. as the evidence for most types of alternative medicine such as acupuncture is far from strong, the use of alternative medicine in regular healthcare can present an ethical question. using the principles of evidence - based medicine to research acupuncture is controversial, and has produced different results. some research suggests acupuncture can alleviate pain but the majority of research suggests that acupuncture ' s effects are mainly due to placebo. evidence suggests that any benefits of acupuncture are short - lasting. there is insufficient evidence to support use of acupuncture compared to mainstream medical treatments. acupuncture is not better than mainstream treatment in the long term. the use of acupuncture has been criticized owing to there being little scientific evidence for explicit effects, or the mechanisms for its supposed effectiveness, for any condition that is discernible from placebo. acupuncture has been called ' theatrical placebo ', and david gorski argues that when acupuncture proponents advocate ' harnessing of placebo effects ' or work on developing ' meaningful placebos ', they essentially concede it is little more than that. publication bias publication bias is cited as a concern in the reviews of randomized controlled trials of acupuncture. a 1998