" nobody wants to buy sour milk. " in may 2017, the company announced a $ 1 billion funding project for " advanced manufacturing " in the united states, and subsequently invested $ 200 million in corning inc., a manufacturer of toughened gorilla glass technology used in its iphone devices. the following december, apple ' s chief operating officer, jeff williams, told cnbc that the " $ 1 billion " amount was " absolutely not " the final limit on its spending, elaborating that " we ' re not thinking in terms of a fund limit... we ' re thinking about, where are the opportunities across the u. s. to help nurture companies that are making the advanced technology — and the advanced manufacturing that goes with that — that quite frankly is essential to our innovation. ", apple uses components from 43 countries. the majority of assembling is done by taiwanese original design manufacturer firms foxconn, pegatron, wistron and compal electronics with factories mostly located inside china, but also brazil, and india. taiwan semiconductor manufacturing co., ( tsmc ) is a pure - play semiconductor manufacturing company. they make the majority of apple ' s smartphone socs, with samsung semiconductor, playing a minority role. apple, alone accounted for over 25 % of tsmc ' s total income in 2021. apple ' s bionic lineup of smartphone socs, are currently made exclusively by tsmc from the a7 bionic onwards, previously manufacturing was shared with samsung. the m series of apple soc for consumer computers and tablets is made by tsmc as well. during the mac ' s early history apple generally refused to adopt prevailing industry standards for hardware, instead creating their own. this trend was largely reversed in the late 1990s, beginning with apple ' s adoption of the pci bus in the 7500 / 8500 / 9500 power macs. apple has since joined the industry standards groups to influence the future direction of technology standards such as usb, agp, hypertransport, wi - fi, nvme, pcie and others in its products. firewire is an apple - originated standard that was widely adopted across the industry after it was standardized as ieee 1394 and is a legally mandated port in all cable tv boxes in the united states. apple has gradually expanded its efforts in getting its products into the indian market. in july 2012, during a conference call with investors, ceo tim cook said that he " [ loves ] india ", but that apple saw larger opportunities outside the region