16, sections 351 through 358. the code further explains that " mere words do not amount to an assault. but the words which a person uses may give to their gestures or preparation such a meaning as may make those gestures or preparations amount to an assault ". assault is in indian criminal law an attempt to use criminal force ( with criminal force being described in s. 350 ). the attempt itself has been made an offence in india, as in other states. nigeria the criminal code act ( chapter 29 of part v ; sections 351 to 365 ) creates a number of offences of assault. assault is defined by section 252 of that act. assault is a misdemeanor punishable by one year imprisonment ; assault with " intent to have carnal knowledge of him or her " or who indecently assaults another, or who commits other more - serious variants of assault ( as defined in the act ) are guilty of a felony, and longer prison terms are provided for. pacific islands marshall islands the offence of assault is created by section 113 of the criminal code. a person is guilty of this offence if they unlawfully offer or attempt, with force or violence, to strike, beat, wound, or do bodily harm to, another. republic of ireland section 2 of the non - fatal offences against the person act 1997 creates the offence of assault, and section 3 of that act creates the offence of assault causing harm. south africa south african law does not draw the distinction between assault and battery. assault is a common law crime defined as " unlawfully and intentionally applying force to the person of another, or inspiring a belief in that other that force is immediately to be applied to him ". the law also recognises the crime of assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm, where grievous bodily harm is defined as " harm which in itself is such as seriously to interfere with health ". the common law crime of indecent assault was repealed by the criminal law ( sexual offences and related matters ) amendment act, 2007, and replaced by a statutory crime of sexual assault. united kingdom piracy with violence section 2 of the piracy act 1837 provides that it is an offence, amongst other things, for a person, with intent to commit or at the time of or immediately before or immediately after committing the crime of piracy in respect of any ship or vessel, to assault, with intent to murder, any person being on board of or belonging to such ship or vessel. assault on an officer of revenue and customs this offence ( relating to officers of