asteroids is a space - themed multidirectional shooter arcade video game designed by lyle rains and ed logg released in november 1979 by atari, inc. the player controls a single spaceship in an asteroid field which is periodically traversed by flying saucers. the object of the game is to shoot and destroy the asteroids and saucers, while not colliding with either, or being hit by the saucers ' counter - fire. the game becomes harder as the number of asteroids increases. asteroids was conceived during a meeting between logg and rains, who decided to use hardware developed by howard delman previously used for lunar lander. asteroids was based on an unfinished game titled cosmos ; its physics model, control scheme, and gameplay elements were derived from spacewar!, computer space, and space invaders and refined through trial and error. the game is rendered on a vector display in a two - dimensional view that wraps around both screen axes. asteroids was one of the first major hits of the golden age of arcade games ; the game sold 47, 840 upright cabinets and 8, 725 cocktail cabinets arcade cabinets and proved both popular with players and influential with developers. in the 1980s it was ported to atari ' s home systems, and the atari vcs version sold over three million copies. the game was widely imitated, and it directly influenced defender, gravitar, and many other video games. gameplay the objective of asteroids is to destroy asteroids and saucers. the player controls a triangular ship that can rotate left and right, fire shots straight forward, and thrust forward. once the ship begins moving in a direction, it will continue in that direction for a time without player intervention unless the player applies thrust in a different direction. the ship eventually comes to a stop when not thrusting. the player can also send the ship into hyperspace, causing it to disappear and reappear in a random location on the screen, at the risk of self - destructing or appearing on top of an asteroid. each level starts with a few large asteroids drifting in various directions on the screen. objects wrap around screen edges – for instance, an asteroid that drifts off the top edge of the screen reappears at the bottom and continues moving in the same direction. as the player shoots asteroids, they break into smaller asteroids that move faster and are more difficult to hit. smaller asteroids are also worth more points. two flying saucers appear periodically on the screen ; the " big saucer " shoots randomly and poorly, while the " small saucer " fires frequently at the