english language series to earn the title of " world ' s most in - demand tv show ", previously held by only the walking dead and game of thrones. rising interest in anime as well as japanese video games has led to an increase of university students in the united kingdom wanting to get a degree in the japanese language. the word anime alongside other japanese pop cultural terms like shonen and shojo have been added to the oxford english dictionary. various anime and manga series have influenced hollywood in the making of numerous famous movies and characters. hollywood itself has produced live - action adaptations of various anime series such as ghost in the shell, death note, dragon ball evolution and cowboy bebop. however most of these adaptations have been reviewed negatively by both the critics and the audience and have become box - office flops. the main reasons for the unsuccessfulness of hollywood ' s adaptions of anime being the often change of plot and characters from the original source material and the limited capabilities a live - action movie or series can do in comparison to an animated counterpart. one particular exception however is alita : battle angel, which has become a moderate commercial success, receiving generally positive reviews from both the critics and the audience for its visual effects and following the source material. the movie grossed $ 404 million worldwide, making it director robert rodriguez ' s highest - grossing film. anime and manga alongside many other parts of japanese pop culture have helped japan to gain a positive worldwide image and improve its relations with other countries. in 2015, during remarks welcoming japanese prime minister shinzo abe to the white house, president barack obama thanked japan for its cultural contributions to the united states by saying : in july 2020, after the approval of a chilean government project in which citizens of chile would be allowed to withdraw up to 10 % of their privately held retirement savings, journalist pamela jiles celebrated by running through congress with her arms spread out behind her, imitating the move of many characters of the anime and manga series naruto. in april 2021, peruvian politicians jorge hugo romero of the ppc and milagros juarez of the upp cosplayed as anime characters to get the otaku vote. in april 2023, the japan business federation laid out a proposal aiming to spur the economic growth of japan by further promoting the contents industry abroad, primarily anime, manga and video games, for measures to invite industry experts from abroad to come to japan to work, and to link with the tourism sector to help foreign fans of manga and anime visit sites across the country associated with particular manga