depending on the product and location. the most frequently documented type of plastic is expanded polystyrene ( eps ), used extensively in floats and sea cage collars ( mepc 2020 ). other common waste items include cage nets and plastic harvest bins. a review of aquaculture as a source of marine litter in the north, baltic and mediterranean seas identified 64 different items, 19 of which were unique to aquaculture. estimates of the amount of aquaculture waste entering the oceans vary widely, depending on the methodologies used. for example, in the european economic area loss estimates have varied from a low of 3, 000 tonnes to 41, 000 tonnes per year. ecological benefits while some forms of aquaculture can be devastating to ecosystems, such as shrimp farming in mangroves, other forms can be beneficial. shellfish aquaculture adds substantial filter feeding capacity to an environment which can significantly improve water quality. a single oyster can filter 15 gallons of water a day, removing microscopic algal cells. by removing these cells, shellfish are removing nitrogen and other nutrients from the system and either retaining it or releasing it as waste which sinks to the bottom. by harvesting these shellfish, the nitrogen they retained is completely removed from the system. raising and harvesting kelp and other macroalgae directly remove nutrients such as nitrogen and phosphorus. repackaging these nutrients can relieve eutrophic, or nutrient - rich, conditions known for their low dissolved oxygen which can decimate species diversity and abundance of marine life. removing algal cells from the water also increases light penetration, allowing plants such as eelgrass to reestablish themselves and further increase oxygen levels. aquaculture in an area can provide for crucial ecological functions for the inhabitants. shellfish beds or cages can provide habitat structure. this structure can be used as shelter by invertebrates, small fish or crustaceans to potentially increase their abundance and maintain biodiversity. increased shelter raises stocks of prey fish and small crustaceans by increasing recruitment opportunities in turn providing more prey for higher trophic levels. one study estimated that 10 square meters of oyster reef could enhance an ecosystem ' s biomass by 2. 57 kg herbivore shellfish will also be preyed on. this moves energy directly from primary producers to higher trophic levels potentially skipping out on multiple energetically costly trophic jumps which would increase biomass in the ecosystem. seaweed farming is a carbon negative crop, with a high potential for climate change mitigation. the ipcc special report on the ocean and cryosphere in a changing climate