it emits 5 times more alpha particles and relatively little harmful gamma radiation. the amount of americium in a typical new smoke detector is 1 microcurie ( 37 kbq ) or 0. 29 microgram. this amount declines slowly as the americium decays into neptunium - 237, a different transuranic element with a much longer half - life ( about 2. 14 million years ). with its half - life of 432. 2 years, the americium in a smoke detector includes about 3 % neptunium after 19 years, and about 5 % after 32 years. the radiation passes through an ionization chamber, an air - filled space between two electrodes, and permits a small, constant current between the electrodes. any smoke that enters the chamber absorbs the alpha particles, which reduces the ionization and affects this current, triggering the alarm. compared to the alternative optical smoke detector, the ionization smoke detector is cheaper and can detect particles which are too small to produce significant light scattering ; however, it is more prone to false alarms. radionuclide as 241am has a roughly similar half - life to 238pu ( 432. 2 years vs. 87 years ), it has been proposed as an active element of radioisotope thermoelectric generators, for example in spacecraft. although americium produces less heat and electricity – the power yield is 114. 7 mw / g for 241am and 6. 31 mw / g for 243am ( cf. 390 mw / g for 238pu ) – and its radiation poses more threat to humans owing to neutron emission, the european space agency is considering using americium for its space probes. another proposed space - related application of americium is a fuel for space ships with nuclear propulsion. it relies on the very high rate of nuclear fission of 242mam, which can be maintained even in a micrometer - thick foil. small thickness avoids the problem of self - absorption of emitted radiation. this problem is pertinent to uranium or plutonium rods, in which only surface layers provide alpha - particles. the fission products of 242mam can either directly propel the spaceship or they can heat a thrusting gas. they can also transfer their energy to a fluid and generate electricity through a magnetohydrodynamic generator. one more proposal which utilizes the high nuclear fission rate of 242mam is a nuclear battery. its design relies not on the energy of the emitted by americium alpha particles