at almost five times this rate ( per year ) at its peak. the end of the rapid growth phase suggests the onset of sexual maturity in albertosaurus, although growth continued at a slower rate throughout the animals ' lives. sexual maturation while still actively growing appears to be a shared trait among small and large dinosaurs, as well as in large mammals like humans and elephants. this pattern of relatively early sexual maturation differs strikingly from the pattern in birds, which delay their sexual maturity until after they have finished growing. during growth, thickening of the tooth morphology changed so much that, had the association of young and adult skeletons on the dry island bonebed not proven that they belonged to the same taxon, the teeth of juveniles would likely have been identified by statistical analysis as those of a different species. life history most known albertosaurus individuals were aged 14 years or older at the time of death. juvenile animals are rarely fossilized for several reasons, mainly preservation bias, where the smaller bones of younger animals were less likely to be preserved by fossilization than the larger bones of adults, and collection bias, where smaller fossils are less likely to be noticed by collectors in the field. young albertosaurus are relatively large for juvenile animals, but their remains are still rare in the fossil record when compared to adults. it has been suggested that this phenomenon is a consequence of life history, rather than bias, and that fossils of juvenile albertosaurus are rare because they simply did not die as often as adults did. a hypothesis of albertosaurus life history postulates that hatchlings died in large numbers, but have not been preserved in the fossil record because of their small size and fragile construction. after just two years, juveniles were larger than any other predator in the region, aside from adult albertosaurus, and more fleet - footed than most of their prey animals. this resulted in a dramatic decrease in their mortality rate and a corresponding rarity of fossil remains. mortality rates doubled at age twelve, perhaps the result of the physiological demands of the rapid growth phase, and then doubled again with the onset of sexual maturity between the ages of fourteen and sixteen. this elevated mortality rate continued throughout adulthood, perhaps due to the high physiological demands of procreation, including stress and injuries received during intraspecific competition for mates and resources, and the eventual, ever - increasing effects of senescence. the higher mortality rate in adults may explain their more common preservation. very large animals were rare because few individuals survived long enough to attain such size. high infant mortality rates, followed by reduced mortality among