the banking sector, carried out by deloitte, the monetary policy led by banco nacional de angola ( bna ), the angolan national bank, allowed a decrease in the inflation rate put at 7. 96 % in december 2013, which contributed to the sector ' s growth trend. estimates released by angola ' s central bank, said the country ' s economy should grow at an annual average rate of 5 per cent over the next four years, boosted by the increasing participation of the private sector. angola was ranked 132rd in the global innovation index in 2023. although the country ' s economy has grown significantly since angola achieved political stability in 2002, mainly due to fast - rising earnings in the oil sector, angola faces huge social and economic problems. these are in part a result of almost continual armed conflict from 1961 on, although the highest level of destruction and socio - economic damage took place after the 1975 independence, during the long years of civil war. however, high poverty rates and blatant social inequality chiefly stems from persistent authoritarianism, " neo - patrimonial " practices at all levels of the political, administrative, military and economic structures, and of a pervasive corruption. the main beneficiaries are political, administrative, economic and military power holders, who have accumulated ( and continue to accumulate ) enormous wealth. " secondary beneficiaries " are the middle strata that are about to become social classes. however, almost half the population has to be considered poor, with dramatic differences between the countryside and the cities, where slightly more than 50 % of the people reside. a study carried out in 2008 by the angolan instituto nacional de estatistica found that in rural areas roughly 58 % must be classified as " poor " according to un norms but in the urban areas only 19 %, and an overall rate of 37 %. in cities, a majority of families, well beyond those officially classified as poor, must adopt a variety of survival strategies. in urban areas social inequality is most evident and it is extreme in luanda. in the human development index angola constantly ranks in the bottom group. in january 2020, a leak of government documents known as the luanda leaks showed that u. s. consulting companies such as boston consulting group, mckinsey & company, and pricewaterhousecoopers had helped members of the family of former president jose eduardo dos santos ( especially his daughter isabel dos santos ) corruptly run sonangol for their own personal profit, helping them use the company ' s revenues to fund