in 1923, studied the variation in yield across plots sown with different varieties and subjected to different fertiliser treatments. analysis of variance became widely known after being included in fisher ' s 1925 book statistical methods for research workers. randomization models were developed by several researchers. the first was published in polish by jerzy neyman in 1923. example the analysis of variance can be used to describe otherwise complex relations among variables. a dog show provides an example. a dog show is not a random sampling of the breed : it is typically limited to dogs that are adult, pure - bred, and exemplary. a histogram of dog weights from a show might plausibly be rather complex, like the yellow - orange distribution shown in the illustrations. suppose we wanted to predict the weight of a dog based on a certain set of characteristics of each dog. one way to do that is to explain the distribution of weights by dividing the dog population into groups based on those characteristics. a successful grouping will split dogs such that ( a ) each group has a low variance of dog weights ( meaning the group is relatively homogeneous ) and ( b ) the mean of each group is distinct ( if two groups have the same mean, then it isn ' t reasonable to conclude that the groups are, in fact, separate in any meaningful way ). in the illustrations to the right, groups are identified as x1, x2, etc. in the first illustration, the dogs are divided according to the product ( interaction ) of two binary groupings : young vs old, and short - haired vs long - haired ( e. g., group 1 is young, short - haired dogs, group 2 is young, long - haired dogs, etc. ). since the distributions of dog weight within each of the groups ( shown in blue ) has a relatively large variance, and since the means are very similar across groups, grouping dogs by these characteristics does not produce an effective way to explain the variation in dog weights : knowing which group a dog is in doesn ' t allow us to predict its weight much better than simply knowing the dog is in a dog show. thus, this grouping fails to explain the variation in the overall distribution ( yellow - orange ). an attempt to explain the weight distribution by grouping dogs as pet vs working breed and less athletic vs more athletic would probably be somewhat more successful ( fair fit ). the heaviest show dogs are likely to be big, strong, working breeds, while breeds kept as pets tend to be smaller and thus lighter. as shown by the