comfort or torment. the author of the book of revelation writes about god and the angels versus satan and demons in an epic battle at the end of times when all souls are judged. there is mention of ghostly bodies of past prophets, and the transfiguration. the non - canonical acts of paul and thecla speak of the efficacy of prayer for the dead so that they might be " translated to a state of happiness ". hippolytus of rome pictures the underworld ( hades ) as a place where the righteous dead, awaiting in the bosom of abraham their resurrection, rejoice at their future prospect, while the unrighteous are tormented at the sight of the " lake of unquenchable fire " into which they are destined to be cast. gregory of nyssa discusses the long - before believed possibility of purification of souls after death. pope gregory i repeats the concept, articulated over a century earlier by gregory of nyssa that the saved suffer purification after death, in connection with which he wrote of " purgatorial flames ". the noun " purgatorium " ( latin : place of cleansing ) is used for the first time to describe a state of painful purification of the saved after life. the same word in adjectival form ( purgatorius - a - um, cleansing ), which appears also in non - religious writing, was already used by christians such as augustine of hippo and pope gregory i to refer to an after - death cleansing. during the age of enlightenment, theologians and philosophers presented various philosophies and beliefs. a notable example is emanuel swedenborg who wrote some 18 theological works which describe in detail the nature of the afterlife according to his claimed spiritual experiences, the most famous of which is heaven and hell. his report of life there covers a wide range of topics, such as marriage in heaven ( where all angels are married ), children in heaven ( where they are raised by angel parents ), time and space in heaven ( there are none ), the after - death awakening process in the world of spirits ( a place halfway between heaven and hell and where people first wake up after death ), the allowance of a free will choice between heaven or hell ( as opposed to being sent to either one by god ), the eternity of hell ( one could leave but would never want to ), and that all angels or devils were once people on earth. the catholic church the catholic conception of the afterlife teaches that after the body dies, the soul is judged, the righteous and free