values for the different fields in the instrument. using the fibonacci sequence would keep the number of grains within any one field at a minimum. russia the russian abacus, the schoty (, plural from, counting ), usually has a single slanted deck, with ten beads on each wire ( except one wire with four beads for quarter - ruble fractions ). 4 - bead wire was introduced for quarter - kopeks, which were minted until 1916. the russian abacus is used vertically, with each wire running horizontally. the wires are usually bowed upward in the center, to keep the beads pinned to either side. it is cleared when all the beads are moved to the right. during manipulation, beads are moved to the left. for easy viewing, the middle 2 beads on each wire ( the 5th and 6th bead ) usually are of a different color from the other eight. likewise, the left bead of the thousands wire ( and the million wire, if present ) may have a different color. the russian abacus was in use in shops and markets throughout the former soviet union, and its usage was taught in most schools until the 1990s. even the 1874 invention of mechanical calculator, odhner arithmometer, had not replaced them in russia ; according to yakov perelman. some businessmen attempting to import calculators into the russian empire were known to leave in despair after watching a skilled abacus operator. likewise, the mass production of felix arithmometers since 1924 did not significantly reduce abacus use in the soviet union. the russian abacus began to lose popularity only after the mass production of domestic microcalculators in 1974. the russian abacus was brought to france around 1820 by mathematician jean - victor poncelet, who had served in napoleon ' s army and had been a prisoner of war in russia. the abacus had fallen out of use in western europe in the 16th century with the rise of decimal notation and algorismic methods. to poncelet ' s french contemporaries, it was something new. poncelet used it, not for any applied purpose, but as a teaching and demonstration aid. the turks and the armenian people used abacuses similar to the russian schoty. it was named a coulba by the turks and a choreb by the armenians. school abacus around the world, abacuses have been used in pre - schools and elementary schools as an aid in teaching the numeral system and arithmetic. in western