full - time accordionist. sarah kiener, the former hurdy - gurdy player for the swiss melodic - death - folk metal band eluveitie, played a helvetic accordion known as a zugerorgeli. use in classical music although best known as a folk instrument, it has grown in popularity among classical composers. the earliest surviving concert piece is, written in 1836 by louise reisner of paris. other composers, including the russian pyotr ilyich tchaikovsky, the italian umberto giordano, and the american charles ives, wrote works for the diatonic button accordion. the first composer to write specifically for the chromatic accordion was paul hindemith. in 1922, the austrian alban berg included an accordion in wozzeck, op. 7. in 1937, the first accordion concerto was composed in russia. other notable composers have written for the accordion during the first half of the 20th century. included among this group was the italian - american john serry sr., whose concerto for free bass accordion was completed in 1964. accordion world, bedford hills, ny, 1968. in addition, the american accordionist robert davine composed his divertimento for flute, clarinet, bassoon and accordion as a work for chamber orchestra. american composer william p. perry featured the accordion in his orchestral suite six title themes in search of a movie ( 2008 ). the experimental composer howard skempton began his musical career as an accordionist, and has written numerous solo works for it. in his work drang ( 1999 ), british composer john palmer pushed the expressive possibilities of the accordion / bayan. luciano berio wrote sequenza xiii ( 1995 ) for accordionist teodoro anzellotti. accordionists like mogens ellegaard, joseph macerollo, nick ariondo, friedrich lips, hugo noth, stefan hussong, teodoro anzellotti, and geir draugsvoll, encouraged composers to write new music for the accordion ( solo and chamber music ) and also started playing baroque music on the free bass accordion. french composer henri dutilleux used an accordion in both his late song cycles correspondances ( 2003 ) and le temps l ' horloge ( 2009 ). russian - born composer sofia gubaidulina has composed solos, concertos, and chamber works for accordion. astor piazzolla ' s concert tangos are performed widely. piazzolla performed on the bandoneon, but his works are performed on either bandoneon or