led by john dickinson drafted the olive branch petition, offering to accept royal authority in return for george iii mediating in the dispute. however, since the petition was immediately followed by the declaration of the causes and necessity of taking up arms, colonial secretary lord dartmouth viewed the offer as insincere ; he refused to present the petition to the king, which was therefore rejected in early september. although constitutionally correct, since george could not oppose his own government, it disappointed those americans who hoped he would mediate in the dispute, while the hostility of his language annoyed even loyalist members of congress. combined with the proclamation of rebellion, issued on august 23 in response to the battle at bunker hill, it ended hopes of a peaceful settlement. backed by the whigs, parliament initially rejected the imposition of coercive measures by 170 votes, fearing an aggressive policy would simply drive the americans towards independence. however, by the end of 1774 the collapse of british authority meant both lord north and george iii were convinced war was inevitable. after boston, gage halted operations and awaited reinforcements ; the irish parliament approved the recruitment of new regiments, while allowing catholics to enlist for the first time. britain also signed a series of treaties with german states to supply additional troops. within a year, it had an army of over 32, 000 men in america, the largest ever sent outside europe at the time. the employment of german soldiers against people viewed as british citizens was opposed by many in parliament and by the colonial assemblies ; combined with the lack of activity by gage, opposition to the use of foreign troops allowed the patriots to take control of the legislatures. declaration of independence support for independence was boosted by thomas paine ' s pamphlet common sense, which was published january 10, 1776 and argued for american self - government and was widely reprinted. to draft the declaration of independence, the second continental congress appointed the committee of five, consisting of thomas jefferson, john adams, benjamin franklin, roger sherman, and robert livingston. the declaration was written almost exclusively by jefferson, who wrote it largely in isolation between june 11 and june 28, 1776, in a three - story residence at 700 market street in philadelphia. identifying inhabitants of the thirteen colonies as " one people ", the declaration simultaneously dissolved political links with britain, while including a long list of alleged violations of " english rights " committed by george iii. this is also one of the foremost times that the colonies were referred to as " united states ", rather than the more common united colonies. on july 2, congress voted for independence and published