gender was discovered and discharged as a result ; sally st. clair was killed in action during the war. african americans when war began, the population of the thirteen colonies included an estimated 500, 000 slaves, predominantly used as labor on southern plantations. in november 1775, lord dunmore, the royal governor of virginia, issued a proclamation that promised freedom to any patriot - owned slaves willing to bear arms. although the announcement helped to fill a temporary manpower shortage, white loyalist prejudice meant recruits were eventually redirected to non - combatant roles. the loyalists ' motive was to deprive patriot planters of labor rather than to end slavery ; loyalist - owned slaves were returned. the 1779 philipsburg proclamation issued by clinton extended the offer of freedom to patriot - owned slaves throughout the colonies. it persuaded entire families to escape to british lines, many of which were employed on farms to grow food for the army by removing the requirement for military service. while clinton organized the black pioneers, he also ensured fugitive slaves were returned to loyalist owners with orders that they were not to be punished for their attempted escape. as the war progressed, service as regular soldiers in british units became increasingly common ; black loyalists formed two regiments of the charleston garrison in 1783. estimates of the numbers who served the british during the war vary from 25, 000 to 50, 000, excluding those who escaped during wartime. thomas jefferson estimated that virginia may have lost 30, 000 slaves in total escapes. in south carolina, nearly 25, 000 slaves ( about 30 percent of the enslaved population ) either fled, migrated, or died, which significantly disrupted the plantation economies both during and after the war. black patriots were barred from the continental army until washington convinced congress in january 1778 that there was no other way to replace losses from disease and desertion. the 1st rhode island regiment formed in february included former slaves whose owners were compensated ; however, only 140 of its 225 soldiers were black and recruitment stopped in june 1788. ultimately, around 5, 000 african - americans served in the continental army and navy in a variety of roles, while another 4, 000 were employed in patriot militia units, aboard privateers, or as teamsters, servants, and spies. after the war, a small minority received land grants or congressional pensions in old age ; many others were returned to their masters post - war despite earlier promises of freedom. as a patriot victory became increasingly likely, the treatment of black loyalists became a point of contention ; after the surrender of yorktown in 1781, washington insisted all escapees be returned but cornwallis