makes it valuable and expensive. sometimes amber retains the form of drops and stalactites, just as it exuded from the ducts and receptacles of the injured trees. it is thought that, in addition to exuding onto the surface of the tree, amber resin also originally flowed into hollow cavities or cracks within trees, thereby leading to the development of large lumps of amber of irregular form. classification amber can be classified into several forms. most fundamentally, there are two types of plant resin with the potential for fossilization. terpenoids, produced by conifers and angiosperms, consist of ring structures formed of isoprene ( c5h8 ) units. phenolic resins are today only produced by angiosperms, and tend to serve functional uses. the extinct medullosans produced a third type of resin, which is often found as amber within their veins. the composition of resins is highly variable ; each species produces a unique blend of chemicals which can be identified by the use of pyrolysis – gas chromatography – mass spectrometry. the overall chemical and structural composition is used to divide ambers into five classes. there is also a separate classification of amber gemstones, according to the way of production. class i this class is by far the most abundant. it comprises labdatriene carboxylic acids such as communic or ozic acids. it is further split into three sub - classes. classes ia and ib utilize regular labdanoid diterpenes ( e. g. communic acid, communol, biformenes ), while ic uses enantio labdanoids ( ozic acid, ozol, enantio biformenes ). class ia includes succinite ( = ' normal ' baltic amber ) and glessite. they have a communic acid base, and they also include much succinic acid. baltic amber yields on dry distillation succinic acid, the proportion varying from about 3 % to 8 %, and being greatest in the pale opaque or bony varieties. the aromatic and irritating fumes emitted by burning amber are mainly from this acid. baltic amber is distinguished by its yield of succinic acid, hence the name succinite. succinite has a hardness between 2 and 3, which is greater than many other fossil resins. its specific gravity varies from 1. 05 to 1. 10. it can be