using only heat as an input. on 11 november 1930, was awarded to einstein and leo szilard for the refrigerator. their invention was not immediately put into commercial production, but the most promising of their patents were acquired by the swedish company electrolux. einstein also invented an electromagnetic pump, sound reproduction device, and several other household devices. non - scientific legacy while traveling, einstein wrote daily to his wife elsa and adopted stepdaughters margot and ilse. the letters were included in the papers bequeathed to the hebrew university of jerusalem. margot einstein permitted the personal letters to be made available to the public, but requested that it not be done until twenty years after her death ( she died in 1986 ). barbara wolff, of the hebrew university ' s albert einstein archives, told the bbc that there are about 3, 500 pages of private correspondence written between 1912 and 1955. einstein ' s right of publicity was litigated in 2015 in a federal district court in california. although the court initially held that the right had expired, that ruling was immediately appealed, and the decision was later vacated in its entirety. the underlying claims between the parties in that lawsuit were ultimately settled. the right is enforceable, and the hebrew university of jerusalem is the exclusive representative of that right. corbis, successor to the roger richman agency, licenses the use of his name and associated imagery, as agent for the university. mount einstein in the chugach mountains of alaska was named in 1955. mount einstein in new zealand ' s paparoa range was named after him in 1970 by the department of scientific and industrial research. in popular culture einstein became one of the most famous scientific celebrities after the confirmation of his general theory of relativity in 1919. although most of the public had little understanding of his work, he was widely recognized and admired. in the period before world war ii, the new yorker published a vignette in their " the talk of the town " feature saying that einstein was so well known in america that he would be stopped on the street by people wanting him to explain " that theory ". eventually he came to cope with unwanted enquirers by pretending to be someone else : " pardon me, sorry! always i am mistaken for professor einstein. " einstein has been the subject of or inspiration for many novels, films, plays, and works of music. he is a favorite model for depictions of absent - minded professors ; his expressive face and distinctive hairstyle have been widely copied and exaggerated. time magazine ' s frederic golden wrote that einstein was