##licates ( for excess gastric acidity control ) may result in aluminium binding to intestinal contents and increased elimination of other metals, such as iron or zinc ; sufficiently high doses ( > 50 g / day ) can cause anemia. during the 1988 camelford water pollution incident people in camelford had their drinking water contaminated with aluminium sulfate for several weeks. a final report into the incident in 2013 concluded it was unlikely that this had caused long - term health problems. aluminium has been suspected of being a possible cause of alzheimer ' s disease, but research into this for over 40 years has found,, no good evidence of causal effect. aluminium increases estrogen - related gene expression in human breast cancer cells cultured in the laboratory. in very high doses, aluminium is associated with altered function of the blood – brain barrier. a small percentage of people have contact allergies to aluminium and experience itchy red rashes, headache, muscle pain, joint pain, poor memory, insomnia, depression, asthma, irritable bowel syndrome, or other symptoms upon contact with products containing aluminium. exposure to powdered aluminium or aluminium welding fumes can cause pulmonary fibrosis. fine aluminium powder can ignite or explode, posing another workplace hazard. exposure routes food is the main source of aluminium. drinking water contains more aluminium than solid food ; however, aluminium in food may be absorbed more than aluminium from water. major sources of human oral exposure to aluminium include food ( due to its use in food additives, food and beverage packaging, and cooking utensils ), drinking water ( due to its use in municipal water treatment ), and aluminium - containing medications ( particularly antacid / antiulcer and buffered aspirin formulations ). dietary exposure in europeans averages to 0. 2 – 1. 5 mg / kg / week but can be as high as 2. 3 mg / kg / week. higher exposure levels of aluminium are mostly limited to miners, aluminium production workers, and dialysis patients. consumption of antacids, antiperspirants, vaccines, and cosmetics provide possible routes of exposure. consumption of acidic foods or liquids with aluminium enhances aluminium absorption, and maltol has been shown to increase the accumulation of aluminium in nerve and bone tissues. treatment in case of suspected sudden intake of a large amount of aluminium, the only treatment is deferoxamine mesylate which may be given to help eliminate aluminium from the body by chelation. however, this should be applied with caution as this reduces