have been largely inaccessible because of their complexity and length. only fragments of hymns from hilary ' s liber hymnorum exist, making those of ambrose the earliest extant complete latin hymns. the assembling of ambrose ' s surviving oeuvre remains controversial ; the almost immediate popularity of his style quickly prompted imitations, some which may even date from his lifetime. there are four hymns for which ambrose ' s authorship is universally accepted, as they are attributed to him by augustine : " aeterne rerum conditor " " deus creator omnium " " iam surgit hora tertia " " veni redemptor gentium " ( also known as " intende qui regis israel " ) each of these hymns has eight four - line stanzas and is written in strict iambic tetrameter ( that is 4 × 2 syllables, each iamb being two syllables ). marked by dignified simplicity, they served as a fruitful model for later times. scholars such as the theologian brian p. dunkle have argued for the authenticity of as many as thirteen other hymns, while the musicologist james mckinnon contends that further attributions could include " perhaps some ten others ". ambrose is traditionally credited but not actually known to have composed any of the repertory of ambrosian chant also known simply as " antiphonal chant ", a method of chanting where one side of the choir alternately responds to the other. however, ambrosian chant was named in his honor due to his contributions to the music of the church. with augustine, ambrose was traditionally credited with composing the hymn " te deum ". since the hymnologist guido maria dreves in 1893, however, scholars have dismissed this attribution. writings source : all works are originally in latin. following each is where it may be found in a standard compilation of ambrose ' s writings. his first work was probably de paradiso ( 377 – 378 ). most have approximate dates, and works such as de helia et ieiunio ( 377 – 391 ), expositio evangelii secundum lucam ( 377 – 389 ) and de officiis ministrorum ( 377 – 391 ) have been given a wide variety of datings by scholars. his best known work is probably de officiis ministrorum ( 377 – 391 ), while the ( 386 – 390 ) and de obitu theodosii ( 395 ) are among