programs handle imperfect - information games ; such as for poker at a superhuman level, pluribus and cepheus. deepmind in the 2010s developed a " generalized artificial intelligence " that could learn many diverse atari games on its own. in the early 2020s, generative ai gained widespread prominence. chatgpt, based on gpt - 3, and other large language models, were tried by 14 % of americans adults. the increasing realism and ease - of - use of ai - based text - to - image generators such as midjourney, dall - e, and stable diffusion sparked a trend of viral ai - generated photos. widespread attention was gained by a fake photo of pope francis wearing a white puffer coat, the fictional arrest of donald trump, and a hoax of an attack on the pentagon, as well as the usage in professional creative arts. alphafold 2 ( 2020 ) demonstrated the ability to approximate, in hours rather than months, the 3d structure of a protein. ethics ai, like any powerful technology, has potential benefits and potential risks. ai may be able to advance science and find solutions for serious problems : demis hassabis of deep mind hopes to " solve intelligence, and then use that to solve everything else ". however, as the use of ai has become widespread, several unintended consequences and risks have been identified. risks and harm privacy and copyright machine learning algorithms require large amounts of data. the techniques used to acquire this data have raised concerns about privacy, surveillance and copyright. technology companies collect a wide range of data from their users, including online activity, geolocation data, video and audio. for example, in order to build speech recognition algorithms, amazon others have recorded millions of private conversations and allowed temps to listen to and transcribe some of them. opinions about this widespread surveillance range from those who see it as a necessary evil to those for whom it is clearly unethical and a violation of the right to privacy. ai developers argue that this is the only way to deliver valuable applications. and have developed several techniques that attempt to preserve privacy while still obtaining the data, such as data aggregation, de - identification and differential privacy. since 2016, some privacy experts, such as cynthia dwork, began to view privacy in terms of fairness - - brian christian wrote that experts have pivoted " from the question of ' what they know ' to the question of ' what they ' re doing with it '. ". generative ai is often trained on unlicensed copyrighted works, including