, he has obtained a job in one of the prison chapels, playing music on the stereo to accompany the sunday christian services. the chaplain mistakes alex ' s bible studies for stirrings of faith ; in reality, alex only reads scripture for the violent or sexual passages. after his fellow cellmates blame him for beating a troublesome cellmate to death, he is chosen to undergo an experimental behaviour modification treatment called the ludovico technique in exchange for having the remainder of his sentence commuted. the technique is a form of aversion therapy in which alex is injected with nausea - inducing drugs while watching graphically violent films, eventually conditioning him to become severely ill at the mere thought of violence. as an unintended consequence, the soundtrack to one of the films, beethoven ' s ninth symphony, renders alex unable to enjoy his beloved classical music as before. the technique ' s effectiveness is demonstrated to a group of vips, who watch as alex collapses before a man who slaps him and abases himself before a scantily clad young woman. although the prison chaplain accuses the state of stripping alex of free will, the government officials on the scene are pleased with the results, and alex is released from prison. part 3 : after prison alex returns to his parents ' flat, only to find that they are letting his room to a lodger. now homeless, he wanders the streets and enters a public library, hoping to learn of a painless method for committing suicide. the old scholar whom alex had assaulted in part 1 finds him and beats him with the help of several friends. two policemen come to alex ' s rescue, but they turn out to be dim and billyboy, a former rival gang leader. they take alex outside town, brutalise him, and abandon him there. alex collapses at the door of an isolated cottage, realising too late that it is the one he and his droogs invaded in part 1. the writer, f. alexander, still lives here, but his wife has since died of what he believes to be injuries she sustained in the rape. he does not recognise alex but gives him shelter and questions him about the conditioning he has undergone. alexander and his colleagues, all highly critical of the government, plan to use alex as a symbol of state brutality and thus prevent the incumbent government from being re - elected. alex inadvertently reveals that he was the ringleader of the home invasion ; he is removed from the cottage and locked in an upper - storey bedroom as a relentless barrage of classical music plays over speakers