albuquerque died within sight of goa. as his death was known, in the city " great wailing arose ", and many took to the streets to witness his body carried on a chair by his main captains, in a procession lit by torches amidst the crowd. afonso ' s body was buried in goa, according to his will, in the church of nossa senhora da serra ( our lady of the hill ), which he had been built in 1513 to thank the madonna for his escape from kamaran island. that night, the population of goa, both hindu and portuguese, gathered to mourn his death. in portugal, king manuel ' s zigzagging policies continued, still trapped by the constraints of real - time medieval communication between lisbon and india and unaware that afonso was dead. hearing rumours that the mamluk sultan of egypt was preparing a magnificent army at suez to prevent the conquest of ormuz, he repented of having replaced afonso, and in march 1516 urgently wrote to albergaria to return the command of all operations to afonso and provide him with resources to face the egyptian threat. he organized a new portuguese navy in asia, with orders that afonso ( if he was still in india ), be made commander - in - chief against the sultan of cairo ' s armies. manuel would afterwards learn that afonso had died many months earlier, and that his reversed decision had been delivered many months too late. after 51 years, in 1566, his body was moved to nossa senhora da graca church in lisbon, which was ruined and rebuilt after the 1755 great lisbon earthquake. legacy king manuel i of portugal was belatedly convinced of afonso ' s loyalty, and endeavoured to atone for his lack of confidence in afonso by heaping honours upon his son, bras de albuquerque ( 1500 – 1580 ), whom he renamed " afonso " in memory of the father. afonso de albuquerque was a prolific writer, having sent numerous letters during his governorship, covering topics from minor issues to major strategies. in 1557 his son published his biography under the title commentarios do grande affonso d ' alboquerque. in 1572, afonso ' s actions were described in the lusiads, the portuguese main epic poem by luis vaz de camoes ( canto x, strophes 40 – 49 ). the poet praises his achievements, but has the muses