two am and sixteen fm ) and two local television stations ( telearuba and channel 22 ). religion roman catholicism is the dominant religion, followed by approximately 75 % of the population. in addition to catholicism, there is a diverse range of religions practiced in aruba, including protestantism, islam, hinduism, judaism, and spiritual beliefs of the indigenous people ( e. g. african diaspora reigions, santeria, or brua ). shrine the lourdes grotto, named after the famous french religious pilgrimage site, was constructed in 1958 by a priest named erkamp and his parishioners. this shrine is nestled into the rocks of seroe preto, just off the main road to san nicolas. inside the cave, there is a statue of the virgin mary, easily visible from the main road. each year, on february 11 ( the feast of lady lourdes ), a procession departs from st. theresita church in san nicolas and heads to the grotto, where a eucharistic celebration is held. government along with the netherlands, curacao, and sint maarten, aruba is a constituent country of the kingdom of the netherlands, with internal autonomy. matters such as foreign affairs and defense are handled by the netherlands. aruba ' s politics take place within a framework of a 21 - member staten ( parliament ) and an eight - member cabinet ; the staten ' s 21 members are elected by direct, popular vote to serve a four - year term. the governor of aruba is appointed for a six - year term by the monarch, and the prime minister and deputy prime minister are indirectly elected by the staten for four - year terms. aruba was formerly a part of the ( now - dissolved ) netherlands antilles ; however, it separated from that entity in 1986, gaining its own constitution. aruba is designated as a member of the overseas countries and territories ( oct ) and is thus officially not a part of the european union, though aruba can and does receive support from the european development fund. politics the aruban legal system is based on the dutch model. in aruba, legal jurisdiction lies with the gerecht in eerste aanleg ( court of first instance ) on aruba, the gemeenschappelijk hof van justitie van aruba, curacao, sint maarten, en van bonaire, sint eustatius en saba ( joint court of justice of aruba, curacao, sint