wta ' s top 20 rankings for the first time, when she was ranked no. 16. at the australian open, kournikova lost in the third round to world no. 1 player, martina hingis. she also partnered with larisa savchenko - neiland in women ' s doubles, and they lost to eventual champions hingis and mirjana lucic in the second round. although she lost in the second round of the paris open to anke huber in singles, kournikova reached her second doubles wta tour final, partnering with larisa savchenko - neiland. they lost to sabine appelmans and miriam oremans. kournikova and savchenko - neiland reached their second consecutive final at the linz open, losing to alexandra fusai and nathalie tauziat. at the miami open, kournikova reached her first wta tour singles final, before losing to venus williams in the final. kournikova then reached two consecutive quarterfinals, at amelia island and the italian open, losing respectively to lindsay davenport and martina hingis. at the german open, she reached the semi - finals in both singles and doubles, partnering with larisa savchenko - neiland. at the french open kournikova had her best result at this tournament, making it to the fourth round before losing to jana novotna. she also reached her first grand slam doubles semi - finals, losing with savchenko - neiland to lindsay davenport and natasha zvereva. during her quarterfinals match at the grass - court eastbourne open versus steffi graf, kournikova injured her thumb, which would eventually force her to withdraw from the 1998 wimbledon championships. however, she won that match, but then withdrew from her semi - finals match against arantxa sanchez vicario. kournikova returned for the du maurier open and made it to the third round, before losing to conchita martinez. at the us open kournikova reached the fourth round before losing to arantxa sanchez vicario. her strong year qualified her for the year - end 1998 wta tour championships, but she lost to monica seles in the first round. however, with seles, she won her first wta doubles title, in tokyo, beating mary joe fernandez and arantxa sanchez vicario in the final. at the end of the season, she was ranked no. 10 in doubles. at the start of the 1999 season, ko