tracts of land. the original architect of this expansion was president getulio vargas, with the demand for rubber from the allied forces in world war ii providing funding for the drive. in the 1960s, economic exploitation of the amazon basin was seen as a way to fuel the " economic miracle " occurring at the time. this resulted in the development of " operation amazon ", an economic development project that brought large - scale agriculture and ranching to amazonia. this was done through a combination of credit and fiscal incentives. however, in the 1970s the government took a new approach with the national integration program ( pin ). a large - scale colonization program saw families from northeastern brazil relocated to the " land without people " in the amazon basin. this was done in conjunction with infrastructure projects mainly the trans - amazonian highway ( transamazonica ). the trans - amazonian highway ' s three pioneering highways were completed within ten years but never fulfilled their promise. large portions of the trans - amazonian and its accessory roads, such as br - 317 ( manaus - porto velho ), are derelict and impassable in the rainy season. small towns and villages are scattered across the forest, and because its vegetation is so dense, some remote areas are still unexplored. many settlements grew along the road from brasilia to belem with the highway and national integration program, however, the program failed as the settlers were unequipped to live in the delicate rainforest ecosystem. this, although the government believed it could sustain millions, instead could sustain very few. with a population of 1. 9 million people in 2014, manaus is the largest city on the amazon. manaus alone makes up approximately 50 % of the population of the largest brazilian state of amazonas. the racial makeup of the city is 64 % pardo ( mulatto and mestizo ) and 32 % white. although the amazon river remains undammed, around 412 dams are in operation in the amazon ' s tributary rivers. from these 412 dams, 151 are constructed over six of the main tributary rivers that drain into the amazon. since only 4 % of the amazon ' s hydropower potential has been developed in countries like brazil, more damming projects are underway and hundreds more are planned. after witnessing the negative effects of environmental degradation, sedimentation, navigation and flood control caused by the three gorges dam in the yangtze river, scientists are worried that constructing more dams in the amazon will harm its biodiversity in the same way by " blocking fish - spawning runs, reducing the