), aeneas is described as ( " pious " ), which conveys a strong moral tone. the purpose of these epithets seems to enforce the notion of aeneas ' divine hand as father and founder of the roman race, and their use seems circumstantial : when aeneas is praying he refers to himself as pius, and is referred to as such by the author only when the character is acting on behalf of the gods to fulfill his divine mission. likewise, aeneas is called pater when acting in the interest of his men. description aeneas was described by the chronicler malalas in his account of the chronography as " shortish, thick, good chest, strong, ruddy, flat - faced, good nose, pale, balding, good beard ". meanwhile, in the account of dares the phrygian, he was illustrated as " auburn - haired, stocky, eloquent, courteous, prudent, pious, and charming. his eyes were black and twinkling. " greek myth and epos homeric hymn to aphrodite the story of the birth of aeneas is told in the homeric hymn to aphrodite, one of the major homeric hymns. aphrodite has caused zeus to fall in love with mortal women. in retaliation, zeus puts desire in her heart for anchises, who is tending his cattle among the hills near mount ida. when aphrodite sees him she is smitten. she adorns herself as if for a wedding among the gods and appears before him. he is overcome by her beauty, believing that she is a goddess, but aphrodite identifies herself as a phrygian princess. after they make love, aphrodite reveals her true identity to him and anchises fears what might happen to him as a result of their liaison. aphrodite assures him that he will be protected, and tells him that she will bear him a son to be called aeneas. however, she warns him that he must never tell anyone that he has lain with a goddess. when aeneas is born, aphrodite takes him to the nymphs of mount ida, instructing them to raise the child to age five, then take him to anchises. according to other sources, anchises later brags about his encounter with aphrodite, and as a result is struck in the foot with a thunderbolt by zeus