even without violating individuals ' rights in the process. in anarchy, state, and utopia, nozick defends minarchism and argues that an anarcho - capitalist society would inevitably transform into a minarchist state through the eventual emergence of a monopolistic private defense and judicial agency that no longer faces competition. he argues that anarcho - capitalism results in an unstable system that would not endure in the real world. while anarcho - capitalists such as roy childs and murray rothbard have rejected nozick ' s arguments, with rothbard arguing that the process described by nozick, with the dominant protection agency outlawing its competitors, in fact violates its own clients ' rights, john jefferson actually advocates nozick ' s argument and states that such events would best operate in laissez - faire. robert ellickson presented a hayekian case against anarcho - capitalism, calling it a " pipe - dream " and stating that anarcho - capitalists " by imagining a stable system of competing private associations, ignore both the inevitability of territorial monopolists in governance, and the importance of institutions to constrain those monopolists ' abuses ". some libertarians argue that anarcho - capitalism would result in different standards of justice and law due to relying too much on the market. friedman responded to this criticism by arguing that it assumes the state is controlled by a majority group that has similar legal ideals. if the populace is diverse, different legal standards would therefore be appropriate. rights and freedom negative and positive rights are rights that oblige either action ( positive rights ) or inaction ( negative rights ). anarcho - capitalists believe that negative rights should be recognized as legitimate, but positive rights should be rejected as an intrusion. some critics reject the distinction between positive and negative rights. peter marshall also states that the anarcho - capitalist definition of freedom is entirely negative and that it cannot guarantee the positive freedom of individual autonomy and independence. about anarcho - capitalism, anarcho - syndicalist and anti - capitalist intellectual noam chomsky says : economics and property social anarchists argue that anarcho - capitalism allows individuals to accumulate significant power through free markets and private property. friedman responded by arguing that the icelandic commonwealth was able to prevent the wealthy from abusing the poor by requiring individuals who engaged in acts of violence to compensate their victims financially. anarchists argue that certain capitalist transactions are not voluntary and that maintaining the class structure