activism within the participating community. it is closely related to development anthropology ( distinct from the more critical anthropology of development ). development anthropology of development tends to view development from a critical perspective. the kind of issues addressed and implications for the approach involve pondering why, if a key development goal is to alleviate poverty, is poverty increasing? why is there such a gap between plans and outcomes? why are those working in development so willing to disregard history and the lessons it might offer? why is development so externally driven rather than having an internal basis? in short, why does so much planned development fail? kinship, feminism, gender and sexuality kinship kinship can refer both to the study of the patterns of social relationships in one or more human cultures, or it can refer to the patterns of social relationships themselves. over its history, anthropology has developed a number of related concepts and terms, such as " descent ", " descent groups ", " lineages ", " affines ", " cognates ", and even " fictive kinship ". broadly, kinship patterns may be considered to include people related both by descent ( one ' s social relations during development ), and also relatives by marriage. within kinship you have two different families. people have their biological families and it is the people they share dna with. this is called consanguineal relations or " blood ties ". people can also have a chosen family in which they chose who they want to be a part of their family. in some cases people are closer with their chosen family more than with their biological families. feminist feminist anthropology is a four field approach to anthropology ( archeological, biological, cultural, linguistic ) that seeks to reduce male bias in research findings, anthropological hiring practices, and the scholarly production of knowledge. anthropology engages often with feminists from non - western traditions, whose perspectives and experiences can differ from those of white feminists of europe, america, and elsewhere. from the perspective of the western world, historically such ' peripheral ' perspectives have been ignored, observed only from an outsider perspective, and regarded as less - valid or less - important than knowledge from the western world. exploring and addressing that double bias against women from marginalized racial or ethnic groups is of particular interest in intersectional feminist anthropology. feminist anthropologists have stated that their publications have contributed to anthropology, along the way correcting against the systemic biases beginning with the " patriarchal origins of anthropology ( and ( academia ) " and note that from 1891 to 1930 doctorates in anthropology went to males more than 85 %