powerfully than any other formula. the analogy of the " three - legged stool " of scripture, reason, and tradition is often incorrectly attributed to hooker. rather, hooker ' s description is a hierarchy of authority, with scripture as foundational and reason and tradition as vitally important, but secondary, authorities. finally, the extension of anglicanism into non - english cultures, the growing diversity of prayer books, and the increasing interest in ecumenical dialogue have led to further reflection on the parameters of anglican identity. many anglicans look to the chicago - lambeth quadrilateral of 1888 as the sine qua non of communal identity. in brief, the quadrilateral ' s four points are the scriptures as containing all things necessary to salvation ; the creeds ( specifically, the apostles ' and nicene creeds ) as the sufficient statement of christian faith ; the dominical sacraments of baptism and holy communion ; and the historic episcopate. divines within the anglican tradition, " divines " are clergy of the church of england whose theological writings have been considered standards for faith, doctrine, worship, and spirituality, and whose influence has permeated the anglican communion in varying degrees through the years. while there is no authoritative list of these anglican divines, there are some whose names would likely be found on most lists – those who are commemorated in lesser feasts of the anglican churches and those whose works are frequently anthologised. the corpus produced by anglican divines is diverse. what they have in common is a commitment to the faith as conveyed by scripture and the book of common prayer, thus regarding prayer and theology in a manner akin to that of the apostolic fathers. on the whole, anglican divines view the via media of anglicanism not as a compromise, but as " a positive position, witnessing to the universality of god and god ' s kingdom working through the fallible, earthly ecclesia anglicana ". these theologians regard scripture as interpreted through tradition and reason as authoritative in matters concerning salvation. reason and tradition, indeed, are extant in and presupposed by scripture, thus implying co - operation between god and humanity, god and nature, and between the sacred and secular. faith is thus regarded as incarnational and authority as dispersed. amongst the early anglican divines of the 16th and 17th centuries, the names of thomas cranmer, john jewel, matthew parker, richard hooker, lancelot andrewes, and jeremy taylor predominate. the influential character of hooker ' s of the laws