located in wingfield is also a motorcycle speedway dedicated to under - 16 riders and has been in operation since 1978. in 2016, backed by south australia ' s peregrine corporation opened up a multi - purpose facility ; a state - of - the - art motorsporting park and a hotel alongside its newer otr service station outside a small township of tailem bend currently named the bend motorsport park. design for thrill seekers and rev - heads the facility currently host south australia ' s second supercars motoring event during a round in august. adelaide is home to the great southern slam, the world ' s largest roller derby tournament. the tournament has been held biennially over australia ' s queen ' s birthday holiday weekend since 2010. in 2014, and 2016 the tournament featured 45 teams playing in two divisions. in 2018, the tournament has expanded to 48 teams competing in three divisions. infrastructure transport being centrally located on the australian mainland, adelaide forms a strategic transport hub for east – west and north – south routes. the city itself has a metropolitan public transport system managed by and known as the adelaide metro. the adelaide metro consists of a contracted bus system including the o - bahn busway, 6 commuter rail lines ( diesel and electric ), and a small tram network operating between inner suburb hindmarsh, the city centre, and seaside glenelg. tramways were largely dismantled in the 1950s, but saw a revival in the 2010s with upgrades and extensions. road transport in adelaide has historically been easier than many of the other australian cities, with a well - defined city layout and wide multiple - lane roads from the beginning of its development. adelaide was known as a " twenty - minute city ", with commuters having been able to travel from metropolitan outskirts to the city proper in roughly twenty minutes. however, such arterial roads often experience traffic congestion as the city grows. the adelaide metropolitan area has one freeway and four expressways. in order of construction, they are : the south eastern freeway ( m1 ), connects the south - east corner of the adelaide plain to the adelaide hills and beyond to murray bridge and tailem bend, where it then continues as national highway 1 south - east to melbourne. the southern expressway ( m2 ), connecting the outer southern suburbs with the inner southern suburbs and the city centre. it duplicates the route of south road. the north - south motorway ( m2 ), is an ongoing major project that will become the major north – south corridor, replacing most of what is now south road, connecting the southern expressway and the northern expressway via