very efficient light compared to other types of lighting, and can help smooth the surface of other metals. being a strong reducing agent, it is often used to reduce many other metals, such as titanium and zirconium, from their chlorides. furthermore, it is very useful as a heat - exchange liquid in fast breeder nuclear reactors due to its low melting point, viscosity, and cross - section towards neutron absorption. potassium compounds are often used as fertilisers as potassium is an important element for plant nutrition. potassium hydroxide is a very strong base, and is used to control the ph of various substances. potassium nitrate and potassium permanganate are often used as powerful oxidising agents. potassium superoxide is used in breathing masks, as it reacts with carbon dioxide to give potassium carbonate and oxygen gas. pure potassium metal is not often used, but its alloys with sodium may substitute for pure sodium in fast breeder nuclear reactors. rubidium and caesium are often used in atomic clocks. caesium atomic clocks are extraordinarily accurate ; if a clock had been made at the time of the dinosaurs, it would be off by less than four seconds ( after 80 million years ). for that reason, caesium atoms are used as the definition of the second. rubidium ions are often used in purple fireworks, and caesium is often used in drilling fluids in the petroleum industry. francium has no commercial applications, but because of francium ' s relatively simple atomic structure, among other things, it has been used in spectroscopy experiments, leading to more information regarding energy levels and the coupling constants between subatomic particles. studies on the light emitted by laser - trapped francium - 210 ions have provided accurate data on transitions between atomic energy levels, similar to those predicted by quantum theory. biological role and precautions metals pure alkali metals are dangerously reactive with air and water and must be kept away from heat, fire, oxidising agents, acids, most organic compounds, halocarbons, plastics, and moisture. they also react with carbon dioxide and carbon tetrachloride, so that normal fire extinguishers are counterproductive when used on alkali metal fires. some class d dry powder extinguishers designed for metal fires are effective, depriving the fire of oxygen and cooling the alkali metal. experiments are usually conducted using only small quantities of a few grams in a fume hood. small quantities of lithium may be disposed of by reaction