in the physical body. the soul completes the action of intellection by accepting forms that have been abstracted from matter. this process requires a concrete particular ( material ) to be abstracted into the universal intelligible ( immaterial ). the material and immaterial interact through the active intellect, which is a " divine light " containing the intelligible forms. the active intellect reveals the universals concealed in material objects much like the sun makes colour available to our eyes. other contributions astronomy and astrology avicenna wrote an attack on astrology titled resala fi ebtal ahkam al - nojum, in which he cited passages from the quran to dispute the power of astrology to foretell the future. he believed that each planet had some influence on the earth, but argued against astrologers being able to determine the exact effects. avicenna ' s astronomical writings had some influence on later writers, although in general his work could be considered less developed than alhazen or al - biruni. one important feature of his writing is that he considers mathematical astronomy as a separate discipline to astrology. he criticized aristotle ' s view of the stars receiving their light from the sun, stating that the stars are self - luminous, and believed that the planets are also self - luminous. he claimed to have observed venus as a spot on the sun. this is possible, as there was a transit on 24 may 1032, but avicenna did not give the date of his observation, and modern scholars have questioned whether he could have observed the transit from his location at that time ; he may have mistaken a sunspot for venus. he used his transit observation to help establish that venus was, at least sometimes, below the sun in ptolemaic cosmology, i. e. the sphere of venus comes before the sphere of the sun when moving out from the earth in the prevailing geocentric model. he also wrote the summary of the almagest, ( based on ptolemy ' s almagest ), with an appended treatise " to bring that which is stated in the almagest and what is understood from natural science into conformity ". for example, avicenna considers the motion of the solar apogee, which ptolemy had taken to be fixed. chemistry avicenna was first to derive the attar of flowers from distillation and used steam distillation to produce essential oils such as rose essence, which he used as aromatherapeutic treatments for heart conditions.