buildings ranged about the cloister, a court about which there was a covered arcade which allowed sheltered movement between the buildings. the nave of the church was on the north boundary of the cloister. on the east side of the cloister, on the ground floor, was the " pisalis " or " calefactory ". this was a common room, warmed by flues beneath the floor. above the common room was the dormitory. the dormitory opened onto the cloister and also onto the south transept of the church. this enabled the monks to attend nocturnal services. a passage at the other end of the dormitory lead to the " necessarium " ( latrines ). on the south side of the cloister was the refectory. the kitchen, at the west end of the refectory was accessed via an anteroom and a long passage. nearby were the bake house, brew house and the sleeping - rooms of the servants. the upper story of the refectory was called the " vestiarium " ( a room where the ordinary clothes of the monks were stored ). on the western side of the cloister was another two - story building with a cellar on the ground floor and the larder and store - room on the upper floor. between this building and the church was a parlour for receiving visitors. one door of the parlour led to the cloisters and the other led to the outer part of the abbey. against the outer wall of the church was a school and headmaster ' s house. the school consisted of a large schoolroom divided in the middle by a screen or partition, and surrounded by fourteen little rooms, the " dwellings of the scholars ". the abbot ' s home was near the school. to the north of the church and to the right of the main entrance to the abbey, was a residence for distinguished guests. to the left of the main entrance was a building to house poor travellers and pilgrims. there was also a building to receive visiting monks. these " hospitia " had a large common room or refectory surrounded by bed rooms. each hospitium had its own brewhouse and bakehouse, and the building for more prestigious travellers had a kitchen and storeroom, with bedrooms for the guests ' servants and stables for their horses. the monks of the abbey lived in a house built against the north wall of the church. the whole of the southern and western areas of the abbey were devoted to workshops, stables and