- selective abortion is partially responsible for the noticeable disparities between the birth rates of male and female children in some countries. the preference for male children is reported in many areas of asia, and abortion used to limit female births has been reported in taiwan, south korea, india, and china. this deviation from the standard birth rates of males and females occurs despite the fact that the country in question may have officially banned sex - selective abortion or even sex - screening. in china, a historical preference for a male child has been exacerbated by the one - child policy, which was enacted in 1979. many countries have taken legislative steps to reduce the incidence of sex - selective abortion. at the international conference on population and development in 1994 over 180 states agreed to eliminate " all forms of discrimination against the girl child and the root causes of son preference ", conditions also condemned by a pace resolution in 2011. the world health organization and unicef, along with other united nations agencies, have found that measures to restrict access to abortion in an effort to reduce sex - selective abortions have unintended negative consequences, largely stemming from the fact that women may seek or be coerced into seeking unsafe, extralegal abortions. on the other hand, measures to reduce gender inequality can reduce the prevalence of such abortions without attendant negative consequences. anti - abortion violence in a number of cases, abortion providers and these facilities have been subjected to various forms of violence, including murder, attempted murder, kidnapping, stalking, assault, arson, and bombing. anti - abortion violence is classified by both governmental and scholarly sources as terrorism. in the u. s. and canada, over 8, 000 incidents of violence, trespassing, and death threats have been recorded by providers since 1977, including over 200 bombings / arsons and hundreds of assaults. the majority of abortion opponents have not been involved in violent acts. in the united states, four physicians who performed abortions have been murdered : david gunn ( 1993 ), john britton ( 1994 ), barnett slepian ( 1998 ), and george tiller ( 2009 ). also murdered, in the u. s. and australia, have been other personnel at abortion clinics, including receptionists and security guards such as james barrett, shannon lowney, lee ann nichols, and robert sanderson. woundings ( e. g., garson romalis ) and attempted murders have also taken place in the united states and canada. hundreds of bombings, arsons, acid attacks, invasions, and incidents of