- century geography book hudud al - ' alam. the last part of the name, " - stan ", is a persian suffix meaning " place of ". therefore, " afghanistan " translates to " land of the afghans ", or " land of the pashtuns " in a historical sense. according to the third edition of the encyclopedia of islam : the term " afghanistan " was officially used in 1855, when the british recognized dost mohammad khan as king of afghanistan. history prehistory and antiquity excavations of prehistoric sites suggest that humans were living in what is now afghanistan at least 50, 000 years ago, and that farming communities in the area were among the earliest in the world. an important site of early historical activities, many believe that afghanistan compares to egypt in terms of the historical value of its archaeological sites. artifacts typical of the paleolithic, mesolithic, neolithic, bronze, and iron ages have been found in afghanistan. urban civilization is believed to have begun as early as 3000 bce, and the early city of mundigak ( near kandahar in the south of the country ) was a center of the helmand culture. more recent findings established that the indus valley civilization stretched up towards modern - day afghanistan. an indus valley site has been found on the oxus river at shortugai in northern afghanistan. there are several smaller ivc colonies to be found in afghanistan as well. an indus valley site has been found on the oxus river at shortugai in northern afghanistan, which shows afghanistan to have been a part of indus valley civilization. after 2000 bce, successive waves of semi - nomadic people from central asia began moving south into afghanistan ; among them were many indo - european - speaking indo - iranians. these tribes later migrated further into south asia, western asia, and toward europe via the area north of the caspian sea. the region at the time was referred to as ariana. by the middle of the 6th century bce, the achaemenids overthrew the medes and incorporated arachosia, aria, and bactria within its eastern boundaries. an inscription on the tombstone of darius i of persia mentions the kabul valley in a list of the 29 countries that he had conquered. the region of arachosia, around kandahar in modern - day southern afghanistan, used to be primarily zoroastrian and played a key role in the transfer of the avesta to persia and is thus considered by some to be the " second homeland of zoroastrian