which he participated. one modern scholar has written " it is almost certain not only that at no time in his life did he ever see, let alone command, a roman army, but that, throughout the twenty - three years of his reign, he never went within five hundred miles of a legion. " his reign was the most peaceful in the entire history of the principate, notwithstanding the fact that there were several military disturbances in the empire in his time. such disturbances happened in mauretania, where a senator was named as governor of mauretania tingitana in place of the usual equestrian procurator and cavalry reinforcements from pannonia were brought in, towns such as sala and tipasa being fortified. similar disturbances took place in judea, and amongst the brigantes in britannia ; however, these were considered less serious than prior ( and later ) revolts among both. it was however in britain that antoninus decided to follow a new, more aggressive path, with the appointment of a new governor in 139, quintus lollius urbicus, a native of numidia and previously governor of germania inferior as well as a new man. under instructions from the emperor, lollius undertook an invasion of southern scotland, winning some significant victories, and constructing the antonine wall from the firth of forth to the firth of clyde. the wall, however, was soon gradually decommissioned during the mid - 150s and eventually abandoned late during the reign ( early 160s ), for reasons that are still not quite clear. antonine ' s wall is mentioned in just one literary source, antoninus ' biography in the historia augusta. pausanias makes a brief and confused mention of a war in britain. in one inscription honouring antoninus, erected by legio ii augusta, which participated in the building of the wall, a relief showing four naked prisoners, one of them beheaded, seems to stand for some actual warfare. although antonine ' s wall was, in principle, much shorter ( 37 miles in length as opposed to 73 ), and at first sight more defensible than hadrian ' s wall, the additional area that it enclosed within the empire was barren, with land use for grazing already in decay. this meant that supply lines to the wall were strained enough such as the costs for maintaining the additional territory outweighed the benefits of doing so. also, in the absence of urban development and the ensuing romanization process, the rear of the wall could not be lastingly pacified.