, contains only about one trillion astatine - 215 atoms at any given time ( around 3. 5 × 10−10 grams ). astatine - 217 is produced via the radioactive decay of neptunium - 237. primordial remnants of the latter isotope — due to its relatively short half - life of 2. 14 million years — are no longer present on earth. however, trace amounts occur naturally as a product of transmutation reactions in uranium ores. astatine - 218 was the first astatine isotope discovered in nature. astatine - 219, with a half - life of 56 seconds, is the longest lived of the naturally occurring isotopes. isotopes of astatine are sometimes not listed as naturally occurring because of misconceptions that there are no such isotopes, or discrepancies in the literature. astatine - 216 has been counted as a naturally occurring isotope but reports of its observation ( which were described as doubtful ) have not been confirmed. synthesis formation astatine was first produced by bombarding bismuth - 209 with energetic alpha particles, and this is still the major route used to create the relatively long - lived isotopes astatine - 209 through astatine - 211. astatine is only produced in minuscule quantities, with modern techniques allowing production runs of up to 6. 6 giga becquerels ( about 86 nanograms or 2. 47 × 1014 atoms ). synthesis of greater quantities of astatine using this method is constrained by the limited availability of suitable cyclotrons and the prospect of melting the target. solvent radiolysis due to the cumulative effect of astatine decay is a related problem. with cryogenic technology, microgram quantities of astatine might be able to be generated via proton irradiation of thorium or uranium to yield radon - 211, in turn decaying to astatine - 211. contamination with astatine - 210 is expected to be a drawback of this method. the most important isotope is astatine - 211, the only one in commercial use. to produce the bismuth target, the metal is sputtered onto a gold, copper, or aluminium surface at 50 to 100 milligrams per square centimeter. bismuth oxide can be used instead ; this is forcibly fused with a copper plate. the target is kept under a chemically neutral nitrogen atmosphere, and is cooled with water to prevent premature astatine vaporization. in