##metals upon heating, forming compounds such as aluminium nitride ( aln ), aluminium sulfide ( al2s3 ), and the aluminium halides ( alx3 ). it also forms a wide range of intermetallic compounds involving metals from every group on the periodic table. inorganic compounds the vast majority of compounds, including all aluminium - containing minerals and all commercially significant aluminium compounds, feature aluminium in the oxidation state 3 +. the coordination number of such compounds varies, but generally al3 + is either six - or four - coordinate. almost all compounds of aluminium ( iii ) are colorless. in aqueous solution, al3 + exists as the hexaaqua cation [ al ( h2o ) 6 ] 3 +, which has an approximate ka of 10−5. such solutions are acidic as this cation can act as a proton donor and progressively hydrolyze until a precipitate of aluminium hydroxide, al ( oh ) 3, forms. this is useful for clarification of water, as the precipitate nucleates on suspended particles in the water, hence removing them. increasing the ph even further leads to the hydroxide dissolving again as aluminate, [ al ( h2o ) 2 ( oh ) 4 ] −, is formed. aluminium hydroxide forms both salts and aluminates and dissolves in acid and alkali, as well as on fusion with acidic and basic oxides. this behavior of al ( oh ) 3 is termed amphoterism and is characteristic of weakly basic cations that form insoluble hydroxides and whose hydrated species can also donate their protons. one effect of this is that aluminium salts with weak acids are hydrolyzed in water to the aquated hydroxide and the corresponding nonmetal hydride : for example, aluminium sulfide yields hydrogen sulfide. however, some salts like aluminium carbonate exist in aqueous solution but are unstable as such ; and only incomplete hydrolysis takes place for salts with strong acids, such as the halides, nitrate, and sulfate. for similar reasons, anhydrous aluminium salts cannot be made by heating their " hydrates " : hydrated aluminium chloride is in fact not alcl3 · 6h2o but [ al ( h2o ) 6 ] cl3, and the al – o bonds are so strong that heating is not sufficient to break them and form al – cl bonds instead : 2 [ al ( h