his death through to the 15th century, more than 28 alchemical tracts were misattributed to him, a common practice giving rise to his reputation as an accomplished alchemist. likewise, alchemical texts have been attributed to albert ' s student thomas aquinas. roger bacon, a franciscan friar who wrote on a wide variety of topics including optics, comparative linguistics, and medicine, composed his great work ( ) for as part of a project towards rebuilding the medieval university curriculum to include the new learning of his time. while alchemy was not more important to him than other sciences and he did not produce allegorical works on the topic, he did consider it and astrology to be important parts of both natural philosophy and theology and his contributions advanced alchemy ' s connections to soteriology and christian theology. bacon ' s writings integrated morality, salvation, alchemy, and the prolongation of life. his correspondence with clement highlighted this, noting the importance of alchemy to the papacy. like the greeks before him, bacon acknowledged the division of alchemy into practical and theoretical spheres. he noted that the theoretical lay outside the scope of aristotle, the natural philosophers, and all latin writers of his time. the practical confirmed the theoretical, and bacon advocated its uses in natural science and medicine. in later european legend, he became an archmage. in particular, along with albertus magnus, he was credited with the forging of a brazen head capable of answering its owner ' s questions. soon after bacon, the influential work of pseudo - geber ( sometimes identified as paul of taranto ) appeared. his summa perfectionis remained a staple summary of alchemical practice and theory through the medieval and renaissance periods. it was notable for its inclusion of practical chemical operations alongside sulphur - mercury theory, and the unusual clarity with which they were described. by the end of the 13th century, alchemy had developed into a fairly structured system of belief. adepts believed in the macrocosm - microcosm theories of hermes, that is to say, they believed that processes that affect minerals and other substances could have an effect on the human body ( for example, if one could learn the secret of purifying gold, one could use the technique to purify the human soul ). they believed in the four elements and the four qualities as described above, and they had a strong tradition of cloaking their written ideas in a labyrinth of coded jargon set with traps to mislead the unini