it collapsed into tribal groups and chieftaincies, some of which later assimilated into the almoravids while others founded the mali empire. the arab geographer ibn shihab al - zuhri wrote that the almoravids ended ibadi islam in tadmekka in 1084 and that abu bakr " arrived at the mountain of gold " in the deep south. abu bakr finally died in tagant in november 1087 following an injury in battle — according to oral tradition, from an arrow – while fighting in the historic region of the sudan. after the death of abu bakr ( 1087 ), the confederation of berber tribes in the sahara was divided between the descendants of abu bakr and his brother yahya, and would have lost control of ghana. sheryl burkhalter suggests that abu bakr ' s son yahya was the leader of the almoravid expedition that conquered ghana in 1076, and that the almoravids would have survived the loss of ghana and the defeat in the maghreb by the almohads, and would have ruled the sahara until the end of the 12th century. iberian peninsula and the northern wing in 1086 yusuf ibn tashfin was invited by the muslim taifa princes of al - andalus in the iberian peninsula to defend their territories from the encroachment of alfonso vi, king of leon and castile. in that year, ibn tashfin crossed the strait of gibraltar to algeciras, and defeated castile at the battle of sagrajas. he was prevented from following up his victory by trouble in africa, which he chose to settle in person. he returned to iberia in 1090, avowedly for the purpose of annexing the taifa principalities of iberia. he was supported by most of the iberian people, who were discontented with the heavy taxation imposed upon them by their spendthrift rulers. their religious teachers, as well as others in the east ( most notably, al - ghazali in persia and al - turtushi in egypt, who was himself an iberian by birth from tortosa ), detested the taifa rulers for their religious indifference. the clerics issued a fatwa ( a non - binding legal opinion ) that yusuf was of sound morals and had the religious right to dethrone the rulers, whom he saw as heterodox in their faith. by 1094, yusuf had annexed most of the major taifas, with the exception of the one at