the moors conquered the iberian peninsula, the valleys of the high pyrenees were covered by large tracts of forest. these regions were not administered by muslims, because of the geographic difficulty of direct rule. other theories suggest that the term derives from the navarro - aragonese " andurrial ", which means " land covered with bushes " or " scrubland ". the folk etymology holds that charlemagne had named the region as a reference to the biblical canaanite valley of endor or andor ( where the midianites had been defeated ), a name bestowed by his heir and son louis the pious after defeating the moors in the " wild valleys of hell ". history prehistory la balma de la margineda, found by archaeologists at sant julia de loria, was settled in 9, 500 bce as a passing place between the two sides of the pyrenees. the seasonal camp was perfectly located for hunting and fishing by the groups of hunter - gatherers from ariege and segre. during the neolithic age, a group of people moved to the valley of madriu ( the present - day natural park located in escaldes - engordany declared unesco world heritage site ) as a permanent camp in 6640 bce. the population of the valley grew cereals, raised domestic livestock, and developed a commercial trade with people from the segre and occitania. other archaeological deposits include the tombs of segudet ( ordino ) and feixa del moro ( sant julia de loria ), both dated in 4900 – 4300 bce as an example of the urn culture in andorra. the model of small settlements began to evolve to a complex urbanism during the bronze age. metallurgical items of iron, ancient coins, and reliquaries can be found in the ancient sanctuaries scattered around the country. the sanctuary of roc de les bruixes ( stone of the witches ) is perhaps the most important archeological complex of this age in andorra, located in the parish of canillo, about the rituals of funerals, ancient scripture and engraved stone murals. iberian and roman andorra the inhabitants of the valleys were traditionally associated with the iberians and historically located in andorra as the iberian tribe andosins or andosini ( ) during the 7th and 2nd centuries bc. influenced by the aquitanian, basque and iberian languages, the locals developed some current toponyms. early writings and documents relating to this group of people goes back to the second century bc by the greek writer