same year. the diagonally divided field in silver and black came from the old crest of the counts of abensberg, while the white and blue diamonds came from that of the house of wittelsbach, the rulers of bavaria. the swords recall the battle of abensberg. the district of offenstetten previously possessed its own coat of arms. twinning parga, greece since 1986 lonigo, italy since 1999 economy and infrastructure the area around abensberg, the so - called sand belt between siegburg, neustadt an der donau, abensberg and langquaid, is used for the intensive farming of asparagus, due to the optimal soil condition and climate. 212 hectares of land can produce ninety - four asparagus plants. abensberg asparagus enjoys a reputation among connoisseurs as a particular delicacy. in addition to asparagus, the production of hops plays a major role locally, the region having its own label, and there are still three independent breweries in the area. the town of abensberg marks the start of the deutsche hopfenstraße ( german hops road ), a nickname given to the bundesstraße 301, a german federal highway which runs through the heartland of germany ' s hops - growing industry, ending in freising. transport the abensberg railway station is located on the regensburg – ingolstadt railway from regensburg to ingolstadt. the city can be reached via the a - 93 holledau - regensburg road ( exit abensberg ). three bundesstraße ( german federal highways ) cross south of abensberg : b 16, b 299 and b 301. public facilities schools abensberg has a grundschule ( primary school ) and hauptschule ( open admission secondary school ), and the johann - turmair - realschule ( secondary modern school ). there is also a college of agriculture and home economics. since 2007, the kelheim berufsschule has had a campus in abensberg, and outside the state sector is the st. francis vocational training centre, run by a catholic youth organisation. culture and sightseeing theatre in 2008, a former goods shed by the main railway station of abensberg was converted into a theatre by local volunteers. the " theater am bahnhof " ( theatre at the railway station ) is mostly used by the theatergruppe lampenfieber and was opened on 19 october 2008. museums