a - shi " points and feeling the pulse. needles the most common mechanism of stimulation of acupuncture points employs penetration of the skin by thin metal needles, which are manipulated manually or the needle may be further stimulated by electrical stimulation ( electroacupuncture ). acupuncture needles are typically made of stainless steel, making them flexible and preventing them from rusting or breaking. needles are usually disposed of after each use to prevent contamination. reusable needles when used should be sterilized between applications. in many areas, only sterile, single - use acupuncture needles are allowed, including the state of california, usa. needles vary in length between, with shorter needles used near the face and eyes, and longer needles in areas with thicker tissues ; needle diameters vary from 0 to 0, with thicker needles used on more robust patients. thinner needles may be flexible and require tubes for insertion. the tip of the needle should not be made too sharp to prevent breakage, although blunt needles cause more pain. apart from the usual filiform needle, other needle types include three - edged needles and the nine ancient needles. japanese acupuncturists use extremely thin needles that are used superficially, sometimes without penetrating the skin, and surrounded by a guide tube ( a 17th - century invention adopted in china and the west ). korean acupuncture uses copper needles and has a greater focus on the hand. needling technique insertion the skin is sterilized and needles are inserted, frequently with a plastic guide tube. needles may be manipulated in various ways, including spinning, flicking, or moving up and down relative to the skin. since most pain is felt in the superficial layers of the skin, a quick insertion of the needle is recommended. often the needles are stimulated by hand in order to cause a dull, localized, aching sensation that is called de qi, as well as " needle grasp, " a tugging feeling felt by the acupuncturist and generated by a mechanical interaction between the needle and skin. acupuncture can be painful. the acupuncturist ' s skill level may influence the painfulness of the needle insertion ; a sufficiently skilled practitioner may be able to insert the needles without causing any pain. de - qi sensation de - qi ( ; " arrival of qi " ) refers to a claimed sensation of numbness, distension, or electrical tingling at the needling site. if these sensations are not observed then inaccurate location of the acupoint, improper