##odite was the patron goddess of prostitutes of all varieties, ranging from pornai ( cheap street prostitutes typically owned as slaves by wealthy pimps ) to hetairai ( expensive, well - educated hired companions, who were usually self - employed and sometimes provided sex to their customers ). the city of corinth was renowned throughout the ancient world for its many hetairai, who had a widespread reputation for being among the most skilled, but also the most expensive, prostitutes in the greek world. corinth also had a major temple to aphrodite located on the acrocorinth and was one of the main centers of her cult. records of numerous dedications to aphrodite made by successful courtesans have survived in poems and in pottery inscriptions. references to aphrodite in association with prostitution are found in corinth as well as on the islands of cyprus, cythera, and sicily. aphrodite ' s mesopotamian precursor inanna - ishtar was also closely associated with prostitution. scholars in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries believed that the cult of aphrodite may have involved ritual prostitution, an assumption based on ambiguous passages in certain ancient texts, particularly a fragment of a skolion by the boeotian poet pindar, which mentions prostitutes in corinth in association with aphrodite. modern scholars now dismiss the notion of ritual prostitution in greece as a " historiographic myth " with no factual basis. hellenistic and roman periods during the hellenistic period, the greeks identified aphrodite with the ancient egyptian goddesses hathor and isis. aphrodite was the patron goddess of the lagid queens and queen arsinoe ii was identified as her mortal incarnation. aphrodite was worshipped in alexandria and had numerous temples in and around the city. arsinoe ii introduced the cult of adonis to alexandria and many of the women there partook in it. the tessarakonteres, a gigantic catamaran galley designed by archimedes for ptolemy iv philopator, had a circular temple to aphrodite on it with a marble statue of the goddess herself. in the second century bc, ptolemy viii physcon and his wives cleopatra ii and cleopatra iii dedicated a temple to aphrodite hathor at philae. statuettes of aphrodite for personal devotion became common in egypt starting in the early ptolemaic times and extending until long after egypt became a roman province. the ancient romans identified aphr