for example : subtraction division exponentiation vector cross product also although addition is associative for finite sums, it is not associative inside infinite sums ( series ). for example, whereas some non - associative operations are fundamental in mathematics. they appear often as the multiplication in structures called non - associative algebras, which have also an addition and a scalar multiplication. examples are the octonions and lie algebras. in lie algebras, the multiplication satisfies jacobi identity instead of the associative law ; this allows abstracting the algebraic nature of infinitesimal transformations. other examples are quasigroup, quasifield, non - associative ring, and commutative non - associative magmas. nonassociativity of floating point calculation in mathematics, addition and multiplication of real numbers is associative. by contrast, in computer science, the addition and multiplication of floating point numbers is not associative, as rounding errors are introduced when dissimilar - sized values are joined together. to illustrate this, consider a floating point representation with a 4 - bit mantissa : even though most computers compute with 24 or 53 bits of mantissa, this is an important source of rounding error, and approaches such as the kahan summation algorithm are ways to minimise the errors. it can be especially problematic in parallel computing. notation for non - associative operations in general, parentheses must be used to indicate the order of evaluation if a non - associative operation appears more than once in an expression ( unless the notation specifies the order in another way, like ). however, mathematicians agree on a particular order of evaluation for several common non - associative operations. this is simply a notational convention to avoid parentheses. a left - associative operation is a non - associative operation that is conventionally evaluated from left to right, i. e., while a right - associative operation is conventionally evaluated from right to left : both left - associative and right - associative operations occur. left - associative operations include the following : subtraction and division of real numbers function application this notation can be motivated by the currying isomorphism, which enables partial application. right - associative operations include the following : exponentiation of real numbers in superscript notation exponentiation is commonly used with brackets