any way, nor are they substantially polarized by an electric field. for this reason, they do not form hydrogen bonds and are insoluble in polar solvents such as water. since the hydrogen bonds between individual water molecules are aligned away from an alkane molecule, the coexistence of an alkane and water leads to an increase in molecular order ( a reduction in entropy ). as there is no significant bonding between water molecules and alkane molecules, the second law of thermodynamics suggests that this reduction in entropy should be minimized by minimizing the contact between alkane and water : alkanes are said to be hydrophobic as they are insoluble in water. their solubility in nonpolar solvents is relatively high, a property that is called lipophilicity. alkanes are, for example, miscible in all proportions among themselves. the density of the alkanes usually increases with the number of carbon atoms but remains less than that of water. hence, alkanes form the upper layer in an alkane – water mixture. molecular geometry the molecular structure of the alkanes directly affects their physical and chemical characteristics. it is derived from the electron configuration of carbon, which has four valence electrons. the carbon atoms in alkanes are described as sp3 hybrids ; that is to say that, to a good approximation, the valence electrons are in orbitals directed towards the corners of a tetrahedron which are derived from the combination of the 2s orbital and the three 2p orbitals. geometrically, the angle between the bonds are cos−1 ( − ) ≈ 109. 47°. this is exact for the case of methane, while larger alkanes containing a combination of c – h and c – c bonds generally have bonds that are within several degrees of this idealized value. bond lengths and bond angles an alkane has only c – h and c – c single bonds. the former result from the overlap of an sp3 orbital of carbon with the 1s orbital of a hydrogen ; the latter by the overlap of two sp3 orbitals on adjacent carbon atoms. the bond lengths amount to 1. 09 × 10−10 m for a c – h bond and 1. 54 × 10−10 m for a c – c bond. the spatial arrangement of the bonds is similar to that of the four sp3 orbitals — they are tetrahedrally arranged, with an angle of