over the next 30 years, become more than a summer home as bell became so absorbed in his experiments that his annual stays lengthened. both mabel and bell became immersed in the baddeck community and were accepted by the villagers as " their own ". the bells were still in residence at beinn bhreagh when the halifax explosion occurred on december 6, 1917. mabel and bell mobilized the community to help victims in halifax. later inventions although alexander graham bell is most often associated with the invention of the telephone, his interests were extremely varied. according to one of his biographers, charlotte gray, bell ' s work ranged " unfettered across the scientific landscape " and he often went to bed voraciously reading the encyclopædia britannica, scouring it for new areas of interest. the range of bell ' s inventive genius is represented only in part by the 18 patents granted in his name alone and the 12 he shared with his collaborators. these included 14 for the telephone and telegraph, four for the photophone, one for the phonograph, five for aerial vehicles, four for " hydroairplanes ", and two for selenium cells. bell ' s inventions spanned a wide range of interests and included a metal jacket to assist in breathing, the audiometer to detect minor hearing problems, a device to locate icebergs, investigations on how to separate salt from seawater, and work on finding alternative fuels. bell worked extensively in medical research and invented techniques for teaching speech to the deaf. during his volta laboratory period, bell and his associates considered impressing a magnetic field on a record as a means of reproducing sound. although the trio briefly experimented with the concept, they could not develop a workable prototype. they abandoned the idea, never realizing they had glimpsed a basic principle which would one day find its application in the tape recorder, the hard disc and floppy disc drive, and other magnetic media. bell ' s own home used a primitive form of air conditioning, in which fans blew currents of air across great blocks of ice. he also anticipated modern concerns with fuel shortages and industrial pollution. methane gas, he reasoned, could be produced from the waste of farms and factories. at his canadian estate in nova scotia, he experimented with composting toilets and devices to capture water from the atmosphere. in a magazine interview published shortly before his death, he reflected on the possibility of using solar panels to heat houses. photophone bell and his assistant charles sumner tainter jointly invented a wireless