##khalin, the kuril islands, kamchatka, and the northern tohoku region. many of the place names that remain in hokkaido and the kuril islands have a phonetic equivalent of the ainu place names. in 1756 ce, a kanjo - bugyo ( a high - ranking edo period official responsible for finance ) implemented an assimilation policy for ainu engaged in fishing in the tsugaru peninsula. from that point on, ainu culture rapidly disappeared from honshu. after the treaty of saint petersburg ( 1875 ), most of the ainu from the kuril islands were moved to the island of shikotan by providing the pioneers with essential life supplies and for defense purposes ( kurishima cruise diary ). in 1945, the soviet union invaded japan and occupied sakhalin and the kuril islands. the ainu who lived there were repatriated to their home country, japan, except for those who indicated their willingness to remain. population the population of the ainu during the edo period was a maximum of 26, 800 ; it has since declined, due in part to the spread of infectious diseases. it was traditionally regarded as a tenryo territory. according to the 1897 russian census, 1, 446 ainu native speakers lived in russian territory. currently, there is no ainu category in the japanese national census, and no fact - finding has been conducted by national institutions. therefore, the exact number of ainu people is unknown. however, multiple surveys have been conducted that provide an indication of the total population. according to a 2006 hokkaido agency survey, there were 23, 782 ainu people in hokkaido. when viewed by the branch office ( currently the promotion bureau ), there are many in the iburi / hidaka branch office. the definition of " ainu " by the hokkaido agency in this survey is " a person who seems to have inherited the blood of ainu " or " the same livelihood as those with marriage or adoption. " additionally, if the other person is declared not to be " ainu ", then it is not subject to investigation. a 1971 survey determined an ainu population of 77, 000. another survey yielded a total number of ainu living in japan of 200, 000. however, there are no other surveys that support this high estimate. many ainu live outside hokkaido. a 1988 survey estimated that the population of ainu living in tokyo was 2, 700. according to a 1989 survey report on utari living in tokyo, it is estimated that the ain