guddala, were unwilling to be dragged into a conflict with the powerful zanata tribes of the north and this created tension with those, like ibn yasin, who saw northern expansion as the next step in their fortunes. while ibn yasin went north, yahya ibn umar remained in the south in the adrar, the heartland of the lamtuna, in a defensible and well - provisioned place called jabal lamtuna, about 10 kilometres northwest of modern atar. his stronghold there was a fortress called azuggi ( also rendered variably as azougui or azukki ), which had been built earlier by his brother yannu ibn umar al - hajj. some scholars, including attilio gaudio, christiane vanacker, and brigitte himpan and diane himpan - sabatier describe azuggi as the " first capital " of the almoravids. yahya ibn umar was subsequently killed in battle against the guddala in 1055 or 1056, or later in 1057. meanwhile, ibn yasin in the north had ordered abu bakr to take command of the almoravid army and they soon recaptured sijilmasa. by 1056, they had conquered taroudant and the sous valley, continuing to impose maliki islamic law over the communities they conquered. when the campaign concluded that year, they retired to sijilmasa and established their base there. it was around this time that abu bakr appointed his cousin, yusuf ibn tashfin, to command the garrison of the city. in 1058 they crossed the high atlas and conquered aghmat, a prosperous commercial town near the foothills of the mountains, and made it their capital. they then came in contact with the barghawata, a berber tribal confederation who followed an islamic " heresy " preached by salih ibn tarif three centuries earlier. the barghawata occupied the region northwest of aghmat and along the atlantic coast. they resisted the almoravids fiercely and the campaign against them was bloody. abdullah ibn yasin was killed in battle with them in 1058 or 1059, at a place called kurifalalt or kurifala. by 1060, however, they were conquered by abu bakr ibn umar and were forced to convert to orthodox islam. shortly after this, abu bakr had reached as far as meknes. towards 1068, abu bakr married a noble and wealthy berber woman, za