effects on the structural integrity of castings. conversely, otherwise pure - metals that contain unwanted impurities are often called " impure metals " and are not usually referred to as alloys. oxygen, present in the air, readily combines with most metals to form metal oxides ; especially at higher temperatures encountered during alloying. great care is often taken during the alloying process to remove excess impurities, using fluxes, chemical additives, or other methods of extractive metallurgy. theory alloying a metal is done by combining it with one or more other elements. the most common and oldest alloying process is performed by heating the base metal beyond its melting point and then dissolving the solutes into the molten liquid, which may be possible even if the melting point of the solute is far greater than that of the base. for example, in its liquid state, titanium is a very strong solvent capable of dissolving most metals and elements. in addition, it readily absorbs gases like oxygen and burns in the presence of nitrogen. this increases the chance of contamination from any contacting surface, and so must be melted in vacuum induction - heating and special, water - cooled, copper crucibles. however, some metals and solutes, such as iron and carbon, have very high melting - points and were impossible for ancient people to melt. thus, alloying ( in particular, interstitial alloying ) may also be performed with one or more constituents in a gaseous state, such as found in a blast furnace to make pig iron ( liquid - gas ), nitriding, carbonitriding or other forms of case hardening ( solid - gas ), or the cementation process used to make blister steel ( solid - gas ). it may also be done with one, more, or all of the constituents in the solid state, such as found in ancient methods of pattern welding ( solid - solid ), shear steel ( solid - solid ), or crucible steel production ( solid - liquid ), mixing the elements via solid - state diffusion. by adding another element to a metal, differences in the size of the atoms create internal stresses in the lattice of the metallic crystals ; stresses that often enhance its properties. for example, the combination of carbon with iron produces steel, which is stronger than iron, its primary element. the electrical and thermal conductivity of alloys is usually lower than that of the pure metals. the physical properties, such as density, reactivity, young ' s modulus