were introduced. the alternating regular writers were initially dan slott, bob gale, marc guggenheim, and zeb wells, joined by a rotation of artists that included steve mcniven, salvador larroca, phil jimenez, barry kitson, chris bachalo, mike mckone, marcos martin, and john romita jr. joe kelly, mark waid, fred van lente and roger stern later joined the writing team and paolo rivera, lee weeks and marco checchetto the artist roster. waid ' s work on the series included a meeting between spider - man and stephen colbert in the amazing spider - man no. 573 ( dec. 2008 ). issue no. 583 ( march 2009 ) included a back - up story in which spider - man meets president barack obama. 2010s and temporary end of publication mark waid scripted the opening of " the gauntlet " storyline in issue no. 612 ( jan. 2010 ). the gauntlet story was concluded by grim hunt ( no. 634 - 637 ) which saw the resurrection of long - dead spider - man villain, kraven the hunter. the series became a twice - monthly title with dan slott as sole writer at issue no. 648 ( jan. 2011 ), launching the big time storyline. eight additional pages were added per issue. big time saw major changes in spider - man / peter parker ' s life, peter would start working at horizon labs and begin a relationship with carlie cooper ( his first serious relationship since his marriage to mary jane ), mac gargan returned as scorpion after spending the past few years as venom, phil urich would take up the mantle of hobgoblin, and the death of j. jonah jameson ' s wife, marla jameson. issues 654 and 654. 1 saw the birth of agent venom, flash thompson bonded with the venom symbiote, which would lead to venom getting his own series venom ( volume 2 ). starting in no. 659 and going to no. 665, the series built - up to the spider - island event which officially started in no. 666 and ended in no. 673. ends of the earth was the next event that ran from no. 682 through no. 687. this publishing format lasted until issue no. 700, which concluded the " dying wish " storyline, in which parker and doctor octopus swapped bodies, and the latter taking on the mantle of spider - man when parker apparently died in doctor octopus ' body.