, although the supporting posts are still visible. on the northbound side of interstate 94, a sign on the roof of the building nearest the freeway said " study natural law " until being shingled over in october 2014. in 2018, the town of mount pleasant paid $ 933, 000 to purchase the property on the northbound side of interstate 94 for the foxconn project. all remaining buildings were demolished and removed. lawsonomy maintains a small following to this day. see also list of topics characterized as pseudoscience references further reading henry, lyell d. zig - zag - and swirl : alfred w. lawson ' s quest for greatness. iowa city : university of iowa press, 1991. kossy, donna. kooks : a guide to the outer limits of human belief. 2nd ed. los angeles : feral house, 2001. kuntz, jerry. baseball fiends and flying machines : the many lives and outrageous times of george and alfred lawson. jefferson, north carolina : mcfarland publishing, 2009. lawson, alfred. lawsonomy, vols. 1 - 3. detroit : humanity benefactor foundation, 1935 – 1939. external links lawson demo flight departed 93 years ago at wisconsin aviation hall of fame what in the heck is the university of lawsonomy? – article about lawson in a milwaukee - area magazine end of flight – newspaper article about 1921 loss of first lawson airliner " asme milwaukee – history & heritage " the alfred w. lawson papers at the american heritage center 1869 births 1954 deaths lawsonomy boston beaneaters players pittsburgh alleghenys players major league baseball pitchers 19th - century baseball players bloomington blues players wilmington blue hens players harrisburg ponies players oakland colonels players pendleton ho hos players spokane bunchgrassers players atlanta firecrackers players troy trojans ( minor league ) players sandusky sandies players albany senators players pawtucket maroons players norfolk clams players norfolk crows players sportspeople from london minor league baseball managers major league baseball players from the united kingdom major league baseball players from england english baseball players fitchburg ( minor league baseball ) players cobleskill giants players british emigrants to the united states