can reach into the tens of thousands of dollars. in 2014, the value was reported to be as high as us $ 80, 000. the value has risen to the point where the u. s. internal revenue service issued a statement regarding the gifts and their taxable status. oscar gift bags have included vacation packages to hawaii and mexico and japan, a private dinner party for the recipient and friends at a restaurant, videophones, a four - night stay at a hotel, watches, bracelets, spa treatments, bottles of vodka, maple salad dressing, weight - loss gummie candy and up to $ 25, 000 worth of cosmetic treatments and rejuvenation procedures such as lip fillers and chemical peels from new york city facial plastic surgeon konstantin vasyukevich. some of the gifts have even had a " risque " element to them ; in 2014, the adult products retailer adam & eve had a " secret room gifting suite. " celebrities visiting the gifting suite included judith hoag, carolyn hennesy, kate linder, chris mulkey, jim o ' heir and john salley. television ratings and advertisement prices from 2006 onwards, results are live + sd ; all previous years are live viewing. notable highest wins and nominees by films the following nominees received at least 10 nominations : the following winners received at least 5 awards ( including non - competitive ) : by franchises the following nominees received at least 5 nominations : the following winners received at least 2 awards : by people the following nominees received at least 5 nominations : the following winners received at least 3 awards ( including non - competitive ) : see also list of film awards list of actors with academy award nominations list of superlative academy award winners and nominees footnotes references further reading brokaw, lauren ( 2010 ). " wanna see an academy awards invite? we got it along with all the major annual events surrounding the oscars ". los angeles : the daily truffle. wright, jon ( 2007 ). the lunacy of oscar : the problems with hollywood ' s biggest night. thomas publishing, inc. external links official academy awards database ( searchable ) 1929 establishments in california 1953 american television series debuts performing arts trophies american annual television specials american film awards annual events in los angeles county, california awards established in 1929 cinema of southern california events in los angeles culture of hollywood, los angeles american live television shows