the power to annul a law of the united states, assumed by one state, incompatible with the existence of the union, contradicted expressly by the letter of the constitution, unauthorized by its spirit, inconsistent with every principle on which it was founded, and destructive of the great object for which it was formed ". south carolina, the president declared, stood on " the brink of insurrection and treason ", and he appealed to the people of the state to reassert their allegiance to that union. jackson also denied the right of secession : " the constitution... forms a government not a league... to say that any state may at pleasure secede from the union is to say that the united states are not a nation. " on december 28, calhoun, who had been elected to the u. s. senate, resigned as vice president. jackson asked congress to pass a " force bill " authorizing the military to enforce the tariff. it was attacked by calhoun as despotism. meanwhile, calhoun and clay began to work on a new compromise tariff. jackson saw it as an effective way to end the confrontation, but insisted on the passage of the force bill before he signed. on march 2, he signed into law the force bill and the tariff of 1833, both of which passed on march 1, 1833. the south carolina convention then met and rescinded its nullification ordinance, but nullified the force bill in a final act of defiance. two months later, jackson reflected on south carolina ' s nullification : " the tariff was only the pretext, and disunion and southern confederacy the real object. the next pretext will be the negro, or slavery question ". bank war and election of 1832 bank veto a few weeks after his inauguration, jackson started looking into how he could replace the second bank of the united states. the bank had been chartered by president madison in 1816 to restore the united states economy after the war of 1812. monroe had appointed nicholas biddle as the bank ' s executive. the bank was a repository for the country ' s public monies which also serviced the national debt ; it was formed as a for - profit entity that looked after the concerns of its shareholders. under the bank ' s stewardship, the country was economically healthy and the currency was stable, but jackson saw the bank as a fourth branch of government run by an elite, what he called the " money power " that sought to control the labor and earnings of the " real people ", who depend on their own