rift valley is the divergent boundary between the north american and eurasian plates in the north atlantic and the south american and african plates in the south atlantic. the mar produces basaltic volcanoes in eyjafjallajokull, iceland, and pillow lava on the ocean floor. the depth of water at the apex of the ridge is less than in most places, while the bottom of the ridge is three times as deep. the mar is intersected by two perpendicular ridges : the azores – gibraltar transform fault, the boundary between the nubian and eurasian plates, intersects the mar at the azores triple junction, on either side of the azores microplate, near the 40°n. a much vaguer, nameless boundary, between the north american and south american plates, intersects the mar near or just north of the fifteen - twenty fracture zone, approximately at 16°n. in the 1870s, the challenger expedition discovered parts of what is now known as the mid - atlantic ridge, or : the remainder of the ridge was discovered in the 1920s by the german meteor expedition using echo - sounding equipment. the exploration of the mar in the 1950s led to the general acceptance of seafloor spreading and plate tectonics. most of the mar runs under water but where it reaches the surfaces it has produced volcanic islands. while nine of these have collectively been nominated a world heritage site for their geological value, four of them are considered of " outstanding universal value " based on their cultural and natural criteria : þingvellir, iceland ; landscape of the pico island vineyard culture, portugal ; gough and inaccessible islands, united kingdom ; and brazilian atlantic islands : fernando de noronha and atol das rocas reserves, brazil. ocean floor continental shelves in the atlantic are wide off newfoundland, southernmost south america, and north - eastern europe. in the western atlantic carbonate platforms dominate large areas, for example, the blake plateau and bermuda rise. the atlantic is surrounded by passive margins except at a few locations where active margins form deep trenches : the puerto rico trench ( maximum depth ) in the western atlantic and south sandwich trench ( ) in the south atlantic. there are numerous submarine canyons off north - eastern north america, western europe, and north - western africa. some of these canyons extend along the continental rises and farther into the abyssal plains as deep - sea channels. in 1922, a historic moment in cartography and oceanography occurred. the uss stewart used a navy sonic depth finder to draw a continuous map across the bed of the atlantic. this