end to the conflict between the citizens of cologne and the archbishop. among the last of his labors was the defense of the orthodoxy of his former pupil, thomas aquinas, whose death in 1274 grieved albert ( the story that he travelled to paris in person to defend the teachings of aquinas can not be confirmed ). albert was a scientist, philosopher, astrologer, theologian, spiritual writer, ecumenist, and diplomat. under the auspices of humbert of romans, albert molded the curriculum of studies for all dominican students, introduced aristotle to the classroom and probed the work of neoplatonists, such as plotinus. indeed, it was the thirty years of work done by aquinas and himself that allowed for the inclusion of aristotelian study in the curriculum of dominican schools. after suffering a collapse of health in 1278, he died on 15 november 1280 in the dominican convent in cologne, germany. since 15 november 1954 his relics are in a roman sarcophagus in the crypt of the dominican st. andrew ' s church in cologne. although his body was claimed to be incorrupt at the first exhumation three years after his death, at the exhumation in 1483 only a skeleton remained. albert was beatified in 1622. he was canonized and proclaimed a doctor of the church on 16 december 1931 by pope pius xi and the patron saint of natural scientists in 1941. st. albert ' s feast day is november 15. writings albert ' s writings collected in 1899 went to thirty - eight volumes. these displayed his prolific habits and encyclopedic knowledge of topics such as logic, theology, botany, geography, astronomy, astrology, mineralogy, alchemy, zoology, physiology, phrenology, justice, law, friendship, and love. he digested, interpreted, and systematized the whole of aristotle ' s works, gleaned from the latin translations and notes of the arabian commentators, in accordance with church doctrine. most modern knowledge of aristotle was preserved and presented by albert. his principal theological works are a commentary in three volumes on the books of the sentences of peter lombard ( magister sententiarum ), and the summa theologiae in two volumes. the latter is in substance a more didactic repetition of the former. albert ' s activity, however, was more philosophical than theological ( see scholasticism ). the philosophical works, occupying the first six and the last of the 21 volumes, are generally