##ntosaurus yahnahpin in 2015. classification apatosaurus is a member of the family diplodocidae, a clade of gigantic sauropod dinosaurs. the family includes some of the longest creatures ever to walk the earth, including diplodocus, supersaurus, and barosaurus. apatosaurus is sometimes classified in the subfamily apatosaurinae, which may also include suuwassea, supersaurus, and brontosaurus. othniel charles marsh described apatosaurus as allied to atlantosaurus within the now - defunct group atlantosauridae. in 1878, marsh raised his family to the rank of suborder, including apatosaurus, atlantosaurus, morosaurus ( = camarasaurus ) and diplodocus. he classified this group within sauropoda, a group he erected in the same study. in 1903, elmer s. riggs said the name sauropoda would be a junior synonym of earlier names ; he grouped apatosaurus within opisthocoelia. sauropoda is still used as the group name. in 2011, john whitlock published a study that placed apatosaurus a more basal diplodocid, sometimes less basal than supersaurus. cladogram of the diplodocidae after tschopp, mateus, and benson ( 2015 ). paleobiology it was believed throughout the 19th and early 20th centuries that sauropods like apatosaurus were too massive to support their own weight on dry land. it was theorized that they lived partly submerged in water, perhaps in swamps. more recent findings do not support this ; sauropods are now thought to have been fully terrestrial animals. a study of diplodocid snouts showed that the square snout, large proportion of pits, and fine, subparallel scratches of the teeth of apatosaurus suggests it was a ground - height, nonselective browser. it may have eaten ferns, cycadeoids, seed ferns, horsetails, and algae. stevens and parish ( 2005 ) speculate that these sauropods fed from riverbanks on submerged water plants. a 2015 study of the necks of apatosaurus and brontosaurus found many differences between them and other diplodocids, and that these variations may have shown that the necks of apatosaurus and brontosaurus were used for intraspecific combat. various uses for the single claw on the forelimb of sauro