rapid growth it was called the " magic city ". by 1920, birmingham was the 36th - largest city in the united states. heavy industry and mining were the basis of its economy. its residents were under - represented for decades in the state legislature, which refused to redistrict after each decennial census according to population changes, as it was required by the state constitution. this did not change until the late 1960s following a lawsuit and court order. industrial development related to the demands of world war ii brought a level of prosperity to the state not seen since before the civil war. rural workers poured into the largest cities in the state for better jobs and a higher standard of living. one example of this massive influx of workers occurred in mobile. between 1940 and 1943, more than 89, 000 people moved into the city to work for war - related industries. cotton and other cash crops faded in importance as the state developed a manufacturing and service base. despite massive population changes in the state from 1901 to 1961, the rural - dominated legislature refused to reapportion house and senate seats based on population, as required by the state constitution to follow the results of decennial censuses. they held on to old representation to maintain political and economic power in agricultural areas. one result was that jefferson county, containing birmingham ' s industrial and economic powerhouse, contributed more than one - third of all tax revenue to the state, but did not receive a proportional amount in services. urban interests were consistently underrepresented in the legislature. a 1960 study noted that because of rural domination, " a minority of about 25 % of the total state population is in majority control of the alabama legislature. " in the united states supreme court cases of baker v. carr ( 1962 ) and reynolds v. sims ( 1964 ), the court ruled that the principle of " one man, one vote " needed to be the basis of both houses of state legislatures, and that their districts had to be based on population rather than geographic counties. african americans continued to press in the 1950s and 1960s to end disenfranchisement and segregation in the state through the civil rights movement, including legal challenges. in 1954, the u. s. supreme court ruled in brown v. board of education that public schools had to be desegregated, but alabama was slow to comply. during the 1960s, under governor george wallace, alabama resisted compliance with federal demands for desegregation. the civil rights movement had notable events in alabama, including the montgomery bus boycott ( 1955 – 1956 )