an, the hadiths ( traditions of prophet muhammad ), and the fundamentals of islamic sciences, history, poetry and music under the supervision of private tutors. one of his tutors was chief mufti feyzullah efendi. ahmed was apparently curious and intellectual in nature, spending most of his time reading and practising calligraphy. the poems that he wrote manifest his profound knowledge of poetry, history, islamic theology and philosophy. he was also interested in calligraphy, which he had studied with the leading court calligraphers, primarily with hafız osman efendi ( died 1698 ), who influenced his art immensely, and, therefore, practiced it because of the influence of his elder brother, the future sultan mustafa ii, who also became a notable calligrapher. during his princehood in edirne, ahmed made friends with a bright officer - scribe, ibrahim, from the city of nevsehir, who was to become one of the outstanding grand viziers of his future reign. from 1687, following the deposition of his father, he lived in isolation for sixteen years in the palaces of edirne and istanbul. during this period he dedicated himself to calligraphy and intellectual activities. reign accession the edirne succession occurred between 19 august to 23 august. under mustafa, istanbul had been out of control for a long time. as arrests and executions mounted, theft and robbery incidents became common. the people were dissatisfied with the poor governing of the empire. mustafa was deposed by the janissaries and ahmed, who succeeded him to the throne on 22 august 1703. the first friday salute was held in bayezid mosque. fındıklılı mehmed aga welcomed the new sultan at the harem gate on the hasoda side, entered the arm, brought him to the cardigan - i saadet department and placed them on the throne, and were among the first to pay tribute to him. as part of the fief system, ahmed reorganized the land law in 1705. bringing order to land ownership reduced the crime wave and brought peace to the troubled empire. due to his ardent support of the new laws, ahmed was given the title ' law - giver ', a title given to only three sultans earlier, bayezid ii ( r. 1481 – 1512 ), selim i ( r. 1512 – 1520 ) and suleyman the magnificent ( r. 1520 – 1566 ). in