of the crittenden compromise ; it was rejected by congress. the republicans proposed an alternative compromise to not interfere with slavery where it existed but the south regarded it as insufficient. nonetheless, the remaining eight slave states rejected pleas to join the confederacy following a two - to - one no - vote in virginia ' s first secessionist convention on april 4, 1861. on march 4, 1861, abraham lincoln was sworn in as president. in his inaugural address, he argued that the constitution was a more perfect union than the earlier articles of confederation and perpetual union, that it was a binding contract, and called any secession " legally void ". he had no intent to invade southern states, nor did he intend to end slavery where it existed, but said that he would use force to maintain possession of federal property, including forts, arsenals, mints, and customhouses that had been seized by the southern states. the government would make no move to recover post offices, and if resisted, mail delivery would end at state lines. where popular conditions did not allow peaceful enforcement of federal law, u. s. marshals and judges would be withdrawn. no mention was made of bullion lost from u. s. mints in louisiana, georgia, and north carolina. he stated that it would be u. s. policy to only collect import duties at its ports ; there could be no serious injury to the south to justify the armed revolution during his administration. his speech closed with a plea for restoration of the bonds of union, famously calling on " the mystic chords of memory " binding the two regions. the davis government of the new confederacy sent three delegates to washington to negotiate a peace treaty with the united states of america. lincoln rejected any negotiations with confederate agents because he claimed the confederacy was not a legitimate government, and that making any treaty with it would be tantamount to recognition of it as a sovereign government. lincoln instead attempted to negotiate directly with the governors of individual seceded states, whose administrations he continued to recognize. complicating lincoln ' s attempts to defuse the crisis were the actions of the new secretary of state, william seward. seward had been lincoln ' s main rival for the republican presidential nomination. shocked and embittered by this defeat, seward agreed to support lincoln ' s candidacy only after he was guaranteed the executive office that was considered at that time to be the most powerful and important after the presidency itself. even in the early stages of lincoln ' s presidency seward still held little regard for the new chief executive