opponents gave up and dismissed proceedings. stanton " relinquished " his office on may 26, and the senate subsequently confirmed schofield. when johnson renominated stanbery to return to his position as attorney general after his service as a defense manager, the senate refused to confirm him. allegations were made at the time and again later that bribery dictated the outcome of the trial. even when it was in progress, representative butler began an investigation, held contentious hearings, and issued a report, unendorsed by any other congressman. butler focused on a new york – based " astor house group ", supposedly led by political boss and editor thurlow weed. this organization was said to have raised large sums of money from whiskey interests through cincinnati lawyer charles woolley to bribe senators to acquit johnson. butler went so far as to imprison woolley in the capitol building when he refused to answer questions, but failed to prove bribery. foreign policy soon after taking office as president, johnson reached an accord with secretary of state william h. seward that there would be no change in foreign policy. in practice, this meant that seward would continue to run things as he had under lincoln. seward and lincoln had been rivals for the nomination in 1860 ; the victor hoped that seward would succeed him as president in 1869. at the time of johnson ' s accession, the french had intervened in mexico, sending troops there. while many politicians had indulged in saber rattling over the mexican matter, seward preferred quiet diplomacy, warning the french through diplomatic channels that their presence in mexico was unacceptable. although the president preferred a more aggressive approach, seward persuaded him to follow his lead. in april 1866, the french government informed seward that its troops would be brought home in stages, to conclude by november 1867. on august 14, 1866, johnson and his cabinet gave a reception for queen emma of hawaii who was returning to hawaii after her trip to britain and europe. seward was an expansionist, and sought opportunities to gain territory for the united states. after the loss of the crimean war in the 1850s, the russian government saw its north american colony ( today alaska ) as a financial liability, and feared losing control to britain whose troops would easily swoop in and annex the territory from neighboring canada in any future conflict. negotiations between russia and the u. s. over the sale of alaska were halted due to the outbreak of the civil war, but after the u. s. victory in the war, talks resumed. russia instructed its minister in washington