it is unclear whether or not this represents an ongoing trend. white - sky, black - sky, and blue - sky albedo for land surfaces, it has been shown that the albedo at a particular solar zenith angle θi can be approximated by the proportionate sum of two terms : the directional - hemispherical reflectance at that solar zenith angle,, sometimes referred to as black - sky albedo, and the bi - hemispherical reflectance,, sometimes referred to as white - sky albedo. with being the proportion of direct radiation from a given solar angle, and being the proportion of diffuse illumination, the actual albedo ( also called blue - sky albedo ) can then be given as : this formula is important because it allows the albedo to be calculated for any given illumination conditions from a knowledge of the intrinsic properties of the surface. human activities human activities ( e. g., deforestation, farming, and urbanization ) change the albedo of various areas around the globe. as per campra et al., human impacts to " the physical properties of the land surface can perturb the climate by altering the earth ’ s radiative energy balance " even on a small scale or when undetected by satellites. the tens of thousands of hectares of greenhouses in almeria, spain form a large expanse of whitened plastic roofs. a 2008 study found that this anthropogenic change lowered the local surface area temperature of the high - albedo area, although changes were localized. a follow - up study found that " co2 - eq. emissions associated to changes in surface albedo are a consequence of land transformation " and can reduce surface temperature increases associated with climate change. it has been found that urbanization generally decreases albedo ( commonly being 0. 01 – 0. 02 lower than adjacent croplands ), which contributes to global warming. deliberately increasing albedo in urban areas can mitigate urban heat island. ouyang et al. estimated that, on a global scale, " an albedo increase of 0. 1 in worldwide urban areas would result in a cooling effect that is equivalent to absorbing ~ 44 gt of co2 emissions. " intentionally enhancing the albedo of the earth ' s surface, along with its daytime thermal emittance, has been proposed as a solar radiation management strategy to mitigate energy crises and global warming known as passive daytime radiative cooling ( pdrc ). efforts toward widespread implementation of pdrcs may focus on maximizing the albedo