episcopal polity ). archbishop of canterbury the archbishop of canterbury has a precedence of honour over the other primates of the anglican communion, and for a province to be considered a part of the communion means specifically to be in full communion with the see of canterbury – though this principle is currently subject to considerable debate, especially among those in the so - called global south, including american anglicans. the archbishop is, therefore, recognised as primus inter pares ( " first amongst equals " ), even though he does not exercise any direct authority in any province outside england, of which he is chief primate. rowan williams, the archbishop of canterbury from 2002 to 2012, was the first archbishop appointed from outside the church of england since the reformation : he was formerly the archbishop of wales. as " spiritual head " of the communion, the archbishop of canterbury maintains a certain moral authority and has the right to determine which churches will be in communion with his see. he hosts and chairs the lambeth conferences of anglican communion bishops and decides who will be invited to them. he also hosts and chairs the anglican communion primates ' meeting and is responsible for the invitations to it. he acts as president of the secretariat of the anglican communion office and its deliberative body, the anglican consultative council. conferences the anglican communion has no international juridical organisation. all international bodies are consultative and collaborative, and their resolutions are not legally binding on the autonomous provinces of the communion. there are three international bodies of note. the lambeth conference is the oldest international consultation. it was first convened by archbishop charles longley in 1867 as a vehicle for bishops of the communion to " discuss matters of practical interest, and pronounce what we deem expedient in resolutions which may serve as safe guides to future action ". since then, it has been held roughly every ten years. invitation is by the archbishop of canterbury. the anglican consultative council was created by a 1968 lambeth conference resolution and meets biennially. the council consists of representative bishops, clergy and laity chosen by the forty - two provinces. the body has a permanent secretariat, the anglican communion office, of which the archbishop of canterbury is president. the anglican communion primates ' meeting is the most recent manifestation of international consultation and deliberation, having been first convened by archbishop donald coggan in 1978 as a forum for " leisurely thought, prayer and deep consultation ". ordained ministry like the roman catholic church and the orthodox churches, the anglican communion maintains the threefold ministry of deacons, presbyters