##a national park, with the latter encompassing albania ' s share of the great and small lakes of prespa. to the south, the ceraunian mountains define the albanian ionian sea coast, shaping the landscape of llogara national park, which extends into the karaburun peninsula, forming the karaburun - sazan marine park. further southward lies butrint national park, occupying a peninsula surrounded by the lake of butrint and the channel of vivari. in the west, stretching along the albanian adriatic sea coast, the divjake - karavasta national park boasts the extensive lagoon of karavasta, one of the largest lagoon systems in the mediterranean sea. notably, europe ' s first wild river national park, vjosa national park, safeguards the vjosa river and its primary tributaries, which originates in the pindus mountains and flows to the adriatic sea. dajti mountain national park, lure - deje mountain national park and tomorr mountain national park protect the mountainous terrain of the center of albania, including the tomorr and skanderbeg mountains. environmental issues environmental issues in albania notably encompass air and water pollution, climate change impacts, waste management shortcomings, biodiversity loss and imperative for nature conservation. climate change is predicted to exert significant impacts on the quality of life in albania. the country is recognised as vulnerable to climate change impacts, ranked 79 among 181 countries in the notre dame global adaptation index of 2020. factors that account for the country ' s vulnerability to climate change risks include geological and hydrological hazards, including earthquakes, flooding, fires, landslides, torrential rains, river and coastal erosion. as a party to the kyoto protocol and the paris agreement, albania is committed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 45 % and achieve carbon neutrality by 2050 which, along with national policies, will help to mitigate the impacts of the climate change. the country has a moderate and improving performance in the environmental performance index with an overall ranking of 62 out of 180 countries in 2022. albania ' s ranking has, however, decreased since its highest placement at position 15 in the environmental performance index of 2012. in 2019, albania had a forest landscape integrity index mean score of 6. 77 from 10, ranking it 64th globally out of 172 countries. politics since declaring independence in 1912, albania has experienced a significant political transformation, traversing through distinct periods that included a monarchical rule, a communist regime and the eventual establishment of a democratic order. in 1998, albania