concept of either a trophy or a physical representation of the ashes. as late as 1925, the following verse appeared in the cricketers annual : so here ' s to chapman, hendren and hobbs, gilligan, woolley and hearne may they bring back to the motherland, the ashes which have no urn! nevertheless, several attempts had been made to embody the ashes in a physical memorial. examples include one presented to warner in 1904, another to australian captain m. a. noble in 1909, and another to australian captain w. m. woodfull in 1934. the oldest, and the one to enjoy enduring fame, was the one presented to bligh, later lord darnley, during the 1882 – 83 tour. the precise nature of the origin of this urn is a matter of dispute. based on a statement by darnley in 1894, it was believed that a group of victorian ladies, including darnley ' s later wife florence morphy, made the presentation after the victory in the third test in 1883. more recent researchers, in particular ronald willis and joy munns have studied the tour in detail and concluded that the presentation was made after a private cricket match played over christmas 1882 when the english team were guests of sir william clarke, at his property " rupertswood ", in sunbury, victoria. this was before the matches had started. the prime evidence for this theory was provided by a descendant of clarke. in august 1926 ivo bligh ( now lord darnley ) displayed the ashes urn at the morning post decorative art exhibition held in the central hall, westminster. he made the following statement about how he was given the urn : a more detailed account of how the ashes were given to ivo bligh was outlined by his wife, the countess of darnley, in 1930 during a speech at a cricket luncheon. her speech was reported by the times as follows : there is another statement which is not totally clear made by lord darnley in 1921 about the timing of the presentation of the urn. he was interviewed in his home at cobham hall by montague grover and the report of this interview was as follows : he made a similar statement in 1926. the report of this statement in the brisbane courier was as follows : the contents of the urn are also problematic ; they were variously reported to be the remains of a stump, bail or the outer casing of a ball, but in 1998 darnley ' s 82 - year - old