since 2002, important stages of restructuring of the banking system have started to be carried out. taking into consideration the entry of big oil revenues in the country, as a logical result of successful oil strategy, and in this base, as the banks were ready to an effective transfer of their financial resources to the strategic goals, development strategy was made for 2002 – 2005. by 1 april 2010, 47 banks, 631 bank branches function in azerbaijan. one of the banks was founded with the participation of state capital, 23 of foreign capital. to the same date, 98 non - bank credit organizations operate in the republic along with banks. growth of real money incomes of population, development of trust in the bank system, improving the legal bases of protection of interests of creditors and depositors, in particular launch of ' deposits insurance fund ' were the criteria characterizing rapid growth of deposits of population. as of 1 april 2010, bank deposits of population were equal to 2, 4 billion azn. 33, 3 % of them were long - term deposits ( higher than a year ). as of 1 april 2010, bank credits to customers is 8. 5 bn azn, which makes 70. 5 % of bank assets. special weight of private sector in structure of credit investments is higher than 82 % ( 7 bn azn ). telecommunications in the 21st century, a new oil and gas boom helped to improve the situation in azerbaijan ' s science and technology sectors, and the government launched a campaign aimed at modernization and innovation. the government estimates that profits from the information technology and communication industry will grow and become comparable with those from oil production. azerbaijan has a large and steadily growing internet sector, mostly uninfluenced by the financial crisis of 2007 – 2008 ; rapid growth is forecast for at least five more years. the country has also been making progress in developing its telecoms sector. the ministry of communications & information technologies ( mcit ), as well as being an operator through its role in aztelekom, is both a policy - maker and regulator. public payphones are available for local calls and require the purchase of a token from the telephone exchange or some shops and kiosks. tokens allow a call of indefinite duration. as of 2009, there were 1, 397, 000 main telephone lines and 1, 485, 000 internet users. there are five gsm providers : azercell, bakcell, azerfon ( nar mobile ), aztrank, catel mobile network operators and one cdma