" southern unionists " ) and those loyal primarily to the southern region and then the confederacy. perceived insults to southern collective honor included the enormous popularity of uncle tom ' s cabin and abolitionist john brown ' s attempt to incite a slave rebellion in 1859. while the south moved towards a southern nationalism, leaders in the north were also becoming more nationally minded, and they rejected any notion of splitting the union. the republican national electoral platform of 1860 warned that republicans regarded disunion as treason and would not tolerate it. the south ignored the warnings ; southerners did not realize how ardently the north would fight to hold the union together. lincoln ' s election the election of abraham lincoln in november 1860 was the final trigger for secession. southern leaders feared that lincoln would stop the expansion of slavery and put it on a course toward extinction. however, lincoln would not be inaugurated until five months after the election, which gave the south time to secede and prepare for war in the winter and spring of 1861. according to lincoln, the american people had shown that they had been successful in establishing and administering a republic, but a third challenge faced the nation : maintaining a republic based on the people ' s vote, in the face of an attempt to destroy it. outbreak of the war secession crisis the election of lincoln provoked the legislature of south carolina to call a state convention to consider secession. before the war, south carolina did more than any other southern state to advance the notion that a state had the right to nullify federal laws, and even to secede from the united states. the convention unanimously voted to secede on december 20, 1860, and adopted a secession declaration. it argued for states ' rights for slave owners in the south, but contained a complaint about states ' rights in the north in the form of opposition to the fugitive slave act, claiming that northern states were not fulfilling their federal obligations under the constitution. the " cotton states " of mississippi, florida, alabama, georgia, louisiana, and texas followed suit, seceding in january and february 1861. among the ordinances of secession passed by the individual states, those of three — texas, alabama, and virginia — specifically mentioned the plight of the " slaveholding states " at the hands of northern abolitionists. the rest make no mention of the slavery issue and are often brief announcements of the dissolution of ties by the legislatures. however, at least four states — south carolina, mississippi, georgia, and texas — also passed lengthy and detailed explanations of their reasons for secession, all of which laid the blame square