ahab ( ; ahabbu [ a - ha - ab - bu ] ; achaab ; ) was the seventh king of israel, the son and successor of king omri and the husband of jezebel of sidon, according to the hebrew bible. the hebrew bible presents ahab as a wicked king, particularly for condoning jezebel ' s influence on religious policies and his principal role behind naboth ' s arbitrary execution. the existence of ahab is historically supported outside the bible. shalmaneser iii of assyria documented in 853 bc that he defeated an alliance of a dozen kings in the battle of qarqar ; one of these was ahab. he is also mentioned on the inscriptions of the mesha stele. ahab became king of israel in the thirty - eighth year of king asa of judah, and reigned for twenty - two years, according to 1 kings. william f. albright dated his reign to 869 – 850 bc, while edwin r. thiele offered the dates 874 – 853 bc. most recently, michael coogan has dated ahab ' s reign to 871 – 852 bc. reign king omri, ahab ' s father and founder of the short - lived omri dynasty, seems to have been a successful military leader ; he is reported in the text of the moabite mesha stele to have " oppressed moab for many days. " during ahab ' s reign, moab, which had been conquered by his father, remained tributary. ahab was allied by marriage with jehoshaphat, who was king of judah. only with aram - damascus is he believed to have had strained relations, though the two kingdoms also shared an alliance for some years. ahab married jezebel, the daughter of the king of tyre. tells the story of ahab and jezebel, and indicates that jezebel was a dominant influence on ahab, persuading him to abandon yahweh and establish the religion of baal in israel. ahab lived in samaria, the royal capital established by omri, and built a temple and altar to baal there. these actions were said to have led to severe consequences for israel, including a drought that lasted for several years and jezebel ' s fanatical religious persecution of the prophets of yahweh, which ahab condoned. his reputation was so negative that in 1 kings 16 : 34, the author attributed to