. however, the rail link between abkhazia and other georgian regions has been closed for a number of years, forcing armenia to receive rail cars laden with cargo only through the relatively expensive rail - ferry services operating between georgian and other black sea ports. the georgian black sea ports of batumi and poti process more than 90 percent of freight shipped to and from landlocked armenia. the georgian railway, which runs through the town of gori in central georgia, is the main transport link between armenia and the aforementioned georgian seaports. fuel, wheat and other basic commodities are transported to armenia by rail. armenia ' s main rail and road border - crossing with georgia ( at ) is at the debed river near the armenian town of bagratashen and the georgian town of sadakhlo. the upper lars border crossing ( at darial gorge ) between georgia and russia across the caucasus mountains serves as armenia ' s sole overland route to the former soviet union and europe. it was controversially shut down by the russian authorities in june 2006, at the height of a russian - georgian spy scandal. upper lars is the only land border crossing that does not go through georgia ' s russian - backed breakaway regions of south ossetia and abkhazia. the other two roads linking georgia and russia run through south ossetia and abkhazia, effectively barring them to international traffic. through iran a new gas pipeline to iran has been completed, and a road to iran through the southern city of meghri allows trade with that country. an oil pipeline to pump iranian oil products is also in the planning stages. as of october 2008, the armenian government was considering implementing an ambitious project to build a railway to iran. the 400 kilometer railway would pass through armenia ' s mountainous southern province of syunik, which borders iran. economic analysts say that the project would cost at least $ 1 billion ( equivalent to about 40 percent of armenia ' s 2008 state budget ). as of 2010, the project has been continuously delayed, with the rail link estimated to cost as much as $ 4 billion and stretch. in june 2010, transport minister manuk vartanian revealed that yerevan is seeking as much as $ 1 billion in loans from china to finance the railway ' s construction. through turkey and azerbaijan the border closures by turkey and azerbaijan have severed armenia ' s rail link between gyumri and kars ; the rail link with iran through the azeri exclave of nakhichevan ; and a natural gas and oil pipeline with azerbaijan. also closed