or ' the atlantic sea ' ) where the name refers to " the sea beyond the pillars of heracles " which is said to be part of the sea that surrounds all land. in these uses, the name refers to atlas, the titan in greek mythology, who supported the heavens and who later appeared as a frontispiece in medieval maps and also lent his name to modern atlases. on the other hand, to early greek sailors and in ancient greek mythological literature such as the iliad and the odyssey, this all - encompassing ocean was instead known as oceanus, the gigantic river that encircled the world ; in contrast to the enclosed seas well known to the greeks : the mediterranean and the black sea. in contrast, the term " atlantic " originally referred specifically to the atlas mountains in morocco and the sea off the strait of gibraltar and the north african coast. the greek word has been reused by scientists for the huge panthalassa ocean that surrounded the supercontinent pangaea hundreds of millions of years ago. the term " aethiopian ocean ", derived from ancient ethiopia, was applied to the southern atlantic as late as the mid - 19th century. during the age of discovery, the atlantic was also known to english cartographers as the great western ocean. the pond is a term often used by british and american speakers in reference to the northern atlantic ocean, as a form of meiosis, or ironic understatement. it is used mostly when referring to events or circumstances " on this side of the pond " or " on the other side of the pond ", rather than to discuss the ocean itself. the term dates to 1640, first appearing in print in pamphlet released during the reign of charles i, and reproduced in 1869 in nehemiah wallington ' s historical notices of events occurring chiefly in the reign of charles i, where " great pond " is used in reference to the atlantic ocean by francis windebank, charles i ' s secretary of state. extent and data the international hydrographic organization ( iho ) defined the limits of the oceans and seas in 1953, but some of these definitions have been revised since then and some are not used by various authorities, institutions, and countries, see for example the cia world factbook. correspondingly, the extent and number of oceans and seas vary. the atlantic ocean is bounded on the west by north and south america. it connects to the arctic ocean through the denmark strait, greenland sea, norwegian sea and barents sea. to the east, the boundaries of