which include information and communication technologies, electronics, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology, architecture and engineering, industrial design and alternative energy. in 2014, the government expanded operations in the alliance fez to include industrial production as long as there is no similar production already occurring in armenia. in 2015, another “ meridian ” fez, focused on jewelry production, watch - making, and diamond - cutting opened in yerevan, with six businesses operating in it. the investment programs for these companies must still be approved by government. the armenian government approved the program to construct the meghri free economic zone at the border with iran, which is expected to open in 2017. controversial issues monopolies major monopolies in armenia include : natural gas import and distribution, held by gazprom armenia, formerly named armrosgazprom ( controlled by russian monopoly gazprom ) armenia ' s railway, south caucasus railway, owned by russian railways ( rzd ) electricity transmission and distribution ( see electricity sector in armenia ) newspaper distribution, held by haymamul former notable monopolies in armenia : wireless ( mobile ) telephony, held by armentel until 2004 internet access, held by armentel until september 2006 fixed - line telephony, held by armentel until august 2007 assumed ( unofficial ) monopolies until 2018 velvet revolution : oil import and distribution ( claimed by armenian opposition parties to belonging to a handful of government - linked individuals, one of which - " mika limited " - is owned by mikhail baghdasarian, while the other - " flash " - is owned by barsegh beglarian, a " prominent representative of the karabakh clan " ) aviation kerosene ( supplying to zvartnots airport ), held by mika limited various basic foodstuffs such as rice, sugar, wheat, cooking oil and butter ( the salex group enjoys a de facto monopoly on imports of wheat, sugar, flour, butter and cooking oil. its owner was a parliament deputy samvel aleksanian ( a. k. a. " lfik samo " ) and close to the country ' s leadership. ). according to one analyst, armenia ' s economic system in 2008 was anticompetitive due to the structure of the economy being a type of " monopoly or oligopoly ". " the result is the prices with us do not drop even if they do on international market, or they do quite belated and not to the size of the international market. " according to 2008