a member of the united nations, world bank, unesco, nato, wto, coe, osce, and oic. it has been an official candidate for membership in the european union since 2014. it is one of the founding members of the energy community, including the organization of the black sea economic cooperation and union for the mediterranean. name the historical origins of the term " albania " can be traced back to medieval latin, with its foundations believed to be associated with the illyrian tribe of the albani. this connection gains further support from the work of the ancient greek geographer ptolemy during the 2nd century ad, where he included the settlement of albanopolis situated to the northeast of durres. the presence of a medieval settlement named albanon or arbanon hints at the possibility of historical continuity. however, the precise relationship between these historical references and the question of whether albanopolis was synonymous with albanon remains a subject of scholarly debate. the byzantine historian michael attaliates, in his 11th century historical account, provides the earliest undisputed reference to the albanians, when he mentions them having taken part in a revolt against constantinople in 1079. additionally, he identified the arbanitai as subjects under the governance of the duke of dyrrachium. in the middle ages, albania was denoted as or by its inhabitants, who identified themselves as or. albanians employ the terms or when referring to their nation, designations that trace their historical origins to the 14th century. however, it was not until the late 17th and early 18th centuries that these terms gradually superseded and among the albanians. these two expressions are widely interpreted to symbolise " children of the eagles " and " land of the eagles ". history prehistory mesolithic habitation in albania has been evidenced in several open air sites which during that period were close to the adriatic coastline and in cave sites. mesolithic objects found in a cave near xarre include flint and jasper objects along with fossilised animal bones, while those discoveries at mount dajt comprise bone and stone tools similar to those of the aurignacian culture. the neolithic era in albania began around 7000 bce and is evidenced in finds which indicate domestication of sheep and goats and small - scale agriculture. a part of the neolithic population may have been the same as the mesolithic population of the southern balkans like in the konispol cave where the mesolithic stratum co - exists with pre - pottery neolithic finds. cardium pottery