the chief of martyrs, crying for vengeance, for the destruction of the seed of cain. a similar view is later shown in the testament of abraham ( a : 13 / b : 11 ), where abel has been raised to the position as the judge of the souls. in bereshit rabbah ( 22 : 2 ), a discussion of gen. 4 : 1 ff. has rabbi yehoshua ben korcha mentioning that cain was born with a twin sister, and abel with two twin sisters. this is based on the principle that the otherwise superfluous accusative article " et " always conveys some additional teaching ( pesachim 22b ). the " et " ' s are parsed slightly differently in yebamot 62a where the two " et " ' s in gen. 4 : 2 indicate cain and his sister, and abel and his ( one ) sister. sethian gnostic interpretation in the apocryphon of john, a work belonging to sethian gnosticism, abel is the offspring of yaldaboath and eve, who is placed over the elements of water and earth as elohim, but was only given his name as a form of deception. mandaean interpretation according to mandaean beliefs and scriptures including the qolasta, the book of john and genza rabba, abel is cognate with the angelic soteriological figure hibil ziwa, (, sometimes translated " splendid hibel " ), who is spoken of as a son of hayyi or of manda d - hayyi, and as a brother to anush ( enosh ) and to sheetil ( seth ), who is the son of adam. elsewhere, anush is spoken of as the son of sheetil, and sheetil as the son of hibil, where hibil came to adam and eve as a young boy when they were still virgins, but was called their son. hibil is an important lightworld being ( uthra ) who conquered the world of darkness. as yawar hibil, he is one of multiple figures known as yawar ( ), being so named by and after his father. islamic interpretation according to shi ' a muslim belief, abel ( " habeel " ) is buried in the nabi habeel mosque, located on the west mountains of damascus, near the zabadani valley, overlooking the villages of the barada river ( wadi barada ), in syria. shi ' a are frequent