length alternate history in english would seem to be castello holford ' s aristopia ( 1895 ). while not as nationalistic as louis geoffroy ' s napoleon et la conquete du monde, 1812 – 1823, aristopia is another attempt to portray a utopian society. in aristopia, the earliest settlers in virginia discover a reef made of solid gold and are able to build a utopian society in north america. early 20th century and the era of the pulps in 1905, h. g. wells published a modern utopia. as explicitly noted in the book itself, wells ' s main aim in writing it was to set out his social and political ideas, the plot serving mainly as a vehicle to expound them. this book introduced the idea of a person being transported from a point in our familiar world to the precise geographical equivalent point in an alternate world in which history had gone differently. the protagonists undergo various adventures in the alternate world, and then are finally transported back to our world, again to the precise geographical equivalent point. since then, that has become a staple of the alternate history genre. a number of alternate history stories and novels appeared in the late 19th and early 20th centuries ( see, for example, joseph edgar chamberlin ' s the ifs of history [ 1907 ] and charles petrie ' s if : a jacobite fantasy [ 1926 ] ). in 1931, british historian sir john squire collected a series of essays from some of the leading historians of the period for his anthology if it had happened otherwise. in that work, scholars from major universities, as well as important non - academic authors, turned their attention to such questions as " if the moors in spain had won " and " if louis xvi had had an atom of firmness ". the essays range from serious scholarly efforts to hendrik willem van loon ' s fanciful and satiric portrayal of an independent 20th - century new amsterdam, a dutch city - state on the island of manhattan. among the authors included were hilaire belloc, andre maurois, and winston churchill. one of the entries in squire ' s volume was churchill ' s " if lee had not won the battle of gettysburg ", written from the viewpoint of a historian in a world in which the confederacy had won the american civil war. the entry considers what would have happened if the north had been victorious ( in other words, a character from an alternate world imagines a world more like the real one we live in, although it is not identical in every detail