an amine might be expected to increase with the number of alkyl groups on the amine. correlations are complicated owing to the effects of solvation which are opposite the trends for inductive effects. solvation effects also dominate the basicity of aromatic amines ( anilines ). for anilines, the lone pair of electrons on nitrogen delocalizes into the ring, resulting in decreased basicity. substituents on the aromatic ring, and their positions relative to the amino group, also affect basicity as seen in the table. solvation effects solvation significantly affects the basicity of amines. n - h groups strongly interact with water, especially in ammonium ions. consequently, the basicity of ammonia is enhanced by 1011 by solvation. the intrinsic basicity of amines, i. e. the situation where solvation is unimportant, has been evaluated in the gas phase. in the gas phase, amines exhibit the basicities predicted from the electron - releasing effects of the organic substituents. thus tertiary amines are more basic than secondary amines, which are more basic than primary amines, and finally ammonia is least basic. the order of pkb ' s ( basicities in water ) does not follow this order. similarly aniline is more basic than ammonia in the gas phase, but ten thousand times less so in aqueous solution. in aprotic polar solvents such as dmso, dmf, and acetonitrile the energy of solvation is not as high as in protic polar solvents like water and methanol. for this reason, the basicity of amines in these aprotic solvents is almost solely governed by the electronic effects. synthesis from alcohols industrially significant alkyl amines are prepared from ammonia by alkylation with alcohols : roh + nh3 - > rnh2 + h2o from alkyl and aryl halides unlike the reaction of amines with alcohols the reaction of amines and ammonia with alkyl halides is used for synthesis in the laboratory : rx + 2 r ' nh2 - > rr ' nh + [ rr ' nh2 ] x in such reactions, which are more useful for alkyl iodides and bromides, the degree of alkylation is difficult to control such that one obtains mixtures of primary, secondary, and tertiary amines, as well as quaternary