; he refrained from mentioning this publicly for several years and referred to it only obliquely at the time. in 1969, the united states post office department issued a postage stamp ( scott catalogue # 1371 ) commemorating the apollo8 flight around the moon. the stamp featured a detail of the famous photograph of the earthrise over the moon taken by anders on christmas eve, and the words, " in the beginning god... ", the first words of the book of genesis. in january 1969, just 18 days after the crew ' s return to earth, they appeared in the super bowl iii pre - game show, reciting the pledge of allegiance, before the national anthem was performed by trumpeter lloyd geisler of the washington national symphony orchestra. spacecraft location in january 1970, the spacecraft was delivered to osaka, japan, for display in the u. s. pavilion at expo ' 70. it is now displayed at the chicago museum of science and industry, along with a collection of personal items from the flight donated by lovell and the space suit worn by frank borman. jim lovell ' s apollo8 space suit is on public display in the visitor center at nasa ' s glenn research center. bill anders ' s space suit is on display at the science museum in london, united kingdom. in popular culture apollo 8 ' s historic mission has been depicted and referred to in several forms, both documentary and fiction. the various television transmissions and 16 mm footage shot by the crew of apollo8 were compiled and released by nasa in the 1969 documentary debrief : apollo8, hosted by burgess meredith. in addition, spacecraft films released, in 2003, a three - disc dvd set containing all of nasa ' s tv and 16 mm film footage related to the mission, including all tv transmissions from space, training and launch footage, and motion pictures taken in flight. other documentaries include " race to the moon " ( 2005 ) as part of season 18 of american experience and in the shadow of the moon ( 2007 ). apollo ' s daring mission aired on pbs ' nova in december 2018, marking the flight ' s 50th anniversary. apollo 8 serves as character development in the 1995 film apollo 13, in which jim lovell is motivated to walk on the moon by his apollo 8 experience and later disappointed to be so near the surface twice without walking on it. parts of the mission are dramatized in the 1998 miniseries from the earth to the moon episode " 1968 ". the s - ivb stage of apollo8 was also portrayed as the location of an alien