amount of land a person owned. farming in egypt was dependent on the cycle of the nile river. the egyptians recognized three seasons : akhet ( flooding ), peret ( planting ), and shemu ( harvesting ). the flooding season lasted from june to september, depositing on the river ' s banks a layer of mineral - rich silt ideal for growing crops. after the floodwaters had receded, the growing season lasted from october to february. farmers plowed and planted seeds in the fields, which were irrigated with ditches and canals. egypt received little rainfall, so farmers relied on the nile to water their crops. from march to may, farmers used sickles to harvest their crops, which were then threshed with a flail to separate the straw from the grain. winnowing removed the chaff from the grain, and the grain was then ground into flour, brewed to make beer, or stored for later use. the ancient egyptians cultivated emmer and barley, and several other cereal grains, all of which were used to make the two main food staples of bread and beer. flax plants, uprooted before they started flowering, were grown for the fibers of their stems. these fibers were split along their length and spun into thread, which was used to weave sheets of linen and to make clothing. papyrus growing on the banks of the nile river was used to make paper. vegetables and fruits were grown in garden plots, close to habitations and on higher ground, and had to be watered by hand. vegetables included leeks, garlic, melons, squashes, pulses, lettuce, and other crops, in addition to grapes that were made into wine. animals the egyptians believed that a balanced relationship between people and animals was an essential element of the cosmic order ; thus humans, animals and plants were believed to be members of a single whole. animals, both domesticated and wild, were therefore a critical source of spirituality, companionship, and sustenance to the ancient egyptians. cattle were the most important livestock ; the administration collected taxes on livestock in regular censuses, and the size of a herd reflected the prestige and importance of the estate or temple that owned them. in addition to cattle, the ancient egyptians kept sheep, goats, and pigs. poultry, such as ducks, geese, and pigeons, were captured in nets and bred on farms, where they were force - fed with dough to fatten them. the nile provided a plentiful source of fish. bees were also