in 1666. afonso appointed castelo - melhor as his private secretary ( escrivao da puridade ). he proved to be a competent minister. his astute military organization and sensible general appointments resulted in decisive military victories over the spanish at elvas ( 14 january 1659 ), ameixial ( 8 june 1663 ) and montes claros ( 17 june 1665 ), culminating in the final spanish recognition of sovereignty of portugal ' s new ruling dynasty, the house of braganza, on 13 february 1668 in the treaty of lisbon. colonial affairs colonial affairs saw the dutch conquest of jaffna, portugal ' s last colony in portuguese ceylon ( 1658 ), and the cession of bombay and tangier to england ( 23 june 1661 ) as dowry for afonso ' s sister, catherine of braganza, who had married king charles ii of england. marriage melhor successfully arranged for afonso to marry maria francisca of savoy, a relative of the duke of savoy, in 1666, but the marriage was short - lived. maria francisca filed for an annulment in 1667 based on the impotence of the king. the church granted her the annulment, and she married afonso ' s brother, peter ii, duke of beja. downfall also in 1667, peter managed to gain enough support to force afonso to relinquish control of the government to him, and he became prince regent in 1668. while pedro never formally usurped the throne, afonso was king in name only for the rest of his life. for seven years after peter ' s coup, afonso was kept on the island of terceira in the azores. his health broken by this captivity, he was eventually permitted to return to the portuguese mainland, but he remained powerless and kept under guard. at sintra he died in 1683. the room where he was imprisoned is preserved at sintra national palace. ancestry references sources portuguese infantes dukes of braganza modern child monarchs 1643 births 1683 deaths portuguese people with disabilities princes of brazil house of braganza 17th - century portuguese monarchs nobility from lisbon royalty and nobility with disabilities burials at the monastery of sao vicente de fora royal reburials