companies sell aftermarket electronics kits, but they are typically installed by professional accordion technicians, because of the complex and delicate nature of the internal parts of an accordion. unusual accordions various hybrid accordions have been created between instruments of different buttonboards and actions. many remain curiosities – only a few have remained in use : the schrammel accordion, used in viennese chamber music and klezmer, which has the treble buttonboard of a chromatic button accordion and a bisonoric bass buttonboard, similar to an expanded diatonic button accordion the steirische harmonika, a type of bisonoric diatonic button accordion particular to the alpine folk music of slovenia, austria, the czech republic, the german state of bavaria, and the italian south tyrol the schwyzerorgeli or swiss organ, which usually has a three - row diatonic treble and 18 unisonoric bass buttons in a bass / chord arrangement – a subset of the stradella system in reverse order like the belgian bass – that travel parallel to the bellows motion the trikitixa of the basque people, which has a two - row diatonic, bisonoric treble and a 12 - button diatonic unisonoric bass the british chromatic accordion, the favoured diatonic accordion in scotland. while the right hand is bisonoric, the left hand follows the stradella system. the elite form of this instrument is generally considered the german manufactured shand morino, produced by hohner with the input of sir jimmy shand pedal harmony, a type of accordion used sometimes in polish folk music, which has a pair of pump organ - like bellows attached. the finnish composer and accordionist veli kujala developed a quarter tone accordion together with the italian accordion manufacturer pigini in 2005, and has written works for it. it deploys the same system as the concert accordion, with a scale of five octaves, each divided into 24 quarter tones. other notable composers who have written concertos for the quarter tone accordion include jukka tiensuu and sampo haapamaki. manufacturing process the most expensive accordions are typically fully hand - made, particularly the reeds ; completely hand - made reeds have a better tonal quality than even the best automatically manufactured ones. some accordions have been modified by individuals striving to bring a more pure sound out of low - end instruments, such as the ones improved by yutaka usui, a japanese craftsman. the manufacture of an accordion is only a partly automated process.