all armenians live in the break - away region of nagorno - karabakh ). in 2003, there were 250 roman catholics. other christian denominations as of 2002 include lutherans, baptists and molokans. there is also a small protestant community. azerbaijan also has an ancient jewish population with a 2, 000 - year history ; jewish organizations estimate that 12, 000 jews remain in azerbaijan, which is home to the only jewish - majority town outside of israel and the united states. azerbaijan also is home to members of the bahaʼi, hare krishna and jehovah ' s witnesses communities, as well as adherents of the other religious communities. some religious communities have been unofficially restricted from religious freedom. a u. s. state department report on the matter mentions detention of members of certain muslim and christian groups, and many groups have difficulty registering with the agency who regulates religion, the state committee on religious associations of the republic of azerbaijan ( scwra ). education a relatively high percentage of azerbaijanis have obtained some form of higher education, most notably in scientific and technical subjects. in the soviet era, literacy and average education levels rose dramatically from their very low starting point, despite two changes in the standard alphabet, from perso - arabic script to latin in the 1920s and from roman to cyrillic in the 1930s. according to soviet data, 100 percent of males and females ( ages nine to forty - nine ) were literate in 1970. according to the united nations development program report 2009, the literacy rate in azerbaijan is 99. 5 percent. since independence, one of the first laws that azerbaijan ' s parliament passed to disassociate itself from the soviet union was to adopt a modified - latin alphabet to replace cyrillic. other than that the azerbaijani system has undergone little structural change. initial alterations have included the reestablishment of religious education ( banned during the soviet period ) and curriculum changes that have reemphasized the use of the azerbaijani language and have eliminated ideological content. in addition to elementary schools, the education institutions include thousands of preschools, general secondary schools, and vocational schools, including specialized secondary schools and technical schools. education through the ninth grade is compulsory. culture the culture of azerbaijan has developed as a result of many influences ; that is why azerbaijanis are, in many ways, bi - cultural. today, national traditions are well preserved in the country despite western influences, including globalized consumer culture. some of the main elements of the azerbaijani culture are : music, literature, folk dances and art, cuisine,