##onia ( custom houses ) of the province of asia in the lex portorii asiae of 62 ad, and formed part of the conventus iuridicus adramytteum. abydos is mentioned in the tabula peutingeriana and antonine itinerary. the mint of abydos ceased to function in the mid - 3rd century ad. it is believed that abydos, with sestos and lampsacus, is referred to as one of the " three large capital cities " of the roman empire in weilue, a 3rd - century ad chinese text. the city was the centre for customs collection at the southern entrance of the sea of marmara, and was administered by a komes ton stenon ( count of the straits ) or an archon from the 3rd century to the 5th century ad. in the 6th century ad, emperor justinian i introduced the office of komes abydou with responsibility for collecting customs duty in abydos. medieval period pope martin i rested at abydos in the summer of 653 whilst en route to constantinople. as a result of the administrative reforms of the 7th century, abydos came to be administered as part of the theme of opsikion. the office of kommerkiarios of abydos is first attested in the mid - 7th century, and was later sometimes combined with the office of paraphylax, the military governor of the fort, introduced in the 8th century, at which time the office of komes ton stenon is last mentioned. after the 7th century ad, abydos became a major seaport. maslama ibn abd al - malik, during his campaign against constantinople, crossed over into thrace at abydos in july 717. the office of archon at abydos was restored in the late 8th century and endured until the early 9th century. in 801, empress irene reduced commercial tariffs collected at abydos. emperor nikephoros i, irene ' s successor, introduced a tax on slaves purchased beyond the city. the city later also became part of the theme of the aegean sea and was the seat of a tourmarches. abydos was sacked by an arab fleet led by leo of tripoli in 904 ad whilst en route to constantinople. the revolt of bardas phokas was defeated by emperor basil ii at abydos in 989 ad. in 992, the venetians were granted reduced commercial tariffs at abydos as a special privilege