' s death, anti - macedonian sentiment in athens was rekindled. in 322 bc, demophilus and eurymedon the hierophant reportedly denounced aristotle for impiety, prompting him to flee to his mother ' s family estate in chalcis, on euboea, at which occasion he was said to have stated : " i will not allow the athenians to sin twice against philosophy " – a reference to athens ' s trial and execution of socrates. he died in chalcis, euboea of natural causes later that same year, having named his student antipater as his chief executor and leaving a will in which he asked to be buried next to his wife. theoretical philosophy logic with the prior analytics, aristotle is credited with the earliest study of formal logic, and his conception of it was the dominant form of western logic until 19th - century advances in mathematical logic. kant stated in the critique of pure reason that with aristotle logic reached its completion. organon what is today called aristotelian logic with its types of syllogism ( methods of logical argument ), aristotle himself would have labelled " analytics ". the term " logic " he reserved to mean dialectics. most of aristotle ' s work is probably not in its original form, because it was most likely edited by students and later lecturers. the logical works of aristotle were compiled into a set of six books called the organon around 40 bc by andronicus of rhodes or others among his followers. the books are : categories on interpretation prior analytics posterior analytics topics on sophistical refutations the order of the books ( or the teachings from which they are composed ) is not certain, but this list was derived from analysis of aristotle ' s writings. it goes from the basics, the analysis of simple terms in the categories, the analysis of propositions and their elementary relations in on interpretation, to the study of more complex forms, namely, syllogisms ( in the analytics ) and dialectics ( in the topics and sophistical refutations ). the first three treatises form the core of the logical theory stricto sensu : the grammar of the language of logic and the correct rules of reasoning. the rhetoric is not conventionally included, but it states that it relies on the topics. metaphysics the word " metaphysics " appears to have been coined by the first century ad editor who assembled various small selections of aristotle ' s works to the treatise we know by the name metaphysics