creativity and optimism ; gaffa and the kaospilot school were founded in 1983 and 1991 respectively, and aarhus was at the centre of a renaissance in danish rock and pop music launching bands and musicians such as tv2, gnags, thomas helmig, bamses venner, anne dorte michelsen, mek pek and shit & chanel. the 2000s since the turn of the millennium, aarhus has seen an unprecedented building boom with many new institutions, infrastructure projects, city districts and recreational areas. several of the construction projects are among the largest in europe, such as the new university hospital ( dnu ) and the harbourfront redevelopment. both the skyline and land use of the inner city is changing, as former industrial sites are being redeveloped into new city districts and neighbourhoods. starting in 2008, the former docklands known as de bynære havnearealer ( the peri - urban harbour - areas ), and closest to the city seaside, are being converted to new mixed - use districts. it is among the largest harbourfront projects in europe. the northern part dubbed aarhus ø ( aarhus docklands ) is almost finished as of 2018, while the southern district dubbed sydhavnskvarteret ( the south - harbour neighbourhood ) is only starting to be developed. the adjacent site of frederiks plads at the former dsb repair facilities have been under construction since 2014 as a new business and residential quarter. the main bus terminal close by is planned to be moved to the central railway station and the site will be redeveloped to a new residential neighbourhood. elsewhere in the inner city, the site of the former ceres breweries was redeveloped in 2012 - 2019 as a new mixed use neighbourhood known as ceresbyen. construction of aarhus letbane, the first light rail system in the country, commenced in 2013, and the first increment was finished in december 2017. since then, the lightrail service has been expanded with two intercity sections to the towns of odder and grena, respectively, and also includes a northward leg to the suburb of lisbjerg. the light rail system is planned to tie many other suburbs closer to central aarhus in the future, with the next phase including local lines to brabrand in the east and hinnerup to the north. accelerating growth since the early 2000s, brought the inner urban area to roughly 260, 000 inhabitants by 2014. the rapid growth is expected to continue until at least 2030 when aarhus municipality has set an ambitious target for 375, 000