some species, however, more especially in the australian and pacific islands species, the leaflets are suppressed, and the leaf - stalks ( petioles ) become vertically flattened in order to serve the purpose of leaves. these are known as " phyllodes ". the vertical orientation of the phyllodes protects them from intense sunlight since with their edges towards the sky and earth they do not intercept light as fully as horizontally placed leaves. a few species ( such as acacia glaucoptera ) lack leaves or phyllodes altogether but instead possess cladodes, modified leaf - like photosynthetic stems functioning as leaves. the small flowers have five very small petals, almost hidden by the long stamens, and are arranged in dense, globular or cylindrical clusters ; they are yellow or cream - colored in most species, whitish in some, or even purple ( acacia purpureopetala ) or red ( acacia leprosa ' scarlet blaze ' ). acacia flowers can be distinguished from those of a large related genus, albizia, by their stamens, which are not joined at the base. also, unlike individual mimosa flowers, those of acacia have more than ten stamens. the plants often bear spines, especially those species growing in arid regions. these sometimes represent branches that have become short, hard, and pungent, though they sometimes represent leaf - stipules. acacia armata is the kangaroo - thorn of australia, and acacia erioloba ( syn. acacia eriolobata ) is the camelthorn of africa. acacia seeds can be difficult to germinate. research has found that immersing the seeds in various temperatures ( usually around 80 °c ( 176 °f ) ) and manual seed coat chipping can improve growth to around 80 %. symbiosis in the central american bullthorn acacias — acacia sphaerocephala, acacia cornigera and acacia collinsii — some of the spiny stipules are large, swollen and hollow. these afford shelter for several species of pseudomyrmex ants, which feed on extrafloral nectaries on the leaf - stalk and small lipid - rich food - bodies at the tips of the leaflets called beltian bodies. in return, the ants add protection to the plant against herbivores. some species of ants will also remove competing plants around the acacia, cutting off the offending plants ' leaves with their jaws and ultimately killing them. other associated ant species appear to