gawain and the green knight ( late 14th century ) the pearl poet, like many other english writers, employed aeneas to establish a genealogy for the foundation of britain, and explains that aeneas was " impeached for his perfidy, proven most true " ( line 4 ). family and legendary descendants aeneas had an extensive family tree. his wet - nurse was caieta, and he is the father of ascanius with creusa, and of silvius with lavinia. ascanius, also known as iulus ( or julius ), founded alba longa and was the first in a long series of kings. according to the mythology used by virgil in the aeneid, romulus and remus were both descendants of aeneas through their mother rhea silvia, making aeneas the progenitor of the roman people. some early sources call him their father or grandfather, but once the dates of the fall of troy ( 1184 bce ) and the founding of rome ( 753 bce ) became accepted, authors added generations between them. the julian family of rome, most notably julius cæsar and augustus, traced their lineage to ascanius and aeneas, thus to the goddess venus. through the julians, the palemonids make this claim. the legendary kings of britain – including king arthur – trace their family through a grandson of aeneas, brutus. character and appearance aeneas ' s consistent epithet in virgil and other latin authors is pius, a term that connotes reverence toward the gods and familial dutifulness. in the aeneid, aeneas is described as strong and handsome, but neither his hair colour nor complexion are described. in late antiquity however sources add further physical descriptions. the de excidio troiae of dares phrygius describes aeneas as " auburn - haired, stocky, eloquent, courteous, prudent, pious, and charming ". there is also a brief physical description found in the 6th - century john malalas ' chronographia : " aeneas : short, fat, with a good chest, powerful, with a ruddy complexion, a broad face, a good nose, fair skin, bald on the forehead, a good beard, grey eyes. " modern portrayals literature aeneas appears as a character in william shakespeare ' s play troilus and cressida, set during the trojan war. aeneas and dido are the main characters of a 17th