were also published under its imprint, like crowley ' s ambergris, the winged beetle, and the scented garden, as well as neuburg ' s the triumph of pan and ethel archer ' s the whirlpool. in 1911, crowley and waddell holidayed in montigny - sur - loing, where he wrote prolifically, producing poems, short stories, plays, and 19 works on magic and mysticism, including the two final holy books of thelema. in paris, he met mary desti, who became his next " scarlet woman ", with the two undertaking magical workings in st. moritz ; crowley believed that one of the secret chiefs, ab - ul - diz, was speaking through her. based on desti ' s statements when in trance, crowley wrote the two - volume book 4 ( 1912 – 13 ) and at the time developed the spelling " magick " in reference to the paranormal phenomenon as a means of distinguishing it from the stage magic of illusionists. ordo templi orientis and the paris working : 1912 – 1914 in early 1912, crowley published the book of lies, a work of mysticism that biographer lawrence sutin described as " his greatest success in merging his talents as poet, scholar, and magus ". the german occultist theodor reuss later accused him of publishing some of the secrets of his own occult order, the ordo templi orientis ( o. t. o. ), within the book. crowley convinced reuss that the similarities were coincidental, and the two became friends. reuss appointed crowley as head of the o. t. o ' s british branch, the mysteria mystica maxima ( mmm ), and at a ceremony in berlin crowley adopted the magical name of baphomet and was proclaimed " x° supreme rex and sovereign grand master general of ireland, iona, and all the britons ". with reuss ' permission, crowley set about advertising the mmm and re - writing many o. t. o. rituals, which were then based largely on freemasonry ; his incorporation of thelemite elements proved controversial in the group. fascinated by the o. t. o ' s emphasis on sex magic, crowley devised a magical working based on anal sex and incorporated it into the syllabus for those o. t. o. members who had been initiated into the eleventh degree. in march 1913, crowley acted as producer for the ragged ragtime girls, a group of female violinists