minority language in morocco, while the senegalese government adopted the latin script to write it. maltese is official in ( predominantly catholic ) malta and written with the latin script. linguists agree that it is a variety of spoken arabic, descended from siculo - arabic, though it has experienced extensive changes as a result of sustained and intensive contact with italo - romance varieties, and more recently also with english. due to " a mix of social, cultural, historical, political, and indeed linguistic factors, " many maltese people today consider their language semitic but not a type of arabic. cypriot arabic is recognized as a minority language in cyprus. status and usage diglossia the sociolinguistic situation of arabic in modern times provides a prime example of the linguistic phenomenon of diglossia, which is the normal use of two separate varieties of the same language, usually in different social situations. tawleed is the process of giving a new shade of meaning to an old classical word. for example, al - hatif lexicographically, means the one whose sound is heard but whose person remains unseen. now the term al - hatif is used for a telephone. therefore, the process of tawleed can express the needs of modern civilization in a manner that would appear to be originally arabic. in the case of arabic, educated arabs of any nationality can be assumed to speak both their school - taught standard arabic as well as their native dialects, which depending on the region may be mutually unintelligible. some of these dialects can be considered to constitute separate languages which may have " sub - dialects " of their own. when educated arabs of different dialects engage in conversation ( for example, a moroccan speaking with a lebanese ), many speakers code - switch back and forth between the dialectal and standard varieties of the language, sometimes even within the same sentence. arabic speakers often improve their familiarity with other dialects via music or film. the issue of whether arabic is one language or many languages is politically charged, in the same way it is for the varieties of chinese, hindi and urdu, serbian and croatian, scots and english, etc. in contrast to speakers of hindi and urdu who claim they cannot understand each other even when they can, speakers of the varieties of arabic will claim they can all understand each other even when they cannot. while there is a minimum level of comprehension between all arabic dialects, this level can increase or decrease based on geographic proximity : for example, levantine and gulf speakers understand each other much better than they do speakers from the maghre