, a. hypochondriacus ( prince ' s feather ), has deeply veined, lance - shaped leaves, purple on the under face, and deep crimson flowers densely packed on erect spikes. amaranths are recorded as food plants for some lepidoptera ( butterfly and moth ) species including the nutmeg moth and various case - bearer moths of the genus coleophora : c. amaranthella, c. enchorda ( feeds exclusively on amaranthus ), c. immortalis ( feeds exclusively on amaranthus ), c. lineapulvella, and c. versurella ( recorded on a. spinosus ). culture diego duran described the festivities for the aztec god. the aztec month of ( 7 december to 26 december ) was dedicated to. people decorated their homes and trees with paper flags ; ritual races, processions, dances, songs, prayers, and finally human sacrifices were held. this was one of the more important aztec festivals, and the people prepared for the whole month. they fasted or ate very little ; a statue of the god was made out of amaranth seeds and honey, and at the end of the month, it was cut into small pieces so everybody could eat a piece of the god. after the spanish conquest, cultivation of amaranth was outlawed, while some of the festivities were subsumed into the christmas celebration. amaranth is associated with longevity and, poetically, with death and immortality. amaranth garlands were used in the mourning of achilles. john milton ' s paradise lost portrays a showy amaranth in the garden of eden, " remov ' d from heav ' n " when it blossoms because the flowers " shade the fountain of life ". he describes amaranth as " immortal " in reference to the flowers that generally do not wither and retain bright reddish tones of color, even when deceased ; referred to in one species as " love - lies - bleeding. " gallery see also ancient grains references further reading howard, brian clark. " amaranth : another ancient wonder food, but who will eat it? ". national geographic online, august 12, 2013. fanton m., fanton j. amaranth ' ' the seed savers ' handbook. ( 1993 ) assad, r., reshi, z. a., jan, s., & rashid, i. ( 2017 ). biology of amaranths. the botanical review, 83