actaeon ( ; aktaion ), in greek mythology, was the son of the priestly herdsman aristaeus and autonoe in boeotia, and a famous theban hero. through his mother he was a member of the ruling house of cadmus. like achilles, in a later generation, he was trained by the centaur chiron. he fell to the fatal wrath of artemis ( later his myth was attached to her roman counterpart diana ), but the surviving details of his transgression vary : " the only certainty is in what aktaion suffered, his pathos, and what artemis did : the hunter became the hunted ; he was transformed into a stag, and his raging hounds, struck with a ' wolf ' s frenzy ' ( lyssa ), tore him apart as they would a stag. " the many depictions both in ancient art and in the renaissance and post - renaissance art normally show either the moment of transgression and transformation, or his death by his own hounds. story among others, john heath has observed, " the unalterable kernel of the tale was a hunter ' s transformation into a deer and his death in the jaws of his hunting dogs. but authors were free to suggest different motives for his death. " in the version that was offered by the hellenistic poet callimachus, which has become the standard setting, artemis was bathing in the woods when the hunter actaeon stumbled across her, thus seeing her naked. he stopped and stared, amazed at her ravishing beauty. once seen, artemis got revenge on actaeon : she forbade him speech – if he tried to speak, he would be changed into a stag – for the unlucky profanation of her virginity ' s mystery. upon hearing the call of his hunting party, he cried out to them and immediately transformed. at this, he fled deep into the woods, and doing so he came upon a pond and, seeing his reflection, groaned. his own hounds then turned upon him and pursued him, not recognizing him. in an endeavour to save himself, he raised his eyes ( and would have raised his arms, had he had them ) toward mount olympus. the gods did not heed his desperation, and he was torn to pieces. an element of the earlier myth made actaeon the familiar hunting companion of artemis, no stranger. in an embroidered extension of the myth, the hounds were so upset with their master ' s death, that chiron made a statue so lifelike