##rabian would therefore prefer " dvds " and " urls " and " ph. d. ' s ", while the modern language association explicitly says, " do not use an apostrophe to form the plural of an abbreviation ". also, the american psychological association specifically says, " without an apostrophe ". however, the 1999 style guide for the new york times states that the addition of an apostrophe is necessary when pluralizing all abbreviations, preferring " pc ' s, tv ' s and vcr ' s ". following those who would generally omit the apostrophe, to form the plural of run batted in, simply add an s to the end of rbi. rbis for all other rules, see below : to form the plural of an abbreviation, a number, or a capital letter used as a noun, simply add a lowercase s to the end. apostrophes following decades and single letters are also common. a group of mps the roaring 20s mind your ps and qs to indicate the plural of the abbreviation or symbol of a unit of measure, the same form is used as in the singular. 1 lb or 20 lb 1 ft or 16 ft 1 min or 45 min when an abbreviation contains more than one full point, hart ' s rules recommends putting the s after the final one. ph. d. s m. phil. s the d. t. s however, subject to any house style or consistency requirement, the same plurals may be rendered less formally as : phds mphils the dts. ( this is the recommended form in the new oxford dictionary for writers and editors. ) according to hart ' s rules, an apostrophe may be used in rare cases where clarity calls for it, for example when letters or symbols are referred to as objects. the x ' s of the equation dot the i ' s and cross the t ' s however, the apostrophe can be dispensed with if the items are set in italics or quotes : the xs of the equation dot the ' i ' s and cross the ' t ' s in latin, and continuing to the derivative forms in european languages as well as english, single - letter abbreviations had the plural being a doubling of the letter for note - taking. most of these deal with writing and publishing. a few longer abbreviations use this as well. conventions followed by publications and newspapers united states publications based in the u. s. tend to follow the style guides of the