provide the criteria for determining who would belong to the post - exilic jewish community and to establish the power structures and relative positions of its various groups, notably the priesthood and the lay " elders ". the completion of the torah and its elevation to the centre of post - exilic judaism was as much or more about combining older texts as writing new ones – the final pentateuch was based on existing traditions. in the book of ezekiel, written during the exile ( i. e., in the first half of the 6th century bce ), ezekiel, an exile in babylon, tells how those who remained in judah are claiming ownership of the land based on inheritance from abraham ; but the prophet tells them they have no claim because they do not observe torah. the book of isaiah similarly testifies of tension between the people of judah and the returning post - exilic jews ( the " gola " ), stating that god is the father of israel and that israel ' s history begins with the exodus and not with abraham. the conclusion to be inferred from this and similar evidence ( e. g., ezra – nehemiah ), is that the figure of abraham must have been preeminent among the great landowners of judah at the time of the exile and after, serving to support their claims to the land in opposition to those of the returning exiles. religious traditions abraham is given a high position of respect in three major world faiths, judaism, christianity and islam. in judaism, he is the founding father of the covenant, the special relationship between the jewish people and god – leading to the belief that the jews are the chosen people of god. in christianity, paul the apostle taught that abraham ' s faith in god – preceding the mosaic law – made him the prototype of all believers, jewish or gentile ; and in islam he is seen as a link in the chain of prophets that begins with adam and culminates in muhammad. judaism in jewish tradition, abraham is called avraham avinu ( אברהם אבינו ), " our father abraham, " signifying that he is both the biological progenitor of the jews and the father of judaism, the first jew. his story is read in the weekly torah reading portions, predominantly in the parashot : lech - lecha ( לך - לך ), vayeira ( וירא ), chayei sarah ( חיי שרה ), and toledot ( תולדת