media sites, such as twitter and facebook, and from some conservatives, such as glenn beck. despite the controversies, coca - cola later reused the super bowl ad during super bowl li, the opening ceremonies of the 2014 winter olympics and 2016 summer olympics and for patriotic holidays. in 2016, american five - piece girl group fifth harmony performed a rendition to honor the united states women ' s national soccer team on defeating japan 5 – 2 in the final to win the 2015 fifa women ' s world cup last july at bc place in vancouver, british columbia, canada before an undisputed at & t stadium audience of 101, 763 to open wrestlemania 32 in dallas, texas. in 2017, jackie evancho released together we stand, a disc containing three patriotic songs including " america the beautiful ". the song charted at no. 4 on billboard ' s classical digital song sales chart. an abbreviated cover with the 1911 lyrics was performed by greg jong for the soundtrack of the 2020 video game wasteland 3, and is played during the final hostile encounters in the denver section. in 2021, jennifer lopez performed the song at the inauguration of joe biden, as the second half of a medley with " this land is your land " by woody guthrie. in 2023, cecile mclorin salvant performed the song at the us open woman ' s final. in her rendition, salvant notably skipped ahead to the lyrics of the second half of the second verse while singing the first verse ( replacing " god shed his grace on thee... " with " god mend thine every flaw... " etc. ). jazz critic nate chinen wrote the following day of the performance : " what does it mean for a singer such as salvant to inhabit a platform like the us open, and implore god to mend america ’ s every flaw? what does it mean, in the year of our lord 2023, for a singer like salvant to urge the nation to confirm thy soul in self - control, and find liberty in law? i ’ m not going to spell it out, but it means a lot. " idioms " from sea to shining sea ", originally used in the charters of some of the english colonies in north america, is an american idiom meaning " from the atlantic ocean to the pacific ocean " ( or vice versa ). other songs that have used this phrase include the american patriotic song " god bless the u. s. a. " and schoolhouse rock ' s " elbow room ". the phrase and the