for the civil rights of african americans. he considered racism america ' s " worst disease ", seeing it as " handed down from one generation to the next ". as part of his involvement, he corresponded with civil rights activist w. e. b. du bois and was prepared to testify on his behalf during his trial in 1951. when einstein offered to be a character witness for du bois, the judge decided to drop the case. in 1946, einstein visited lincoln university in pennsylvania, a historically black college, where he was awarded an honorary degree. lincoln was the first university in the united states to grant college degrees to african americans ; alumni include langston hughes and thurgood marshall. einstein gave a speech about racism in america, adding, " i do not intend to be quiet about it. " a resident of princeton recalls that einstein had once paid the college tuition for a black student. einstein has said, " being a jew myself, perhaps i can understand and empathize with how black people feel as victims of discrimination ". personal views political views in 1918, einstein was one of the founding members of the german democratic party, a liberal party. later in his life, einstein ' s political view was in favor of socialism and critical of capitalism, which he detailed in his essays such as " why socialism? ". his opinions on the bolsheviks also changed with time. in 1925, he criticized them for not having a " well - regulated system of government " and called their rule a " regime of terror and a tragedy in human history ". he later adopted a more moderated view, criticizing their methods but praising them, which is shown by his 1929 remark on vladimir lenin : einstein offered and was called on to give judgments and opinions on matters often unrelated to theoretical physics or mathematics. he strongly advocated the idea of a democratic global government that would check the power of nation - states in the framework of a world federation. he wrote " i advocate world government because i am convinced that there is no other possible way of eliminating the most terrible danger in which man has ever found himself. " the fbi created a secret dossier on einstein in 1932 ; by the time of his death, it was 1, 427 pages long. einstein was deeply impressed by mahatma gandhi, with whom he corresponded. he described gandhi as " a role model for the generations to come ". the initial connection was established on 27 september 1931, when wilfrid israel took his indian guest v. a. sundaram to meet his friend einstein at his summer home in the