framework ) so that science and magic could synthesize into magick, which would simultaneously accept the existence of the supernatural and an experimental method. crowley deliberately adopted an exceptionally broad definition of magick that included almost all forms of technology as magick, adopting an instrumentalist definition of magic, science, and technology. sexuality played an important role in crowley ' s ideas about magick and his practice of it, and has been described as being central to thelema. he outlined three forms of sex magick — the autoerotic, homosexual, and heterosexual — and argued that such acts could be used to focus the magician ' s will onto a specific goal such as financial gain or personal creative success. for crowley, sex was treated as a sacrament, with the consumption of sexual fluids interpreted as a eucharist. this was often manifested as the cakes of light, a biscuit containing either menstrual blood or a mixture of semen and vaginal fluids. the gnostic mass is the central religious ceremony within thelema. crowley ' s theological beliefs were not clear. the historian ronald hutton noted that some of crowley ' s writings could be used to argue that he was an atheist, while some support the idea that he was a polytheist, and others would bolster the idea that he was a mystical monotheist. on the basis of the teachings in the book of the law, crowley described a pantheon of three deities taken from the ancient egyptian pantheon : nuit, hadit, and ra - hoor - khuit. in 1928, he made the claim that all true deities were derived from this trinity. jason josephson - storm has argued that crowley built on 19th - century attempts to link early christianity to pre - christian religions, such as frazer ' s golden bough, to synthesize christian theology and neopaganism while remaining critical of institutional and traditional christianity. both during his life and after it, crowley has been widely described as a satanist, usually by detractors. crowley stated he did not consider himself a satanist, nor did he worship satan, as he did not accept the christian world view in which satan was believed to exist. he nevertheless used satanic imagery, for instance by describing himself as " the beast 666 " and referring to the whore of babylon in his work, while in later life he sent " antichristmas cards " to his friends. in his writings, crowley occasionally identified aiwass as satan and designated him as " our lord god the devil " at