also hold to the belief. john wesley, the founder of methodism, believed in an intermediate state between death and the resurrection of the dead and in the possibility of " continuing to grow in holiness there ", but methodism does not officially affirm this belief and denies the possibility of helping by prayer any who may be in that state. orthodox christianity the orthodox church is intentionally reticent on the afterlife, as it acknowledges the mystery especially of things that have not yet occurred. beyond the second coming of jesus, bodily resurrection, and final judgment, all of which is affirmed in the nicene creed ( 325 ce ), orthodoxy does not teach much else in any definitive manner. unlike western forms of christianity, however, orthodoxy is traditionally non - dualist and does not teach that there are two separate literal locations of heaven and hell, but instead acknowledges that " the ' location ' of one ' s final destiny — heaven or hell — as being figurative. " instead, orthodoxy teaches that the final judgment is one ' s uniform encounter with divine love and mercy, but this encounter is experienced multifariously depending on the extent to which one has been transformed, partaken of divinity, and is therefore compatible or incompatible with god. " the monadic, immutable, and ceaseless object of eschatological encounter is therefore the love and mercy of god, his glory which infuses the heavenly temple, and it is the subjective human reaction which engenders multiplicity or any division of experience. " for instance, st. isaac the syrian observes in his ascetical homilies that " those who are punished in gehenna, are scourged by the scourge of love.... the power of love works in two ways : it torments sinners... [ as ] bitter regret. but love inebriates the souls of the sons of heaven by its delectability. " in this sense, the divine action is always, immutably, and uniformly love and if one experiences this love negatively, the experience is then one of self - condemnation because of free will rather than condemnation by god. orthodoxy therefore uses the description of jesus ' judgment in john 3 : 19 – 21 as their model : " 19 and this is the judgment : the light has come into the world, and people loved the darkness rather than the light because their works were evil. 20 for everyone who does wicked things hates the light and does not come to the light, lest his works should be exposed. 21 but