unreleased until 1985, when an edited version was broadcast as an episode of pbs frontline, under the title the imperial war museum had given it : memory of the camps. the full - length version of the film, german concentration camps factual survey, was restored in 2014 by scholars at the imperial war museum. post - war hollywood years : 1945 – 1953 later selznick films hitchcock worked for david selznick again when he directed spellbound ( 1945 ), which explores psychoanalysis and features a dream sequence designed by salvador dali. the dream sequence as it appears in the film is ten minutes shorter than was originally envisioned ; selznick edited it to make it " play " more effectively. gregory peck plays amnesiac dr. anthony edwardes under the treatment of analyst dr. peterson ( ingrid bergman ), who falls in love with him while trying to unlock his repressed past. two point - of - view shots were achieved by building a large wooden hand ( which would appear to belong to the character whose point of view the camera took ) and out - sized props for it to hold : a bucket - sized glass of milk and a large wooden gun. for added novelty and impact, the climactic gunshot was hand - coloured red on some copies of the black - and - white film. the original musical score by miklos rozsa makes use of the theremin, and some of it was later adapted by the composer into rozsa ' s piano concerto op. 31 ( 1967 ) for piano and orchestra. the spy film notorious followed next in 1946. hitchcock told francois truffaut that selznick sold him, ingrid bergman, cary grant and ben hecht ' s screenplay, to rko radio pictures as a " package " for $ 500, 000 ( equivalent to $ million in ) because of cost overruns on selznick ' s duel in the sun ( 1946 ). notorious stars bergman and grant, both hitchcock collaborators, and features a plot about nazis, uranium and south america. his prescient use of uranium as a plot device led to him being briefly placed under surveillance by the federal bureau of investigation. according to patrick mcgilligan, in or around march 1945, hitchcock and hecht consulted robert millikan of the california institute of technology about the development of a uranium bomb. selznick complained that the notion was " science fiction ", only to be confronted by the news of the detonation of two atomic bombs on hiroshima and nagasaki in japan in august 1945. transatlantic pictures hitchcock formed an independent production