woolfson went on to produce musical plays influenced by the project ' s music. freudiana, gaudi, and gambler were three musicals that included some project songs like " eye in the sky ", " time ", " inside looking out ", and " limelight ". the live music from gambler was only distributed at the performance site in monchengladbach, germany. the sicilian defence in 1979, parsons, woolfson, and their record label arista, had been stalled in contract renegotiations when the two submitted an all - instrumental album tentatively titled the sicilian defence, named after an aggressive opening move in chess, arguably to get out of their recording contract. arista ' s refusal to release the album had two known effects : the negotiations led to a renewed contract, and the album was not released at that time. in interviews he gave before his death in 2009, woolfson said he planned to release one track from the " sicilian " album, which in 2008 appeared as a bonus track on a cd re - issue of the eve album. sometime later, after he had relocated the original tapes, parsons reluctantly agreed to release the album and announced that it would finally be released on an upcoming project box set called the complete albums collection in 2014 for the first time as a bonus disc. parsons ' and woolfson ' s solo careers parsons released titles under his name ; these were try anything once ( 1993 ), on air ( 1996 ), the time machine ( 1999 ), a valid path ( 2004 ) and the secret ( 2019 ). meanwhile, woolfson made concept albums titled freudiana ( 1990 ), about sigmund freud ' s work on psychology, and poe : more tales of mystery and imagination ( 2003 ) ; this continued from the alan parsons project ' s first album about edgar allan poe ' s literature. tales of mystery and imagination ( 1976 ) was re - mixed in 1987 for release on cd, and included narration by orson welles recorded in 1975, but delivered too late to be included on the original album. for the 2007 deluxe edition release, parts of this tape were used for the 1976 griffith park planetarium launch of the original album, the 1987 remix, and various radio spots. all were included as bonus material. sound the band ' s sound is described as progressive rock, art rock, progressive pop, and soft rock. " sirius " is their best - known and most - frequently heard of all parsons / woolfson songs. it was used as entrance music by various american sports teams, notably by the