the war against france. he returned to weimar but left after less than a month, disgusted by the fact that his mother was now living with her supposed lover, georg friedrich konrad ludwig muller von gerstenbergk ( 1778 – 1838 ), a civil servant twelve years younger than her ; he considered the relationship an act of infidelity to his father ' s memory. he settled for a while in rudolstadt, hoping that no army would pass through the small town. he spent his time in solitude, hiking in the mountains and the thuringian forest and writing his dissertation, on the fourfold root of the principle of sufficient reason. he completed his dissertation at about the same time as the french army was defeated at the battle of leipzig. he became irritated by the arrival of soldiers in the town and accepted his mother ' s invitation to visit her in weimar. she tried to convince him that her relationship with gerstenbergk was platonic and that she had no intention of remarrying. but schopenhauer remained suspicious and often came in conflict with gerstenbergk because he considered him untalented, pretentious, and nationalistic. his mother had just published her second book, reminiscences of a journey in the years 1803, 1804, and 1805, a description of their family tour of europe, which quickly became a hit. she found his dissertation incomprehensible and said it was unlikely that anyone would ever buy a copy. in a fit of temper arthur told her that people would read his work long after the " rubbish " she wrote was totally forgotten. in fact, although they considered her novels of dubious quality, the brockhaus publishing firm held her in high esteem because they consistently sold well. hans brockhaus ( 1888 – 1965 ) later claimed that his predecessors " saw nothing in this manuscript, but wanted to please one of our best - selling authors by publishing her son ' s work. we published more and more of her son arthur ' s work and today nobody remembers johanna, but her son ' s works are in steady demand and contribute to brockhaus ' reputation. " he kept large portraits of the pair in his office in leipzig for the edification of his new editors. also contrary to his mother ' s prediction, schopenhauer ' s dissertation made an impression on goethe, to whom he sent it as a gift. although it is doubtful that goethe agreed with schopenhauer ' s philosophical positions, he was impressed by his intellect and extensive scientific education. their subsequent