was built by his father. he was the third of 10 boys, seven of whom survived infancy. alexander mackenzie sr. was a carpenter and ship ' s joiner who had to move around frequently for work after the end of the napoleonic wars in 1815. mackenzie ' s father died on march 7, 1836, and at the age of 13, alexander mackenzie jr. was thus forced to end his formal education to help support his family. he apprenticed as a stonemason and met his future wife, helen neil, in irvine, where her father was also a stonemason. the neils were baptist and shortly thereafter, mackenzie converted from presbyterianism to baptist beliefs. together with the neils, he immigrated to canada in 1842 to seek a better life. mackenzie ' s faith was to link him to the increasingly influential temperance cause, particularly strong in canada west where he lived, a constituency of which he was to represent in the parliament of canada. the neils and mackenzie settled in kingston, ontario. the limestone in the area proved too hard for his stonemason tools, and not having money to buy new tools, mackenzie took a job as a labourer constructing a building on princess street. the contractor on the job claimed financial difficulty, so mackenzie accepted a promissory note for summer wages. the note later proved to be worthless. subsequently, mackenzie won a contract building a bomb - proof arch at fort henry. he later became a foreman on the construction of kingston ' s four martello towers – murney tower, fort frederick, cathcart tower, and shoal tower. he was also a foreman on the construction of the welland canal and the lachine canal. while working on the beauharnois canal, a one - ton stone fell and crushed one of his legs. he recovered, but never regained the strength in that leg. while in kingston, mackenzie became a vocal opponent of religious and political entitlement and corruption in government. mackenzie married helen neil ( 1826 – 52 ) in 1845 and with her had three children, with only one girl, mary, surviving infancy. helen and he moved to sarnia, ontario ( known as canada west ) in 1847 and mary was born in 1848. they were soon joined from scotland by the rest of mackenzie ' s brothers and his mother. he began working as a general contractor, earning a reputation for being a hard - working, honest man, as well as having a working man ' s view on fiscal policy. mackenzie helped construct many courthouses and jails across southern ontario