. the alleged constitutional violation clearly exists and clearly deprived the defendant of a fair trial ; 4. if subject to harmless error analysis, the state has failed to demonstrate harmlessness of the alleged constitutional violation beyond a reasonable doubt. state post - conviction relief : collateral appeal all states have a post - conviction relief process. similar to federal post - conviction relief, an appellant can petition the court to correct alleged fundamental errors that were not corrected on direct review. typical claims might include ineffective assistance of counsel and actual innocence based on new evidence. these proceedings are normally separate from the direct appeal, however some states allow for collateral relief to be sought on direct appeal. after direct appeal, the conviction is considered final. an appeal from the post conviction court proceeds just as a direct appeal. that is, it goes to the intermediate appellate court, followed by the highest court. if the petition is granted the appellant could be released from incarceration, the sentence could be modified, or a new trial could be ordered. habeas corpus notice of appeal a " notice of appeal " is a form or document that in many cases is required to begin an appeal. the form is completed by the appellant or by the appellant ' s legal representative. the nature of this form can vary greatly from country to country and from court to court within a country. the specific rules of the legal system will dictate exactly how the appeal is officially begun. for example, the appellant might have to file the notice of appeal with the appellate court, or with the court from which the appeal is taken, or both. some courts have samples of a notice of appeal on the court ' s own web site. in new jersey, for example, the administrative office of the court has promulgated a form of notice of appeal for use by appellants, though using this exact form is not mandatory and the failure to use it is not a jurisdictional defect provided that all pertinent information is set forth in whatever form of notice of appeal is used. the deadline for beginning an appeal can often be very short : traditionally, it is measured in days, not months. this can vary from country to country, as well as within a country, depending on the specific rules in force. in the u. s. federal court system, criminal defendants must file a notice of appeal within 10 days of the entry of either the judgment or the order being appealed, or the right to appeal is forfeited. appellate procedure generally speaking the appellate court examines the record of evidence presented