his terms now stand as heads of my chapters... he does not say he wishes me to publish, but i shall, of course, at once write and offer to send to any journal. " distraught about the illness of his baby son, darwin put the problem to charles lyell and joseph hooker, who decided to publish the essay in a joint presentation together with unpublished writings which highlighted darwin ' s priority. wallace ' s essay was presented to the linnean society of london on 1 july 1858, along with excerpts from an essay which darwin had disclosed privately to hooker in 1847 and a letter darwin had written to asa gray in 1857. communication with wallace in the far - off malay archipelago involved months of delay, so he was not part of this rapid publication. wallace accepted the arrangement after the fact, happy that he had been included at all, and never expressed bitterness in public or in private. darwin ' s social and scientific status was far greater than wallace ' s, and it was unlikely that, without darwin, wallace ' s views on evolution would have been taken seriously. lyell and hooker ' s arrangement relegated wallace to the position of co - discoverer, and he was not the social equal of darwin or the other prominent british natural scientists. all the same, the joint reading of their papers on natural selection associated wallace with the more famous darwin. this, combined with darwin ' s ( as well as hooker ' s and lyell ' s ) advocacy on his behalf, would give wallace greater access to the highest levels of the scientific community. the reaction to the reading was muted, with the president of the linnean society remarking in may 1859 that the year had not been marked by any striking discoveries ; but, with darwin ' s publication of on the origin of species later in 1859, its significance became apparent. when wallace returned to the uk, he met darwin. although some of wallace ' s opinions in the ensuing years would test darwin ' s patience, they remained on friendly terms for the rest of darwin ' s life. over the years, a few people have questioned this version of events. in the early 1980s, two books, one by arnold brackman and another by john langdon brooks, suggested not only that there had been a conspiracy to rob wallace of his proper credit, but that darwin had actually stolen a key idea from wallace to finish his own theory. these claims have been examined and found unconvincing by a number of scholars. shipping schedules show that, contrary to these accusations, wallace ' s