##stent, estimates have it that more than half of the population are catholics, while about a quarter adhere to the protestant churches introduced during the colonial period : the congregationalists mainly among the ovimbundu of the central highlands and the coastal region to its west, the methodists concentrating on the kimbundu speaking strip from luanda to malanje, the baptists almost exclusively among the bakongo of the north - west ( now present in luanda as well ) and dispersed adventists, reformed, and lutherans. in luanda and region there subsists a nucleus of the " syncretic " tocoists and in the north - west a sprinkling of kimbanguism can be found, spreading from the congo / zaire. since independence, hundreds of pentecostal and similar communities have sprung up in the cities, whereby now about 50 % of the population is living ; several of these communities / churches are of brazilian origin. the u. s. department of state estimates the muslim population at 80, 000 – 90, 000, less than 1 % of the population, while the islamic community of angola puts the figure closer to 500, 000. muslims consist largely of migrants from west africa and the middle east ( especially lebanon ), although some are local converts. the angolan government does not legally recognize any muslim organizations and often shuts down mosques or prevents their construction. in a study assessing nations ' levels of religious regulation and persecution with scores ranging from 0 to 10 where 0 represented low levels of regulation or persecution, angola was scored 0. 8 on government regulation of religion, 4. 0 on social regulation of religion, 0 on government favoritism of religion and 0 on religious persecution. foreign missionaries were very active prior to independence in 1975, although since the beginning of the anti - colonial fight in 1961 the portuguese colonial authorities expelled a series of protestant missionaries and closed mission stations based on the belief that the missionaries were inciting pro - independence sentiments. missionaries have been able to return to the country since the early 1990s, although security conditions due to the civil war have prevented them until 2002 from restoring many of their former inland mission stations. the catholic church and some major protestant denominations mostly keep to themselves in contrast to the " new churches " which actively proselytize. catholics, as well as some major protestant denominations, provide help for the poor in the form of crop seeds, farm animals, medical care and education. urbanization health epidemics of cholera, malaria, rabies and african hemorrh