european anti - israel sentiment crossed the line into anti - semitism. " this rise in antisemitic attacks is associated with both muslim antisemitism and the rise of far - right political parties as a result of the economic crisis of 2008. this rise in the support for far - right ideas in western and eastern europe has resulted in the increase of antisemitic acts, mostly attacks on jewish memorials, synagogues and cemeteries but also a number of physical attacks against jews. in eastern europe the dissolution of the soviet union and the instability of the new states brought the rise of nationalist movements and the accusation against jews for the economic crisis, taking over the local economy and bribing the government, along with traditional and religious motives for antisemitism such as blood libels. writing on the rhetoric surrounding the 2022 russian invasion of ukraine, jason stanley relates these perceptions to broader historical narratives : " the dominant version of antisemitism alive in parts of eastern europe today is that jews employ the holocaust to seize the victimhood narrative from the ' real ' victims of the nazis, who are russian christians ( or other non - jewish eastern europeans ) ". he calls out the " myths of contemporary eastern european antisemitism – that a global cabal of jews were ( and are ) the real agents of violence against russian christians and the real victims of the nazis were not the jews, but rather this group. " most of the antisemitic incidents in eastern europe are against jewish cemeteries and buildings ( community centers and synagogues ). nevertheless, there were several violent attacks against jews in moscow in 2006 when a neo - nazi stabbed 9 people at the bolshaya bronnaya synagogue, the failed bomb attack on the same synagogue in 1999, the threats against jewish pilgrims in uman, ukraine and the attack against a menorah by extremist christian organization in moldova in 2009. according to paul johnson, antisemitic policies are a sign of a state which is poorly governed. while no european state currently has such policies, the economist intelligence unit notes the rise in political uncertainty, notably populism and nationalism, as something that is particularly alarming for jews. 21st - century arab antisemitism robert bernstein, founder of human rights watch, says that antisemitism is " deeply ingrained and institutionalized " in " arab nations in modern times ". in a 2011 survey by the pew research center, all of the muslim - majority middle eastern countries polled held significantly negative opinions of jews. in the