to find science - based, pro - poor approaches and techniques that would enable asia ' s agricultural systems to cope with climate change, while benefitting poor and vulnerable farmers. the study ' s recommendations ranged from improving the use of climate information in local planning and strengthening weather - based agro - advisory services, to stimulating diversification of rural household incomes and providing incentives to farmers to adopt natural resource conservation measures to enhance forest cover, replenish groundwater and use renewable energy. the ten countries of the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) – brunei, cambodia, indonesia, laos, malaysia, myanmar, the philippines, singapore, thailand, and vietnam – are among the most vulnerable to the effects of climate change in the world, however, asean ' s climate mitigation efforts are not commensurate with the climate threats and risks it faces. economy asia has the largest continental economy in the world by both gdp nominal and ppp values, and is the fastest growing economic region., china is by far the largest economy on the continent, making up nearly half of the continent ' s economy by gdp nominal. it is followed by japan, india, south korea, indonesia, saudi arabia and turkey, which are all ranked amongst the top 20 largest economies both by nominal and ppp values. based on global office locations 2011, asia dominated the office locations with 4 of the top 5 being in asia : hong kong, singapore, tokyo and seoul. around 68 percent of international firms have an office in hong kong. in the late 1990s and early 2000s, the economies of china and india grew rapidly, both with an average annual growth rate of more than 8 %. other recent very - high - growth nations in asia include israel, malaysia, indonesia, bangladesh, thailand, vietnam, and the philippines, and mineral - rich nations such as kazakhstan, turkmenistan, iran, brunei, the united arab emirates, qatar, kuwait, saudi arabia, bahrain and oman. according to economic historian angus maddison in his book the world economy : a millennial perspective, india had the world ' s largest economy during 0 bce and 1000 bce. historically, india was the largest economy in the world for most of the two millennia from the 1st until 19th century, contributing 25 % of the world ' s industrial output. china was the largest and most advanced economy on earth for much of recorded history and shared the mantle with india. for several decades in the late twentieth century japan was the largest economy in asia and second - largest of any single nation in the world, after surpassing the