##s moved to hollywood. the hitchcocks lived in a spacious flat on wilshire boulevard, and slowly acclimatised themselves to the los angeles area. he and his wife alma kept a low profile, and were not interested in attending parties or being celebrities. hitchcock discovered his taste for fine food in west hollywood, but still carried on his way of life from england. he was impressed with hollywood ' s filmmaking culture, expansive budgets and efficiency, compared to the limits that he had often faced in britain. in june that year, life called him the " greatest master of melodrama in screen history ". although hitchcock and selznick respected each other, their working arrangements were sometimes difficult. selznick suffered from constant financial problems, and hitchcock was often unhappy about selznick ' s creative control and interference over his films. selznick was also displeased with hitchcock ' s method of shooting just what was in the script, and nothing more, which meant that the film could not be cut and remade differently at a later time. as well as complaining about hitchcock ' s " goddamn jigsaw cutting ", their personalities were mismatched : hitchcock was reserved whereas selznick was flamboyant. eventually, selznick generously lent hitchcock to the larger film studios. selznick made only a few films each year, as did fellow independent producer samuel goldwyn, so he did not always have projects for hitchcock to direct. goldwyn had also negotiated with hitchcock on a possible contract, only to be outbid by selznick. in a later interview, hitchcock said : " [ selznick ] was the big producer.... producer was king. the most flattering thing mr. selznick ever said about me — and it shows you the amount of control — he said i was the ' only director ' he ' d ' trust with a film '. " hitchcock approached american cinema cautiously ; his first american film was set in england in which the " americanness " of the characters was incidental : rebecca ( 1940 ) was set in a hollywood version of england ' s cornwall and based on a novel by english novelist daphne du maurier. selznick insisted on a faithful adaptation of the book, and disagreed with hitchcock with the use of humour. the film, starring laurence olivier and joan fontaine, concerns an unnamed naive young woman who marries a widowed aristocrat. she lives in his large english country house, and struggles with the lingering reputation of his elegant and worldly first wife