of fort jackson. first seminole war following the war, jackson remained in command of troops in the southern half of the united states and was permitted to make his headquarters at the hermitage. jackson continued to displace the native americans in areas under his command. despite resistance from secretary of the treasury william crawford, he signed five treaties between 1816 and 1820 in which the creek, choctaw, cherokee and chickasaw ceded tens of millions of acres of land to the united states. these included the treaty of tuscaloosa and the treaty of doak ' s stand. jackson soon became embroiled in conflict in the floridas. the former british post at prospect bluff, which became known to americans as " the negro fort ", remained occupied by more than a thousand former soldiers of the british royal and colonial marines, escaped slaves, and various indigenous peoples. it had become a magnet for escapees and was seen as a threat to the property rights of american enslavers, even a potential source of insurrection by enslaved people. jackson ordered colonel duncan clinch to capture the fort in july 1816. he destroyed it and killed many of the garrison. some survivors were enslaved while others fled into the wilderness of florida. in addition, white settlers were in constant conflict with native american people collectively known as the seminoles, who straddled the border between the u. s. and florida. in december 1817, secretary of war john c. calhoun initiated the first seminole war by ordering jackson to lead a campaign " with full power to conduct the war as he may think best ". jackson believed the best way to do this was to seize florida from spain once and for all. before departing, jackson wrote to president james monroe, " let it be signified to me through any channel... that the possession of the floridas would be desirable to the united states, and in sixty days it will be accomplished. " jackson invaded florida, captured the spanish fort of st. marks, and occupied pensacola. seminole and spanish resistance was effectively ended by may 1818. he also captured two british agents, robert ambrister and alexander arbuthnot, who had been working with the seminoles. after a brief trial, jackson executed both of them, causing a diplomatic incident with the british. jackson ' s actions polarized monroe ' s cabinet. the occupied territories were returned to spain. calhoun wanted him censured for violating the constitution, since the united states had not declared war on spain. secretary of state john quincy adams defended him as he thought jackson