gerald heard. cyril connolly wrote, of the two intellectuals ( huxley and heard ) in the late 1930s, " all european avenues had been exhausted in the search for a way forward – politics, art, science – pitching them both toward the us in 1937. " huxley lived in the u. s., mainly southern california, until his death, and for a time in taos, new mexico, where he wrote ends and means ( 1937 ). the book contains tracts on war, inequality, religion and ethics. heard introduced huxley to vedanta ( upanishad - centered philosophy ), meditation, and vegetarianism through the principle of ahimsa. in 1938, huxley befriended jiddu krishnamurti, whose teachings he greatly admired. huxley and krishnamurti entered into an enduring exchange ( sometimes edging on debate ) over many years, with krishnamurti representing the more rarefied, detached, ivory - tower perspective and huxley, with his pragmatic concerns, the more socially and historically informed position. huxley wrote a foreword to krishnamurti ' s quintessential statement, the first and last freedom ( 1954 ). huxley became a vedantist in the group formed around hindu swami prabhavananda, and subsequently introduced christopher isherwood to the circle. not long afterwards, huxley wrote his book on widely held spiritual values and ideas, the perennial philosophy, which discussed the teachings of renowned mystics of the world. huxley became a close friend of remsen bird, president of occidental college. he spent much time at the college in the eagle rock neighbourhood of los angeles. the college appears as " tarzana college " in his satirical novel after many a summer ( 1939 ). the novel won huxley a british literary award, the 1939 james tait black memorial prize for fiction. huxley also incorporated bird into the novel. during this period, huxley earned a substantial income as a hollywood screenwriter ; christopher isherwood, in his autobiography my guru and his disciple, states that huxley earned more than $ 3, 000 per week ( approximately $ 50, 000 in 2020 dollars ) as a screenwriter, and that he used much of it to transport jewish and left - wing writer and artist refugees from hitler ' s germany to the us. in march 1938, huxley ' s friend anita loos, a novelist and screenwriter, put him in touch with metro - goldwyn - mayer ( mgm ), which hired him for madame curie which