stimulus with evolutionarily - relevant fear - response neutral stimuli ( snakes and spiders ) versus evolutionarily - irrelevant fear - response neutral stimuli ( mushrooms, flowers, physical representation of polyhedra, firearms, and electrical outlets ) on human subjects and found that ophidiophobia ( fear of snakes ) and arachnophobia required only one pairing to develop a conditioned response while mycophobia, anthophobia, phobias of physical representations of polyhedra, firearms, and electrical outlets required multiple pairings and went extinct without continued conditioning while the conditioned ophidiophobia and arachnophobia were permanent. psychiatrist randolph m. nesse notes that while conditioned fear responses to evolutionarily novel dangerous objects such as electrical outlets is possible, the conditioning is slower because such cues have no prewired connection to fear, noting further that despite the emphasis of the risks of speeding and drunk driving in driver ' s education, it alone does not provide reliable protection against traffic collisions and that nearly one - quarter of all deaths in 2014 of people aged 15 to 24 in the united states were in traffic collisions. nesse, psychiatrist isaac marks, and evolutionary biologist george c. williams have noted that people with systematically deficient responses to various adaptive phobias ( e. g. arachnophobia, ophidiophobia, basophobia ) are more temperamentally careless and more likely to receive unintentional injuries that are potentially fatal and have proposed that such deficient phobia should be classified as " hypophobia ' " due to its selfish genetic consequences. a 2001 study found that people could detect images of spiders among images of flowers and mushrooms more quickly than they could detect images of flowers or mushrooms among images of spiders. the researchers suggested that this was because fast response to spiders was more relevant to human evolution. cultural an alternative view is that the dangers, such as from spiders, are overrated and not sufficient to influence evolution. instead, inheriting phobias would have restrictive and debilitating effects upon survival, rather than being an aid. for some communities, such as in papua new guinea and cambodia, spiders are included in traditional foods. this suggests arachnophobia may, at least in part, be a cultural, rather than genetic trait. stories about spiders in the media often contain errors and use sensationalistic vocabulary, which could contribute to the fear of spiders. treatments the fear of spiders can be treated by any of the general techniques suggested for specific phobias. the first line of