" governance " thus, proponents of anarcho - capitalism think the philosophy ' s common name is indeed consistent, as it promotes private governance, but is vehemently anti - government. classical liberalism historian and libertarian ralph raico argued that what liberal philosophers " had come up with was a form of individualist anarchism, or, as it would be called today, anarcho - capitalism or market anarchism ". he also said that gustave de molinari was proposing a doctrine of the private production of security, a position which was later taken up by murray rothbard. some anarcho - capitalists consider molinari to be the first proponent of anarcho - capitalism. in the preface to the 1977 english translation by murray rothbard called the production of security the " first presentation anywhere in human history of what is now called anarcho - capitalism ", although admitting that " molinari did not use the terminology, and probably would have balked at the name ". hans - hermann hoppe said that " the 1849 article ' the production of security ' is probably the single most important contribution to the modern theory of anarcho - capitalism ". according to hans - hermann hoppe, one of the 19th century precursors of anarcho - capitalism were philosopher herbert spencer, classical liberal auberon herbert and liberal socialist franz oppenheimer. ruth kinna credits murray rothbard with coining the term anarcho - capitalism, which is – kinna proposes – to describe " a commitment to unregulated private property and laissez - faire economics, prioritizing the liberty - rights of individuals, unfettered by government regulation, to accumulate, consume and determine the patterns of their lives as they see fit ". according to kinna, anarcho - capitalists " will sometimes label themselves market anarchists because they recognize the negative connotations of ' capitalism '. but the literature of anarcho - capitalism draws on classical liberal theory, particularly the austrian school – friedrich von hayek and ludwig von mises – rather than recognizable anarchist traditions. ayn rand ' s laissez - faire, anti - government, corporate philosophy – objectivism – is sometimes associated with anarcho - capitalism ". other scholars similarly associate anarcho - capitalism with anti - state classical liberalism, neo - classical liberalism, radical neoliberalism and right - libertarianism. paul dragos aligica writes that there is a " foundational difference between the classical liberal and the anarch