the algerian trilogy of mohammed dib, or even nedjma of kateb yacine novel which is often regarded as a monumental and major work. other known writers will contribute to the emergence of algerian literature whom include mouloud feraoun, malek bennabi, malek haddad, moufdi zakaria, abdelhamid ben badis, mohamed laid al - khalifa, mouloud mammeri, frantz fanon, and assia djebar. in the aftermath of the independence, several new authors emerged on the algerian literary scene, they will attempt through their works to expose a number of social problems, among them there are rachid boudjedra, rachid mimouni, leila sebbar, tahar djaout and tahir wattar. currently, a part of algerian writers tends to be defined in a literature of shocking expression, due to the terrorism that occurred during the 1990s, the other party is defined in a different style of literature who staged an individualistic conception of the human adventure. among the most noted recent works, there is the writer, the swallows of kabul and the attack of yasmina khadra, the oath of barbarians of boualem sansal, memory of the flesh of ahlam mosteghanemi and the last novel by assia djebar nowhere in my father ' s house. music chaabi music is a typically algerian musical genre characterized by specific rhythms and of qacidate ( popular poems ) in arabic dialect. el hadj m ' hamed el anka is considered the greatest master of the art in modern times. he wrote over 350 songs and produced some 130 records before his death in 1978. many of his pupils went on to be renowned musicians. the constantinois malouf style is saved by musician from whom mohamed tahar fergani is a performer. folk music styles include bedouin music, characterized by the poetic songs based on long kacida ( poems ) ; kabyle music, based on a rich repertoire that is poetry and old tales passed through generations ; shawiya music, a folklore from diverse areas of the aures mountains. rahaba music style is unique to the aures. souad massi is a rising algerian folk singer. other algerian singers of the diaspora include manel filali in germany and kenza farah in france. tergui music is sung in tuareg languages generally, tinariwen had a worldwide success. finally, the