overfishing and poaching have reduced wild populations to the extent that farmed abalone now supplies most abalone meat. sustainably farmed molluscs can be certified by seafood watch and other organizations, including the world wildlife fund ( wwf ). wwf initiated the " aquaculture dialogues " in 2004 to develop measurable and performance - based standards for responsibly farmed seafood. in 2009, wwf co - founded the aquaculture stewardship council with the dutch sustainable trade initiative to manage the global standards and certification programs. after trials in 2012, a commercial " sea ranch " was set up in flinders bay, western australia, to raise abalone. the ranch is based on an artificial reef made up of 5000 ( ) separate concrete units called abitats ( abalone habitats ). the 900 kg abitats can host 400 abalone each. the reef is seeded with young abalone from an onshore hatchery. the abalone feed on seaweed that has grown naturally on the habitats, with the ecosystem enrichment of the bay also resulting in growing numbers of dhufish, pink snapper, wrasse, and samson fish, among other species. brad adams, from the company, has emphasised the similarity to wild abalone and the difference from shore - based aquaculture. " we ' re not aquaculture, we ' re ranching, because once they ' re in the water they look after themselves. " other groups other groups include aquatic reptiles, amphibians, and miscellaneous invertebrates, such as echinoderms and jellyfish. they are separately graphed at the top right of this section, since they do not contribute enough volume to show clearly on the main graph. commercially harvested echinoderms include sea cucumbers and sea urchins. in china, sea cucumbers are farmed in artificial ponds as large as. global fish production global fish production peaked at about 171 million tonnes in 2016, with aquaculture representing 47 percent of the total and 53 percent if non - food uses ( including reduction to fishmeal and fish oil ) are excluded. with capture fishery production relatively static since the late 1980s, aquaculture has been responsible for the continuing growth in the supply of fish for human consumption. global aquaculture production ( including aquatic plants ) in 2016 was 110. 2 million tonnes, with the first - sale value estimated at us $ 244 billion. three years later, in 2019 the reported output from global aquaculture operations was over 120 million tonnes valued at us $ 274 billion. the contribution