of a history ( in verse ) of the church at york, versus de patribus, regibus et sanctis eboracensis ecclesiae. at the same time, he is noted for making one of the only explicit comments on old english poetry surviving from the early middle ages, in a letter to one speratus, the bishop of an unnamed english see ( possibly unwona of leicester ) : ( " let god ' s words be read at the episcopal dinner - table. it is right that a reader should be heard, not a harpist, patristic discourse, not pagan song. what has ingeld to do with christ? " ). use of homoerotic language in writings historian john boswell cited alcuin ' s writings as demonstrating a personal outpouring of his internalized homosexual feelings. others agree that alcuin at times " comes perilously close to communicating openly his same - sex desires. " according to david clark, passages in some of alcuin ' s writings can be seen to display homosocial desire, even possibly homoerotic imagery. however, he argues that it is not possible to necessarily determine whether they were the result of an outward expression of erotic feelings on the part of alcuin. the interpretation of homosexual desire has been disputed by allen frantzen, who identifies alcuin ' s language with that of medieval christian amicitia or friendship. douglas dales and rowan williams say " the use of language drawn [ by alcuin ] from the song of songs transforms apparently erotic language into something within christian friendship – ' an ordained affection. alcuin was also a close friend of charlemagne ' s sister gisela, abbess of chelles, and he hailed her as " a noble sister in the bond of sweet love ". he wrote to charlemagne ' s daughters rotrude and bertha, " the devotion of my heart specially tends towards you both because of the familiarity and dedication you have shown me ". he dedicated the last two books of his commentary on john ' s gospel to them both. despite inconclusive evidence of alcuin ' s personal passions, he was clear in his own writings that the men of sodom had been punished with fire for " sinning against nature with men " – a view consistent with church teaching. such sins, argued alcuin, were therefore more serious than lustful acts with women, for which the earth was cleansed and revivified by the water of the flood, and merit