about the beliefs and daily life of the ainu in yezo ( or ezo ), and his publications are a source of photographs of the japanese and ainu close to the missions. standard of living the discrimination and negative stereotypes assigned to the ainu have manifested in lower levels of education, income, and participation in the economy as compared to their ethnically japanese counterparts. the ainu community in hokkaido in 1993 received welfare payments at a 2. 3 times higher ratethan that of hokkaido as a whole. they also had an 8. 9 % lower enrollment rate from junior high school to high school and a 15. 7 % lower enrollment into college from high school. due to this noticeable and growing gap, the japanese government has been lobbied by activists to research the ainu ' s standard of living nationwide. the japanese government will provide ¥7 million ( us $ 63, 000 ), beginning in 2015, to conduct surveys nationwide on this matter. the ainu and ethnic homogeneity in japan the existence of the ainu has challenged the notion of ethnic homogeneity in post - wwii japan. after the demise of the multi - ethnic empire of japan in 1945, successive governments forged a single japanese identity by advocating monoculturalism and denying the existence of more than one ethnic group in japan. following the united nations declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples in 2007, hokkaido politicians pressured the government to recognize ainu rights. prime minister fukuda yasuo answered a parliamentary question on may 20, 2008 by stating, it is a historical fact that the ainu are the precursors in the northern japanese archipelago, in particular hokkaido. the government acknowledges the ainu to be an ethnic minority as it has maintained a unique cultural identity and having a unique language and religion. on june 6, 2008, the national diet of japan passed a non - binding, bipartisan resolution calling upon the government to recognize the ainu as indigenous people. in 2019, eleven years after this resolution, the diet finally passed an act recognizing the ainu as an indigenous people of japan. despite this recognition of the ainu as an ethnically distinct group, political figures in japan continue to define ethnic homogeneity as key to overall japanese national identity. for example, politician taro aso notably claimed in 2020, “ no other country but this one has lasted for as long as 2, 000 years with one language, one ethnic group and one dynasty ”. origins the ainu have often been thought to descend from the diverse jomon people who lived in northern