. ( ll. d. ) in 1913 queen ' s university at kingston in kingston, ontario, canada ( ll. d. ) in 1908 dartmouth college in hanover, new hampshire ( ll. d. ) in 1913, possibly 1914 portrayal in film and television the 1939 film the story of alexander graham bell was based on his life and works. the 1965 bbc miniseries alexander graham bell starring alec mccowen and francesca annis. the 1992 film the sound and the silence was a tv film. biography aired an episode alexander graham bell : voice of invention on august 6, 1996. eyewitness no. 90 a great inventor is remembered, a 1957 nfb short about bell. bibliography also published as : see also alexander graham bell association for the deaf and hard of hearing alexander graham bell national historic site bell boatyard bell homestead national historic site bell telephone memorial berliner, emile bourseul, charles ieee alexander graham bell medal manzetti, innocenzo meucci, antonio oriental telephone company people on scottish banknotes pioneers, a volunteer network reis, philipp the story of alexander graham bell, a 1939 movie of his life the telephone cases volta laboratory and bureau william francis channing, submitted telephone ideas to bell references notes citations further reading mullett, mary b. the story of a famous inventor. new york : rogers and fowle, 1921. walters, eric. the hydrofoil mystery. toronto, ontario, canada : puffin books, 1999.. winzer, margret a. the history of special education : from isolation to integration. washington, d. c. : gallaudet university press, 1993.. external links alexander and mabel bell legacy foundation alexander graham bell institute at cape breton university ( archived 8 december 2015 ) bell telephone memorial, brantford, ontario bell homestead national historic site, brantford, ontario alexander graham bell national historic site of canada, baddeck, nova scotia alexander graham bell family papers at the library of congress biography at the dictionary of canadian biography online science. ca profile : alexander graham bell alexander graham bell ' s notebooks at the internet archive " telephone et photophone : les contributions indirectes de graham bell a l ' idee de la vision a distance par l ' electricite " at the histoire de la television alexander graham bell and the aerial experiment association photograph collection at the museum of flight ( seattle, washington ). multimedia alexander graham bell at the biography channel shaping the future, from the heritage minutes and radio minutes collection at historicacanada. ca ( 1 : 31 audio drama,