##lein during summer is a square full of terraces packed with people drinking beer or wine. many restaurants can be found in amsterdam as well. since amsterdam is a multicultural city, a lot of different ethnic restaurants can be found. restaurants range from being rather luxurious and expensive to being ordinary and affordable. amsterdam also possesses many discotheques. the two main nightlife areas for tourists are the leidseplein and the rembrandtplein. the paradiso, and sugar factory are cultural centres, which turn into discotheques on some nights. examples of discotheques near the rembrandtplein are the escape, air, john doe and club abe. also noteworthy are panama, hotel arena ( east ), trouwamsterdam and studio 80. in recent years ' 24 - hour ' clubs opened their doors, most notably radion de school, shelter and marktkantine. bimhuis located near the central station, with its rich programming hosting the best in the field is considered one of the best jazz clubs in the world. the reguliersdwarsstraat is the main street for the lgbt community and nightlife. festivals in 2008, there were 140 festivals and events in amsterdam. during the same year, amsterdam was designated as the world book capital for one year by unesco. famous festivals and events in amsterdam include : koningsdag ( which was named koninginnedag until the crowning of king willem - alexander in 2013 ) ( king ' s day – queen ' s day ) ; the holland festival for the performing arts ; the yearly prinsengrachtconcert ( classical concerto on the prinsen canal ) in august ; the ' stille omgang ' ( a silent roman catholic evening procession held every march ) ; amsterdam gay pride ; the cannabis cup ; and the uitmarkt. on koningsdag — that is held each year on 27 april — hundreds of thousands of people travel to amsterdam to celebrate with the city ' s residents. the entire city becomes overcrowded with people buying products from the freemarket, or visiting one of the many music concerts. the yearly holland festival attracts international artists and visitors from all over europe. amsterdam gay pride is a yearly local lgbt parade of boats in amsterdam ' s canals, held on the first saturday in august. the annual uitmarkt is a three - day cultural event at the start of the cultural season in late august. it offers previews of many different artists, such as musicians and poets, who perform