of events known as the may days, as joseph stalin asserted soviet control of the republican government, ending in another defeat of anarchists at the hands of the communists. post - wwii by the end of world war ii, the anarchist movement had been severely weakened. the 1960s witnessed a revival of anarchism, likely caused by a perceived failure of marxism – leninism and tensions built by the cold war. during this time, anarchism found a presence in other movements critical towards both capitalism and the state such as the anti - nuclear, environmental, and peace movements, the counterculture of the 1960s, and the new left. it also saw a transition from its previous revolutionary nature to provocative anti - capitalist reformism. anarchism became associated with punk subculture as exemplified by bands such as crass and the sex pistols. the established feminist tendencies of anarcha - feminism returned with vigour during the second wave of feminism. black anarchism began to take form at this time and influenced anarchism ' s move from a eurocentric demographic. this coincided with its failure to gain traction in northern europe and its unprecedented height in latin america. around the turn of the 21st century, anarchism grew in popularity and influence within anti - capitalist, anti - war and anti - globalisation movements. anarchists became known for their involvement in protests against the world trade organization ( wto ), the group of eight and the world economic forum. during the protests, ad hoc leaderless anonymous cadres known as black blocs engaged in rioting, property destruction and violent confrontations with the police. other organisational tactics pioneered at this time include affinity groups, security culture and the use of decentralised technologies such as the internet. a significant event of this period was the confrontations at the 1999 seattle wto conference. anarchist ideas have been influential in the development of the zapatistas in mexico and the democratic federation of northern syria, more commonly known as rojava, a de facto autonomous region in northern syria. while having revolutionary aspirations, many forms of anarchism are not confrontational nowadays. instead, they are trying to build an alternative way of social organization, based on mutual interdependence and voluntary cooperation. scholar carissa honeywell takes the example of food not bombs group of collectives, to highlight some features of how anarchist groups work : direct action, working together and in solidarity with those left behind. while doing so, they inform about the rising rates of world hunger suggest a policy to tackle hunger,