the vedanta society of southern california, founded and headed by swami prabhavananda. together with gerald heard, christopher isherwood and other followers, he was initiated by the swami and was taught meditation and spiritual practices. in 1944, huxley wrote the introduction to the bhagavad gita – the song of god, translated by swami prabhavananda and christopher isherwood, which was published by the vedanta society of southern california. from 1941 until 1960, huxley contributed 48 articles to vedanta and the west, published by the society. he also served on the editorial board with isherwood, heard, and playwright john van druten from 1951 through 1962. huxley also occasionally lectured at the hollywood and santa barbara vedanta temples. two of those lectures have been released on cd : knowledge and understanding and who are we? from 1955. nonetheless, huxley ' s agnosticism, together with his speculative propensity, made it difficult for him to fully embrace any form of institutionalised religion. psychedelic drug use and mystical experiences in early 1953, huxley had his first experience with the psychedelic drug mescaline. huxley had initiated a correspondence with doctor humphry osmond, a british psychiatrist then employed in a canadian institution, and eventually asked him to supply a dose of mescaline ; osmond obliged and supervised huxley ' s session in southern california. after the publication of the doors of perception, in which he recounted this experience, huxley and swami prabhavananda disagreed about the meaning and importance of the psychedelic drug experience, which may have caused the relationship to cool, but huxley continued to write articles for the society ' s journal, lecture at the temple, and attend social functions. huxley later had an experience on mescaline that he considered more profound than those detailed in the doors of perception. huxley wrote that " the mystical experience is doubly valuable ; it is valuable because it gives the experiencer a better understanding of himself and the world and because it may help him to lead a less self - centered and more creative life. " having tried lsd in the 1950s, he became an advisor to timothy leary and richard alpert in their early - 1960s research work with psychedelic drugs at harvard. personality differences led huxley to distance himself from leary, when huxley grew concerned that leary had become too keen on promoting the drugs rather indiscriminately, even playing the rebel with a fondness for publicity. eyesight