( compact ) programs, " good " ( fast ) programs : the notion of " simplicity and elegance " appears informally in knuth and precisely in chaitin : knuth : "... we want good algorithms in some loosely defined aesthetic sense. one criterion... is the length of time taken to perform the algorithm.... other criteria are adaptability of the algorithm to computers, its simplicity, and elegance, etc. " chaitin : "... a program is ' elegant, ' by which i mean that it ' s the smallest possible program for producing the output that it does " chaitin prefaces his definition with : " i ' ll show you can ' t prove that a program is ' elegant — such a proof would solve the halting problem ( ibid ). algorithm versus function computable by an algorithm : for a given function multiple algorithms may exist. this is true, even without expanding the available instruction set available to the programmer. rogers observes that " it is... important to distinguish between the notion of algorithm, i. e. procedure and the notion of function computable by algorithm, i. e. mapping yielded by procedure. the same function may have several different algorithms ". unfortunately, there may be a tradeoff between goodness ( speed ) and elegance ( compactness ) — an elegant program may take more steps to complete a computation than one less elegant. an example that uses euclid ' s algorithm appears below. computers ( and computors ), models of computation : a computer ( or human " computer " ) is a restricted type of machine, a " discrete deterministic mechanical device " that blindly follows its instructions. melzak ' s and lambek ' s primitive models reduced this notion to four elements : ( i ) discrete, distinguishable locations, ( ii ) discrete, indistinguishable counters ( iii ) an agent, and ( iv ) a list of instructions that are effective relative to the capability of the agent. minsky describes a more congenial variation of lambek ' s " abacus " model in his " very simple bases for computability ". minsky ' s machine proceeds sequentially through its five ( or six, depending on how one counts ) instructions unless either a conditional if - then goto or an unconditional goto changes program flow out of sequence. besides halt, minsky ' s machine includes three assignment ( replacement, substitution ) operations : zero ( e. g. the contents of