late 1980s from locations all over the world, and amphibian declines are thus perceived to be one of the most critical threats to global biodiversity. in 2004, the international union for conservation of nature ( iucn ) reported stating that currently birds, mammals, and amphibians extinction rates were at minimum 48 times greater than natural extinction rates — possibly 1, 024 times higher. in 2006, there were believed to be 4, 035 species of amphibians that depended on water at some stage during their life cycle. of these, 1, 356 ( 33. 6 % ) were considered to be threatened and this figure is likely to be an underestimate because it excludes 1, 427 species for which there was insufficient data to assess their status. a number of causes are believed to be involved, including habitat destruction and modification, over - exploitation, pollution, introduced species, global warming, endocrine - disrupting pollutants, destruction of the ozone layer ( ultraviolet radiation has shown to be especially damaging to the skin, eyes, and eggs of amphibians ), and diseases like chytridiomycosis. however, many of the causes of amphibian declines are still poorly understood, and are a topic of ongoing discussion. food webs and predation any decline in amphibian numbers will affect the patterns of predation. the loss of carnivorous species near the top of the food chain will upset the delicate ecosystem balance and may cause dramatic increases in opportunistic species. predators that feed on amphibians are affected by their decline. the western terrestrial garter snake ( thamnophis elegans ) in california is largely aquatic and depends heavily on two species of frog that are decreasing in numbers, the yosemite toad ( bufo canorus ) and the mountain yellow - legged frog ( rana muscosa ), putting the snake ' s future at risk. if the snake were to become scarce, this would affect birds of prey and other predators that feed on it. meanwhile, in the ponds and lakes, fewer frogs means fewer tadpoles. these normally play an important role in controlling the growth of algae and also forage on detritus that accumulates as sediment on the bottom. a reduction in the number of tadpoles may lead to an overgrowth of algae, resulting in depletion of oxygen in the water when the algae later die and decompose. aquatic invertebrates and fish might then die and there would be unpredictable ecological consequences. pollution and pesticides the