##ies of the deepest structures were central to history, beside which upheavals in institutions or the superstructure of social life were of little significance, for history lies beyond the reach of conscious actors, especially the will of revolutionaries. they rejected the marxist idea that history should be used as a tool to foment and foster revolutions. in turn the marxists called them conservatives. braudel ' s first book, la mediterranee et le monde mediterraneen a l ' epoque de philippe ii ( 1949 ) ( the mediterranean and the mediterranean world in the age of philip ii ) was his most influential. this vast panoramic view used ideas from other social sciences, employed effectively the technique of the longue duree, and downplayed the importance of specific events and individuals. it stressed geography but not mentalite. it was widely admired, but most historians did not try to replicate it and instead focused on their specialized monographs. the book dramatically raised the worldwide profile of the annales school. in 1951, historian bernard bailyn published a critique of la mediterranee et le monde mediterraneen a l ' epoque de philippe ii, which he framed as dichotomizing politics and society. regionalism before annales, french history supposedly happened in paris. febvre broke decisively with this paradigm in 1912, with his sweeping doctoral thesis on philippe ii et la franche - comte. the geography and social structure of this region overwhelmed and shaped the king ' s policies. the annales historians did not try to replicate braudel ' s vast geographical scope in la mediterranee. instead they focused on regions in france over long stretches of time. the most important was the study of the peasants of languedoc by braudel ' s star pupil and successor emmanuel le roy ladurie. the regionalist tradition flourished especially in the 1960s and 1970s in the work of pierre goubert in 1960 on beauvais and rene baehrel on basse - provence. annales historians in the 1970s and 1980s turned to urban regions, including pierre deyon ( amiens ), maurice garden ( lyon ), jean - pierre bardet ( rouen ), georges freche ( toulouse ), gregory hanlon ( agen and layrac ), and jean - claude perrot ( caen ). by the 1970s the shift was underway from the earlier economic history to cultural history and the history of mentalities. impact outside france the annales school systematically reached out to create an