all of alexander ' s mercenaries were killed in battle. this defeat forced alexander to take refuge in the mountains. in sympathy towards jannaeus, six thousand judean rebels ultimately returned to him. in fear of this news, demetrius withdrew. nevertheless, war between jannaeus and the rebels who returned to him continued. they fought until alexander achieved victory. most of the rebels died in battle, while the remaining rebels fled to the city of bethoma until they were defeated. jannaeus had brought the surviving rebels back to jerusalem where he had eight hundred jews, primarily pharisees, crucified. before their deaths, alexander had the rebels ' wives and children executed before their eyes as jannaeus ate with his concubines. alexander later returned the land he had seized in moab and galaaditis from the nabataeans in order to have them end their support for the jewish rebels. the remaining rebels who numbered eight thousand, fled by night in fear of alexander. afterward, all rebel hostility ceased and alexander ' s reign continued undisturbed. final campaigns and death from 83 - 80 bce, alexander continued campaigning in the east. the nabataean king aretas iii managed to defeat alexander in battle. however, alexander continued expanding the hasmonean kingdom into transjordan. in gaulanitis, he captured the cities of golan, seleucia, and gamala. in galaaditis, the cities of pella, dium, and gerasa. alexander had pella destroyed because its inhabitants refused to judaize. he is believed to have expanded and fortified the hasmonean palace near jericho. for the last three years of his life, alexander jannaeus suffered from the combined effects of alcoholism and quartan ague ( malaria ). after a reign of 27 years, he died c. 76 bce at the age of forty - nine, during the siege of ragaba. references bibliography 2nd - century bc births 76 bc deaths 2nd - century bc hasmonean monarchs 1st - century bc hasmonean monarchs 2nd - century bce high priests of israel 1st - century bce high priests of israel