tell as part of the greater swiss struggle for independence from the habsburg empire in the early 14th century. at the end of the napoleonic wars, the alpine countries began to see an influx of poets, artists, and musicians, as visitors came to experience the sublime effects of monumental nature. in 1816, byron, percy bysshe shelley and his wife mary shelley visited geneva and all three were inspired by the scenery in their writings. during these visits shelley wrote the poem " mont blanc ", byron wrote " the prisoner of chillon " and the dramatic poem manfred, and mary shelley, who found the scenery overwhelming, conceived the idea for the novel frankenstein in her villa on the shores of lake geneva amid a thunderstorm. when coleridge travelled to chamonix, he declaimed, in defiance of shelley, who had signed himself " atheos " in the guestbook of the hotel de londres near montenvers, " who would be, who could be an atheist in this valley of wonders ". by the mid - 19th century scientists began to arrive en masse to study the geology and ecology of the region. from the beginning of the 19th century, the tourism and mountaineering development of the alps began. in the early years of the " golden age of alpinism " initially scientific activities were mixed with sport, for example by the physicist john tyndall, with the first ascent of the matterhorn by edward whymper being the highlight. in the later years, the " silver age of alpinism ", the focus was on mountain sports and climbing. the first president of the alpine club, john ball, is considered the discoverer of the dolomites, which for decades were the focus of climbers like paul grohmann, michael innerkofler and angelo dibona. the nazis fall 1932, adolf hitler commissioned the first of a series of refurbishments, which eventually turned a mountain cottage, later named berghof, into a fortified citadel. this domestic, but representative, fortification had two small bedrooms, and a full bathroom, planned by the munich architect and nsdap member josef neumaier. guests, such as rudolf hess, stayed over, sleeping in tents or over the garage. the alps, adolf hitler, and improbable powerful organizations have been subject to crime fiction. the alps acted as a geographical barrier to italy, and the alps for centuries were permeated with established smuggling routes, known as green line. after world war ii, members of the schutzsta