metal plate. the product is extensively used for the production of cheap jewelry and articles for smoking. this pressed amber yields brilliant interference colors in polarized light. " amber has often been imitated by other resins like copal and kauri gum, as well as by celluloid and even glass. baltic amber is sometimes colored artificially but also called " true amber ". appearance amber occurs in a range of different colors. as well as the usual yellow - orange - brown that is associated with the color " amber ", amber can range from a whitish color through a pale lemon yellow, to brown and almost black. other uncommon colors include red amber ( sometimes known as " cherry amber " ), green amber, and even blue amber, which is rare and highly sought after. yellow amber is a hard fossil resin from evergreen trees, and despite the name it can be translucent, yellow, orange, or brown colored. known to the iranians by the pahlavi compound word kah - ruba ( from kah " straw " plus rubay " attract, snatch ", referring to its electrical properties ), which entered arabic as kahraba ' or kahraba ( which later became the arabic word for electricity, كهرباء kahraba ), it too was called amber in europe ( old french and middle english ambre ). found along the southern shore of the baltic sea, yellow amber reached the middle east and western europe via trade. its coastal acquisition may have been one reason yellow amber came to be designated by the same term as ambergris. moreover, like ambergris, the resin could be burned as an incense. the resin ' s most popular use was, however, for ornamentation — easily cut and polished, it could be transformed into beautiful jewelry. much of the most highly prized amber is transparent, in contrast to the very common cloudy amber and opaque amber. opaque amber contains numerous minute bubbles. this kind of amber is known as " bony amber ". although all dominican amber is fluorescent, the rarest dominican amber is blue amber. it turns blue in natural sunlight and any other partially or wholly ultraviolet light source. in long - wave uv light it has a very strong reflection, almost white. only about is found per year, which makes it valuable and expensive. sometimes amber retains the form of drops and stalactites, just as it exuded from the ducts and receptacles of the injured trees. it is thought that, in addition to exuding onto the