##asty in the third, expanded edition of the world as will and representation ( 1859 ), schopenhauer added an appendix to his chapter on the metaphysics of sexual love. he wrote that pederasty has the benefit of preventing ill - begotten children. concerning this, he stated that " the vice we are considering appears to work directly against the aims and ends of nature, and that in a matter that is all important and of the greatest concern to her it must in fact serve these very aims, although only indirectly, as a means for preventing greater evils. " schopenhauer ends the appendix with the statement that " by expounding these paradoxical ideas, i wanted to grant to the professors of philosophy a small favour. i have done so by giving them the opportunity of slandering me by saying that i defend and commend pederasty. " heredity and eugenics schopenhauer viewed personality and intellect as inherited. he quotes horace ' s saying, " from the brave and good are the brave descended " ( odes, iv, 4, 29 ) and shakespeare ' s line from cymbeline, " cowards father cowards, and base things sire base " ( iv, 2 ) to reinforce his hereditarian argument. mechanistically, schopenhauer believed that a person inherits his intellect through his mother, and personal character through the father. this belief in heritability of traits informed schopenhauer ' s view of love — placing it at the highest level of importance. for schopenhauer the " final aim of all love intrigues, be they comic or tragic, is really of more importance than all other ends in human life. what it all turns upon is nothing less than the composition of the next generation.... it is not the weal or woe of any one individual, but that of the human race to come, which is here at stake. " this view of the importance for the species of whom we choose to love was reflected in his views on eugenics or good breeding. here schopenhauer wrote : with our knowledge of the complete unalterability both of character and of mental faculties, we are led to the view that a real and thorough improvement of the human race might be reached not so much from outside as from within, not so much by theory and instruction as rather by the path of generation. plato had something of the kind in mind when, in the fifth book of his republic,