cannot be more than a few bytes larger than the length of the string itself. strings like the abab example above, whose kolmogorov complexity is small relative to the string ' s size, are not considered to be complex. the kolmogorov complexity can be defined for any mathematical object, but for simplicity the scope of this article is restricted to strings. we must first specify a description language for strings. such a description language can be based on any computer programming language, such as lisp, pascal, or java. if p is a program which outputs a string x, then p is a description of x. the length of the description is just the length of p as a character string, multiplied by the number of bits in a character ( e. g., 7 for ascii ). we could, alternatively, choose an encoding for turing machines, where an encoding is a function which associates to each turing machine m a bitstring < m >. if m is a turing machine which, on input w, outputs string x, then the concatenated string < m > w is a description of x. for theoretical analysis, this approach is more suited for constructing detailed formal proofs and is generally preferred in the research literature. in this article, an informal approach is discussed. any string s has at least one description. for example, the second string above is output by the pseudo - code : function generatestring2 ( ) return " 4c1j5b2p0cv4w1x8rx2y39umgw5q85s7 " whereas the first string is output by the ( much shorter ) pseudo - code : function generatestring1 ( ) return " ab " × 16 if a description d ( s ) of a string s is of minimal length ( i. e., using the fewest bits ), it is called a minimal description of s, and the length of d ( s ) ( i. e. the number of bits in the minimal description ) is the kolmogorov complexity of s, written k ( s ). symbolically, k ( s ) = | d ( s ) |. the length of the shortest description will depend on the choice of description language ; but the effect of changing languages is bounded ( a result called the invariance theorem ). invariance theorem informal treatment there are some description languages which are optimal, in the following sense : given any description of an object in a description language, said description