##ate of jenina. in the kasbah, there are also labyrinths of lanes and houses that are very picturesque, and if one gets lost there, it is enough to go down again towards the sea to reposition oneself. bab el oued : literally the river ' s gate, the popular district which extends from the casbah beyond " the gate of the river ". it is the capital ' s darling and best liked borough. famous for its square with " the three clocks " and for its " market triplet ", it is also a district of workshops and manufacturing plants. edge of sea : from 1840, the architects pierre - august guiauchain and charles frederic chasseriau designed new buildings apart from the casbah, town hall, law courts, buildings, theatre, palace of the governor, and casino, to form an elegant walk bordered by arcades which is today the boulevard che guevara ( formerly the boulevard of the republic ). kouba ( will daira of hussein - dey ) : kouba is an old village which was absorbed by the expansion of the town of algiers. kouba quickly developed under the french colonial era then continued growing due to formidable demographic expansion that algiers saw after the independence of algeria in 1962. it is today a district of algiers which is largely made up of houses, villas, and buildings not exceeding five stories. el harrach, a suburb of algiers, is located about to the east of the city. the communes of hydra, ben aknoun, el - biar and bouzareah form what the inhabitants of algiers call the " heights of algiers ". these communes shelter the majority of the foreign embassies of algiers, of many ministries and university centres, which makes it one of the administrative and policy centres of the country. the didouche mourad street is located in the 3rd district of algiers. it extends from the grande post office to the heights of algiers. it crosses in particular the place audin, the faculty of algiers, the crowned heart and the freedom park ( formerly galland ). it is bordered by smart stores and restaurants along most of its length. it is regarded as the heart of the capital. climate algiers has a mediterranean climate ( koppen climate classification csa ). its proximity to the mediterranean sea aids in moderating the city ' s temperatures. as a result, algiers usually does not see the extreme temperatures that are experienced in the adjacent interior. algiers on average receives roughly of rain per year, the bulk of which