formation of n3− ions, and all the energy released from the formation of an alkali metal nitride is from the lattice energy of the alkali metal nitride. the lattice energy is maximised with small, highly charged ions ; the alkali metals do not form highly charged ions, only forming ions with a charge of + 1, so only lithium, the smallest alkali metal, can release enough lattice energy to make the reaction with nitrogen exothermic, forming lithium nitride. the reactions of the other alkali metals with nitrogen would not release enough lattice energy and would thus be endothermic, so they do not form nitrides at standard conditions. sodium nitride ( na3n ) and potassium nitride ( k3n ), while existing, are extremely unstable, being prone to decomposing back into their constituent elements, and cannot be produced by reacting the elements with each other at standard conditions. steric hindrance forbids the existence of rubidium or caesium nitride. however, sodium and potassium form colourless azide salts involving the linear anion ; due to the large size of the alkali metal cations, they are thermally stable enough to be able to melt before decomposing. all the alkali metals react readily with phosphorus and arsenic to form phosphides and arsenides with the formula m3pn ( where m represents an alkali metal and pn represents a pnictogen – phosphorus, arsenic, antimony, or bismuth ). this is due to the greater size of the p3− and as3− ions, so that less lattice energy needs to be released for the salts to form. these are not the only phosphides and arsenides of the alkali metals : for example, potassium has nine different known phosphides, with formulae k3p, k4p3, k5p4, kp, k4p6, k3p7, k3p11, kp10. 3, and kp15. while most metals form arsenides, only the alkali and alkaline earth metals form mostly ionic arsenides. the structure of na3as is complex with unusually short na – na distances of 328 – 330 pm which are shorter than in sodium metal, and this indicates that even with these electropositive metals the bonding cannot be straightforwardly ionic. other alkali metal arsenides not conforming to