emittance, has been proposed as a solar radiation management strategy to mitigate energy crises and global warming known as passive daytime radiative cooling ( pdrc ). efforts toward widespread implementation of pdrcs may focus on maximizing the albedo of surfaces from very low to high values, so long as a thermal emittance of at least 90 % can be achieved. examples of terrestrial albedo effects illumination albedo is not directly dependent on illumination because changing the amount of incoming light proportionally changes the amount of reflected light, except in circumstances where a change in illumination induces a change in the earth ' s surface at that location ( e. g. through melting of reflective ice ). that said, albedo and illumination both vary by latitude. albedo is highest near the poles and lowest in the subtropics, with a local maximum in the tropics. insolation effects the intensity of albedo temperature effects depends on the amount of albedo and the level of local insolation ( solar irradiance ) ; high albedo areas in the arctic and antarctic regions are cold due to low insolation, whereas areas such as the sahara desert, which also have a relatively high albedo, will be hotter due to high insolation. tropical and sub - tropical rainforest areas have low albedo, and are much hotter than their temperate forest counterparts, which have lower insolation. because insolation plays such a big role in the heating and cooling effects of albedo, high insolation areas like the tropics will tend to show a more pronounced fluctuation in local temperature when local albedo changes. arctic regions notably release more heat back into space than what they absorb, effectively cooling the earth. this has been a concern since arctic ice and snow has been melting at higher rates due to higher temperatures, creating regions in the arctic that are notably darker ( being water or ground which is darker color ) and reflects less heat back into space. this feedback loop results in a reduced albedo effect. climate and weather albedo affects climate by determining how much radiation a planet absorbs. the uneven heating of earth from albedo variations between land, ice, or ocean surfaces can drive weather. the response of the climate system to an initial forcing is modified by feedbacks : increased by " self - reinforcing " or " positive " feedbacks and reduced by " balancing " or " negative " feedbacks. the main reinforcing feedbacks are the water - vapour feedback, the ice –