good ones of my life. but i couldn ' t challenge congress ; and president houston, although a duelist, was too far above me in rank. well, thank god, i didn ' t kill him. " on december 22, 1838, mirabeau b. lamar, the second president of the republic of texas, appointed johnston as secretary of war. he defended the texas border against mexican attempts to recover the state in rebellion. in 1839, he campaigned against native americans in northern texas during the cherokee war of 1838 - 39. at the battle of the neches, johnston and vice president david g. burnet were both cited in the commander ' s report " for active exertions on the field " and " having behaved in such a manner as reflects great credit upon themselves. " in february 1840, he resigned and returned to kentucky. united states army when the united states declared war on mexico in may 1846, johnston rode 400 miles from his home in galveston to port isabel to volunteer for service in brigadier general zachary taylor ' s army of occupation. johnston was elected as colonel of the 1st texas rifle volunteers but the enlistments of his soldiers ran out just before the army ' s advance on monterrey, so taylor appointed him as the inspector general of brigadier general william o. butler ' s division of volunteers. johnston convinced a few volunteers of his former regiment to stay on and fight. during the battle of monterrey, butler was wounded and carried to the rear, and johnston assumed an active leadership role in the division. future u. s. general, joseph hooker, was with johnston at monterrey and wrote : " it was through [ johnston ' s ] agency, mainly, that our division was saved from a cruel slaughter... the coolness and magnificent presence [ that he ] displayed on this field... left an impression on my mind that i have never forgotten. " general taylor considered johnston " the best soldier he had ever commanded. " johnston resigned from the army just after the battle of monterrey in october 1846. he had promised his wife, eliza, that he would only volunteer for six months ' service. in addition, president james k. polk ' s administration ' s preference for officers associated with the democratic party prevented the promotion of those, such as johnston, who were perceived as whigs : he remained on his plantation after the war until he was appointed by later 12th president zachary taylor to the u. s. army as a major and was made a paymaster in december 1849 for a district of texas encompassing the military posts from the upper