the base of the tail. the defining characteristic of a vertebrate is the vertebral column, formed in the development of the segmented series of vertebrae. in most vertebrates the notochord becomes the nucleus pulposus of the intervertebral discs. however, a few vertebrates, such as the sturgeon and the coelacanth, retain the notochord into adulthood. jawed vertebrates are typified by paired appendages, fins or legs, which may be secondarily lost. the limbs of vertebrates are considered to be homologous because the same underlying skeletal structure was inherited from their last common ancestor. this is one of the arguments put forward by charles darwin to support his theory of evolution. fish anatomy the body of a fish is divided into a head, trunk and tail, although the divisions between the three are not always externally visible. the skeleton, which forms the support structure inside the fish, is either made of cartilage, in cartilaginous fish, or bone in bony fish. the main skeletal element is the vertebral column, composed of articulating vertebrae which are lightweight yet strong. the ribs attach to the spine and there are no limbs or limb girdles. the main external features of the fish, the fins, are composed of either bony or soft spines called rays, which with the exception of the caudal fins, have no direct connection with the spine. they are supported by the muscles which compose the main part of the trunk. the heart has two chambers and pumps the blood through the respiratory surfaces of the gills and on round the body in a single circulatory loop. the eyes are adapted for seeing underwater and have only local vision. there is an inner ear but no external or middle ear. low frequency vibrations are detected by the lateral line system of sense organs that run along the length of the sides of fish, and these respond to nearby movements and to changes in water pressure. sharks and rays are basal fish with numerous primitive anatomical features similar to those of ancient fish, including skeletons composed of cartilage. their bodies tend to be dorso - ventrally flattened, they usually have five pairs of gill slits and a large mouth set on the underside of the head. the dermis is covered with separate dermal placoid scales. they have a cloaca into which the urinary and genital passages open, but not a swim bladder. cartilaginous fish produce a small