, held on the first saturday in august. the annual uitmarkt is a three - day cultural event at the start of the cultural season in late august. it offers previews of many different artists, such as musicians and poets, who perform on podia. sports amsterdam is home of the eredivisie football club afc ajax. the stadium johan cruyff arena is the home of ajax. it is located in the south - east of the city next to the new amsterdam bijlmer arena railway station. before moving to their current location in 1996, ajax played their regular matches in the now demolished de meer stadion in the eastern part of the city or in the olympic stadium. in 1928, amsterdam hosted the summer olympics. the olympic stadium built for the occasion has been completely restored and is now used for cultural and sporting events, such as the amsterdam marathon. in 1920, amsterdam assisted in hosting some of the sailing events for the summer olympics held in neighbouring antwerp, belgium by hosting events at buiten ij. the city holds the dam to dam run, a race from amsterdam to zaandam, as well as the amsterdam marathon. the ice hockey team amstel tijgers play in the jaap eden ice rink. the team competes in the dutch ice hockey premier league. speed skating championships have been held on the 400 - meter lane of this ice rink. amsterdam holds two american football franchises : the amsterdam crusaders and the amsterdam panthers. the amsterdam pirates baseball team competes in the dutch major league. there are three field hockey teams : amsterdam, pinoke and hurley, who play their matches around the wagener stadium in the nearby city of amstelveen. the basketball team myguide amsterdam competes in the dutch premier division and play their games in the sporthallen zuid. there is one rugby club in amsterdam, which also hosts sports training classes such as rtc ( rugby talenten centrum or rugby talent centre ) and the national rugby stadium. since 1999, the city of amsterdam honours the best sportsmen and women at the amsterdam sports awards. boxer raymond joval and field hockey midfielder carole thate were the first to receive the awards, in 1999. amsterdam hosted the world gymnaestrada in 1991 and will do so again in 2023. politics the city of amsterdam is a municipality under the dutch municipalities act. it is governed by a directly elected municipal council, a municipal executive board and a mayor. since 1981, the municipality of amsterdam has gradually been divided into semi - autonomous boroughs, called