were associated with cupping. the minor ones were keloid scarring, burns, and bullae ; the serious ones were acquired hemophilia a, stroke following cupping on the back and neck, factitious panniculitis, reversible cardiac hypertrophy, and iron deficiency anemia. risk of forgoing conventional medical care as with other alternative medicines, unethical or naive practitioners may induce patients to exhaust financial resources by pursuing ineffective treatment. professional ethics codes set by accrediting organizations such as the national certification commission for acupuncture and oriental medicine require practitioners to make " timely referrals to other health care professionals as may be appropriate. " stephen barrett states that there is a " risk that an acupuncturist whose approach to diagnosis is not based on scientific concepts will fail to diagnose a dangerous condition ". conceptual basis traditional acupuncture is a substantial part of traditional chinese medicine ( tcm ). early acupuncture beliefs relied on concepts that are common in tcm, such as a life force energy called qi. qi was believed to flow from the body ' s primary organs ( zang - fu organs ) to the " superficial " body tissues of the skin, muscles, tendons, bones, and joints, through channels called meridians. acupuncture points where needles are inserted are mainly ( but not always ) found at locations along the meridians. acupuncture points not found along a meridian are called extraordinary points and those with no designated site are called " a - shi " points. in tcm, disease is generally perceived as a disharmony or imbalance in energies such as yin, yang, qi, xue, zang - fu, meridians, and of the interaction between the body and the environment. therapy is based on which " pattern of disharmony " can be identified. for example, some diseases are believed to be caused by meridians being invaded with an excess of wind, cold, and damp. in order to determine which pattern is at hand, practitioners examine things like the color and shape of the tongue, the relative strength of pulse - points, the smell of the breath, the quality of breathing, or the sound of the voice. tcm and its concept of disease does not strongly differentiate between the cause and effect of symptoms. purported scientific basis many within the scientific community consider attempts to rationalize acupuncture in science to be quackery and pseudoscience. academics massimo pigliucci and maarte