and respectable cart - horse, although quite naive and gullible. boxer does a large share of the physical labour on the farm. he is shown to hold the belief that " napoleon is always right ". at one point, he challenged squealer ' s statement that snowball was always against the welfare of the farm, earning him an attack from napoleon ' s dogs. but boxer ' s immense strength repels the attack, worrying the pigs that their authority can be challenged. boxer has been compared to alexey stakhanov, a diligent and enthusiastic role model of the stakhanovite movement. he has been described as " faithful and strong " ; he believes any problem can be solved if he works harder. when boxer is injured, napoleon sells him to a local knacker to buy himself whisky, and squealer gives a moving account, falsifying the circumstances of boxer ' s death. mollie – a self - centred, self - indulgent, and vain young white mare who quickly leaves for another farm after the revolution, like those who left russia after the fall of the tsar. she is only once mentioned again. clover – a gentle, caring mare, who shows concern, especially for boxer, who often pushes himself too hard. clover can read all the letters of the alphabet, but cannot " put words together ". benjamin – a donkey, one of the oldest, wisest animals on the farm, and one of the few who can read properly. he is sceptical, temperamental and cynical : his most frequent remark is, " life will go on as it has always gone on – that is, badly ". academic morris dickstein has suggested there is " a touch of orwell himself in this creature ' s timeless scepticism " and indeed, friends called orwell " donkey george ", " after his grumbling donkey benjamin, in animal farm ". benjamin manages to evade the purges and survive despite the threat he potentially poses given his knowledge, his age, and his equivocal, albeit apolitical, positions. other animals muriel – a goat who is another of the oldest, wisest animals on the farm and friends with all of the animals on the farm. similar to benjamin, muriel is one of the few animals on the farm who is not a pig but can read. she survives, as does benjamin, by eschewing politics. the puppies – offspring of jessie and bluebell, the puppies were taken away at birth by