to the sidebands ( where the useful information is present ) to the point of double - sideband suppressed - carrier transmission where the carrier is ( ideally ) reduced to zero. in all such cases the term " modulation index " loses its value as it refers to the ratio of the modulation amplitude to a rather small ( or zero ) remaining carrier amplitude. modulation methods modulation circuit designs may be classified as low - or high - level ( depending on whether they modulate in a low - power domain — followed by amplification for transmission — or in the high - power domain of the transmitted signal ). low - level generation in modern radio systems, modulated signals are generated via digital signal processing ( dsp ). with dsp many types of am are possible with software control ( including dsb with carrier, ssb suppressed - carrier and independent sideband, or isb ). calculated digital samples are converted to voltages with a digital - to - analog converter, typically at a frequency less than the desired rf - output frequency. the analog signal must then be shifted in frequency and linearly amplified to the desired frequency and power level ( linear amplification must be used to prevent modulation distortion ). this low - level method for am is used in many amateur radio transceivers. am may also be generated at a low level, using analog methods described in the next section. high - level generation high - power am transmitters ( such as those used for am broadcasting ) are based on high - efficiency class - d and class - e power amplifier stages, modulated by varying the supply voltage. older designs ( for broadcast and amateur radio ) also generate am by controlling the gain of the transmitter ' s final amplifier ( generally class - c, for efficiency ). the following types are for vacuum tube transmitters ( but similar options are available with transistors ) : plate modulation in plate modulation, the plate voltage of the rf amplifier is modulated with the audio signal. the audio power requirement is 50 percent of the rf - carrier power. heising ( constant - current ) modulation rf amplifier plate voltage is fed through a choke ( high - value inductor ). the am modulation tube plate is fed through the same inductor, so the modulator tube diverts current from the rf amplifier. the choke acts as a constant current source in the audio range. this system has a low power efficiency. control grid modulation the operating bias and gain of the final rf amplifier can be controlled by varying the voltage of the control grid. this method