proconsul, emissaries from foreign kings had to pay their respects to him and by ad 13 was awarded with his second triumph and equal level of imperium with that of augustus. the only other possible claimant as heir was agrippa postumus, who had been exiled by augustus in ad 7, his banishment made permanent by senatorial decree, and augustus officially disowned him. he certainly fell out of augustus ' s favor as an heir ; the historian erich s. gruen notes various contemporary sources that state agrippa postumus was a " vulgar young man, brutal and brutish, and of depraved character ". on 19 august ad 14, augustus died while visiting nola where his father had died. both tacitus and cassius dio wrote that livia was rumored to have brought about augustus ' s death by poisoning fresh figs. this element features in many modern works of historical fiction pertaining to augustus ' s life, but some historians view it as likely to have been a salacious fabrication made by those who had favoured postumus as heir, or other of tiberius ' s political enemies. livia had long been the target of similar rumors of poisoning on the behalf of her son, most or all of which are unlikely to have been true. alternatively, it is possible that livia did supply a poisoned fig ( she did cultivate a variety of fig named for her that augustus is said to have enjoyed ), but did so as a means of assisted suicide rather than murder. augustus ' s health had been in decline in the months immediately before his death, and he had made significant preparations for a smooth transition in power, having at last reluctantly settled on tiberius as his choice of heir. it is likely that augustus was not expected to return alive from nola, but it seems that his health improved once there ; it has therefore been speculated that augustus and livia conspired to end his life at the anticipated time, having committed all political process to accepting tiberius, in order to not endanger that transition. augustus ' s famous last words were, " have i played the part well? then applaud as i exit " ( ) — referring to the play - acting and regal authority that he had put on as emperor. an enormous funerary procession of mourners traveled with augustus ' s body from nola to rome, and all public and private businesses closed on the day of his burial. tiberius and his son drusus delivered the eu