the moon, his calculated distance to the sun would fall between and earth radii. according to eusebius in the praeparatio evangelica ( book xv, chapter 53 ), eratosthenes found the distance to the sun to be " σταδιων μυριαδας τετρακοσιας και οκτωκισμυριας " ( literally " of stadia myriads 400 and ) but with the additional note that in the greek text the grammatical agreement is between myriads ( not stadia ) on the one hand and both 400 and on the other, as in greek, unlike english, all three ( or all four if one were to include stadia ) words are inflected. this has been translated either as stadia ( 1903 translation by edwin hamilton gifford ), or as stadia ( edition of, dated 1974 – 1991 ). using the greek stadium of 185 to 190 metres, the former translation comes to to, which is far too low, whereas the second translation comes to 148. 7 to 152. 8 million kilometres ( accurate within 2 % ). hipparchus also gave an estimate of the distance of earth from the sun, quoted by pappus as equal to 490 earth radii. according to the conjectural reconstructions of noel swerdlow and g. j. toomer, this was derived from his assumption of a " least perceptible " solar parallax of. a chinese mathematical treatise, the zhoubi suanjing ( ), shows how the distance to the sun can be computed geometrically, using the different lengths of the noontime shadows observed at three places li apart and the assumption that earth is flat. in the 2nd century ce, ptolemy estimated the mean distance of the sun as times earth ' s radius. to determine this value, ptolemy started by measuring the moon ' s parallax, finding what amounted to a horizontal lunar parallax of 1° 26 ′, which was much too large. he then derived a maximum lunar distance of earth radii. because of cancelling errors in his parallax figure, his theory of the moon ' s orbit, and other factors, this figure was approximately correct. he then measured the apparent sizes of the sun and the moon and concluded that the apparent diameter of the sun was equal to the apparent diameter of the moon at the moon ' s greatest distance, and from records of lunar eclipse