battle of stalingrad and the battle of moscow, represents world war ii. during the battle, orwell first wrote, " all the animals, including napoleon " took cover. orwell had the publisher alter this to " all the animals except napoleon " in recognition of stalin ' s decision to remain in moscow during the german advance. orwell requested the change after he met jozef czapski in paris in march 1945. czapski, a survivor of the katyn massacre and an opponent of the soviet regime, told orwell, as orwell wrote to arthur koestler, that it had been " the character [ and ] greatness of stalin " that saved russia from the german invasion. other connections that writers have suggested illustrate orwell ' s telescoping of russian history from 1917 to 1943, including the wave of rebelliousness that ran through the countryside after the rebellion, which stands for the abortive revolutions in hungary and germany ( ch. iv ) ; the conflict between napoleon and snowball ( ch. v ), parallelling " the two rival and quasi - messianic beliefs that seemed pitted against one another : trotskyism, with its faith in the revolutionary vocation of the proletariat of the west ; and stalinism with its glorification of russia ' s socialist destiny " ; napoleon ' s dealings with whymper and the willingdon markets ( ch. vi ), paralleling the treaty of rapallo ; and frederick ' s forged bank notes, parallelling the hitler - stalin pact of august 1939, after which frederick attacks animal farm without warning and destroys the windmill. the book ' s close, with the pigs and men in a kind of rapprochement, reflected orwell ' s view of the 1943 tehran conference that seemed to display the establishment of " the best possible relations between the ussr and the west " – but in reality were destined, as orwell presciently predicted, to continue to unravel. the disagreement between the allies and the start of the cold war is suggested when napoleon and pilkington, both suspicious, each " played an ace of spades simultaneously ". similarly, the music in the novel, starting with " beasts of england " and the later anthems, parallels " the internationale " and its adoption and repudiation by the soviet authorities as the anthem of the ussr in the 1920s and 1930s. according to masha gessen, the metamorphosis of the eighth commandment ( " some animals are more equal "