development agencies with annual aid programmes of more than $ 10 billion include : giz ( germany ), fcdo ( united kingdom ), jica ( japan ), european union and afd ( france ). non - governmental organizations a multitude of non - governmental organizations operate in the field of extreme poverty, actively working to alleviate the poorest of the poor of their deprivation. to name but a few notable organizations : save the children, the overseas development institute, concern worldwide, one, trickle up and oxfam have all done a considerable amount of work in extreme poverty. save the children is the leading international organization dedicated to helping the world ' s indigent children. in 2013, save the children reached over 143 million children through their work, including over 52 million children directly. save the children also recently released their own report titled " getting to zero ", in which they argued the international community could feasibly do more than lift the world ' s poor above $ 1. 25 / day. the overseas development institute ( odi ) is a uk based think tank on international development and humanitarian issues. odi is dedicated to alleviating the suffering of the world ' s poor by providing high - quality research and practical policy advice to the world ' s development officials. odi also recently released a paper entitled, " the chronic poverty report 2014 – 2015 : the road to zero extreme poverty ", in which its authors assert that though the international communities ' goal of ending extreme poverty by 2030 is laudable, much more targeted resources will be necessary to reach said target. the report states that " to eradicate extreme poverty, massive global investment is required in social assistance, education and pro - poorest economic growth ". concern worldwide is an international humanitarian organization whose mission is to end extreme poverty by influencing decision makers at all levels of government ( from local to international ). concern has also produced a report on extreme poverty in which they explain their own conception of extreme poverty from a ngo ' s standpoint. in this paper, named " how concern understands extreme poverty ", the report ' s creators write that extreme poverty entails more than just living under $ 1. 25 / day, it also includes having a small number of assets and being vulnerable to severe negative shocks ( whether natural or man made ). one, the organization co - founded by bono, is a non - profit organization funded almost entirely by foundations, individual philanthropists and corporations. one ' s goals include raising public awareness and working with political leaders to fight preventable diseases, increase government accountability and