monopoly land policy. the policy built up support for the liberal party in rural north island electorates. by 1903, the liberals were so dominant that there was no longer an organized opposition in parliament. north america the united states and canada both saw a rise of agrarian - oriented parties in the early twentieth century as economic troubles motivated farming communities to become politically active. it has been proposed that different responses to agrarian protest largely determined the course of power generated by these newly - energized rural factions. according to sociologist barry eidlin : " in the united states, democrats adopted a co - optive response to farmer and labor protest, incorporating these constituencies into the new deal coalition. in canada, both mainstream parties adopted a coercive response, leaving these constituencies politically excluded and available for an independent left coalition. " these reactions may have helped determine the outcome of agrarian power and political associations in the us and canada. united states of america kansas economic desperation experienced by farmers across the state of kansas in the nineteenth century spurred the creation of the people ' s party in 1890, and soon - after would gain control of the governor ' s office in 1892. this party, consisting of a mix of democrats, socialists, populists, and fusionists, would find itself buckling from internal conflict regarding the unlimited coinage of silver. the populists permanently lost power in 1898. oklahoma oklahoma farmers considered their political activity during the early twentieth century due to the outbreak of war, depressed crop prices, and an inhibited sense of progression towards owning their own farms. tenancy had been reportedly as high as 55 % in oklahoma by 1910. these pressures saw agrarian counties in oklahoma supporting socialist policies and politics, with the socialist platform proposing a deeply agrarian - radical platform :... the platform proposed a " renters and farmer ' s program " which was strongly agrarian radical in its insistence upon various measures to put land into " the hands of the actual tillers of the soil. " although it did not propose to nationalize privately owned land, it did offer numerous plans to enlarge the state ' s public domain, from which land would be rented at prevailing share rents to tenants until they had paid rent equal to the land ' s value. the tenant and his children would have the right of occupancy and use, but the ' title ' would remind in the ' commonwealth ', an arrangement that might be aptly termed ' socialist fee simple '. they proposed to exempt from taxation all farm dwellings, animals, and improvements up to the value of $