##s, tutankhamun, ay, and horemheb, worked to erase all mention of akhenaten ' s heresy, now known as the amarna period. around 1279bc, ramesses ii, also known as ramesses the great, ascended the throne, and went on to build more temples, erect more statues and obelisks, and sire more children than any other pharaoh in history. a bold military leader, ramesses ii led his army against the hittites in the battle of kadesh ( in modern syria ) and, after fighting to a stalemate, finally agreed to the first recorded peace treaty, around 1258bc. egypt ' s wealth, however, made it a tempting target for invasion, particularly by the libyan berbers to the west, and the sea peoples, a conjectured confederation of seafarers from the aegean sea. initially, the military was able to repel these invasions, but egypt eventually lost control of its remaining territories in southern canaan, much of it falling to the assyrians. the effects of external threats were exacerbated by internal problems such as corruption, tomb robbery, and civil unrest. after regaining their power, the high priests at the temple of amun in thebes accumulated vast tracts of land and wealth, and their expanded power splintered the country during the third intermediate period. third intermediate period ( 1069 – 653 bc ) following the death of ramesses xi in 1078bc, smendes assumed authority over the northern part of egypt, ruling from the city of tanis. the south was effectively controlled by the high priests of amun at thebes, who recognized smendes in name only. during this time, libyans had been settling in the western delta, and chieftains of these settlers began increasing their autonomy. libyan princes took control of the delta under shoshenq i in 945bc, founding the so - called libyan or bubastite dynasty that would rule for some 200 years. shoshenq also gained control of southern egypt by placing his family members in important priestly positions. libyan control began to erode as a rival dynasty in the delta arose in leontopolis, and kushites threatened from the south. around 727bc the kushite king piye invaded northward, seizing control of thebes and eventually the delta, which established the 25th dynasty. during the 25th dynasty, pharaoh taharqa created an empire nearly as large as the new kingdom ' s. twenty - fifth dynasty