. they became part of the government again 1990 – 1994, and 1998 - 2002 after which they lost political support. the ruling fidesz party has an agrarian faction, and promotes agrarian interest since 2010 with the emphasis now placed on supporting larger family farms versus small - holders. ireland in the late 19th century, the irish national land league aimed to abolish landlordism in ireland and enable tenant farmers to own the land they worked on. the " land war " of 1878 – 1909 led to the irish land acts, ending absentee landlords and ground rent and redistributing land among peasant farmers. post - independence, the farmers ' party operated in the irish free state from 1922, folding into the national centre party in 1932. it was mostly supported by wealthy farmers in the east of ireland. clann na talmhan ( family of the land ; also called the national agricultural party ) was founded in 1938. they focused more on the poor smallholders of the west, supporting land reclamation, afforestation, social democracy and rates reform. they formed part of the governing coalition of the government of the 13th dail and government of the 15th dail. economic improvement in the 1960s saw farmers vote for other parties and clann na talmhan disbanded in 1965. kazakhstan in kazakhstan, the peasants ' union, originally a communist organization, was formed as one of first agrarian parties in independent kazakhstan and would win four seats in the 1994 legislative election. the agrarian party of kazakhstan, led by romin madinov, was founded in 1999, which favored the privatization of agricultural land, developments towards rural infrastructure, as well as changes in the tax system in agrarian economy. the party would go on to win three majilis seats in the 1999 legislative election and eventually unite with the civic party of kazakhstan to form the pro - government agrarian - industrial union of workers ( aist ) bloc that would be chaired by madinov for the 2004 legislative election, with the aist bloc winning 11 seats in the majilis. from there, the bloc remained short - lived as it would merge with the ruling nur otan party in 2006. several other parties in kazakhstan over the years have embraced agrarian policies in their programs in an effort to appeal towards a large rural kazakh demographic base, which included amanat, adal, and respublica. since late 2000s, the " auyl " people ' s democratic patriotic party remains the largest and most influential agrarian - oriented party in kazakhstan, as its presidential candidate jiguli dairabaev had become the second