provided support for the revolting satraps in the revolt of the satraps, in particular ariobarzanes : sparta sent a force to ariobarzanes under an aging agesilaus, while athens sent a force under timotheus, which was however diverted when it became obvious that ariobarzanes had entered frontal conflict with the achaemenid king. an athenian mercenary force under chabrias was also sent to the egyptian pharaoh tachos, who was also fighting against the achaemenid king. according to xenophon, agesilaus, in order to gain money for prosecuting the war, supported the satrap ariobarzanes of phrygia in his revolt against artaxerxes ii in 364 ( revolt of the satraps ). again, in 362, epaminondas almost succeeded in seizing the city of sparta with a rapid and unexpected march. the battle of mantinea, in which agesilaus took no part, was followed by a general peace : sparta, however, stood aloof, hoping even yet to recover her supremacy. expedition to egypt sometime after the battle of mantineia, agesilaus went to egypt at the head of a mercenary force to aid the king nectanebo i and his regent teos against persia. in the summer of 358, he transferred his services to teos ' s cousin and rival, nectanebo ii, who, in return for his help, gave him a sum of over 200 talents. on his way home agesilaus died in cyrenaica, around the age of 84, after a reign of some 41 years. his body was embalmed in wax, and buried at sparta. he was succeeded by his son archidamus iii. legacy agesilaus was of small stature and unimpressive appearance, and was lame from birth. these facts were used as an argument against his succession, an oracle having warned sparta against a " lame reign. " most ancient writers considered him a highly successful leader in guerrilla warfare, alert and quick, yet cautious — a man, moreover, whose personal bravery was rarely questioned in his own time. of his courage, temperance, and hardiness, many instances are cited, and to these were added the less spartan qualities of kindliness and tenderness as a father and a friend. as examples, there was the story of his riding a stick - horse with his children and upon being discovered by a friend desiring that the friend