classical latin name for alum, the mineral from which it was collected. the latin word alumen stems from the proto - indo - european root * alu - meaning " bitter " or " beer ". origins british chemist humphry davy, who performed a number of experiments aimed to isolate the metal, is credited as the person who named the element. the first name proposed for the metal to be isolated from alum was alumium, which davy suggested in an 1808 article on his electrochemical research, published in philosophical transactions of the royal society. it appeared that the name was created from the english word alum and the latin suffix - ium ; but it was customary then to give elements names originating in latin, so this name was not adopted universally. this name was criticized by contemporary chemists from france, germany, and sweden, who insisted the metal should be named for the oxide, alumina, from which it would be isolated. the english name alum does not come directly from latin, whereas alumine / alumina obviously comes from the latin word alumen ( upon declension, alumen changes to alumin - ). one example was essai sur la nomenclature chimique ( july 1811 ), written in french by a swedish chemist, jons jacob berzelius, in which the name aluminium is given to the element that would be synthesized from alum. ( another article in the same journal issue also gives the name aluminium to the metal whose oxide is the basis of sapphire. ) a january 1811 summary of one of davy ' s lectures at the royal society mentioned the name aluminium as a possibility. the next year, davy published a chemistry textbook in which he used the spelling aluminum. both spellings have coexisted since. their usage is regional : aluminum dominates in the united states and canada ; aluminium, in the rest of the english - speaking world. spelling in 1812, a british scientist, thomas young, wrote an anonymous review of davy ' s book, in which he proposed the name aluminium instead of aluminum, which he thought had a " less classical sound ". this name did catch on : although the spelling was occasionally used in britain, the american scientific language used from the start. most scientists throughout the world used in the 19th century ; and it was entrenched in several other european languages, such as french, german, and dutch. in 1828, an american lexicographer, noah webster, entered only the aluminum spelling in his american dictionary of the english language. in