the fundamental units of permanent magnetism are even smaller than molecules. the two notes, together with ampere ' s acknowledgment, were eventually published in 1885. lost works fresnel ' s essay reveries of 1814 has not survived. while its content would have been interesting to historians, its quality may perhaps be gauged from the fact that fresnel himself never referred to it in his maturity. more disturbing is the fate of the late article " sur les differents systemes relatifs a la theorie de la lumiere " ( " on the different systems relating to the theory of light " ), which fresnel wrote for the newly launched english journal european review. this work seems to have been similar in scope to the essay de la lumiere of 1821 / 22, except that fresnel ' s views on double refraction, circular and elliptical polarization, optical rotation, and total internal reflection had developed since then. the manuscript was received by the publisher ' s agent in paris in early september 1824, and promptly forwarded to london. but the journal failed before fresnel ' s contribution could be published. fresnel tried unsuccessfully to recover the manuscript. the editors of his collected works were also unable to find it, and admitted that it was probably lost. unfinished business aether drag and aether density in 1810, arago found experimentally that the degree of refraction of starlight does not depend on the direction of the earth ' s motion relative to the line of sight. in 1818, fresnel showed that this result could be explained by the wave theory, on the hypothesis that if an object with refractive index moved at velocity relative to the external aether ( taken as stationary ), then the velocity of light inside the object gained the additional component. he supported that hypothesis by supposing that if the density of the external aether was taken as unity, the density of the internal aether was, of which the excess, namely, was dragged along at velocity, whence the average velocity of the internal aether was. the factor in parentheses, which fresnel originally expressed in terms of wavelengths, became known as the fresnel drag coefficient. in his analysis of double refraction, fresnel supposed that the different refractive indices in different directions within the same medium were due to a directional variation in elasticity, not density ( because the concept of mass per unit volume is not directional ). but in his treatment of partial reflection, he supposed