##foot the tyrant ) in imitation of aristophanes ' play the frogs after he was reminded of the chorus in that play by a herd of pigs passing to market under the window of his lodgings in san giuliano, italy. aristophanes ( particularly in reference to the clouds ) is mentioned frequently by the character menedemos in the hellenic traders series of novels by h. n. turteltaub. a liberal version of the comedies have been published in comic book format, initially by " agrotikes ekdoseis " during the 1980s and republished over the years by other companies. the plot was written by tasos apostolidis and the sketches were of george akokalidis. the stories feature either aristophanes narrating them, directing the play, or even as a character inside one of his stories. radio shows acropolis now is a comedy radio show for the bbc set in ancient greece. it features aristophanes, socrates and many other famous greeks. ( not to be confused with the australian sitcom of the same name. ) aristophanes is characterised as a celebrity playwright, and most of his plays have the title formula : one of our [ e. g ] slaves has an enormous knob ( a reference to the exaggerated appendages worn by greek comic actors ) aristophanes against the world was a radio play by martyn wade and broadcast on bbc radio 4. loosely based on several of his plays, it featured clive merrison as aristophanes. the wasps, radio play adapted by david pountney, music by vaughan williams, recorded 26 – 28 july 2005, albert halls, bolten, in association with bbc, under halle label music satiric dances for a comedy by aristophanes is a three - movement piece for concert band composed by norman dello joio. it was commissioned in commemoration of the bicentennial of 19 april 1775 ( the start of the american revolutionary war ) by the concord ( massachusetts ) band. the commission was funded by the town of concord and assistance was given by the eastern national park and monument association in cooperation with the national park service. ralph vaughan williams wrote the wasps for a 1909 cambridge university production of the play. translation of aristophanes alan h. sommerstein believes that although there are good translations of aristophanes ' comedies, none could be flawless, " for there is much truth in the paradox that the only really perfect translation is the original. " nevertheless, there are competent