plain and simple as possible ; sermons and songs often used repetition to get across to a rural population of poor and mostly uneducated people the necessity of turning away from sin. witnessing and testifying became an integral component to these meetings, where a congregation member or stranger would rise and recount his turn from a sinful life to one of piety and peace. " amazing grace " was one of many hymns that punctuated fervent sermons, although the contemporary style used a refrain, borrowed from other hymns, that employed simplicity and repetition such as : simultaneously, an unrelated movement of communal singing was established throughout the south and western states. a format of teaching music to illiterate people appeared in 1800. it used four sounds to symbolise the basic scale : fa - sol - la - fa - sol - la - mi - fa. each sound was accompanied by a specifically shaped note and thus became known as shape note singing. the method was simple to learn and teach, so schools were established throughout the south and west. communities would come together for an entire day of singing in a large building where they sat in four distinct areas surrounding an open space, one member directing the group as a whole. other groups would sing outside, on benches set up in a square. preachers used shape note hymns to teach people on the frontier and to raise the emotion of camp meetings. most of the music was christian, but the purpose of communal singing was not primarily spiritual. communities either could not afford music accompaniment or rejected it out of a calvinistic sense of simplicity, so the songs were sung a cappella. " new britain " tune when originally used in olney, it is unknown what music, if any, accompanied the verses written by john newton. contemporary hymnbooks did not contain music and were simply small books of religious poetry. the first known instance of newton ' s lines joined to music was in a companion to the countess of huntingdon ' s hymns ( london, 1808 ), where it is set to the tune " hephzibah " by english composer john jenkins husband. common meter hymns were interchangeable with a variety of tunes ; more than twenty musical settings of " amazing grace " circulated with varying popularity until 1835, when american composer william walker assigned newton ' s words to a traditional song named " new britain ". this was an amalgamation of two melodies ( " gallaher " and " st. mary " ), first published in the columbian harmony by charles h. spilman and benjamin shaw ( cincinnati, 1829 ). spilman