further theorise that the bank robber would find insurance companies listing him as a very poor risk and other firms would be reluctant to enter into contracts with him. influences murray rothbard has listed different ideologies of which his interpretations, he said, have influenced anarcho - capitalism. this includes his interpretation of anarchism, and more precisely individualist anarchism ; classical liberalism and the austrian school of economic thought. scholars additionally associate anarcho - capitalism with neo - classical liberalism, radical neoliberalism and right - libertarianism. anarchism in both its social and individualist forms, anarchism is usually considered an anti - capitalist and radical left - wing or far - left movement that promotes libertarian socialist economic theories such as collectivism, communism, individualism, mutualism and syndicalism. because anarchism is usually described alongside libertarian marxism as the libertarian wing of the socialist movement and as having a historical association with anti - capitalism and socialism, anarchists believe that capitalism is incompatible with social and economic equality and therefore do not recognize anarcho - capitalism as an anarchist school of thought. in particular, anarchists argue that capitalist transactions are not voluntary and that maintaining the class structure of a capitalist society requires coercion which is incompatible with an anarchist society. the usage of libertarian is also in dispute. while both anarchists and anarcho - capitalists have used it, libertarian was synonymous with anarchist until the mid - 20th century, when anarcho - capitalist theory developed. anarcho - capitalists are distinguished from the dominant anarchist tradition by their relation to property and capital. while both anarchism and anarcho - capitalism share general antipathy towards government authority, anarcho - capitalism favors free - market capitalism. anarchists, including egoists such as max stirner, have supported the protection of an individual ' s freedom from powers of both government and private property owners. in contrast, while condemning governmental encroachment on personal liberties, anarcho - capitalists support freedoms based on private property rights. anarcho - capitalist theorist murray rothbard argued that protesters should rent a street for protest from its owners. the abolition of public amenities is a common theme in some anarcho - capitalist writings. as anarcho - capitalism puts laissez - faire economics before economic equality, it is commonly viewed as incompatible with the anti - capitalist and egalitarian tradition of anarchism. although anarcho - capitalist theory implies the abolition of the state in favour of a