. likewise for the coefficient of thermal expansion. maxwell ' s relations show that various other quantities also vanish. these phenomena were unanticipated. since the relation between changes in gibbs free energy ( g ), the enthalpy ( h ) and the entropy is thus, as t decreases, δg and δh approach each other ( so long as δs is bounded ). experimentally, it is found that all spontaneous processes ( including chemical reactions ) result in a decrease in g as they proceed toward equilibrium. if δs and / or t are small, the condition δg < 0 may imply that δh < 0, which would indicate an exothermic reaction. however, this is not required ; endothermic reactions can proceed spontaneously if the tδs term is large enough. moreover, the slopes of the derivatives of δg and δh converge and are equal to zero at t = 0. this ensures that δg and δh are nearly the same over a considerable range of temperatures and justifies the approximate empirical principle of thomsen and berthelot, which states that the equilibrium state to which a system proceeds is the one that evolves the greatest amount of heat, i. e., an actual process is the most exothermic one. ( callen, pp. 186 – 187 ) one model that estimates the properties of an electron gas at absolute zero in metals is the fermi gas. the electrons, being fermions, must be in different quantum states, which leads the electrons to get very high typical velocities, even at absolute zero. the maximum energy that electrons can have at absolute zero is called the fermi energy. the fermi temperature is defined as this maximum energy divided by the boltzmann constant, and is on the order of 80, 000 k for typical electron densities found in metals. for temperatures significantly below the fermi temperature, the electrons behave in almost the same way as at absolute zero. this explains the failure of the classical equipartition theorem for metals that eluded classical physicists in the late 19th century. relation with bose – einstein condensate a bose – einstein condensate ( bec ) is a state of matter of a dilute gas of weakly interacting bosons confined in an external potential and cooled to temperatures very near absolute zero. under such conditions, a large fraction of the bosons occupy the lowest quantum state of the external potential, at which point quantum effects become apparent on a macroscopic scale. this