conditions. people with serious spinal disease, such as cancer or infection, are not good candidates for acupuncture. contraindications to acupuncture ( conditions that should not be treated with acupuncture ) include coagulopathy disorders ( e. g. hemophilia and advanced liver disease ), warfarin use, severe psychiatric disorders ( e. g. psychosis ), and skin infections or skin trauma ( e. g. burns ). further, electroacupuncture should be avoided at the spot of implanted electrical devices ( such as pacemakers ). a 2011 systematic review of systematic reviews ( internationally and without language restrictions ) found that serious complications following acupuncture continue to be reported. between 2000 and 2009, ninety - five cases of serious adverse events, including five deaths, were reported. many such events are not inherent to acupuncture but are due to malpractice of acupuncturists. this might be why such complications have not been reported in surveys of adequately trained acupuncturists. most such reports originate from asia, which may reflect the large number of treatments performed there or a relatively higher number of poorly trained asian acupuncturists. many serious adverse events were reported from developed countries. these included australia, austria, canada, croatia, france, germany, ireland, the netherlands, new zealand, spain, sweden, switzerland, the uk, and the us. the number of adverse effects reported from the uk appears particularly unusual, which may indicate less under - reporting in the uk than other countries. reports included 38 cases of infections and 42 cases of organ trauma. the most frequent adverse events included pneumothorax, and bacterial and viral infections. a 2013 review found ( without restrictions regarding publication date, study type or language ) 295 cases of infections ; mycobacterium was the pathogen in at least 96 %. likely sources of infection include towels, hot packs or boiling tank water, and reusing reprocessed needles. possible sources of infection include contaminated needles, reusing personal needles, a person ' s skin containing mycobacterium, and reusing needles at various sites in the same person. although acupuncture is generally considered a safe procedure, a 2013 review stated that the reports of infection transmission increased significantly in the prior decade, including those of mycobacterium. although it is recommended that practitioners of acupuncture use disposable needles, the reuse