##ful inventors and business leaders under his leadership. he delivers a lengthy broadcast speech that presents the author ' s philosophy of objectivism. henry " hank " rearden henry ( known as " hank " ) rearden is one of the central characters in atlas shrugged. he owns the most important steel company in the united states, and invents rearden metal, an alloy stronger, lighter, cheaper and tougher than steel. he lives in philadelphia with his wife lillian, his brother philip, and his elderly mother. rearden represents a type of self - made man and eventually divorces lillian, abandons his steel mills following a bloody assault by government - planted workers, and joins john galt ' s strike. eddie willers edwin " eddie " willers is the special assistant to the vice - president in charge of operations at taggart transcontinental. his father and grandfather worked for the taggarts, and himself likewise. he is completely loyal to dagny and to taggart transcontinental. willers does not possess the creative ability of galt ' s associates, but matches them in moral courage and is capable of appreciating and making use of their creations. after dagny shifts her attention and loyalty to saving the captive galt, willers maintains the railroad until its collapse. ragnar danneskjold one of galt ' s first followers, and world - famous as a pirate, who seizes relief ships sent from the united states to the people ' s states of europe. he works to ensure that once those espousing galt ' s philosophy are restored to their rightful place in society, they have enough capital to rebuild the world. kept in the background for much of the book, danneskjold makes a personal appearance to encourage rearden to persevere in his increasingly difficult situation, and gives him a bar of gold as compensation for the income taxes he has paid over the last several years. danneskjold is married to the actress kay ludlow ; their relationship is kept hidden from the outside world, which only knows of ludlow as a retired film star. considered a misfit by galt ' s other adherents, he views his actions as a means to speed the world along in understanding galt ' s perspective. according to barbara branden, who was closely associated with rand at the time the book was written, there were sections written describing danneskjold ' s adventures at sea, cut from the final published text. in a 1974 comment