, 1854 ), gottlob frege ( 1879 ), and giuseppe peano ( 1888 – 1889 ) reduced arithmetic to a sequence of symbols manipulated by rules. peano ' s the principles of arithmetic, presented by a new method ( 1888 ) was " the first attempt at an axiomatization of mathematics in a symbolic language ". but heijenoort gives frege ( 1879 ) this kudos : frege ' s is " perhaps the most important single work ever written in logic.... in which we see a formula language ', that is a lingua characterica, a language written with special symbols, " for pure thought ", that is, free from rhetorical embellishments... constructed from specific symbols that are manipulated according to definite rules ". the work of frege was further simplified and amplified by alfred north whitehead and bertrand russell in their principia mathematica ( 1910 – 1913 ). the paradoxes : at the same time a number of disturbing paradoxes appeared in the literature, in particular, the burali - forti paradox ( 1897 ), the russell paradox ( 1902 – 03 ), and the richard paradox. the resultant considerations led to kurt godel ' s paper ( 1931 ) — he specifically cites the paradox of the liar — that completely reduces rules of recursion to numbers. effective calculability : in an effort to solve the entscheidungsproblem defined precisely by hilbert in 1928, mathematicians first set about to define what was meant by an " effective method " or " effective calculation " or " effective calculability " ( i. e., a calculation that would succeed ). in rapid succession the following appeared : alonzo church, stephen kleene and j. b. rosser ' s λ - calculus a finely honed definition of " general recursion " from the work of godel acting on suggestions of jacques herbrand ( cf. godel ' s princeton lectures of 1934 ) and subsequent simplifications by kleene. church ' s proof that the entscheidungsproblem was unsolvable, emil post ' s definition of effective calculability as a worker mindlessly following a list of instructions to move left or right through a sequence of rooms and while there either mark or erase a paper or observe the paper and make a yes - no decision about the next instruction. alan turing ' s proof of that the entscheidungsproblem was un