. after 1925, gide began to campaign for more humane conditions for convicted criminals. his legal wife, madeleine gide, died in 1938. later he explored their unconsummated marriage in his memoir of madeleine, et nunc manet in te ( and now it remains in you, published in english in the united states in 1952 ). africa from july 1926 to may 1927, gide traveled through the colony of french equatorial africa with his lover marc allegret. they went successively to middle congo ( now the republic of the congo ), ubangi - shari ( now the central african republic ), briefly to chad and then to cameroon before returning to france. he kept a journal, which he published as travels in the congo ( french : voyage au congo ) and return from chad ( french : retour du tchad ). in this work, he criticized the behavior of french business interests in the congo and inspired reform. in particular, he strongly criticized the large concessions regime ( french : regime des grandes concessions ). the government had essentially conceded part of the colony to french companies, allowing them to exploit the area ' s natural resources, in particular rubber. he related that native workers were forced to leave their village for several weeks to collect rubber in the forest, and compared their exploitation by the companies to slavery. the book contributed to the growing anti - colonialism movements in france and helped thinkers to re - evaluate the effects of colonialism in africa. political views and the soviet union during the 1930s, gide briefly became a communist, or more precisely, a fellow traveler ( he never formally joined any communist party ), although he, an individualist himself, advocated the idea of communist individualism. despite supporting the soviet union, he acknowledged the political repression in the ussr. gide insisted on the release of victor serge, a soviet writer and a memeber of the left opposition who was prosecuted by the stalinist regime for his views. as a distinguished writer sympathizing with the cause of communism, he was invited to speak at maxim gorky ' s funeral and to tour the soviet union as a guest of the soviet union of writers. he encountered censorship of his speeches and was particularly disillusioned with the state of culture under soviet communism. in his work, retour de l ' u. r. s. s. ( return from the ussr, 1936 ), he broke with such socialist friends as jean - paul sartre ; the book was adressed to pro - soviet readers, so