- tang, combining the alloys to prevent both dulling and breaking during use. amalgams mercury has been smelted from cinnabar for thousands of years. mercury dissolves many metals, such as gold, silver, and tin, to form amalgams ( an alloy in a soft paste or liquid form at ambient temperature ). amalgams have been used since 200 bc in china for gilding objects such as armor and mirrors with precious metals. the ancient romans often used mercury - tin amalgams for gilding their armor. the amalgam was applied as a paste and then heated until the mercury vaporized, leaving the gold, silver, or tin behind. mercury was often used in mining, to extract precious metals like gold and silver from their ores. precious metals many ancient civilizations alloyed metals for purely aesthetic purposes. in ancient egypt and mycenae, gold was often alloyed with copper to produce red - gold, or iron to produce a bright burgundy - gold. gold was often found alloyed with silver or other metals to produce various types of colored gold. these metals were also used to strengthen each other, for more practical purposes. copper was often added to silver to make sterling silver, increasing its strength for use in dishes, silverware, and other practical items. quite often, precious metals were alloyed with less valuable substances as a means to deceive buyers. around 250 bc, archimedes was commissioned by the king of syracuse to find a way to check the purity of the gold in a crown, leading to the famous bath - house shouting of " eureka! " upon the discovery of archimedes ' principle. pewter the term pewter covers a variety of alloys consisting primarily of tin. as a pure metal, tin is much too soft to use for most practical purposes. however, during the bronze age, tin was a rare metal in many parts of europe and the mediterranean, so it was often valued higher than gold. to make jewellery, cutlery, or other objects from tin, workers usually alloyed it with other metals to increase strength and hardness. these metals were typically lead, antimony, bismuth or copper. these solutes were sometimes added individually in varying amounts, or added together, making a wide variety of objects, ranging from practical items such as dishes, surgical tools, candlesticks or funnels, to decorative items like ear rings and hair clips. the earliest examples of pewter come from ancient egypt, around 1450 bc. the use of pew