, to defend against foreign attack. with the kings having secured the country militarily and politically and with vast agricultural and mineral wealth at their disposal, the nation ' s population, arts, and religion flourished. in contrast to elitist old kingdom attitudes towards the gods, the middle kingdom displayed an increase in expressions of personal piety. middle kingdom literature featured sophisticated themes and characters written in a confident, eloquent style. the relief and portrait sculpture of the period captured subtle, individual details that reached new heights of technical sophistication. the last great ruler of the middle kingdom, amenemhat iii, allowed semitic - speaking canaanite settlers from the near east into the delta region to provide a sufficient labor force for his especially active mining and building campaigns. these ambitious building and mining activities, however, combined with severe nile floods later in his reign, strained the economy and precipitated the slow decline into the second intermediate period during the later thirteenth and fourteenth dynasties. during this decline, the canaanite settlers began to assume greater control of the delta region, eventually coming to power in egypt as the hyksos. second intermediate period ( 1674 – 1549 bc ) and the hyksos around 1785bc, as the power of the middle kingdom kings weakened, a western asian people called the hyksos, who had already settled in the delta, seized control of egypt and established their capital at avaris, forcing the former central government to retreat to thebes. the king was treated as a vassal and expected to pay tribute. the hyksos ( " foreign rulers " ) retained egyptian models of government and identified as kings, thereby integrating egyptian elements into their culture. they and other invaders introduced new tools of warfare into egypt, most notably the composite bow and the horse - drawn chariot. after retreating south, the native theban kings found themselves trapped between the canaanite hyksos ruling the north and the hyksos ' nubian allies, the kushites, to the south. after years of vassalage, thebes gathered enough strength to challenge the hyksos in a conflict that lasted more than 30 years, until 1555bc. the kings seqenenre tao ii and kamose were ultimately able to defeat the nubians to the south of egypt, but failed to defeat the hyksos. that task fell to kamose ' s successor, ahmose i, who successfully waged a series of campaigns that permanently eradicated the hyksos ' presence in egypt. he established