##zlar agha. the turks began a practice of storing gunpowder and explosives in the parthenon and propylaea. in 1640, a lightning bolt struck the propylaea, causing its destruction. in 1687, during the morean war, the acropolis was besieged by the venetians under francesco morosini, and the temple of athena nike was dismantled by the ottomans to fortify the parthenon. a shot fired during the bombardment of the acropolis caused a powder magazine in the parthenon to explode ( 26 september ), and the building was severely damaged, giving it largely the appearance it has today. the venetian occupation of athens lasted for six months, and both the venetians and the ottomans participated in the looting of the parthenon. one of its western pediments was removed, causing even more damage to the structure. during the venetian occupation, the two mosques of the city were converted into catholic and protestant churches, but on 9 april 1688 the venetians abandoned athens again to the ottomans. modern history in 1822, a greek insurgency captured the city, but it fell to the ottomans again in 1826 ( though acropolis held till june 1827 ). again the ancient monuments suffered badly. the ottoman forces remained in possession until march 1833, when they withdrew. at that time, the city ( as throughout the ottoman period ) had a small population of an estimated 400 houses, mostly located around the acropolis in the plaka. following the greek war of independence and the establishment of the greek kingdom, athens was chosen to replace nafplio as the second capital of the newly independent greek state in 1834, largely because of historical and sentimental reasons. at the time, after the extensive destruction it had suffered during the war of independence, it was reduced to a town of about 4, 000 people ( less than half its earlier population ) in a loose swarm of houses along the foot of the acropolis. the first king of greece, otto of bavaria, commissioned the architects stamatios kleanthis and eduard schaubert to design a modern city plan fit for the capital of a state. the first modern city plan consisted of a triangle defined by the acropolis, the ancient cemetery of kerameikos and the new palace of the bavarian king ( now housing the greek parliament ), so as to highlight the continuity between modern and ancient athens. neoclassicism, the international style of this epoch, was the architectural style through which bavarian, french and greek architects such as hansen, klenze, bo