standard character set. in the 1960s and 1970s, few terminal devices or even displays could reproduce the apl character set. the most popular ones employed the ibm selectric print mechanism used with a special apl type element. one of the early apl line terminals ( line - mode operation only, not full screen ) was the texas instruments ti model 745 ( ) with the full apl character set which featured half and full duplex telecommunications modes, for interacting with an apl time - sharing service or remote mainframe to run a remote computer job, called an rje. over time, with the universal use of high - quality graphic displays, printing devices and unicode support, the apl character font problem has largely been eliminated. however, entering apl characters requires the use of input method editors, keyboard mappings, virtual / on - screen apl symbol sets, or easy - reference printed keyboard cards which can frustrate beginners accustomed to other programming languages. with beginners who have no prior experience with other programming languages, a study involving high school students found that typing and using apl characters did not hinder the students in any measurable way. in defense of apl, it requires fewer characters to type, and keyboard mappings become memorized over time. special apl keyboards are also made and in use today, as are freely downloadable fonts for operating systems such as microsoft windows. the reported productivity gains assume that one spends enough time working in the language to make it worthwhile to memorize the symbols, their semantics, and keyboard mappings, not to mention a substantial number of idioms for common tasks. design unlike traditionally structured programming languages, apl code is typically structured as chains of monadic or dyadic functions, and operators acting on arrays. apl has many nonstandard primitives ( functions and operators ) that are indicated by a single symbol or a combination of a few symbols. all primitives are defined to have the same precedence, and always associate to the right. thus, apl is read or best understood from right - to - left. early apl implementations ( or so ) had no programming loop - flow control structures, such as do or while loops, and if - then - else constructs. instead, they used array operations, and use of structured programming constructs was often not necessary, since an operation could be performed on a full array in one statement. for example, the iota function ( ι ) can replace for - loop iteration : ιn when applied to a scala