the presence of states, bureaucracies and markets entered both ethnographic accounts and analysis of local phenomena. the turn towards complex societies meant that political themes were taken up at two main levels. firstly, anthropologists continued to study political organization and political phenomena that lay outside the state - regulated sphere ( as in patron - client relations or tribal political organization ). secondly, anthropologists slowly started to develop a disciplinary concern with states and their institutions ( and on the relationship between formal and informal political institutions ). an anthropology of the state developed, and it is a most thriving field today. geertz ' s comparative work on " negara ", the balinese state, is an early, famous example. legal legal anthropology or anthropology of law specializes in " the cross - cultural study of social ordering ". earlier legal anthropological research often focused more narrowly on conflict management, crime, sanctions, or formal regulation. more recent applications include issues such as human rights, legal pluralism, and political uprisings. public public anthropology was created by robert borofsky, a professor at hawaii pacific university, to " demonstrate the ability of anthropology and anthropologists to effectively address problems beyond the discipline – illuminating larger social issues of our times as well as encouraging broad, public conversations about them with the explicit goal of fostering social change ". nature, science, and technology cyborg cyborg anthropology originated as a sub - focus group within the american anthropological association ' s annual meeting in 1993. the sub - group was very closely related to sts and the society for the social studies of science. donna haraway ' s 1985 cyborg manifesto could be considered the founding document of cyborg anthropology by first exploring the philosophical and sociological ramifications of the term. cyborg anthropology studies humankind and its relations with the technological systems it has built, specifically modern technological systems that have reflexively shaped notions of what it means to be human beings. digital digital anthropology is the study of the relationship between humans and digital - era technology, and extends to various areas where anthropology and technology intersect. it is sometimes grouped with sociocultural anthropology, and sometimes considered part of material culture. the field is new, and thus has a variety of names with a variety of emphases. these include techno - anthropology, digital ethnography, cyberanthropology, and virtual anthropology. ecological ecological anthropology is defined as the " study of cultural adaptations to environments ". the sub - field is also defined as, " the study of relationships between a population of humans and their biophysical environment "