, rankine used a quantity that he called " the thermodynamic function " that later was called entropy, and at that time he wrote also of the " curve of no transmission of heat ", which he later called an adiabatic curve. besides its two isothermal limbs, carnot ' s cycle has two adiabatic limbs. for the foundations of thermodynamics, the conceptual importance of this was emphasized by bryan, by caratheodory, and by born. the reason is that calorimetry presupposes a type of temperature as already defined before the statement of the first law of thermodynamics, such as one based on empirical scales. such a presupposition involves making the distinction between empirical temperature and absolute temperature. rather, the definition of absolute thermodynamic temperature is best left till the second law is available as a conceptual basis. in the eighteenth century, the law of conservation of energy was not yet fully formulated or established, and the nature of heat was debated. one approach to these problems was to regard heat, measured by calorimetry, as a primary substance that is conserved in quantity. by the middle of the nineteenth century, it was recognized as a form of energy, and the law of conservation of energy was thereby also recognized. the view that eventually established itself, and is currently regarded as right, is that the law of conservation of energy is a primary axiom, and that heat is to be analyzed as consequential. in this light, heat cannot be a component of the total energy of a single body because it is not a state variable but, rather, a variable that describes a transfer between two bodies. the adiabatic process is important because it is a logical ingredient of this current view. divergent usages of the word adiabatic this present article is written from the viewpoint of macroscopic thermodynamics, and the word adiabatic is used in this article in the traditional way of thermodynamics, introduced by rankine. it is pointed out in the present article that, for example, if a compression of a gas is rapid, then there is little time for heat transfer to occur, even when the gas is not adiabatically isolated by a definite wall. in this sense, a rapid compression of a gas is sometimes approximately or loosely said to be adiabatic, though often far from isentropic, even when the gas is not adiabatically isolated by a definite wall. quantum