mathematical symbols which are available on modern computers and operating systems, but, unfortunately, were unsupported on most computing systems at the time. for instance : ×, ÷, ≤, ≥, =, ¬, ∨, ∧, ⊂, ≡, and. 1961 september : ascii – the ascii character set, then in an early stage of development, had the \ ( back slash ) character added to it in order to support algol ' s boolean operators / \ and \ /. 1962 : alcor – this character set included the unusual " " runic cross character for multiplication and the " " decimal exponent symbol for floating point notation. 1964 : gost – the 1964 soviet standard gost 10859 allowed the encoding of 4 - bit, 5 - bit, 6 - bit and 7 - bit characters in algol. 1968 : the " algol 68 report " – used extant algol characters, and further adopted →, ↓, ↑,,,,,,,, and ¢ characters which can be found on the ibm 2741 keyboard with typeball ( or golf ball ) print heads inserted ( such as the apl golf ball ). these became available in the mid - 1960s while algol 68 was being drafted. the report was translated into russian, german, french, and bulgarian, and allowed programming in languages with larger character sets, e. g., cyrillic alphabet of the soviet besm - 4. all algol ' s characters are also part of the unicode standard and most of them are available in several popular fonts. 2009 october : unicode – the ( decimal exponent symbol ) for floating point notation was added to unicode 5. 2 for backward compatibility with historic buran programme algol software. see also references further reading brian randell and l. j. russell, algol 60 implementation : the translation and use of algol 60 programs on a computer. academic press, 1964. the design of the whetstone compiler. one of the early published descriptions of implementing a compiler. see the related papers : whetstone algol revisited, and the whetstone kdf9 algol translator by brian randell revised report on the algorithmic language algol 60 by peter naur, et al. algol definition " the european side of the last phase of the development of algol 60 " by peter naur external links history of algol at the computer history museum web enabled algol - f compiler for small