yamato people and nivkh. a genetic analysis in 2016 showed that although the ainu have some genetic relations to yamato japanese people and eastern siberians ( especially itelmens and chukchis ), they are not directly related to any modern ethnic group. further, the study detected genetic contributions from the ainu to populations around the sea of okhotsk, but no genetic influence on the ainu themselves. according to the study, the ainu - like genetic contribution in the ulch people is about 17. 8 % or 13. 5 %, and about 27. 2 % in the nivkhs. the study also disproved the idea of a relation to andamanese or tibetans. instead, it presented evidence of gene flow between the ainu and " lowland east asian farmer populations " ( represented in the study by the ami and atayal in taiwan and the dai and lahu in mainland east asia ). a genetic study in 2016 of historical ainu samples from southern sakhalin ( 8 ) and northern hokkaido ( 4 ) found that the samples were closely related to the ancient okhotsk people followed by ainu samples from southern hokkaido, pointing to some substructure among the ancient ainu population. recent autosomal evidence suggests that the ainu derive a majority of their ancestry from the local jomon period people of hokkaido. a 2019 study by gakuhari et al., analyzing ancient jomon remains, found about 79. 3 % hokkaido jomon ancestry in the ainu. another 2019 study, by kanazawa - kiriyama et al., found about 66 % hokkaido jomon ancestry. a genetic study in 2021, by sato et al., found that the ainu probably derived about ~ 49 % of their ancestry from the local hokkaido jomon, ~ 22 % from the okhotsk ( represented by chukotko - kamchatkan peoples ), and ~ 29 % from the yamato japanese. population genomic data from various jomon period samples show that their main ancestry component split from other east asian people at about 15, 000 bce. following their migration into the japanese archipelago, they became largely isolated from outside geneflow. however, geneflow from ancient north eurasians towards the jomon period population was detected along a north to south cline, with a peak among hokkaido jomon. physical description physical differences can be observed between various ainu subgroups and clans. according to anthropologist emiko ohnuki - tierney, …