##tpert ’ s most famous work is his lengthy expositio in apocalypsin which is dependent upon a variety of patristic authors whom autpert explicitly acknowledges, including jerome, victorinus, ticonius, augustine of hippo, primasius of hadrumetum, and gregory the great. in fact, this commentary is one of the sources for a partial reconstruction of the lost apocalypse commentary of the donatist ticonius. it is prefaced by a letter to pope stephen iii in which autpert defends himself from his detractors. his vita sanctorum patrum paldonis, tatonis et tasonis is an account of the three founders of the monastery at volturno who through their pious lives offer an example of the imitation of christ. his libellus de conflictu vitiorum atque virtutum emphasizes monastic themes such as fear of god, obedience, and fidelity. other works include oratio contra septem vitia, sermo de cupiditate, sermo in purificatione sanctae mariae, homilia de transfiguratione domini, and sermo de adsumptione sanctae mariae. several additional sermons, known to have existed, have not survived. his extant sermons are marked by a strong mystical imprint. his commentaries on leviticus, the song of songs, and the psalms, mentioned in the chronicon vulturnese, are also not extant. whether or not autpert is the author of the hymn ave maris stella is debated. the reason for this possible attribution is that mary plays a significant theological role in both his sermons and apocalypse commentary. she is not only a figure of the church but also its most excellent member. as mother of christ, she is also mother of the elect. expositio in apocalypsin autpert ' s masterpiece is considered his expositio in apocalypsin, a lenghty commentary on the book of revelation. autpert refers to various early christian writers in order to give his commentary authority. in addition, he uses the writers to correct heresy where he believed it to exist. although he is very careful not to depart from the tradition of the church or from orthodox teaching, his work is no mere string of patristic quotations. throughout his apocalypse commentary christ is mystically identified with the church, so much so that the church actually begins with the birth of christ. in addition, there is only one