argued that the most important feature of the language of the plays is imagery, particularly the use of similes, metaphors and pictorial expressions. in the knights, for example, the ears of a character with selective hearing are represented as parasols that open and close. in the frogs, aeschylus is said to compose verses in the manner of a horse rolling in a sandpit. some plays feature revelations of human perfectibility that are poetic rather than religious in character, such as the marriage of the hero pisthetairos to zeus ' s paramour in the birds and the " recreation " of old athens, crowned with roses, at the end of the knights. rhetoric it is widely believed that aristophanes condemned rhetoric on both moral and political grounds. he states, " a speaker trained in the new rhetoric may use his talents to deceive the jury and bewilder his opponents so thoroughly that the trial loses all semblance of fairness " he is speaking to the " art " of flattery, and evidence points towards the fact that many of aristophanes ' plays were actually created with the intent to attack the view of rhetoric. the most noticeable attack can be seen in his play banqueters, in which two brothers from different educational backgrounds argue over which education is better. one brother comes from a background of " old - fashioned " education while the other brother appears to be a product of the sophistic education the chorus was mainly used by aristophanes as a defense against rhetoric and would often talk about topics such as the civic duty of those who were educated in classical teachings. in aristophanes ' opinion it was the job of those educated adults to protect the public from deception and to stand as a beacon of light for those who were more gullible than others. one of the main reasons why aristophanes was so against the sophists came into existence from the requirements listed by the leaders of the organization. money was essential, which meant that roughly all of the pupils studying with the sophists came from upper - class backgrounds and excluded the rest of the polis. aristophanes believed that education and knowledge was a public service and that anything that excluded willing minds was nothing but an abomination. he concludes that all politicians that study rhetoric must have " doubtful citizenships, unspeakable morals, and too much arrogance ". aristophanes and old comedy the plays of aristophanes are among the defining examples of old comedy. aristophanes