existed within the fortified town to service the soldiers serving there, and theodosius ordered that the offenders be punished, and that the synagogue be rebuilt at the expense of the bishop. ambrose wrote to the emperor arguing against this, basing his argument on two assertions : first, if the bishop obeyed the order, it would be a betrayal of his faith. second, if the bishop instead refused to obey the order, he would become a martyr and create a scandal for the emperor. ambrose, referring to a prior incident where magnus maximus issued an edict censuring christians in rome for burning down a jewish synagogue, warned theodosius that the people in turn exclaimed " the emperor has become a jew ", implying theodosius would receive the same lack of support from the people. theodosius rescinded the order concerning the bishop. that was not enough for ambrose, and when theodosius next visited milan, ambrose confronted him directly in an effort to get the emperor to drop the entire case. mclynn argues that ambrose failed to win the emperor ' s sympathy and was mostly excluded from his counsels thereafter. the callinicum affair was not an isolated incident. generally speaking, ambrose presents a strong anti - jewish polemic. while mclynn says this makes ambrose look like a bully and a bigot to modern eyes, scholars also agree ambrose ' attitudes toward the jews cannot be fairly summarized in one sentence, as not all of ambrose ' attitudes toward jews were negative. ambrose makes extensive and appreciative use of the works of philo of alexandria – a jew – in ambrose ' own writings, treating philo as one of the " faithful interpreters of the scriptures ". philo was an educated man of some standing and a prolific writer during the era of second temple judaism. forty – three of his treatises have been preserved, and these by christians, rather than jews. philo became foundational in forming the christian literary view on the six days of creation through basil ' s hexaemeron. eusebius, the cappadocian fathers, and didymus the blind appropriated material from philo as well, but none did so more than ambrose. as a result of this extensive referencing, philo was accepted into the christian tradition as an honorary church father. " in fact, one byzantine catena even refers to him as ' bishop philo '. this high regard for philo even led to a number of legends of his conversion to christianity, although this assertion stands on very dubious evidence ". ambrose also