resurgence. he started slowly in 1994, losing in the first week at the french open and wimbledon. nevertheless, he emerged during the hard - court season, winning the canadian open. his comeback culminated at the 1994 us open with a five - set fourth - round victory against michael chang. he then became the first man to capture the us open as an unseeded player, beating michael stich in the final. along the way, he beat 5 seeded players. in 1995, agassi shaved his balding head, breaking with his old " image is everything " style. he competed in the 1995 australian open ( his first appearance at the event ) and won, beating defending champion sampras in a four - set final. agassi and sampras met in five tournament finals in 1995, all on hardcourt, with agassi winning three. agassi won three masters series events in 1995 ( cincinnati, key biscayne, and the canadian open ) and seven titles total. he compiled a career - best 26 - match winning streak during the summer hard - court circuit, with the last victory being in an intense late - night four - set semi - final of the us open against boris becker. the streak ended the next day when agassi lost the final to sampras. agassi admitted this loss, which gave sampras a 9 – 8 lead in their head - to - head meetings, took two years for him to get over mentally. agassi reached the world no. 1 ranking for the first time in april 1995. he held that ranking until november, for a total of 30 weeks. agassi skipped most of the fall indoor season which allowed sampras to surpass him and finish ranked no. 1 at the year - end ranking. in terms of win – loss record, 1995 was agassi ' s best year. he won 73 and lost 9 matches, and was also once again a key player on the united states ' davis cup winning team — the third and final davis cup title of his career. 1996 was a less successful year for agassi, as he failed to reach any grand slam final. he suffered two early - round losses to chris woodruff and doug flach at the french open and wimbledon, respectively, and lost to chang in straight sets in the australian and us open semi - finals. at the time, agassi blamed the australian open loss on the windy conditions, but later said in his biography that he had lost the match on purpose