, as in pitch lake. additives, mixtures and contaminants for economic and other reasons, bitumen is sometimes sold combined with other materials, often without being labeled as anything other than simply " bitumen ". of particular note is the use of re - refined engine oil bottoms – " reob " or " reobs " the residue of recycled automotive engine oil collected from the bottoms of re - refining vacuum distillation towers, in the manufacture of asphalt. reob contains various elements and compounds found in recycled engine oil : additives to the original oil and materials accumulating from its circulation in the engine ( typically iron and copper ). some research has indicated a correlation between this adulteration of bitumen and poorer - performing pavement. occurrence the majority of bitumen used commercially is obtained from petroleum. nonetheless, large amounts of bitumen occur in concentrated form in nature. naturally occurring deposits of bitumen are formed from the remains of ancient, microscopic algae ( diatoms ) and other once - living things. these natural deposits of bitumen have been formed during the carboniferous period, when giant swamp forests dominated many parts of the earth. they were deposited in the mud on the bottom of the ocean or lake where the organisms lived. under the heat ( above 50 °c ) and pressure of burial deep in the earth, the remains were transformed into materials such as bitumen, kerogen, or petroleum. natural deposits of bitumen include lakes such as the pitch lake in trinidad and tobago and lake bermudez in venezuela. natural seeps occur in the la brea tar pits and the mckittrick tar pits in california, as well as in the dead sea. bitumen also occurs in unconsolidated sandstones known as " oil sands " in alberta, canada, and the similar " tar sands " in utah, us. the canadian province of alberta has most of the world ' s reserves, in three huge deposits covering, an area larger than england or new york state. these bituminous sands contain of commercially established oil reserves, giving canada the third largest oil reserves in the world. although historically it was used without refining to pave roads, nearly all of the output is now used as raw material for oil refineries in canada and the united states. the world ' s largest deposit of natural bitumen, known as the athabasca oil sands, is located in the mcmurray formation of northern alberta. this formation is from the early cretaceous, and is composed of numerous lenses of