: he remained on his plantation after the war until he was appointed by later 12th president zachary taylor to the u. s. army as a major and was made a paymaster in december 1849 for a district of texas encompassing the military posts from the upper colorado river to the upper trinity river. he served in that role for more than five years, making six tours and traveling more than annually on the indian frontier of texas. he served on the texas frontier at fort mason and elsewhere in the western united states. in 1855, 14th president franklin pierce appointed him colonel of the new 2nd u. s. cavalry ( the unit that preceded the modern 5th u. s. ), a new regiment, which he organized, his lieutenant colonel being robert e. lee, and his majors william j. hardee and george h. thomas. other subordinates in this unit included earl van dorn, edmund kirby smith, nathan g. evans, innis n. palmer, george stoneman, r. w. johnson, john b. hood, and charles w. field, all future civil war generals. on the 31st of march 1856, johnston received a promotion to temporary command of the entire department of texas. he campaigned aggressively against the comanche, writing to his daughter that " the indians harass our frontiers and the 2nd cavalry and other troops thrash them wherever they catch them. " in march 1857, brigadier general david e. twiggs was appointed permanent commander of the department and johnston returned to his position as colonel of the 2nd cavalry. utah war as a key figure in the utah war, johnston took command of the u. s. forces dispatched to crush the mormon rebellion in november 1857. their objective was to install alfred cumming as governor of the utah territory, replacing brigham young, and restore u. s. legal authority in the region. as johnston had replaced brigadier general william s. harney in command, he only joined the army after it had already departed for utah. johnston ’ s adjutant general, and future u. s. general in the civil war, major fitz john porter wrote : “ experienced on the plains and of established reputation for energy, courage, and resources, [ johnston ’ s ] presence restored confidence at all points, and encouraged the weak - hearted and panic - stricken multitude. the long chain of wagons, kinked, tangled, and hard to move, uncoiled and went forward smoothly. " johnston worked tirelessly over the next few months to maintain the effectiveness of his army in the harsh winter environment at fort bridger,