australia, was the world ' s first purpose - built motor racing circuit, opening in january 1906. the pear - shaped track was close to a mile in length, with slightly banked curves and a gravel surface of crushed cement. brooklands, in surrey, england, was the first purpose - built ' banked ' motor racing venue, opening in june 1907. it featured a concrete track with high - speed banked corners. one of the oldest existing purpose - built automobile racing circuits in the united states, still in use, is the indianapolis motor speedway in speedway, indiana. it is the largest capacity sports venue of any variety worldwide, with a top capacity of some 257, 000 + seated spectators. nascar was founded by bill france sr. on february 21, 1948, with the help of several other drivers of the time. the first nascar " strictly stock " race ever was held on june 19, 1949, at daytona beach, florida, u. s.. from 1962, sports cars temporarily took a back seat to gt cars, with the ( fia ) replacing the world championship for sports cars with the international championship for gt manufacturers. from 1962 through 2003, nascar ' s premier series was called the winston cup series, sponsored by r. j. reynolds tobacco company cigarette brand winston. the changes that resulted from rjr ' s involvement, as well as the reduction of the schedule from 56 to 34 races a year, established 1972 as the beginning of nascar ' s " modern era ". the imsa gt series evolved into the american le mans series, which ran its first season in 1998. the european races eventually became the closely related european le mans series, both of which mix prototypes and gts. ( tc ) is a popular touring car racing series in argentina, and one of the oldest car racing series still active in the world. the first tc competition took place in 1931 with 12 races, each in a different province. future formula one star juan manuel fangio ( chevrolet ) won the 1940 and 1941 editions of the tc. it was during this time that the series ' chevrolet - ford rivalry began, with ford acquiring most of its historical victories. over the last few years, auto racing has seen a transformative shift, echoing past pivots. the industry, much like the cars it champions, has had to navigate through the hairpin turns of a global pandemic and a persistent chip shortage, each threatening to derail production schedules. at the same time, a new course is being charted towards an electric future, a dramatic change