. starch staple foods include imported rice and other foods that are imported or locally grown, including yams, sweet potatoes and breadfruit. literature the anguilla national trust has programmes encouraging anguillan writers and the preservation of the island ' s history. in 2015, where i see the sun – contemporary poetry in anguilla a new anthology by lasana m. sekou was published by house of nehesi publishers. among the forty three poets in the collection are rita celestine - carty, bankie banx, john t. harrigan, patricia j. adams, fabian fahie, dr. oluwakemi linda banks, and reuel ben lewi. music various caribbean musical genres are popular on the island, such as soca and calypso, but reggae most deeply roots itself in anguillan society. anguilla has produced many artists and groups in this genre. reggae has shown itself to be the most popular genre in anguilla. the most successful of reggae artists originating in anguilla come from the banks family. bankie " banx " and his son omari banks have had many chart - topping songs listened to around the world. the two musicians continue to provide live performances across the island quite often. british dependency has also gained popularity throughout the 21st century. the band, who began in anguilla, boasts the island ' s first female bass player. performing alongside the wailers on tour, british dependency have earned attention from an american audience. one of many musical events that take place in anguilla is moonsplash. moonsplash is an annual reggae music festival that has occurred in anguilla for 33 consecutive years and proves to be the oldest independent musical event in the caribbean. along with its longstanding history, it is the largest festival annually alongside carnival. while not many soca and calypso artists have gained extreme popularity, the genres are still widely listened to across the island. sports boat racing has deep roots in anguillan culture and is the national sport. there are regular sailing regattas on national holidays, such as carnival, which are contested by locally built and designed boats. these boats have names and have sponsors that print their logo on their sails. as in many other former british colonies, cricket is also a popular sport. anguilla is the home of omari banks, who played for the west indies cricket team, while cardigan connor played first - class cricket for english county side hampshire and was ' chef de mission ' (