extensive weapons transfers to armenia throughout 2008 costing about $ 800 million. on 12 january 2009, the russian ambassador was invited to the azerbaijani ministry of foreign affairs and asked about this information. on 21 january 2009, russian ministry of foreign relations officially denied the transfers. according to the materials published by wikileaks in december 2010, azerbaijani defence minister safar abiyev claimed that in january 2009 during his visit to moscow, his russian counterpart anatoly serdyukov unofficially had admitted to weapons transfers " after the second bottle of vodka " that evening, although officially it was denied. in june 2013 it was revealed that russia has deployed in armenia several iskander - m ballistic missiles systems, which are stationed at undisclosed locations in the country. collective security treaty organisation on 7 october 2002, the presidents of armenia, belarus, kazakhstan, kyrgyzstan, russia and tajikistan, signed a charter in tashkent, founding the collective security treaty organisation ( csto ) ( russian : организация договора о коллективнои безопасности ( одкб ~ odkb ) ) or simply ташкентскии договор ( the tashkent treaty ). nikolai bordyuzha was appointed secretary general of the new organisation. on 23 june 2006, uzbekistan became a full participant in the csto and its membership was formally ratified by its parliament on 28 march 2008. furthermore, the csto is an observer organisation at the united nations general assembly. the charter reaffirmed the desire of all participating states to abstain from the use or threat of force. signatories would not be able to join other military alliances or other groups of states, while aggression against one signatory would be perceived as an aggression against all. to this end, the csto holds yearly military command exercises for the csto nations to have an opportunity to improve inter - organisation cooperation. the largest - scale csto military exercise held, to date, were the " rubezh 2008 " exercises hosted in armenia where a combined total of 4, 000 troops from all 7 constituent csto member countries conducted operative, strategic, and tactical training with an emphasis towards furthering the efficiency of the collective security element of the csto partnership. the ministry of defense of armenia has repeatedly stated that it would expect direct military assistance from the csto in case war with azerbaijan resumes