##ge reconciles with human free will in the following way : human free will is limited by original sin, though god ' s prevenient grace restores to humanity the ability to accept god ' s call of salvation. god ' s foreknowledge of the future is exhaustive and complete, and therefore the future is certain and not contingent on human action. god does not determine the future, but he does know it. god ' s certainty and human contingency are compatible. roger olson expressed those defining ideas in a more practical way : " " arminianism, " [... ] is simply a term we use in theology for the view, held by some people before arminius and many after him, that sinners who hear the gospel have the free will to accept or reject god ’ s offer of saving grace and that nobody is excluded by god from the possibility of salvation except those who freely exclude themselves. but true, historical, classical arminianism includes the belief that this free will [ to repent and believe unto salvation ] is itself a gift of god through prevenient grace. " condition of humanity depravity is total : arminius states " in this [ fallen ] state, the free will of man towards the true good is not only wounded, infirm, bent, and weakened ; but it is also imprisoned, destroyed, and lost. and its powers are not only debilitated and useless unless they be assisted by grace, but it has no powers whatever except such as are excited by divine grace. " extent and nature of the atonement atonement is intended for all : jesus ' s death was for all people, jesus draws all people to himself, and all people have opportunity for salvation through faith. jesus ' s death satisfies god ' s justice : the penalty for the sins of the elect is paid in full through the crucifixion of christ. thus christ ' s death atones for the sins of all, but requires faith to be effected. arminius states that " justification, when used for the act of a judge, is either purely the imputation of righteousness through mercy [... ] or that man is justified before god [... ] according to the rigor of justice without any forgiveness. " stephen ashby clarifies : " arminius allowed for only two possible ways in which the sinner might be justified : ( 1 ) by our absolute and perfect adherence to the law, or ( 2 )