lois and were released in the summer of 1969. lois has incorrectly stated that he was commissioned by braniff in 1967 for representation during that year, but at that time madison avenue advertising doyenne mary wells lawrence, who was married to braniff ' s chairman and president harding lawrence, was representing the dallas - based carrier at that time. lois succeeded wells rich greene agency on december 1, 1968. the rights to warhol ' s films for braniff and his signed contracts are owned by a private trust and are administered by braniff airways foundation in dallas, texas. music warhol strongly influenced the new wave / punk rock band devo, as well as david bowie. bowie recorded a song called " andy warhol " for his 1971 album hunky dory. lou reed wrote the song " andy ' s chest ", about valerie solanas, the woman who shot warhol, in 1968. he recorded it with the velvet underground, and this version was released on the vu album in 1985. the band triumph also wrote a song about andy warhol, " stranger in a strange land " off their 1984 album thunder seven. books a biography of andy warhol written by art critic blake gopnik was published in 2020 under the title warhol. comic books warhol is featured as a character in the miracleman series of comics. it is first mentioned that he was resurrected by the alien scientist mors and subsequently convinces the latter to mass - produce copies of himself. later on, 18 copies of warhol are seen in the underworld beneath the pyramid structure olympus, where they produce pop art relating to the new superhuman regime. one warhol clone numbered 6 is assigned to and develop a friendship with a clone of emil gargunza ( miracleman ' s creator ) before the latter ' s betrayal and attempted escape. video games warhol ( played by jeff grace ) makes a cameo appearance in the 2022 video game immortality. see also andy warhol art authentication board andy warhol bridge, pittsburgh, pa andy warhol foundation v. goldsmith, copyright case decided by the us supreme court lgbt culture in new york city list of lgbt people from new york city moon museum painting the century : 101 portrait masterpieces 1900 – 2000 references further reading " a symposium on pop art ". arts magazine, april 1963, pp. 36 – 45. the symposium was held in 1962, at the museum of modern art, and published in this issue the following year. celant, germano. andy warhol : a factory. kunstmuseum