, but was assassinated in 1933 by abdul khaliq. mohammed zahir shah succeeded to the throne and reigned as king from 1933 to 1973. during the tribal revolts of 1944 – 1947, king zahir ' s reign was challenged by zadran, safi, mangal, and wazir tribesmen led by mazrak zadran, salemai, and mirzali khan, among others – many of whom were amanullah loyalists. afghanistan joined the league of nations in 1934. the 1930s saw the development of roads, infrastructure, the founding of a national bank, and increased education. road links in the north played a large part in a growing cotton and textile industry. the country built close relationships with the axis powers, with nazi germany having the largest share in afghan development at the time. until 1946, king zahir ruled with the assistance of his uncle, who held the post of prime minister and continued the policies of nadir shah. another uncle, shah mahmud khan, became prime minister in 1946 and experimented with allowing greater political freedom. he was replaced in 1953 by mohammed daoud khan, a pashtun nationalist who sought the creation of a pashtunistan, leading to highly tense relations with pakistan. daoud khan pressed for social modernization reforms and sought a closer relationship with the soviet union. afterward, the 1964 constitution was formed, and the first non - royal prime minister was sworn in. zahir shah, like his father nadir shah, had a policy of maintaining national independence while pursuing gradual modernization, creating nationalist feeling, and improving relations with the united kingdom. afghanistan was neither a participant in world war ii nor aligned with either power bloc in the cold war. however, it was a beneficiary of the latter rivalry as both the soviet union and the united states vied for influence by building afghanistan ' s main highways, airports, and other vital infrastructure. on a per capita basis, afghanistan received more soviet development aid than any other country. in 1973, while the king was in italy, daoud khan launched a bloodless coup and became the first president of afghanistan, abolishing the monarchy. democratic republic and soviet war in april 1978, the communist people ' s democratic party of afghanistan ( pdpa ) seized power in a bloody coup d ' etat against then - president mohammed daoud khan, in what is called the saur revolution. the pdpa declared the establishment of the democratic republic of afghanistan, with its first leader named as people ' s democratic party general secretary nur muhammad taraki. this would