invoking the name of arius, but in large part followed arius ' s teachings and, in another attempted compromise wording, described the son as being like ( homoios ) the father. a third group explicitly called upon arius and described the son as unlike ( anhomoios ) the father. constantius wavered in his support between the first and the second party, while harshly persecuting the third. epiphanius of salamis labeled the party of basil of ancyra in 358 " semi - arianism ". this is considered unfair by kelly who states that some members of the group were virtually orthodox from the start but disliked the adjective homoousios while others had moved in that direction after the out - and - out arians had come into the open. the debates among these groups resulted in numerous synods, among them the council of serdica in 343, the fourth council of sirmium in 358 and the double council of rimini and seleucia in 359, and no fewer than fourteen further creed formulas between 340 and 360, leading the pagan observer ammianus marcellinus to comment sarcastically : " the highways were covered with galloping bishops. " none of these attempts were acceptable to the defenders of nicene orthodoxy ; writing about the latter councils, saint jerome remarked that the world " awoke with a groan to find itself arian. " after constantius ' s death in 361, his successor julian, a devotee of rome ' s pagan gods, declared that he would no longer attempt to favor one church faction over another, and allowed all exiled bishops to return ; this resulted in further increasing dissension among nicene christians. the emperor valens, however, revived constantius ' s policy and supported the " homoian " party, exiling bishops and often using force. during this persecution many bishops were exiled to the other ends of the roman empire ( e. g., saint hilary of poitiers to the eastern provinces ). these contacts and the common plight subsequently led to a rapprochement between the western supporters of the nicene creed and the homoousios and the eastern semi - arians. council of constantinople it was not until the co - reigns of gratian and theodosius that arianism was effectively wiped out among the ruling class and elite of the eastern empire. valens died in the battle of adrianople in 378 and was succeeded by theodosius i, who adhered to the nicene creed. this