and artistic monument on july 24, 1969. casa mila was in poor condition in the early 1980s. it had been painted a dreary brown and many of its interior color schemes had been abandoned or allowed to deteriorate, but it has been restored since and many of the original colors revived. in 1984, the building became part of a world heritage site encompassing some of gaudi ' s works. the barcelonan city council tried to rent the main floor as an office for the 1992 olympic bid. finally, the day before christmas 1986, caixa catalunya bought la pedrera for 900 million pesetas. on february 19, 1987, urgently needed work began on the restoration and cleaning of the facade. the work was done by the architects joseph emilio hernandez - cros and rafael vila. the renovated main floor opened in 1990 as part of the cultural olympiad of barcelona. the floor became an exhibition room with an example of modernism in the eixample. design the building is 1, 323 m2 per floor on a plot of 1, 620 m2. gaudi made the first sketches in his workshop in the sagrada familia. he designed the house as a constant curve, both outside and inside, incorporating ruled geometry and naturalistic elements. casa mila consists of two buildings, which are structured around two courtyards that provide light to the nine stories : basement, ground floor, mezzanine, main ( or noble ) floor, four upper floors, and an attic. the basement was intended to be the garage, the main floor the residence of the milas ( a flat of all 1, 323 m2 ), and the rest distributed over 20 apartments. the resulting layout is shaped like an asymmetrical " 8 " because of the different shapes and sizes of the courtyards. the attic housed the laundry and drying areas, forming an insulating space for the building and simultaneously determining the levels of the roof. one of the most notable elements of the building is the roof, crowned with skylights, staircase exits, fans, and chimneys. all of these elements, constructed out of brick covered with lime, broken marble, or glass have a specific architectural function but are also real sculptures integrated into the building. the apartments feature plastered ceilings with dynamic reliefs, handcrafted wooden doors, windows, and furniture, as well as hydraulic tiles and various ornamental elements. the stairways were intended as service entries, with the main access to the apartments by elevator except for the noble floor, where gaudi added a prominent