people tended to marry other deaf people, this could result in the emergence of a " deaf race ". ultimately, in 1880, the second international congress on education of the deaf passed a resolution preferring the teaching of oral communication rather than signing in schools. continuing experimentation in 1872, bell became professor of vocal physiology and elocution at the boston university school of oratory. during this period, he alternated between boston and brantford, spending summers in his canadian home. at boston university, bell was " swept up " by the excitement engendered by the many scientists and inventors residing in the city. he continued his research in sound and endeavored to find a way to transmit musical notes and articulate speech, but although absorbed by his experiments, he found it difficult to devote enough time to experimentation. while days and evenings were occupied by his teaching and private classes, bell began to stay awake late into the night, running experiment after experiment in rented facilities at his boarding house. keeping " night owl " hours, he worried that his work would be discovered and took great pains to lock up his notebooks and laboratory equipment. bell had a specially made table where he could place his notes and equipment inside a locking cover. worse still, his health deteriorated as he had severe headaches. returning to boston in fall 1873, bell made a far - reaching decision to concentrate on his experiments in sound. deciding to give up his lucrative private boston practice, bell retained only two students, six - year - old " georgie " sanders, deaf from birth, and 15 - year - old mabel hubbard. each pupil would play an important role in the next developments. george ' s father, thomas sanders, a wealthy businessman, offered bell a place to stay in nearby salem with georgie ' s grandmother, complete with a room to " experiment ". although the offer was made by george ' s mother and followed the year - long arrangement in 1872 where her son and his nurse had moved to quarters next to bell ' s boarding house, it was clear that mr. sanders was backing the proposal. the arrangement was for teacher and student to continue their work together, with free room and board thrown in. mabel was a bright, attractive girl who was ten years bell ' s junior but became the object of his affection. having lost her hearing after a near - fatal bout of scarlet fever close to her fifth birthday, she had learned to read lips but her father, gardiner greene hubbard, bell ' s benefactor and personal friend, wanted her to work directly with her teacher. the telephone