and vertical formulas such as " 1 + 2 = " was also under development but never released. however, users wrote similar programs which could evaluate mathematical formulas using the newton os intelligent assistant, a unique part of every newton device. the handwriting recognition and parts of the user interface for the newton are best understood in the context of the broad history of pen computing, which is quite extensive. a vital feature of the newton handwriting recognition system is the modeless error correction. that is, correction done in situ without using a separate window or widget, using a minimum of gestures. if a word is recognized improperly, the user could double - tap the word and a list of alternatives would pop up in a menu under the stylus. most of the time, the correct word will be in the list. if not, a button at the bottom of the list allows the user to edit individual characters in that word. other pen gestures could do such things as transpose letters ( also in situ ). the correction popup also allowed the user to revert to the original, un - recognized letter shapes - this would be useful in note - taking scenarios if there was insufficient time to make corrections immediately. to conserve memory and storage space, alternative recognition hypotheses would not be saved indefinitely. if the user returned to a note a week later, for example, they would only see the best match. error correction in many current handwriting systems provides such functionality but adds more steps to the process, greatly increasing the interruption to a user ' s workflow that a given correction requires. user interface text could also be entered by tapping with the stylus on a small on - screen pop - up qwerty virtual keyboard, although more layouts were developed by users. newton devices could also accept free - hand " sketches ", " shapes ", and " ink text ", much like a desktop computer graphics tablet. with " shapes ", newton could recognize that the user was attempting to draw a circle, a line, a polygon, etc., and it would clean them up into perfect vector representations ( with modifiable control points and defined vertices ) of what the user was attempting to draw. " shapes " and " sketches " could be scaled or deformed once drawn. " ink text " captured the user ' s free - hand writing but allowed it to be treated somewhat like recognized text when manipulating for later editing purposes ( " ink text " supported word wrap, could be formatted to be bold, italic, etc. ). at any