typically include a ruler to show the scale. a more dangerous example was discovered by rich caruana in 2015 : a machine learning system that accurately predicted risk of death classified a patient that was over 65, asthma and difficulty breathing as " low risk ". further research showed that in high - risk cases like this, the hospital would allocate more resources and save the patient ' s life, decreasing the risk measured by the program. mistakes like these become obvious when we know how the program has reached a decision. without an explanation, these problems may not not be discovered until after they have caused harm. a second issue is that people who have been harmed by an algorithm ' s decision have a right to an explanation. doctors, for example, are required to clearly and completely explain the reasoning behind any decision they make. early drafts of the european union ' s general data protection regulation in 2016 included an explicit statement that this right exists. industry experts noted that this is an unsolved problem with no solution in sight. regulators argued that nevertheless the harm is real : if the problem has no solution, the tools should not be used. darpa established the xai ( " explainable artificial intelligence " ) program in 2014 to try and solve these problems. there are several potential solutions to the transparency problem. multitask learning provides a large number of outputs in addition to the target classification. these other outputs can help developers deduce what the network has learned. deconvolution, deepdream and other generative methods can allow developers to see what different layers of a deep network have learned and produce output that can suggest what the network is learning. supersparse linear integer models use learning to identify the most important features, rather than the classification. simple addition of these features can then make the classification ( i. e. learning is used to create a scoring system classifier, which is transparent ). bad actors and weaponized ai a lethal autonomous weapon is a machine that locates, selects and engages human targets without human supervision. by 2015, over fifty countries were reported to be researching battlefield robots. these weapons are considered especially dangerous for several reasons : if they kill an innocent person it is not clear who should be held accountable, it is unlikely they will reliably choose targets, and, if produced at scale, they are potentially weapons of mass destruction. in 2014, 30 nations ( including china ) supported a ban on autonomous weapons under the united nations ' convention on certain conventional weapons, however the united states and others disagreed. ai provides