edited by ivor back, an old friend of crowley ' s who was both a practicing surgeon and an enthusiast of literature. his poetry often received strong reviews ( either positive or negative ), but never sold well. in an attempt to gain more publicity, he issued a reward of £100 for the best essay on his work. the winner of this was j. f. c. fuller, a british army officer and military historian, whose essay, the star in the west ( 1907 ), heralded crowley ' s poetry as some of the greatest ever written. crowley decided to climb kanchenjunga in the himalayas of nepal, widely recognised as the world ' s most treacherous mountain. the collaboration between jacot - guillarmod, charles adolphe reymond, alexis pache, and alcesti c. rigo de righi, the expedition was marred by much argument between crowley and the others, who thought that he was reckless. they eventually mutinied against crowley ' s control, with the other climbers heading back down the mountain as nightfall approached despite crowley ' s warnings that it was too dangerous. subsequently, pache and several porters were killed in an accident, something for which crowley was widely blamed by the mountaineering community. spending time in moharbhanj, where he took part in big - game hunting and wrote the homoerotic work the scented garden, crowley met up with rose and lilith in calcutta before being forced to leave india after non - lethally shooting two men who tried to mug him. briefly visiting bennett in burma, crowley and his family decided to tour southern china, hiring porters and a nanny for the purpose. crowley smoked opium throughout the journey, which took the family from tengyueh through to yungchang, tali, yunnanfu, and then hanoi. on the way, he spent much time on spiritual and magical work, reciting the " bornless ritual ", an invocation to his holy guardian angel, on a daily basis. while rose and lilith returned to europe, crowley headed to shanghai to meet old friend elaine simpson, who was fascinated by the book of the law ; together they performed rituals in an attempt to contact aiwass. crowley then sailed to japan and canada, before continuing to new york city, where he unsuccessfully solicited support for a second expedition up kanchenjunga. upon arrival in britain, crowley learned that his daughter lilith had died of typhoid in rangoon, something he later blamed on rose ' s increasing alcoholism. under