jonas savimbi, was killed in action in 2002. from 2002 to 2010, the system as defined by the constitution of 1992 functioned in a relatively normal way. the executive branch of the government was composed of the president, the prime minister and council of ministers. the council of ministers, composed of all ministers and vice ministers, met regularly to discuss policy issues. governors of the 18 provinces were appointed by and served at the pleasure of the president. the constitutional law of 1992 established the broad outlines of government structure and the rights and duties of citizens. the legal system was based on portuguese and customary law but was weak and fragmented. courts operated in only 12 of more than 140 municipalities. a supreme court served as the appellate tribunal ; a constitutional court with powers of judicial review was never constituted despite statutory authorization. in practice, power was more and more concentrated in the hands of the president who, supported by an ever - increasing staff, largely controlled parliament, government, and the judiciary. the 26 - year - long civil war has ravaged the country ' s political and social institutions. the un estimates of 1. 8 million internally displaced persons ( idps ), while generally the accepted figure for war - affected people is 4 million. daily conditions of life throughout the country and specifically luanda ( population approximately 6 million ) mirror the collapse of administrative infrastructure as well as many social institutions. the ongoing grave economic situation largely prevents any government support for social institutions. hospitals are without medicines or basic equipment, schools are without books, and public employees often lack the basic supplies for their day - to - day work. jose eduardo dos santos stepped down as president of angola after 38 years in 2017, being peacefully succeeded by joao lourenco, santos ' chosen successor. however, president joao lourenco started a campaign against corruption of the dos santos era. in november 2017, isabel dos santos, the billionaire daughter of former president jose eduardo dos santos, was fired from her position as head of the country ' s state oil company sonangol. in august 2020, jose filomeno dos santos, son of angola ' s former president, was sentenced for five years in jail for fraud and corruption. in august 2022, the ruling party, mpla, won another outright majority and president joao lourenco won a second five - year term in the election. however, the election was the tightest in angola ’ s history. executive branch the 2010 constitution grants the president almost absolute power. elections for the national assembly are to take place every five years, and the president