of la sagrada familia and the nativity facade. gaudi ' s work at the time was both admired and criticized for his bold, innovative solutions. gaudi was injured on june 7, 1926, when he was run over by a tram. he later died in the hospital due to his injuries on june 10, 1926, at the age of 73. a few years after his death, his fame became renowned by critics and the general public alike. building owners casa mila was built for roser segimon and her husband pere mila. roser segimon was the wealthy widow of josep guardiola, an indiano or americano, or former colonist returned from south america, who had made his fortune with a coffee plantation in guatemala. her second husband, pere mila was a developer known for his flamboyant lifestyle. construction process in 1905, mila and segimon married and on june 9, roser segimon bought a house with garden which occupied an area of 1, 835 square meters, located on paseo de gracia, 92. in september, they commissioned gaudi for building them a new house with the idea of living in the main floor and renting out the rest of the apartments. on february 2, 1906, the project was presented to the barcelona city council and the works began, demolishing the pre - existing building instead of reforming it, as in the case of the casa batllo. the building was completed in december 1910 and the owner asked gaudi to make a certificate to inhabit the main floor, which the city council authorized in october 1911, and the couple moved in. on october 31, 1912, gaudi issued the certificate stating that, in accordance with his plans and his direction, the work had been completed and the whole house was ready to be rented. critics and controversies the building did not respect any rules of conventional style, for which gaudi received much criticism. to begin with, the name " la pedrera " is in fact a nickname assigned by the citizens who disapproved of its unusualness. the unique structure of the building and the relationship between the building ' s architect and pere mila became the object of ridicule for the people of barcelona and many humorous publications of the time. catholic symbols gaudi, a catholic and a devotee of the virgin mary, planned for the casa mila to be a spiritual symbol. overt religious elements include an excerpt from the rosary on the cornice and