the investment in angola, with chevron - texaco leading the way. the u. s. exports industrial goods and services, primarily oilfield equipment, mining equipment, chemicals, aircraft, and food, to angola, while principally importing petroleum. trade between angola and south africa exceeded us $ 300 million in 2007. from the 2000s, many chinese have settled and started up businesses. resources petroleum angola produces and exports more petroleum than any other nation in sub - saharan africa, surpassing nigeria first in the 2000s, then in 2022. in january 2007 angola became a member of opec. under the lourenco since 2017, the country has made efforts to incentive investments and reverse declining production, resulting in fresh investments made by international oil companies. chevron corporation, totalenergies., exxonmobil, eni, and bp all operate in the country and represent a vast majority of daily production. block 17, operated by totalenergies, is angola ' s biggest producing asset and is known as the golden block. the french major is currently executing several subsea tieback projects there, including clov 3 and begonia, whose final investment decisions ( fids ) were taken in 2022. the united nations has criticized the angolan government for using torture, rape, summary executions, arbitrary detention, and disappearances, actions which angolan government has justified on the need to maintain oil output. angola is the third - largest trading partner of the united states in sub - saharan africa, largely because of its petroleum exports. the u. s. imports 7 % of its oil from angola, about three times as much as it imported from kuwait just prior to the gulf war in 1991. the u. s. government has invested us $ 4 billion in angola ' s petroleum sector. oil makes up over 90 % of angola ' s exports. diamonds angola is the third largest producer of diamonds in africa and has only explored 40 % of the diamond - rich territory within the country, but has had difficulty in attracting foreign investment because of corruption, human rights violations, and diamond smuggling. production rose by 30 % in 2006 and endiama, the national diamond company of angola, expects production to increase by 8 % in 2007 to 10 million carats annually. the government is trying to attract foreign companies to the provinces of bie, malanje and uige. the angolan government loses $ 375 million annually from diamond smuggling. in 2003, the government began operation brilliant, an anti - smuggling investigation that arrested and deported 250, 000 smugglers between