, in 1914. the name refers to the fact that it is the only major language family with large populations in both africa and asia. due to concerns that " afroasiatic " could imply the inclusion of all languages spoken across africa and asia, the name " afrasian " ( ) was proposed by igor diakonoff in 1980. at present it predominantly sees use among russian scholars. the names lisramic — based on the afroasiastic root * lis - ( " tongue " ) and the egyptian word rmt ( " person " ) — and erythraean — referring to the core area around which the languages are spoken, the red sea — have also been proposed. distribution and branches scholars generally consider afroasiatic to have between five and eight branches. the five that are universally agreed upon are berber ( also called " libyco - berber " ), chadic, cushitic, egyptian, and semitic. most specialists consider the omotic languages to constitute a sixth branch. due to the presumed distance of relationship between the various branches, many scholars prefer to refer to afroasiatic as a " linguistic phylum " rather than a " language family ". m. victoria almansa - villatoro and silvia stubnova nigrelli write that there are about 400 languages in afroasiatic ; ethnologue lists 375 languages. many scholars estimate fewer languages ; exact numbers vary depending on the definitions of " language " and " dialect ". berber the berber ( or libyco - berber ) languages are spoken today by perhaps 16 million people. they are often considered to constitute a single language with multiple dialects. other scholars, however, argue that they are a group of around twelve languages, about as different from each other as the romance or germanic languages. in the past, berber languages were spoken throughout north africa except in egypt ; since the 7th century ce, however, they have been heavily affected by arabic and have been replaced by it in many places. there are two extinct languages potentially related to modern berber. the first is the numidian language, represented by over a thousand short inscriptions in the libyco - berber alphabet, found throughout north africa and dating from the 2nd century bce onward. the second is the guanche language, which was formerly spoken on the canary islands and went extinct in the 17th century ce. the first longer written examples of modern berber varieties only date from the 16th or 17th centuries ce. chadic chadic languages number between 150 and 190, making chadic the