the sky. these apps make use of the inbuilt hardware in the phone, such as gps location and gyroscope. useful information about the pointed object like celestial coordinates, the name of the object, its constellation, etc. are provided for a quick reference. some paid versions give more information. these apps are gradually getting into regular use during observing, for the alignment process of telescopes. setting circles setting circles are angular measurement scales that can be placed on the two main rotation axes of some telescopes. since the widespread adoption of digital setting circles, any classical engraved setting circle is now specifically identified as an " analog setting circle " ( asc ). by knowing the coordinates of an object ( usually given in equatorial coordinates ), the telescope user can use the setting circle to align ( i. e., point ) the telescope in the appropriate direction before looking through its eyepiece. a computerized setting circle is called a " digital setting circle " ( dsc ). although digital setting circles can be used to display a telescope ' s ra and dec coordinates, they are not simply a digital read - out of what can be seen on the telescope ' s analog setting circles. as with go - to telescopes, digital setting circle computers ( commercial names include argo navis, sky commander, and ngc max ) contain databases of tens of thousands of celestial objects and projections of planet positions. to find a celestial object in a telescope equipped with a dsc computer, one does not need to look up the specific ra and dec coordinates in a book or other resource, and then adjust the telescope to those numerical readings. rather, the object is chosen from the electronic database, which causes distance values and arrow markers to appear in the display that indicate the distance and direction to move the telescope. the telescope is moved until the two angular distance values reach zero, indicating that the telescope is properly aligned. when both the ra and dec axes are thus " zeroed out ", the object should be in the eyepiece. many dscs, like go - to systems, can also work in conjunction with laptop sky programs. computerized systems provide the further advantage of computing coordinate precession. traditional printed sources are subtitled by the epoch year, which refers to the positions of celestial objects at a given time to the nearest year ( e. g., j2005, j2007 ). most such printed sources have been updated for intervals of only about every fifty years ( e. g., j1900, j1950, j2000