are carnivorous at the tadpole stage, eating insects, smaller tadpoles and fish. young of the cuban tree frog ( osteopilus septentrionalis ) can occasionally be cannibalistic, the younger tadpoles attacking a larger, more developed tadpole when it is undergoing metamorphosis. at metamorphosis, rapid changes in the body take place as the lifestyle of the frog changes completely. the spiral ‐ shaped mouth with horny tooth ridges is reabsorbed together with the spiral gut. the animal develops a large jaw, and its gills disappear along with its gill sac. eyes and legs grow quickly, and a tongue is formed. there are associated changes in the neural networks such as development of stereoscopic vision and loss of the lateral line system. all this can happen in about a day. a few days later, the tail is reabsorbed, due to the higher thyroxine concentration required for this to take place. salamanders at hatching, a typical salamander larva has eyes without lids, teeth in both upper and lower jaws, three pairs of feathery external gills, and a long tail with dorsal and ventral fins. the forelimbs may be partially developed and the hind limbs are rudimentary in pond - living species but may be rather more developed in species that reproduce in moving water. pond - type larvae often have a pair of balancers, rod - like structures on either side of the head that may prevent the gills from becoming clogged up with sediment. both of these are able to breed. some have larvae that never fully develop into the adult form, a condition known as neoteny. neoteny occurs when the animal ' s growth rate is very low and is usually linked to adverse conditions such as low water temperatures that may change the response of the tissues to the hormone thyroxine. as well as lack of food. there are fifteen species of obligate neotenic salamanders, including species of necturus, proteus and amphiuma, and many examples of facultative ones, such as the northwestern salamander ( ambystoma gracile ) and the tiger salamander ( a. tigrinum ) that adopt this strategy under appropriate environmental circumstances. lungless salamanders in the family plethodontidae are terrestrial and lay a small number of unpigmented eggs in a cluster among damp leaf litter. each egg has a large yolk sac and