, monumental constructions, and the intermixing of eastern and western populations. it included : construction of 1, 000 ships larger than triremes, along with harbours and a road running along the african coast all the way to the pillars of hercules, to be used for an invasion of carthage and the western mediterranean ; erection of great temples in delos, delphi, dodona, dium, amphipolis, all costing 1, 500 talents, and a monumental temple to athena at troy amalgamation of small settlements into larger cities ( " synoecisms " ) and the " transplant of populations from asia to europe and in the opposite direction from europe to asia, in order to bring the largest continent to common unity and to friendship by means of intermarriage and family ties " construction of a monumental tomb for his father philip, " to match the greatest of the pyramids of egypt " conquest of arabia circumnavigation of africa the enormous scale of these plans has led many scholars to doubt their historicity. ernst badian argued that they were exaggerated by perdiccas in order to ensure that the macedonian troops voted not to carry them out. other scholars have proposed that they were invented by later authors within the tradition of the alexander romance. character generalship alexander perhaps earned the epithet " the great " due to his unparalleled success as a military commander ; he never lost a battle, despite typically being outnumbered. this was due to use of terrain, phalanx and cavalry tactics, bold strategy, and the fierce loyalty of his troops. the macedonian phalanx, armed with the sarissa, a spear long, had been developed and perfected by philip ii through rigorous training, and alexander used its speed and manoeuvrability to great effect against larger but more disparate persian forces. alexander also recognized the potential for disunity among his diverse army, which employed various languages and weapons. he overcame this by being personally involved in battle, in the manner of a macedonian king. in his first battle in asia, at granicus, alexander used only a small part of his forces, perhaps 13, 000 infantry with 5, 000 cavalry, against a much larger persian force of 40, 000. alexander placed the phalanx at the center and cavalry and archers on the wings, so that his line matched the length of the persian cavalry line, about. by contrast, the persian infantry was stationed behind its cavalry. this ensured that alexander would not be outflanked, while his phalanx