of solid wood, with a steeply gabled roof to allow accumulated snow to slide off easily. stairs leading to upper levels are sometimes built on the outside, and balconies are sometimes enclosed. food is passed from the kitchen to the stube, where the dining room table is placed. some meals are communal, such as fondue, where a pot is set in the middle of the table for each person to dip into. other meals are still served traditionally on carved wooden plates. furniture has been traditionally elaborately carved and in many alpine countries, carpentry skills are passed from generation to generation. roofs are traditionally constructed from alpine rocks such as pieces of schist, gneiss, or slate. such chalets are typically found in the higher parts of the valleys, as in the maurienne valley in savoy, where the amount of snow during the cold months is important. the inclination of the roof cannot exceed 40 %, allowing the snow to stay on top, thereby functioning as insulation from the cold. in the lower areas where the forests are widespread, wooden tiles are traditionally used. commonly made of norway spruce, they are called " tavaillon ". in the german - speaking parts of the alps ( austria, bavaria, south tyrol, liechtenstein and switzerland ), there is a strong tradition of alpine folk culture. old traditions are carefully maintained among inhabitants of alpine areas, even though this is seldom obvious to the visitor : many people are members of cultural associations where the alpine folk culture is cultivated. at cultural events, traditional folk costume ( in german tracht ) is expected : typically lederhosen for men and dirndls for women. visitors can get a glimpse of the rich customs of the alps at public volksfeste. even when large events feature only a little folk culture, all participants take part with gusto. good opportunities to see local people celebrating the traditional culture occur at the many fairs, wine festivals, and firefighting festivals which fill weekends in the countryside from spring to autumn. alpine festivals vary from country to country. frequently they include music ( e. g. the playing of alpenhorns ), dance ( e. g. schuhplattler ), sports ( e. g. wrestling marches and archery ), as well as traditions with pagan roots such as the lighting of fires on walpurgis night and saint john ' s eve. many areas celebrate fastnacht in the weeks before lent. folk costume also continues to be worn for most weddings and festivals. tourism the alps are