moon. during the third pass, borman read a small prayer for his church. he had been scheduled to participate in a service at st. christopher ' s episcopal church near seabrook, texas, but due to the apollo8 flight, he was unable to attend. a fellow parishioner and engineer at mission control, rod rose, suggested that borman read the prayer, which could be recorded and then replayed during the service. earthrise when the spacecraft came out from behind the moon for its fourth pass across the front, the crew witnessed an " earthrise " in person for the first time in human history. nasa ' s lunar orbiter 1 had taken the first picture of an earthrise from the vicinity of the moon, on august 23, 1966. anders saw the earth emerging from behind the lunar horizon and called in excitement to the others, taking a black - and - white photograph as he did so. anders asked lovell for color film and then took earthrise, a now famous color photo, later picked by life magazine as one of its hundred photos of the century. due to the synchronous rotation of the moon about the earth, earthrise is not generally visible from the lunar surface. this is because, as seen from any one place on the moon ' s surface, earth remains in approximately the same position in the lunar sky, either above or below the horizon. earthrise is generally visible only while orbiting the moon, and at selected surface locations near the moon ' s limb, where libration carries the earth slightly above and below the lunar horizon. anders continued to take photographs while lovell assumed control of the spacecraft so that borman could rest. despite the difficulty resting in the cramped and noisy spacecraft, borman was able to sleep for two orbits, awakening periodically to ask questions about their status. borman awoke fully when he started to hear his fellow crew members make mistakes. they were beginning to not understand questions and had to ask for the answers to be repeated. borman realized that everyone was extremely tired from not having a good night ' s sleep in over three days. he ordered anders and lovell to get some sleep and that the rest of the flight plan regarding observing the moon be scrubbed. anders initially protested, saying that he was fine, but borman would not be swayed. anders finally agreed under the condition that borman would set up the camera to continue to take automatic pictures of the moon. borman also remembered that there was a second television broadcast planned, and with so many people expected to