live " and stays above where the diver is working. bags of abalone pried from the rocks are brought to the surface by the diver or by way of " shot line ", where the deckhand drops a weighted rope for the catch bag to be connected then retrieved. divers measure each abalone before removing from the reef and the deckhand remeasures each abalone and removes excess weed growth from the shell. since 2002, the victorian industry has seen a significant decline in catches, with the total allowable catch reduced from 1440 to 787 tonnes for the 2011 / 12 fishing year, due to dwindling stocks and most notably the abalone virus ganglioneuritis, which is fast - spreading and lethal to abalone stocks. united states sport harvesting of red abalone is permitted with a california fishing license and an abalone stamp card. in 2008, the abalone card also came with a set of 24 tags. this was reduced to 18 abalone per year in 2014, and as of 2017 the limit has been reduced to 12, only nine of which may be taken south of mendocino county. legal - size abalone must be tagged immediately. abalone may only be taken using breath - hold techniques or shorepicking ; scuba diving for abalone is strictly prohibited. taking of abalone is not permitted south of the mouth of san francisco bay. a size minimum of measured across the shell is in place. a person may be in possession of only three abalone at any given time. as of 2017, abalone season is may to october, excluding july. transportation of abalone may only legally occur while the abalone is still attached in the shell. sale of sport - obtained abalone is illegal, including the shell. only red abalone may be taken, as black, white, pink, flat, green, and pinto abalone are protected by law. in 2018, the california fish and game commission closed recreational abalone season due to dramatically declining populations. that year, they extended the moratorium to last through april 2021. an abalone diver is normally equipped with a thick wetsuit, including a hood, bootees, and gloves, and usually also a mask, snorkel, weight belt, abalone iron, and abalone gauge. alternatively, the rock picker can feel underneath rocks at low tides for abalone. abalone are mostly taken in depths from a few inches up to ; less common are freedivers who can work deeper than. abalone are normally found on rocks near