in greco - roman mythology, aeneas (, ; from ) was a trojan hero, the son of the trojan prince anchises and the greek goddess aphrodite ( equivalent to the roman venus ). his father was a first cousin of king priam of troy ( both being grandsons of ilus, founder of troy ), making aeneas a second cousin to priam ' s children ( such as hector and paris ). he is a minor character in greek mythology and is mentioned in homer ' s iliad. aeneas receives full treatment in roman mythology, most extensively in virgil ' s aeneid, where he is cast as an ancestor of romulus and remus. he became the first true hero of rome. snorri sturluson identifies him with the norse god viðarr of the æsir. etymology aeneas is the romanization of the hero ' s original greek name ( aineias ). aineias is first introduced in the homeric hymn to aphrodite when aphrodite gives him his name from the adjective (, " terrible " ), for the " terrible grief " ( ) he has caused her by being born a mortal who will age and die. it is a popular etymology for the name, apparently exploited by homer in the iliad. later in the medieval period there were writers who held that, because the aeneid was written by a philosopher, it is meant to be read philosophically. as such, in the " natural order ", the meaning of aeneas ' name combines greek ( " dweller " ) with ( " body " ), which becomes or " in - dweller " — i. e. as a god inhabiting a mortal body. however, there is no certainty regarding the origin of his name. epithets in imitation of the iliad, virgil borrows epithets of homer, including : anchisiades, magnanimum, magnus, heros, and bonus. though he borrows many, virgil gives aeneas two epithets of his own, in the aeneid : pater and pius. the epithets applied by virgil are an example of an attitude different from that of homer, for whilst odysseus is ( " wily " ), aeneas is described as ( " pious " ), which conveys a strong moral tone. the purpose of these epithets seems to enforce the notion of aeneas ' divine hand as father and founder of the roman race, and their use