or his private life. he was a comic poet in an age when it was conventional for a poet to assume the role of teacher ( didaskalos ), and though this specifically referred to his training of the chorus in rehearsal, it also covered his relationship with the audience as a commentator on significant issues. aristophanes claimed to be writing for a clever and discerning audience, yet he also declared that " other times " would judge the audience according to its reception of his plays. he sometimes boasts of his originality as a dramatist yet his plays consistently espouse opposition to radical new influences in athenian society. he caricatured leading figures in the arts ( notably euripides, whose influence on his own work however he once grudgingly acknowledged ), in politics ( especially the populist cleon ), and in philosophy / religion ( where socrates was the most obvious target ). such caricatures seem to imply that aristophanes was an old - fashioned conservative, yet that view of him leads to contradictions. it has been argued that aristophanes produced plays mainly to entertain the audience and to win prestigious competitions. his plays were written for production at the great dramatic festivals of athens, the lenaia and city dionysia, where they were judged and awarded prizes in competition with the works of other comic dramatists. an elaborate series of lotteries, designed to prevent prejudice and corruption, reduced the voting judges at the city dionysia to just five. these judges probably reflected the mood of the audiences yet there is much uncertainty about the composition of those audiences. the theatres were certainly huge, with seating for at least 10, 000 at the theatre of dionysus. the day ' s program at the city dionysia for example was crowded, with three tragedies and a satyr play ahead of a comedy, but it is possible that many of the poorer citizens ( typically the main supporters of demagogues like cleon ) occupied the festival holiday with other pursuits. the conservative views expressed in the plays might therefore reflect the attitudes of the dominant group in an unrepresentative audience. the production process might also have influenced the views expressed in the plays. throughout most of aristophanes ' career, the chorus was essential to a play ' s success and it was recruited and funded by a choregus, a wealthy citizen appointed to the task by one of the archons. a choregus could regard his personal expenditure on the chorus as a civic