among its dozen or so members. amphibian larvae are known as tadpoles. they have thick, rounded bodies with powerful muscular tails. frogs unlike in other amphibians, frog tadpoles do not resemble adults. the free - living larvae are normally fully aquatic, but the tadpoles of some species ( such as nannophrys ceylonensis ) are semi - terrestrial and live among wet rocks. tadpoles have cartilaginous skeletons, gills for respiration ( external gills at first, internal gills later ), lateral line systems and large tails that they use for swimming. newly hatched tadpoles soon develop gill pouches that cover the gills. the lungs develop early and are used as accessory breathing organs, the tadpoles rising to the water surface to gulp air. some species complete their development inside the egg and hatch directly into small frogs. these larvae do not have gills but instead have specialised areas of skin through which respiration takes place. while tadpoles do not have true teeth, in most species, the jaws have long, parallel rows of small keratinized structures called keradonts surrounded by a horny beak. front legs are formed under the gill sac and hind legs become visible a few days later. iodine and t4 ( over stimulate the spectacular apoptosis [ programmed cell death ] of the cells of the larval gills, tail and fins ) also stimulate the evolution of nervous systems transforming the aquatic, vegetarian tadpole into the terrestrial, carnivorous frog with better neurological, visuospatial, olfactory and cognitive abilities for hunting. in fact, tadpoles developing in ponds and streams are typically herbivorous. pond tadpoles tend to have deep bodies, large caudal fins and small mouths ; they swim in the quiet waters feeding on growing or loose fragments of vegetation. stream dwellers mostly have larger mouths, shallow bodies and caudal fins ; they attach themselves to plants and stones and feed on the surface films of algae and bacteria. they also feed on diatoms, filtered from the water through the gills, and stir up the sediment at bottom of the pond, ingesting edible fragments. they have a relatively long, spiral - shaped gut to enable them to digest this diet. some species are carnivorous at the tadpole stage, eating insects, smaller tadpoles and fish. young of the cuban tree frog ( osteopilus septentrionalis ) can occasionally be cannibalistic, the younger tadpoles attacking