xix de natura deorum ; academica, with an english translation by h. rackham, cambridge, massachusetts : harvard university press ; london : william heinemann, ltd, 1967. internet archive. diodorus siculus, library of history, volume iii : books 4. 59 - 8, translated by c. h. oldfather, loeb classical library no. 340. cambridge, massachusetts, harvard university press, 1939.. online version at harvard university press. online version by bill thayer. herodotus, herodotus, with an english translation by a. d. godley. cambridge. harvard university press. 1920. online version available at the perseus digital library. hesiod, theogony, in the homeric hymns and homerica with an english translation by hugh g. evelyn - white, cambridge, ma., harvard university press ; london, william heinemann ltd. 1914. online version at the perseus digital library. homeric hymn 3 to apollo in the homeric hymns and homerica with an english translation by hugh g. evelyn - white, cambridge, ma., harvard university press ; london, william heinemann ltd. 1914. online version at the perseus digital library. homeric hymn 4 to hermes, in the homeric hymns and homerica with an english translation by hugh g. evelyn - white, cambridge, massachusetts, harvard university press ; london, william heinemann ltd. 1914. online version at the perseus digital library. homer, the iliad with an english translation by a. t. murray, phd in two volumes. cambridge, ma., harvard university press ; london, william heinemann, ltd. 1924. online version at the perseus digital library. homer ; the odyssey with an english translation by a. t. murray, ph. d. in two volumes. cambridge, ma., harvard university press ; london, william heinemann, ltd. 1919. online version at the perseus digital library. hyginus, gaius julius, de astronomica, in the myths of hyginus, edited and translated by mary a. grant, lawrence : university of kansas press, 1960. online version at topostext. hyginus, gaius julius, fabulae, in the myths of hyginus, edited and translated by mary a. grant, lawrence : university of kansas press, 1960. online version at topostext. liv