temple measures 40, 00 x 23, 00 m at the stylobate, and the number of pteron columns was 8 x 14. pythion ( ), this was the name of a shrine of apollo at athens near the ilisos river. it was created by peisistratos, and tripods were placed there by those who had won in the cyclic chorus at the thargelia. setae ( lydia ) : the temple of apollo aksyros located in the city. apollonia pontica : there were two temples of apollo healer in the city. one from the late archaic period and the other from the early classical period. ikaros island in the persian gulf ( modern failaka island ) : there was a temple of apollo on the island. argos in cyprus : there was a temple of apollo erithios ( εριθιου απολλωνος ιερω ). the temple and oracle of apollo at eutresis. etruscan and roman temples veii ( etruria ) : the temple of apollo was built in the late 6th century bc, indicating the spread of apollo ' s culture ( aplu ) in etruria. there was a prostyle porch, which is called tuscan, and a triple cella 18, 50 m wide. falerii veteres ( etruria ) : a temple of apollo was built probably in the 4th - 3rd century bc. parts of a terracotta capital, and a terracotta base have been found. it seems that the etruscan columns were derived from the archaic doric. a cult of apollo soranus is attested by one inscription found near falerii. pompeii ( italy ) : the cult of apollo was widespread in the region of campania since the 6th century bc. the temple was built in 120 bc, but its beginnings lie in the 6th century bc. it was reconstructed after an earthquake in ad 63. it demonstrates a mixing of styles which formed the basis of roman architecture. the columns in front of the cella formed a tuscan prostyle porch, and the cella is situated unusually far back. the peripteral colonnade of 48 ionic columns was placed in such a way that the emphasis was given to the front side. rome : the temple of apollo sosianus and the temple of apollo medicus. the first temple building dates to 431 bc, and was dedicated to apollo medicus ( the doctor )