tracy austin and jim courier ( both of whom who had been no. 1 in singles but not doubles ). the exhibition included a mixed doubles match in which mcenroe and kournikova defeated courier and austin. in 2008, she was named a spokesperson for k - swiss. in 2005, kournikova stated that if she were 100 % fit, she would like to come back and compete again. in june 2010, kournikova reunited with her doubles partner martina hingis to participate in competitive tennis for the first time in seven years in the invitational ladies doubles event at wimbledon. on 29 june 2010 they defeated the british pair samantha smith and anne hobbs. playing style kournikova plays right - handed with a two - handed backhand. she is a great player at the net. she can hit forceful groundstrokes and also drop shots. her playing style fits the profile for a doubles player, and is complemented by her height. she has been compared to such doubles specialists as pam shriver and peter fleming. personal life kournikova was in a relationship with fellow russian, pavel bure, an nhl ice hockey player. the two met in 1999, when kournikova was still linked to bure ' s former russian teammate sergei fedorov. bure and kournikova were reported to have been engaged in 2000 after a reporter took a photo of them together in a florida restaurant where bure supposedly asked kournikova to marry him. as the story made headlines in russia, where they were both heavily followed in the media as celebrities, bure and kournikova both denied any engagement. kournikova, 10 years younger than bure, was 18 years old at the time. fedorov claimed that he and kournikova were married in 2001, and divorced in 2003. kournikova ' s representatives deny any marriage to fedorov ; however, fedorov ' s agent pat brisson claims that although he does not know when they got married, he knew " fedorov was married ". kournikova started dating singer enrique iglesias in late 2001 after she had appeared in his music video for " escape ". the couple have three children together, fraternal twins, a son and daughter, born on 16 december 2017, and another daughter born on 30 january 2020. it was reported in 2010 that kournikova had become an american citizen. media publicity in 2000, kournikova became the new face