arraignment is a formal reading of a criminal charging document in the presence of the defendant, to inform them of the charges against them. in response to arraignment, in some jurisdictions, the accused is expected to enter a plea ; in other jurisdictions, no plea is required. acceptable pleas vary among jurisdictions, but they generally include guilty, not guilty, and the peremptory pleas, or pleas in bar, setting out reasons why a trial cannot proceed. pleas of nolo contendere ( ' no contest ' ) and the alford plea are allowed in some circumstances. by country australia in australia, arraignment is the first of 11 stages in a criminal trial, and involves the clerk of the court reading out the indictment. the judge will testify during the indictment process. canada in british columbia, arraignment takes place in one of the first few court appearances by the defendant or their lawyer. the defendant is asked whether they plead guilty or not guilty to each charge. france in france, the general rule is that one cannot remain in police custody for more than 24 hours from the time of the arrest. however, police custody can last another 24 hours in specific circumstances, especially if the offence is punishable by at least one year ' s imprisonment, or if the investigation is deemed to require the extra time, and can last up to 96 hours in certain cases involving terrorism, drug trafficking or organised crime. the police need to have the consent of the prosecutor, the procureur. in the vast majority of cases, the prosecutor will consent. germany in germany, if one has been arrested and taken into custody by the police, one must be brought before a judge as soon as possible and at the latest on the day after the arrest. new zealand in new zealand law, at the first appearance of the accused, they are read the charges and asked for a plea. the available pleas are : guilty, not guilty, and no plea. the response of " no plea " allows the defendant to get legal advice on the plea, which must be made on the second appearance. south africa in south africa, arraignment is defined as the calling upon the accused to appear, the informing of the accused of the crime charged against them, the demanding of the accused whether they plead guilty or not guilty, and the entering of their plea. united kingdom in england, wales, and northern ireland, arraignment is the first of 11 stages in a criminal trial, and involves the clerk of the court reading out the indictment