##ist - oriented communist organisation of angola ( oca ) in 1977, which was suppressed after a series of bloody political purges left thousands of oca supporters dead. the mpla abandoned its former marxist ideology at its third party congress in 1990, and declared social democracy to be its new platform. angola subsequently became a member of the international monetary fund ; restrictions on the market economy were also reduced in an attempt to draw foreign investment. by may 1991 it reached a peace agreement with unita, the bicesse accords, which scheduled new general elections for september 1992. when the mpla secured a major electoral victory, unita objected to the results of both the presidential and legislative vote count and returned to war. following the election, the halloween massacre occurred from 30 october to 1 november, where mpla forces killed thousands of unita supporters. 21st century on 22 february 2002, government troops killed savimbi in a skirmish in the moxico province. unita and the mpla consented to the luena memorandum of understanding in april ; unita agreed to give up its armed wing. with the elections in 2008 and 2012, an mpla - ruled dominant - party system emerged, with unita and the fnla as opposition parties. angola has a serious humanitarian crisis ; the result of the prolonged war, of the abundance of minefields, and the continued political agitation in favour of the independence of the exclave of cabinda ( carried out in the context of the protracted cabinda conflict by the flec ). while most of the internally displaced have now squatted around the capital, in musseques ( shanty towns ) the general situation for angolans remains desperate. a drought in 2016 caused the worst food crisis in southern africa in 25 years, affecting 1. 4 million people across seven of angola ' s eighteen provinces. food prices rose and acute malnutrition rates doubled, impacting over 95, 000 children. the human rights measurement initiative finds that angola is doing 51. 8 % of what should be possible at its level of income for the right to sufficient healthy food. jose eduardo dos santos stepped down as president of angola after 38 years in 2017, being peacefully succeeded by joao lourenco, santos ' chosen successor. some members of the dos santos family were later linked to high levels of corruption. in july 2022, ex - president jose eduardo dos santos died in spain. in august 2022, the ruling party, mpla, won another majority and president lourenco won a second five - year