am modulation, and after the war the availability of cheap tubes sparked a great increase in the number of radio stations experimenting with am transmission of news or music. the vacuum tube was responsible for the rise of am broadcasting around 1920, the first electronic mass communication medium. amplitude modulation was virtually the only type used for radio broadcasting until fm broadcasting began after world war ii. at the same time as am radio began, telephone companies such as at & t were developing the other large application for am : sending multiple telephone calls through a single wire by modulating them on separate carrier frequencies, called frequency division multiplexing. single - sideband in 1915, john renshaw carson formulated the first mathematical description of amplitude modulation, showing that a signal and carrier frequency combined in a nonlinear device creates a sideband on both sides of the carrier frequency. passing the modulated signal through another nonlinear device can extract the original baseband signal. his analysis also showed that only one sideband was necessary to transmit the audio signal, and carson patented single - sideband modulation ( ssb ) on 1 december 1915. this advanced variant of amplitude modulation was adopted by at & t for longwave transatlantic telephone service beginning 7 january 1927. after ww - ii, it was developed for military aircraft communication. analysis the carrier wave ( sine wave ) of frequency fc and amplitude a is expressed by. the message signal, such as an audio signal that is used for modulating the carrier, is m ( t ), and has a frequency fm, much lower than fc :, where m is the amplitude sensitivity, m is the amplitude of modulation. if m < 1, ( 1 + m ( t ) / a ) is always positive for undermodulation. if m > 1 then overmodulation occurs and reconstruction of message signal from the transmitted signal would lead in loss of original signal. amplitude modulation results when the carrier c ( t ) is multiplied by the positive quantity ( 1 + m ( t ) / a ) : in this simple case m is identical to the modulation index, discussed below. with m = 0. 5 the amplitude modulated signal y ( t ) thus corresponds to the top graph ( labelled " 50 % modulation " ) in figure 4. using prosthaphaeresis identities, y ( t ) can be shown to be the sum of three sine waves : therefore, the modulated signal has three components : the carrier wave c ( t ) which is unchanged in frequency, and two sidebands with frequencies slightly above and below the carrier frequency fc.