several quranic verses and holds the quran in high esteem. avicenna argued that the islamic prophets should be considered higher than philosophers. avicenna is generally understood to have been aligned with the sunni hanafi school of thought. avicenna studied hanafi law, many of his notable teachers were hanafi jurists, and he served under the hanafi court of ali ibn mamun. avicenna said at an early age that he remained " unconvinced " by ismaili missionary attempts to convert him. medieval historian zahir al - din al - bayhaqi ( d. 1169 ) also believed avicenna to be a follower of the brethren of purity. thought experiments while he was imprisoned in the castle of fardajan near hamadhan, avicenna wrote his famous " floating man " — literally falling man — a thought experiment to demonstrate human self - awareness and the substantiality and immateriality of the soul. avicenna believed his " floating man " thought experiment demonstrated that the soul is a substance, and claimed humans cannot doubt their own consciousness, even in a situation that prevents all sensory data input. the thought experiment told its readers to imagine themselves created all at once while suspended in the air, isolated from all sensations, which includes no sensory contact with even their own bodies. he argued that, in this scenario, one would still have self - consciousness. because it is conceivable that a person, suspended in air while cut off from sense experience, would still be capable of determining his own existence, the thought experiment points to the conclusions that the soul is a perfection, independent of the body, and an immaterial substance. the conceivability of this " floating man " indicates that the soul is perceived intellectually, which entails the soul ' s separateness from the body. avicenna referred to the living human intelligence, particularly the active intellect, which he believed to be the hypostasis by which god communicates truth to the human mind and imparts order and intelligibility to nature. following is an english translation of the argument : however, avicenna posited the brain as the place where reason interacts with sensation. sensation prepares the soul to receive rational concepts from the universal agent intellect. the first knowledge of the flying person would be " i am, " affirming his or her essence. that essence could not be the body, obviously, as the flying person has no sensation. thus, the knowledge that " i am "