most major publishing houses would touch – including his regular publisher gollancz. he also submitted the manuscript to faber and faber, where the poet t. s. eliot ( who was a director of the firm ) rejected it ; eliot wrote back to orwell praising the book ' s " good writing " and " fundamental integrity ", but declared that they would only accept it for publication if they had some sympathy for the viewpoint " which i take to be generally trotskyite ". eliot said he found the view " not convincing ", and contended that the pigs were made out to be the best to run the farm ; he posited that someone might argue " what was needed... was not more communism but more public - spirited pigs ". orwell let andre deutsch, who was working for nicholson & watson in 1944, read the typescript, and deutsch was convinced that nicholson & watson would want to publish it ; however, they did not, and " lectured orwell on what they perceived to be errors in animal farm ". in his london letter on 17 april 1944 for partisan review, orwell wrote that it was " now next door to impossible to get anything overtly anti - russian printed. anti - russian books do appear, but mostly from catholic publishing firms and always from a religious or frankly reactionary angle ". the publisher jonathan cape, who had initially accepted animal farm, subsequently rejected the book after an official at the british ministry of information warned him off – although the civil servant who it is assumed gave the order was later found to be a soviet spy. writing to leonard moore, a partner in the literary agency of christy & moore, publisher jonathan cape explained that the decision had been taken on the advice of a senior official in the ministry of information. such flagrant anti - soviet bias was unacceptable, and the choice of pigs as the dominant class was thought to be especially offensive. it may reasonably be assumed that the " important official " was a man named peter smollett, who was later unmasked as a soviet agent. orwell was suspicious of smollett / smolka, and he would be one of the names orwell included in his list of crypto - communists and fellow - travellers sent to the information research department in 1949. the publisher wrote to orwell, saying : frederic warburg also faced pressures against publication, even from people in his own office and from his wife pamela, who felt that it was not the moment for ingratitude towards stalin and the red