those who refused to accept the nicaean creed — arius himself, the deacon euzoios, and the libyan bishops theonas of marmarica and secundus of ptolemais — and also the bishops who signed the creed but refused to join in condemnation of arius, eusebius of nicomedia and theognis of nicaea. the emperor also ordered all copies of the thalia, the book in which arius had expressed his teachings, to be burned. however, there is no evidence that his son and ultimate successor, constantius ii, who was a semi - arian christian, was exiled. although he was committed to maintaining what the great church had defined at nicaea, constantine was also bent on pacifying the situation and eventually became more lenient toward those condemned and exiled at the council. first, he allowed eusebius of nicomedia, who was a protege of his sister, and theognis to return once they had signed an ambiguous statement of faith. the two, and other friends of arius, worked for arius ' s rehabilitation. at the first synod of tyre in ad 335, they brought accusations against athanasius, now bishop of alexandria, the primary opponent of arius. after this, constantine had athanasius banished since he considered him an impediment to reconciliation. in the same year, the synod of jerusalem under constantine ' s direction readmitted arius to communion in 336. arius died on the way to this event in constantinople. some scholars suggest that arius may have been poisoned by his opponents. eusebius and theognis remained in the emperor ' s favor, and when constantine, who had been a catechumen much of his adult life, accepted baptism on his deathbed, it was from eusebius of nicomedia. aftermath of nicaea the first council of nicaea did not end the controversy, as many bishops of the eastern provinces disputed the homoousios, the central term of the nicene creed, as it had been used by paul of samosata, who had advocated a monarchianist christology. both the man and his teaching, including the term homoousios, had been condemned by the synods of antioch in 269. hence, after constantine ' s death in 337, open dispute resumed again. constantine ' s son constantius ii, who had become emperor of the eastern part of the roman empire, actually encouraged the arians and set out to reverse the nicene creed. his advisor in these