advantages, or accommodations being offered or would result in an undue burden, i. e., significant difficulty or expense. the term " auxiliary aids and services " includes : qualified interpreters on - site or through video remote interpreting ( vri ) services ; notetakers ; real - time computer - aided transcription services ; written materials ; exchange of written notes ; telephone handset amplifiers ; assistive listening devices ; assistive listening systems ; telephones compatible with hearing aids ; closed caption decoders ; open and closed captioning, including real - time captioning ; voice, text, and video - based telecommunications products and systems, including text telephones ( ttys ), videophones, and captioned telephones, or equally effective telecommunications devices ; videotext displays ; accessible electronic and information technology ; or other effective methods of making aurally delivered information available to individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing ; qualified readers ; taped texts ; audio recordings ; brailled materials and displays ; screen reader software ; magnification software ; optical readers ; secondary auditory programs ( sap ) ; large print materials ; accessible electronic and information technology ; or other effective methods of making visually delivered materials available to individuals who are blind or have low vision ; acquisition or modification of equipment or devices ; and other similar services and actions. captions are considered one type of auxiliary aid. since the passage of the ada, the use of captioning has expanded. entertainment, educational, informational, and training materials are captioned for deaf and hard - of - hearing audiences at the time they are produced and distributed. the television decoder circuitry act of 1990 requires that all televisions larger than 13 inches sold in the united states after july 1993 have a special built - in decoder that enables viewers to watch closed - captioned programming. the telecommunications act of 1996 directs the federal communications commission ( fcc ) to adopt rules requiring closed captioning of most television programming. the fcc ' s rules on closed captioning became effective january 1, 1998. title iv — telecommunications title iv of the ada amended the landmark communications act of 1934 primarily by adding section. this section requires that all telecommunications companies in the u. s. take steps to ensure functionally equivalent services for consumers with disabilities, notably those who are deaf or hard of hearing and those with speech impairments. when title iv took effect in the early 1990s, it led to the installation of public teletypewriter ( tty ) machines and other tdd ( telecommunications devices for the deaf ). title iv