critical reappraisal. adam tooze in his book the wages of destruction said speer had manoeuvred himself through the ranks of the regime skillfully and ruthlessly and that the idea he was a technocrat blindly carrying out orders was " absurd ". trommer said he was not an apolitical technocrat ; instead, he was one of the most powerful and unscrupulous leaders in the nazi regime. kitchen said he had deceived the nuremberg tribunal and post - war germany. brechtken said that if his extensive involvement in the holocaust had been known at the time of his trial he would have been sentenced to death. the image of the good nazi was supported by numerous speer myths. in addition to the myth that he was an apolitical technocrat, he claimed he did not have full knowledge of the holocaust or the persecution of the jews. another myth posits that speer revolutionized the german war machine after his appointment as minister of armaments. he was credited with a dramatic increase in the shipment of arms that was widely reported as keeping germany in the war. another myth centered around a faked plan to assassinate hitler with poisonous gas. the idea for this myth came to him after he recalled the panic when car fumes came through an air ventilation system. he fabricated the additional details. brechtken wrote that his most brazen lie was fabricated during an interview with a french journalist in 1952. the journalist described an invented scenario in which speer had refused hitler ' s orders and hitler had left with tears in his eyes. speer liked the scenario so much that he wrote it into his memoirs. the journalist had unwittingly collaborated in one of his myths. speer also sought to portray himself as an opponent of hitler ' s leadership. despite his opposition to the 20 july plot, he falsely claimed in his memoirs to have been sympathetic to the plotters. he maintained hitler was cool towards him for the remainder of his life after learning they had included him on a list of potential ministers. this formed a key element of the myths speer encouraged. speer also falsely claimed that he had realised the war was lost at an early stage, and thereafter worked to preserve the resources needed for the civilian population ' s survival. in reality, he had sought to prolong the war until further resistance was impossible, thus contributing to the large number of deaths and the extensive destruction germany suffered in the conflict ' s final months. denial of responsibility speer maintained at the nuremberg trials