- day aberdeenshire from the scottish lowlands to the highlands. some of the most well - known and historically important trackways are the causey mounth and elsick mounth. aberdeenshire played an important role in the fighting between the scottish clans. clan macbeth and the clan canmore were two of the larger clans. macbeth fell at lumphanan in 1057. during the anglo - norman penetration, other families arrive, such as house of balliol, clan bruce, and clan cumming ( comyn ). when the fighting amongst these newcomers resulted in the scottish wars of independence, the english king edward i travelled across the area twice, in 1296 and 1303. in 1307, robert the bruce was victorious near inverurie. along with his victory came new families, namely the forbeses and the gordons. these new families set the stage for the upcoming rivalries during the 14th and 15th centuries. this rivalry grew worse during and after the protestant reformation when religion was another reason for conflict between the clans. the gordon family adhered to catholicism and the forbeses to protestantism. aberdeenshire was the historic seat of the clan dempster. three universities were founded in the area prior to the 17th century, king ' s college in old aberdeen ( 1494 ), marischal college in aberdeen ( 1593 ), and the university of fraserburgh ( 1597 ). after the end of the revolution of 1688, an extended peaceful period was interrupted only by fleeting events such as the rising of 1715 and the rising of 1745. the latter resulted in the end of the ascendancy of episcopalianism and the feudal power of landowners. an era began of increased agricultural and industrial progress. during the 17th century, aberdeenshire was the location of more fighting, centred on the marquess of montrose and the english civil wars. this period also saw increased wealth due to the increase in trade with germany, poland, and the low countries. the present council area is named after the historic county of aberdeenshire, which has different boundaries and was abandoned as an administrative area in 1975 under the local government ( scotland ) act 1973. it was replaced by grampian regional council and five district councils : banff and buchan, gordon, kincardine and deeside, moray and the city of aberdeen. local government functions were shared between the two levels. in 1996, under the local government, etc. ( scotland ) act 1994, the banff and buchan district, gordon district, and kincardine and deeside district