frost line, and so is devoid of water ; its composition is mainly of basaltic rock with minerals such as olivine. aside from the large crater at its southern pole, rheasilvia, vesta also has an ellipsoidal shape. vesta is the parent body of the vestian family and other v - type asteroids, and is the source of the hed meteorites, which constitute 5 % of all meteorites on earth. pallas is unusual in that, like uranus, it rotates on its side, with its axis of rotation tilted at high angles to its orbital plane. its composition is similar to that of ceres : high in carbon and silicon, and perhaps partially differentiated. pallas is the parent body of the palladian family of asteroids. hygiea is the largest carbonaceous asteroid and, unlike the other largest asteroids, lies relatively close to the plane of the ecliptic. it is the largest member and presumed parent body of the hygiean family of asteroids. because there is no sufficiently large crater on the surface to be the source of that family, as there is on vesta, it is thought that hygiea may have been completely disrupted in the collision that formed the hygiean family and recoalesced after losing a bit less than 2 % of its mass. observations taken with the very large telescope ' s sphere imager in 2017 and 2018, revealed that hygiea has a nearly spherical shape, which is consistent both with it being in hydrostatic equilibrium, or formerly being in hydrostatic equilibrium, or with being disrupted and recoalescing. internal differentiation of large asteroids is possibly related to their lack of natural satellites, as satellites of main belt asteroids are mostly believed to form from collisional disruption, creating a rubble pile structure. rotation measurements of the rotation rates of large asteroids in the asteroid belt show that there is an upper limit. very few asteroids with a diameter larger than 100 meters have a rotation period less than 2. 2 hours. for asteroids rotating faster than approximately this rate, the inertial force at the surface is greater than the gravitational force, so any loose surface material would be flung out. however, a solid object should be able to rotate much more rapidly. this suggests that most asteroids with a diameter over 100 meters are rubble piles formed through the accumulation of debris after collisions between asteroids. color asteroids become darker and redder with age due to space weathering. however evidence suggests most of the color change occurs rapidly, in