auto racing ( also known as car racing, motor racing, or automobile racing ) is a motorsport involving the racing of automobiles for competition. auto racing has existed since the invention of the automobile. races of various sorts were organised, with the first recorded as early as 1867. many of the earliest events were effectively reliability trials, aimed at proving these new machines were a practical mode of transport, but soon became an important way for automobile makers to demonstrate their machines. by the 1930s, specialist racing cars had developed. there are now numerous different categories, each with different rules and regulations. history the first prearranged match race of two self - powered road vehicles over a prescribed route occurred at 4 : 30 a. m. on august 30, 1867, between ashton - under - lyne and old trafford, england, a distance of. it was won by the carriage of isaac watt boulton. internal combustion auto racing events began soon after the construction of the first successful gasoline - fueled automobiles. the first organized contest was on april 28, 1887, by the chief editor of paris publication, monsieur fossier. it ran from neuilly bridge to the bois de boulogne. on july 22, 1894, the parisian magazine organized what is considered to be the world ' s first motoring competition, from paris to rouen. one hundred and two competitors paid a 10 - franc entrance fee. the first american automobile race is generally held to be the thanksgiving day chicago times - herald race of november 28, 1895. press coverage of the event first aroused significant american interest in the automobile. the targa florio was an open road endurance automobile race held in the mountains of sicily, italy near the island ' s capital of palermo. founded in 1906, it was the oldest sports car racing event, part of the world sportscar championship between 1955 and 1973. the oldest surviving sports car racing event is the 24 hours of le mans, begun in 1923. it is run by the automobile club of the west ( aco ). team ferrari won the race in 2023. with auto construction and racing dominated by france, the french automobile club acf staged a number of major international races, usually from or to paris, connecting with another major city, in france or elsewhere in europe. aspendale racecourse, in australia, was the world ' s first purpose - built motor racing circuit, opening in january 1906. the pear - shaped track was close to a mile in length, with slightly banked curves and a gravel surface of crushed cement. brooklands, in