studio apartment of roddie minor, who became his partner and scarlet woman. through their rituals, which crowley called " the amalantrah workings ", he believed that they were contacted by a preternatural entity named lam. the relationship soon ended. in 1918, crowley went on a magical retreat in the wilderness of esopus island on the hudson river. here, he began a translation of the tao te ching, painted thelemic slogans on the riverside cliffs, and — he later claimed — experienced past life memories of being ge xuan, pope alexander vi, alessandro cagliostro, and eliphas levi. back in new york city, he moved to greenwich village, where he took leah hirsig as his lover and next scarlet woman. he took up painting as a hobby, exhibiting his work at the greenwich village liberal club and attracting the attention of the new york evening world. with the financial assistance of sympathetic freemasons, crowley revived the equinox with the first issue of volume iii, known as the blue equinox. he spent mid - 1919 on a climbing holiday in montauk before returning to london in december. abbey of thelema : 1920 – 1923 now destitute and back in london, crowley came under attack from the tabloid john bull, which labelled him traitorous " scum " for his work with the german war effort ; several friends aware of his intelligence work urged him to sue, but he decided not to. when he was suffering from asthma, a doctor prescribed him heroin, to which he soon became addicted. in january 1920, he moved to paris, renting a house in fontainebleau with leah hirsig ; they were soon joined in a menage a trois by ninette shumway, and also ( in living arrangement ) by leah ' s newborn daughter anne " poupee " leah. crowley had ideas of forming a community of thelemites, which he called the abbey of thelema after the abbaye de theleme in francois rabelais ' satire gargantua and pantagruel. after consulting the i ching, he chose cefalu ( on sicily, italy ) as a location, and after arriving there, began renting the old villa santa barbara as his abbey on 2 april. moving to the commune with hirsig, shumway, and their children hansi, howard, and poupee, crowley described the scenario as " perfectly happy... my idea of heaven. " they wore