and king glaukias of the taulantii were in open revolt against his authority. marching west into illyria, alexander defeated each in turn, forcing the two rulers to flee with their troops. with these victories, he secured his northern frontier. destruction of thebes while alexander campaigned north, the thebans and athenians rebelled once again. alexander immediately headed south. while the other cities again hesitated, thebes decided to fight. the theban resistance was ineffective, and alexander razed the city and divided its territory between the other boeotian cities. the end of thebes cowed athens, leaving all of greece temporarily at peace. alexander then set out on his asian campaign, leaving antipater as regent. conquest of the achaemenid persian empire asia minor after his victory at the battle of chaeronea ( 338 bc ), philip ii began the work of establishing himself as hegemon ( ) of a league which according to diodorus was to wage a campaign against the persians for the sundry grievances greece suffered in 480 and free the greek cities of the western coast and islands from achaemenid rule. in 336 he sent parmenion, with amyntas, andromenes and attalus, and an army of 10, 000 men into anatolia to make preparations for an invasion. at first, all went well. the greek cities on the western coast of anatolia revolted until the news arrived that philip had been murdered and had been succeeded by his young son alexander. the macedonians were demoralized by philip ' s death and were subsequently defeated near magnesia by the achaemenids under the command of the mercenary memnon of rhodes. taking over the invasion project of philip ii, alexander ' s army crossed the hellespont in 334 bc with approximately 48, 100 soldiers, 6, 100 cavalry and a fleet of 120 ships with crews numbering 38, 000, drawn from macedon and various greek city - states, mercenaries, and feudally raised soldiers from thrace, paionia, and illyria. he showed his intent to conquer the entirety of the persian empire by throwing a spear into asian soil and saying he accepted asia as a gift from the gods. this also showed alexander ' s eagerness to fight, in contrast to his father ' s preference for diplomacy. after an initial victory against persian forces at the battle of the granicus, alexander accepted the surrender of the persian provincial capital and treasury of sardis ; he then proceeded along the ionian