s - coat amaranthus tuberculatus – rough - fruit amaranth, tall waterhemp amaranthus viridis – slender amaranth, green amaranth amaranthus watsonii – watson ' s amaranth amaranthus wrightii – wright ' s amaranth etymology " amaranth " derives from greek ( ), " unfading ", with the greek word for " flower ", ( ), factoring into the word ' s development as amaranth, the unfading flower. amarant is an archaic variant. the name was first applied to the related celosia ( amaranthus and celosia share long - lasting dried flowers ), as amaranthus plants were not yet known in europe. ecology amaranth weed species have an extended period of germination, rapid growth, and high rates of seed production, and have been causing problems for farmers since the mid - 1990s. this is partially due to the reduction in tillage, reduction in herbicidal use and the evolution of herbicidal resistance in several species where herbicides have been applied more often. the following 9 species of amaranthus are considered invasive and noxious weeds in the u. s. and canada : a. albus, a. blitoides, a. hybridus, a. palmeri, a. powellii, a. retroflexus, a. spinosus, a. tuberculatus, and a. viridis. [ assad, r., reshi, z. a., jan, s., & rashid, i. ( 2017 ). " biology of amaranths ". the botanical review, 83 ( 4 ), 382 - 436. ] a new herbicide - resistant strain of a. palmeri has appeared ; it is glyphosate - resistant and so cannot be killed by herbicides using the chemical. also, this plant can survive in tough conditions. the species amaranthus palmeri ( palmer amaranth ) causes the greatest reduction in soybean yields and has the potential to reduce yields by 17 - 68 % in field experiments. palmer amaranth is among the " top five most troublesome weeds " in the southeast of the united states and has already evolved resistances to dinitroaniline herbicides and acetolactate synthase inhibitors. this makes the proper identification of amaranthus species at the seedling stage essential for agriculturalists.