- actin content are inversely correlated ; when pgms becomes enriched at the tip of a neurite, its f - actin content is substantially decreased. in addition, exposure to actin - depolimerizing drugs and toxin b ( which inactivates rho - signaling ) causes the formation of multiple axons. consequently, the interruption of the actin network in a growth cone will promote its neurite to become the axon. growth growing axons move through their environment via the growth cone, which is at the tip of the axon. the growth cone has a broad sheet - like extension called a lamellipodium which contain protrusions called filopodia. the filopodia are the mechanism by which the entire process adheres to surfaces and explores the surrounding environment. actin plays a major role in the mobility of this system. environments with high levels of cell adhesion molecules ( cams ) create an ideal environment for axonal growth. this seems to provide a " sticky " surface for axons to grow along. examples of cams specific to neural systems include n - cam, tag - 1an axonal glycoproteinand mag, all of which are part of the immunoglobulin superfamily. another set of molecules called extracellular matrix - adhesion molecules also provide a sticky substrate for axons to grow along. examples of these molecules include laminin, fibronectin, tenascin, and perlecan. some of these are surface bound to cells and thus act as short range attractants or repellents. others are difusible ligands and thus can have long range effects. cells called guidepost cells assist in the guidance of neuronal axon growth. these cells that help axon guidance, are typically other neurons that are sometimes immature. when the axon has completed its growth at its connection to the target, the diameter of the axon can increase by up to five times, depending on the speed of conduction required. it has also been discovered through research that if the axons of a neuron were damaged, as long as the soma ( the cell body of a neuron ) is not damaged, the axons would regenerate and remake the synaptic connections with neurons with the help of guidepost cells. this is also referred to as neuroregeneration. nogo - a is a type of neurite outgrowth inhibitory component that is present in the central nervous