thebans ) to hinder alcmene ' s delivery of heracles. the witches were successful in preventing the birth until historis, daughter of tiresias, thought of a trick to deceive the witches. like galanthis, historis announced that alcmene had delivered her child ; having been deceived, the witches went away, allowing alcmene to give birth. plautus in contrast to the depictions of a difficult labor above, an alternative version is presented in amphitryon, a comedic play by plautus. here alcmene calls upon jupiter, who performs a miracle allowing her to give birth quickly and without pain. after a crash of thunder and light, the baby arrives without anyone ' s assistance. death after the death of amphitryon, alcmene married rhadamanthys, son of zeus, and lived with him in exile at ocaleae in boeotia. it is said that after heracles was apotheosised, hyllus, having pursued and killed eurystheus, cut off eurystheus ' head and gave it to alcmene, who gouged out the eyes with weaving pins. in metamorphoses, an aging alcmene recounted the story of the birth of heracles to iole. there are two accounts of alcmene ' s death. in the first, according to the megarians, alcmene was walking from argos to thebes when she died at megara. the heracleidae fell into disagreement about where to take alcmene ' s body, with some wishing to take her corpse back to argos, and others wishing to take it to thebes to be buried with amphitryon and heracles ' children by megara. however, the god in delphi gave the heracleidae an oracle that it was better to bury alcmene in megara. in the second account given by the thebans, when alcmene died, she was turned from human form to a stone. pausanias indicated that an altar to alcmene had been built in the cynosarges in athens, alongside altars to heracles, hebe, and iolaus. pausanias also said that alcmene ' s tomb is located near the olympieum at megara. notes references apollodorus. apollodorus, the library, with an english translation by sir james george fra