no doubt — i was present as himmler announced on october 6, 1943, that all jews would be killed. " armaments miracle speer was credited with an " armaments miracle ". during the winter of 1941 – 42, in the light of germany ' s disastrous defeat in the battle of moscow, the german leadership including friedrich fromm, georg thomas and fritz todt had come to the conclusion that the war could not be won. the rational position to adopt was to seek a political solution that would end the war without defeat. speer in response used his propaganda expertise to display a new dynamism of the war economy. he produced spectacular statistics, claiming a sixfold increase in munitions production, a fourfold increase in artillery production, and he sent further propaganda to the newsreels of the country. he was able to curtail the discussion that the war should be ended. the armaments " miracle " was a myth ; speer had used statistical manipulation to support his claims. the production of armaments did go up ; however, this was due to the normal causes of reorganization before speer came to office, the relentless mobilization of slave labor and a deliberate reduction in the quality of output to favor quantity. by july 1943 speer ' s armaments propaganda became irrelevant because a catalogue of dramatic defeats on the battlefield meant the prospect of losing the war could no longer be hidden from the german public. architectural legacy little remains of speer ' s personal architectural works, other than the plans and photographs. no buildings designed by speer during the nazi era are extant in berlin, other than the 4 entrance pavilions and underpasses leading to the victory column or siegessaule, and the schwerbelastungskorper, a heavy load - bearing body built around 1941. the concrete cylinder, high, was used to measure ground subsidence as part of feasibility studies for a massive triumphal arch and other large structures planned within hitler ' s post - war renewal project for the city of berlin as the world capital germania. the cylinder is now a protected landmark and is open to the public. the tribune of the zeppelinfeld stadium in nuremberg, though partly demolished, can also be seen. during the war, the speer - designed new reich chancellery was largely destroyed by air raids and in the battle of berlin. the exterior walls survived, but they were eventually dismantled by the soviets. unsubstantiated rumors have claimed that the remains were used for other building projects such as the humboldt university, mo