foods by the u. s. department of agriculture ( usda ). a 2016 review of clinical research indicated that regular consumption of almonds may reduce the risk of heart disease by lowering blood levels of ldl cholesterol. culinary while the almond is often eaten on its own, raw or toasted, it is also a component of various dishes. almonds are available in many forms, such as whole, slivered, and ground into flour. almond pieces around in size, called " nibs ", are used for special purposes such as decoration. almonds are a common addition to breakfast muesli or oatmeal. desserts a wide range of classic sweets feature almonds as a central ingredient. marzipan was developed in the middle ages. since the 19th century almonds have been used to make bread, almond butter, cakes and puddings, candied confections, almond cream - filled pastries, nougat, cookies ( macaroons, biscotti and qurabiya ), and cakes ( financiers, esterhazy torte ), and other sweets and desserts. the young, developing fruit of the almond tree can be eaten whole ( green almonds ) when they are still green and fleshy on the outside and the inner shell has not yet hardened. the fruit is somewhat sour, but is a popular snack in parts of the middle east, eaten dipped in salt to balance the sour taste. also in the middle east they are often eaten with dates. they are available only from mid - april to mid - june in the northern hemisphere ; pickling or brining extends the fruit ' s shelf life. marzipan marzipan, a smooth, sweetened almond paste, is used in a number of elegant cakes and desserts. princess cake is covered by marzipan ( similar to fondant ), as is battenberg cake. in sicily, sponge cake is covered with marzipan to make cassatella di sant ' agata and cassata siciliana, and marzipan is dyed and crafted into realistic fruit shapes to make frutta martorana. the andalusian christmas pastry pan de cadiz is filled with marzipan and candied fruit. world cuisines in french cuisine, alternating layers of almond and hazelnut meringue are used to make the dessert dacquoise. pithivier is one of many almond cream - filled pastries. in germany, easter bread called deutsches osterbrot is