of battlefield success with gates ' victory at saratoga, foreign observers such as frederick the great were equally impressed with germantown, which demonstrated resilience and determination. over the winter, poor conditions, supply problems and low morale resulted in 2, 000 deaths, with another 3, 000 unfit for duty due to lack of shoes. however, baron friedrich wilhelm von steuben took the opportunity to introduce prussian army drill and infantry tactics to the entire continental army ; he did this by training " model companies " in each regiment, who then instructed their home units. despite valley forge being only twenty miles away, howe made no effort to attack their camp, an action some critics argue could have ended the war. foreign intervention like his predecessors, french foreign minister vergennes considered the 1763 peace a national humiliation and viewed the war as an opportunity to weaken britain. he initially avoided open conflict, but allowed american ships to take on cargoes in french ports, a technical violation of neutrality. although public opinion favored the american cause, finance minister turgot argued they did not need french help to gain independence, and war was too expensive. instead, vergennes persuaded louis xvi to secretly fund a government front company to purchase munitions for the patriots, carried in neutral dutch ships and imported through sint eustatius in the caribbean. many americans opposed a french alliance, fearing to " exchange one tyranny for another ", but this changed after a series of military setbacks in early 1776. as france had nothing to gain from the colonies reconciling with britain, congress had three choices ; making peace on british terms, continuing the struggle on their own, or proclaiming independence, guaranteed by france. although the declaration of independence in july 1776 had wide public support, adams was among those reluctant to pay the price of an alliance with france, and over 20 % of congressmen voted against it. congress agreed to the treaty with reluctance and as the war moved in their favor increasingly lost interest in it. silas deane was sent to paris to begin negotiations with vergennes, whose key objectives were replacing britain as the united states ' primary commercial and military partner while securing the french west indies from american expansion. these islands were extremely valuable ; in 1772, the value of sugar and coffee produced by saint - domingue on its own exceeded that of all american exports combined. talks progressed slowly until october 1777, when british defeat at saratoga and their apparent willingness to negotiate peace convinced vergennes only a permanent alliance could prevent the " disaster " of anglo - american rap