bell hired walter pinaud, a sydney yacht designer and builder as well as the proprietor of pinaud ' s yacht yard in westmount, nova scotia, to work on the pontoons of the hd - 4. pinaud soon took over the boatyard at bell laboratories on beinn bhreagh, bell ' s estate near baddeck, nova scotia. pinaud ' s experience in boatbuilding enabled him to make useful design changes to the hd - 4. after the first world war, work began again on the hd - 4. bell ' s report to the u. s. navy permitted him to obtain two engines in july 1919. on september 9, 1919, the hd - 4 set a world marine speed record of, a record which stood for ten years. aeronautics in 1891, bell had begun experiments to develop motor - powered heavier - than - air aircraft. the aea was first formed as bell shared the vision to fly with his wife, who advised him to seek " young " help as bell was at the age of 60. in 1898, bell experimented with tetrahedral box kites and wings constructed of multiple compound tetrahedral kites covered in maroon silk. the tetrahedral wings were named cygnet i, ii, and iii, and were flown both unmanned and manned ( cygnet i crashed during a flight carrying selfridge ) in the period from 1907 to 1912. some of bell ' s kites are on display at the alexander graham bell national historic site. bell was a supporter of aerospace engineering research through the aerial experiment association ( aea ), officially formed at baddeck, nova scotia, in october 1907 at the suggestion of his wife mabel and with her financial support after the sale of some of her real estate. the aea was headed by bell and the founding members were four young men : american glenn h. curtiss, a motorcycle manufacturer at the time and who held the title " world ' s fastest man ", having ridden his self - constructed motor bicycle around in the shortest time, and who was later awarded the scientific american trophy for the first official one - kilometre flight in the western hemisphere, and who later became a world - renowned airplane manufacturer ; lieutenant thomas selfridge, an official observer from the u. s. federal government and one of the few people in the army who believed that aviation was the future ; frederick w. baldwin, the first canadian and first british subject to pilot a public flight in hammondsport, new york ; and j. a. d. mccurdy – baldwin and