during new recordings of the abba songs " like an angel passing through my room " with opera singer anne sofie von otter, and " when all is said and done " with swede viktoria tolstoy. in 2002, andersson and ulvaeus both performed an a cappella rendition of the first verse of " fernando " as they accepted their ivor novello award in london. lyngstad performed and recorded an a cappella version of " dancing queen " with the swedish group the real group in 1993, and also re - recorded " i have a dream " with swiss singer dan daniell in 2003. break and reunion abba never officially announced the end of the group or an indefinite break, but it was long considered dissolved after their final public performance together in 1982. their final public performance together as abba before their 2016 reunion was on the british tv programme the late, late breakfast show ( live from stockholm ) on 11 december 1982. while reminiscing on " the day before you came ", ulvaeus said : " we might have continued for a while longer if that had been a number one ". in january 1983, faltskog started recording sessions for a solo album, as lyngstad had successfully released her album something ' s going on some months earlier. ulvaeus and andersson, meanwhile, started songwriting sessions for the musical chess. in interviews at the time, bjorn and benny denied the split of abba ( " who are we without our ladies? initials of brigitte bardot? " ), and lyngstad and faltskog kept claiming in interviews that abba would come together for a new album repeatedly during 1983 and 1984. internal strife between the group and their manager escalated and the band members sold their shares in polar music during 1983. except for a tv appearance in 1986, the foursome did not come together publicly again until they were reunited at the swedish premiere of the mamma mia! movie on 4 july 2008. the individual members ' endeavours shortly before and after their final public performance coupled with the collapse of both marriages and the lack of significant activity in the following few years after that widely suggested that the group had broken up. in an interview with the sunday telegraph following the premiere, ulvaeus and andersson said that there was nothing that could entice them back on stage again. ulvaeus said : " we will never appear on stage again. [... ] there is simply no motivation to re - group. money is not a factor and we