, cannot be overstated. kant ' s philosophy was the foundation of schopenhauer ' s, and he had high praise for the transcendental aesthetic section of kant ' s critique of pure reason. schopenhauer maintained that kant stands in the same relation to philosophers such as berkeley and plato, as copernicus to hicetas, philolaus, and aristarchus : kant succeeded in demonstrating what previous philosophers merely asserted. schopenhauer writes about kant ' s influence on his work in the preface to the second edition of the world as will and representation : in his study room, one bust was of buddha, the other was of kant. the bond which schopenhauer felt with the philosopher of konigsberg is demonstrated in an unfinished poem he dedicated to kant ( included in volume 2 of the parerga ) : schopenhauer dedicated one fifth of his main work, the world as will and representation, to a detailed criticism of the kantian philosophy. schopenhauer praised kant for his distinction between appearance and the thing - in - itself, whereas the general consensus in german idealism was that this was the weakest spot of kant ' s theory, since, according to kant, causality can find application on objects of experience only, and consequently, things - in - themselves cannot be the cause of appearances. the inadmissibility of this reasoning was also acknowledged by schopenhauer. he insisted that this was a true conclusion, drawn from false premises. post - kantian school the leading figures of post - kantian philosophy — johann gottlieb fichte, f. w. j. schelling and g. w. f. hegel — were not respected by schopenhauer. he argued that they were not philosophers at all, for they lacked " the first requirement of a philosopher, namely a seriousness and honesty of inquiry. " rather, they were merely sophists who, excelling in the art of beguiling the public, pursued their own selfish interests ( such as professional advancement within the university system ). diatribes against the alleged vacuity, dishonesty, pomposity, and self - interest of these contemporaries are to be found throughout schopenhauer ' s published writings. the following passage is an example : schopenhauer deemed schelling the most talented of the three and wrote that he would recommend his " elucidatory paraphrase of the highly important doctrine of kant " concerning the intelli