album. volume 2 : release was released in 1999, and by the spring of 2000 it had sold more than half a million copies worldwide. release is also used as one of the gcse music set works in the uk that students are required to study for their exam. in 2000, the group was nominated for a grammy award in the best world music category. the band, composed at the time of eight members from six countries ( the uk, senegal, guinea, ireland, france and kenya ), took pride in its ability to bring people together through music. " we can communicate anywhere at any corner of the planet and feel that we ' re at home, " mcnally told patrick macdonald of the seattle times. " we ' re breaking down categories of world music and rock music and black music. we leave a door open to communicate with each other ' s traditions. and it ' s changed our lives ". in 2001, the group released volume 3 : further in time, which climbed to number one on billboards top world music albums chart. featuring guest spots by peter gabriel and robert plant, the album also incorporated a heightened african sound. " on the first two records, the pendulum swung more toward the celtic, london club side of the equation, " emmerson told the irish times carroll. " for this one, we wanted to have more african vocals and input than we ' d done before. " again the afro celt sound system met with success. chuck taylor of billboard praised the album as " a cultural phenomenon that bursts past the traditional boundaries of contemporary music. " the single " when you ' re falling ", with vocals by gabriel, became a radio hit in the united states. in 2003, for the seed album, they changed their name to afrocelts. they reverted to the longer band name for their subsequent albums, pod, a compilation of new mixes of songs from the first four albums, volume 5 : anatomic ( their fifth studio album ), and capture ( 1995 – 2010 ). they played a number of shows to promote volume 5 : anatomic in 2006 and summer 2007, ending with a gig in korea, before taking an extended break to work on side projects, amongst them the imagined village featuring simon emmerson and johnny kalsi. starting in the summer of 2010, the band performed a series of live shows to promote capture ( 1995 – 2010 ), released on 6 september 2010 on real world records. further performances continue to the present day, and a new album - in - progress titled