, 000 to recoup the losses. johnston explained that " whipping will not restore what is lost and it will not benefit the [ culprit ], whom a lifetime of kind treatment has failed to make honest. " in 1856, he called abolitionism " fanatical, idolatrous, negro worshipping " in a letter to his son, fearing that the abolitionists would incite a slave revolt in the southern states. upon moving to california, johnston sold one slave to his son and freed another, randolph or " ran ", who agreed to accompany the family on the condition of a $ 12 / month contract for five more years of servitude. ran accompanied johnston throughout the american civil war until the latter ' s death. johnston ' s wife eliza celebrated the absence of blacks in california, writing, " where the darky is in any numbers it should be as slaves. " american civil war at the outbreak of the american civil war, johnston was the commander of the u. s. army department of the pacific in california. like many regular army officers from the southern united states, he opposed secession. nevertheless, johnston resigned his commission soon after he heard of the confederate states ' declarations of secession. the war department accepted it on may 6, 1861, effective may 3. on april 28, he moved to los angeles, the home of his wife ' s brother john griffin. considering staying in california with his wife and five children, johnston remained there until may. a sixth child was born in the family home in los angeles. his eldest son, capt. albert s. johnston, jr. was later killed in an accidental explosion on a steamer ship while on liberty in los angeles in 1863. soon, johnston enlisted in the los angeles mounted rifles as a private, leaving warner ' s ranch on may 27. he participated in their trek across the southwestern deserts to texas, crossing the colorado river into the confederate territory of arizona on july 4, 1861. his escort was commanded by alonzo ridley, undersheriff of los angeles, who remained at johnston ' s side until he was killed. early in the civil war, confederate president jefferson davis decided that the confederacy would attempt to hold as much territory as possible, distributing military forces around its borders and coasts. in the summer of 1861, davis appointed several generals to defend confederate lines from the mississippi river east to the allegheny mountains. aged 58 when the war began, johnson was old by army standards. he came east to offer his service for the confederacy without having been promised anything,