two polynomials p ( x ), q ( x ) ∈ f [ x ] are relatively prime then they do not have a common root, for if a ∈ f was a common root, then p ( x ) and q ( x ) would both be multiples of x − a and therefore they would not be relatively prime. the fields for which the reverse implication holds ( that is, the fields such that whenever two polynomials have no common root then they are relatively prime ) are precisely the algebraically closed fields. if the field f is algebraically closed, let p ( x ) and q ( x ) be two polynomials which are not relatively prime and let r ( x ) be their greatest common divisor. then, since r ( x ) is not constant, it will have some root a, which will be then a common root of p ( x ) and q ( x ). if f is not algebraically closed, let p ( x ) be a polynomial whose degree is at least 1 without roots. then p ( x ) and p ( x ) are not relatively prime, but they have no common roots ( since none of them has roots ). other properties if f is an algebraically closed field and n is a natural number, then f contains all nth roots of unity, because these are ( by definition ) the n ( not necessarily distinct ) zeroes of the polynomial xn − 1. a field extension that is contained in an extension generated by the roots of unity is a cyclotomic extension, and the extension of a field generated by all roots of unity is sometimes called its cyclotomic closure. thus algebraically closed fields are cyclotomically closed. the converse is not true. even assuming that every polynomial of the form xn − a splits into linear factors is not enough to assure that the field is algebraically closed. if a proposition which can be expressed in the language of first - order logic is true for an algebraically closed field, then it is true for every algebraically closed field with the same characteristic. furthermore, if such a proposition is valid for an algebraically closed field with characteristic 0, then not only is it valid for all other algebraically closed fields with characteristic 0, but there is some natural number n such that the proposition is valid for every algebraically closed field with characteristic p when p > n. every field f has some extension which is algebraically closed. such an extension is called an algebraically closed extension. among all such extensions there is one and only