. by measuring the transit in two different locations, one can accurately calculate the parallax of venus and from the relative distance of earth and venus from the sun, the solar parallax ( which cannot be measured directly due to the brightness of the sun ). jeremiah horrocks had attempted to produce an estimate based on his observation of the 1639 transit ( published in 1662 ), giving a solar parallax of, similar to wendelin ' s figure. the solar parallax is related to the earth – sun distance as measured in earth radii by the smaller the solar parallax, the greater the distance between the sun and earth : a solar parallax of is equivalent to an earth – sun distance of earth radii. christiaan huygens believed that the distance was even greater : by comparing the apparent sizes of venus and mars, he estimated a value of about earth radii, equivalent to a solar parallax of. although huygens ' estimate is remarkably close to modern values, it is often discounted by historians of astronomy because of the many unproven ( and incorrect ) assumptions he had to make for his method to work ; the accuracy of his value seems to be based more on luck than good measurement, with his various errors cancelling each other out. jean richer and giovanni domenico cassini measured the parallax of mars between paris and cayenne in french guiana when mars was at its closest to earth in 1672. they arrived at a figure for the solar parallax of, equivalent to an earth – sun distance of about earth radii. they were also the first astronomers to have access to an accurate and reliable value for the radius of earth, which had been measured by their colleague jean picard in 1669 as toises. this same year saw another estimate for the astronomical unit by john flamsteed, which accomplished it alone by measuring the martian diurnal parallax. another colleague, ole rømer, discovered the finite speed of light in 1676 : the speed was so great that it was usually quoted as the time required for light to travel from the sun to the earth, or " light time per unit distance ", a convention that is still followed by astronomers today. a better method for observing venus transits was devised by james gregory and published in his optica promata ( 1663 ). it was strongly advocated by edmond halley and was applied to the transits of venus observed in 1761 and 1769, and then again in