in her stories. " there were to be many medical practitioners, pharmacists, and scientists, naive or suspicious, in christie ' s cast of characters ; featuring in murder in mesopotamia, cards on the table, the pale horse, and mrs. mcginty ' s dead, among many others. gillian gill notes that the murder method in christie ' s first detective novel, the mysterious affair at styles, " comes right out of agatha christie ' s work in the hospital dispensary ". in an interview with journalist marcelle bernstein, christie stated, " i don ' t like messy deaths... i ' m more interested in peaceful people who die in their own beds and no one knows why. " with her expert knowledge, christie had no need of poisons unknown to science, which were forbidden under ronald knox ' s " ten rules for detective fiction ". arsenic, aconite, strychnine, digitalis, nicotine, thallium, and other substances were used to dispatch victims in the ensuing decades. archaeology in her youth, christie showed little interest in antiquities. after her marriage to mallowan in 1930, she accompanied him on annual expeditions, spending three to four months at a time in syria and iraq at excavation sites at ur, nineveh, tell arpachiyah, chagar bazar, tell brak, and nimrud. the mallowans also took side trips whilst travelling to and from expedition sites, visiting italy, greece, egypt, iran, and the soviet union, among other places. their experiences travelling and living abroad are reflected in novels such as murder on the orient express, death on the nile, and appointment with death. for the 1931 digging season at nineveh, christie bought a writing table to continue her own work ; in the early 1950s, she paid to add a small writing room to the team ' s house at nimrud. she also devoted time and effort each season in " making herself useful by photographing, cleaning, and recording finds ; and restoring ceramics, which she especially enjoyed ". she also provided funds for the expeditions. many of the settings for christie ' s books were inspired by her archaeological fieldwork in the middle east ; this is reflected in the detail with which she describes themfor instance, the temple of abu simbel as depicted in death on the nilewhile the settings for they came to baghdad were places she and mallowan had recently stayed. similarly, she drew upon her knowledge of daily life on a dig throughout