##dagirika to death in the " hell " prison. he ordered a massacre of 18, 000 heretics for a misdeed of one. he launched a pogrom against the jains, announcing a bounty on the head of any heretic ; this resulted in the beheading of his own brother – vitashoka. according to the ashokavadana, a non - buddhist in pundravardhana drew a picture showing the buddha bowing at the feet of the nirgrantha leader jnatiputra. the term nirgrantha ( " free from bonds " ) was originally used for a pre - jaina ascetic order, but later came to be used for jaina monks. " jnatiputra " is identified with mahavira, 24th tirthankara of jainism. the legend states that on complaint from a buddhist devotee, ashoka issued an order to arrest the non - buddhist artist, and subsequently, another order to kill all the ajivikas in pundravardhana. around 18, 000 followers of the ajivika sect were executed as a result of this order. sometime later, another nirgrantha follower in pataliputra drew a similar picture. ashoka burnt him and his entire family alive in their house. he also announced an award of one dinara ( gold coin ) to anyone who brought him the head of a nirgrantha heretic. according to ashokavadana, as a result of this order, his own brother was mistaken for a heretic and killed by a cowherd. ashoka realised his mistake, and withdrew the order. for several reasons, scholars say, these stories of persecutions of rival sects by ashoka appear to be clear fabrications arising out of sectarian propaganda. family consorts various sources mention five consorts of ashoka : devi ( or vedisa - mahadevi - shakyakumari ), karuvaki, asandhimitra, padmavati, and tishyarakshita. karuvaki is the only queen of ashoka known from his own inscriptions : she is mentioned in an edict inscribed on a pillar at allahabad. the inscription names her as the mother of prince tivara, and orders the royal officers ( mahamattas ) to record her religious and charitable donations. according to one theory, tishyarakshita was the regnal name of kaurvaki. according to the mahavamsa, ashoka ' s chief queen