of the xuanxue ( mysterious learning ), also called neo - taoism. the most important philosophers of this movement were wang bi, xiang xiu and guo xiang. the main question of this school was whether being came before not - being ( in chinese, ming and wuming ). a peculiar feature of these taoist thinkers, like the seven sages of the bamboo grove, was the concept of feng liu ( lit. wind and flow ), a sort of romantic spirit which encouraged following the natural and instinctive impulse. buddhism arrived in china around the 1st century ad, but it was not until the northern and southern, sui and tang dynasties that it gained considerable influence and acknowledgement. at the beginning, it was considered a sort of taoist sect, and there was even a theory about laozi, founder of taoism, who went to india and taught his philosophy to buddha. mahayana buddhism was far more successful in china than its rival hinayana, and both indian schools and local chinese sects arose from the 5th century. two chiefly important monk philosophers were sengzhao and daosheng. but probably the most influential and original of these schools was the chan sect, which had an even stronger impact in japan as the zen sect. philosophers taoism laozi ( 5th – 4th century bce ) zhuangzi ( 4th century bce ) zhang daoling zhang jue ( died 184 ce ) ge hong ( 283 – 343 ce ) confucianism confucius mencius xun zi ( – 230 bce ) legalism li si li kui han fei mi su yu shang yang shen buhai shen dao mohism mozi song xing logicians deng xi hui shi ( 380 – 305 bce ) gongsun long ( – ) agrarianism xu xing naturalism zou yan ( 305 – 240 bce ) neotaoism wang bi guo xiang xiang xiu school of diplomacy guiguzi su qin ( 380 – 284 bce ) zhang yi ( bef. 329 – 309 bce ) yue yi li yiji ( 268 – 204 bce ) military strategy sunzi ( ) sun bin ( died 316 bce ) see also index of ancient philosophy articles wisdom literature references further reading luchte, james, early greek thought : before the dawn, in series bloomsbury studies in ancient philosophy, bloomsbury publishing, london, 2011. external links