in history, michael h. hart ranked him 53th, below the buddha ( ranked 4 ) and above mahavira ( ranked 100 ). architecture besides the various stupas attributed to ashoka, the pillars erected by him survive at various places in the indian subcontinent. ashoka is often credited with the beginning of stone architecture in india, possibly following the introduction of stone - building techniques by the greeks after alexander the great. before ashoka ' s time, buildings were probably built in non - permanent material, such as wood, bamboo or thatch. ashoka may have rebuilt his palace in pataliputra by replacing wooden material by stone, and may also have used the help of foreign craftmen. ashoka also innovated by using the permanent qualities of stone for his written edicts, as well as his pillars with buddhist symbolism. symbols ashokan capitals were highly realistic and used a characteristic polished finish, mauryan polish, giving a shiny appearance to the stone surface. lion capital of ashoka, the capital of one of the pillars erected by ashoka features a carving of a spoked wheel, known as the ashoka chakra. this wheel represents the wheel of dhamma set in motion by the gautama buddha, and appears on the flag of modern india. this capital also features sculptures of lions, which appear on the seal of india. inscriptions the edicts of ashoka are a collection of 33 inscriptions on the pillars of ashoka, as well as boulders and cave walls, issued during his reign. these inscriptions are dispersed throughout modern - day pakistan and india, and represent the first tangible evidence of buddhism. the edicts describe in detail the first wide expansion of buddhism through the sponsorship of one of the most powerful kings of indian history, offering more information about ashoka ' s proselytism, moral precepts, religious precepts, and his notions of social and animal welfare. before ashoka, the royal communications appear to have been written on perishable materials such as palm leaves, birch barks, cotton cloth, and possibly wooden boards. while ashoka ' s administration would have continued to use these materials, ashoka also had his messages inscribed on rock edicts. ashoka probably got the idea of putting up these inscriptions from the neighbouring achaemenid empire. it is likely that ashoka ' s messages were also inscribed on more perishable materials, such as wood, and sent to various parts of the empire. none of these records survive now. scholars are still attempting to analyse