##lvatica ), the interior of the globular egg cluster has been found to be up to warmer than its surroundings, which is an advantage in its cool northern habitat. the eggs may be deposited singly, in cluster or in long strands. sites for laying eggs include water, mud, burrows, debris and on plants or under logs or stones. the greenhouse frog ( eleutherodactylus planirostris ) lays eggs in small groups in the soil where they develop in about two weeks directly into juvenile frogs without an intervening larval stage. the tungara frog ( physalaemus pustulosus ) builds a floating nest from foam to protect its eggs. first a raft is built, then eggs are laid in the centre, and finally a foam cap is overlaid. the foam has anti - microbial properties. it contains no detergents but is created by whipping up proteins and lectins secreted by the female. larvae the eggs of amphibians are typically laid in water and hatch into free - living larvae that complete their development in water and later transform into either aquatic or terrestrial adults. in many species of frog and in most lungless salamanders ( plethodontidae ), direct development takes place, the larvae growing within the eggs and emerging as miniature adults. many caecilians and some other amphibians lay their eggs on land, and the newly hatched larvae wriggle or are transported to water bodies. some caecilians, the alpine salamander ( salamandra atra ) and some of the african live - bearing toads ( nectophrynoides spp. ) are viviparous. their larvae feed on glandular secretions and develop within the female ' s oviduct, often for long periods. other amphibians, but not caecilians, are ovoviviparous. the eggs are retained in or on the parent ' s body, but the larvae subsist on the yolks of their eggs and receive no nourishment from the adult. the larvae emerge at varying stages of their growth, either before or after metamorphosis, according to their species. the toad genus nectophrynoides exhibits all of these developmental patterns among its dozen or so members. amphibian larvae are known as tadpoles. they have thick, rounded bodies with powerful muscular tails. frogs unlike in other amphibians, frog tadpoles do not resemble adults. the free - living