officers. " alcott was an abolitionist and a friend of the more radical william lloyd garrison. he had attended a rally led by wendell phillips on behalf of 17 - year - old thomas sims, a fugitive slave on trial in boston. alcott was one of several who attempted to storm the courthouse ; when gunshots were heard, he was the only one who stood his ground, though the effort was unsuccessful. he had also stood his ground in a protest against the trial of anthony burns. a group had broken down the door of the boston courthouse but guards beat them back. alcott stood forward and asked the leader of the group, thomas wentworth higginson, " why are we not within? " he then walked calmly into the courthouse, was threatened with a gun, and turned back, " but without hastening a step ", according to higginson. in 1862, louisa moved to washington, d. c. to volunteer as a nurse. on january 14, 1863, the alcotts received a telegram that louisa was sick ; bronson immediately went to bring her home, briefly meeting abraham lincoln while there. louisa turned her experience into the book hospital sketches. her father wrote of it, " i see nothing in the way of a good appreciation of louisa ' s merits as a woman and a writer. " henry david thoreau died on may 6, 1862, likely from an illness he caught from alcott two years earlier. at emerson ' s request, alcott helped arrange thoreau ' s funeral, which was held at first parish sanctuary in concord, despite thoreau having disavowed membership in the church when he was in his early twenties. emerson wrote a eulogy, and alcott helped plan the preparations. only two years later, neighbor nathaniel hawthorne died as well. alcott served as a pallbearer along with louis agassiz, james t. fields, oliver wendell holmes sr., henry wadsworth longfellow, and others. with hawthorne ' s death, alcott worried that few of the concord notables remained. he recorded in his journal : " fair figures one by one are fading from sight. " the next year, lincoln was assassinated, which alcott called " appalling news ". in 1868, alcott met with publisher thomas niles, an admirer of hospital sketches. alcott asked niles if he would publish a book of short stories by his daughter ; instead, he suggested she write a book about girls. louisa may was not interested initially but agreed to try.