apollo became his servant not by force but by choice. he would also make cheese and serve it to admetus. his domestic actions caused embarrassment to his family. when admetus wanted to marry princess alcestis, apollo provided a chariot pulled by a lion and a boar he had tamed. this satisfied alcestis ' father and he let admetus marry his daughter. further, apollo saved the king from artemis ' wrath and also convinced the moirai to postpone admetus ' death once. branchus, a shepherd, one day came across apollo in the woods. captivated by the god ' s beauty, he kissed apollo. apollo requited his affections and wanting to reward him, bestowed prophetic skills on him. his descendants, the branchides, were an influential clan of prophets. other male lovers of apollo include : adonis, who is said to have been the lover of both apollo and aphrodite. he behaved as a man with aphrodite and as a woman with apollo. atymnius, otherwise known as a beloved of sarpedon boreas, the god of north winds cinyras, king of cyprus and the priest of aphrodite helenus, a trojan prince ( son of priam and hecuba ). he received from apollo an ivory bow with which he later wounded achilles in the hand. hippolytus of sicyon ( not the same as hippolytus, the son of theseus ) hymenaios, the son of magnes iapis, to whom apollo taught the art of healing phorbas, the dragon slayer ( probably the son of triopas ) children apollo sired many children, from mortal women and nymphs as well as the goddesses. his children grew up to be physicians, musicians, poets, seers or archers. many of his sons founded new cities and became kings. asclepius is the most famous son of apollo. his skills as a physician surpassed that of apollo ' s. zeus killed him for bringing back the dead, but upon apollo ' s request, he was resurrected as a god. aristaeus was placed under the care of chiron after his birth. he became the god of beekeeping, cheese - making, animal husbandry and more. he was ultimately given immortality for the benefits he bestowed upon humanity. the corybantes were spear - clashing, dancing demigods. the sons of apollo who participated in the trojan war include the trojan princes hector and tr