after 614 sent theodorus, bishop of amathus, to jerusalem to ransom some slaves. today, amathus is a see of the church of cyprus and is also listed ( under the name " amathus in cypro ", to distinguish it from " amathus in transjordan " ) as a titular see by the catholic church, which however, in line with the practice adopted after the second vatican council, has made no appointments to the bishopric since the death of the last latin titular bishop in 1984. anastasius sinaita, the famous 7th - century prolific monk of saint catherine ' s monastery, was born here. it is thought that he left cyprus after the 649 arab conquest of the island, setting out for the holy land, and eventually becoming a monk on sinai. amathus declined and was already almost deserted when richard plantagenet won cyprus by a victory there over isaac comnenus in 1191. the tombs were plundered and the stones from the beautiful edifices were brought to limassol to be used for new constructions. much later, in 1869, a great number of blocks of stone from amathus were used for the construction of the suez canal. a ruined byzantine church marks its site. in modern times a new settlement close to amathus but further inland, agios tychonas, is named after the bishop saint tychon of amathus. the site of the ruins is within the borders of this village, though the expansion of the limassol tourist area has threatened the ruins : it is speculated that some of the hotels are on top of the amathus necropolis. the site and archaeology the city had vanished, except for fragments of wall and of a great stone urn on the acropolis, dating from the 6th century bc of which a similar vessel was taken to the musee du louvre in 1867. it is tall and weighs 14 tons. it was made from a single piece of stone and has four curved handles carved with bulls. in the 1870s, luigi palma di cesnola excavated the necropolis of amathus, as elsewhere in cyprus, enriching the early collections of the metropolitan museum of art ; some objects went to the british museum. more modern archaeological joint cypriote - french excavations started in 1980 and still continue. the acropolis, the temple of aphrodite, the agora, the city ' s walls, the basilica and the port have all been excavated. further archaeological objects found during the excavations are preserved at both the cyprus museum in nicosia and the