. beauregard assumed command of the army. he resumed leading the confederate assault, which continued advancing and pushed the u. s. forces back to a final defensive line near the tennessee river. with his army exhausted and daylight almost gone, beauregard called off the final confederate attack around 1900 hours, figuring he could finish off the u. s. army the following morning. however, grant was reinforced by 20, 000 fresh troops from don carlos buell ' s army of the ohio during the night and led a successful counter - attack the following day, driving the confederates from the field and winning the battle. as the confederate army retreated to corinth, johnston ' s body was taken to the home of colonel william inge, which had been his headquarters in corinth. it was covered in the confederate flag and lay in state for several hours. it is possible that a confederate soldier fired the fatal round, as many confederates were firing at the u. s. lines while johnston charged well in advance of his soldiers. alonzo ridley of los angeles commanded the bodyguard " the guides " of gen. a. s. johnston and was by his side when he fell. johnston was the highest - ranking fatality of the war on either side and his death was a strong blow to the morale of the confederacy. at the time, davis considered him the best general in the country. legacy and honors johnston was survived by his wife, eliza, and six children. his wife and five younger children, including one born after he went to war, chose to live out their days at home in los angeles with eliza ' s brother, dr. john strother griffin. johnston ' s eldest son, albert sidney jr. ( born in texas ), had already followed him into the confederate states army. in 1863, albert jr. was on his way out of san pedro harbor on a ferry after taking home leave in los angeles. while a steamer was taking on passengers from the ferry, a wave swamped the smaller boat, causing its boilers to explode. albert jr. was killed in the accident. upon his passing, general johnston received the highest praise ever given by the confederate government : accounts were published on december 20, 1862, and after that, in the los angeles star of his family ' s hometown. johnston street, hancock street, and griffin avenue, each in northeast los angeles, are named after the general and his family, who lived in the neighborhood. johnston was initially buried in new orleans. in 1866, a joint resolution of the texas