for many novels, films, plays, and works of music. he is a favorite model for depictions of absent - minded professors ; his expressive face and distinctive hairstyle have been widely copied and exaggerated. time magazine ' s frederic golden wrote that einstein was " a cartoonist ' s dream come true ". many popular quotations are often misattributed to him. for example, it is often claimed, erroneously, that he said, " the definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over and expecting different results. " awards and honors einstein received numerous awards and honors, and in 1922, he was awarded the 1921 nobel prize in physics " for his services to theoretical physics, and especially for his discovery of the law of the photoelectric effect ". none of the nominations in 1921 met the criteria set by alfred nobel, so the 1921 prize was carried forward and awarded to einstein in 1922. einsteinium, one of the synthetic elements in the periodic table, was named in his honor. publications scientific first of a series of papers on this topic. a reprint of this book was published by edition erbrich in 1982,. further information about the volumes published so far can be found on the webpages of the einstein papers project and on the princeton university press einstein page. others einstein, albert ( september 1960 ). foreword to gandhi wields the weapon of moral power : three case histories. introduction by bharatan kumarappa. ahmedabad : navajivan publishing house. pp. v – vi.. foreword originally written in april 1953.. the chasing a light beam thought experiment is described on pages 48 – 51. see also albert einstein house in princeton einstein family einstein notation the einstein theory of relativity, an educational film frist campus center at princeton university room 302 is associated with einstein. ( the center was once the palmer physical laboratory. ) heinrich burkhardt bern historical museum ( einstein museum ) history of gravitational theory list of coupled cousins list of german inventors and discoverers jewish nobel laureates list of peace activists relativity priority dispute sticky bead argument heinrich zangger notes references works cited further reading, or external links einstein ' s personal correspondence : religion, politics, the holocaust, and philosophy shapell manuscript foundation federal bureau of investigation file on albert einstein einstein and his love of music, physics world including the nobel lecture 11 july 1923 fundamental ideas and problems of the theory of relativity albert einstein archives online ( 80, 000 + documents ) ( msnbc, 19 march 2012 ) einstein ' s declaration of intention for american