and the united states ; however, some anarchists struggled with the jealousy that arose from free love. anarchist feminists were advocates of free love, against marriage, and pro - choice ( utilising a contemporary term ), and had a similar agenda. anarchist and non - anarchist feminists differed on suffrage but were supportive of one another. during the second half of the 20th century, anarchism intermingled with the second wave of feminism, radicalising some currents of the feminist movement and being influenced as well. by the latest decades of the 20th century, anarchists and feminists were advocating for the rights and autonomy of women, gays, queers and other marginalised groups, with some feminist thinkers suggesting a fusion of the two currents. with the third wave of feminism, sexual identity and compulsory heterosexuality became a subject of study for anarchists, yielding a post - structuralist critique of sexual normality. some anarchists distanced themselves from this line of thinking, suggesting that it leaned towards an individualism that was dropping the cause of social liberation. education the interest of anarchists in education stretches back to the first emergence of classical anarchism. anarchists consider proper education, one which sets the foundations of the future autonomy of the individual and the society, to be an act of mutual aid. anarchist writers such as william godwin ( political justice ) and max stirner ( " the false principle of our education " ) attacked both state education and private education as another means by which the ruling class replicate their privileges. in 1901, catalan anarchist and free thinker francisco ferrer established the escuela moderna in barcelona as an opposition to the established education system which was dictated largely by the catholic church. ferrer ' s approach was secular, rejecting both state and church involvement in the educational process whilst giving pupils large amounts of autonomy in planning their work and attendance. ferrer aimed to educate the working class and explicitly sought to foster class consciousness among students. the school closed after constant harassment by the state and ferrer was later arrested. nonetheless, his ideas formed the inspiration for a series of modern schools around the world. christian anarchist leo tolstoy, who published the essay education and culture, also established a similar school with its founding principle being that " for education to be effective it had to be free. " in a similar token, a. s. neill founded what became the summerhill school in 1921, also declaring being free from coercion. anarchist education is based largely on the idea that a child ' s right to develop freely and without