term in any other but muslim contexts, but the malayan high court in 2009 revoked the law, ruling it unconstitutional. while had been used for the christian god in malay for more than four centuries, the contemporary controversy was triggered by usage of by the roman catholic newspaper the herald. the government appealed the court ruling, and the high court suspended implementation of its verdict until the hearing of the appeal. in october 2013 the court ruled in favor of the government ' s ban. in early 2014 the malaysian government confiscated more than 300 bibles for using the word to refer to the christian god in peninsular malaysia. however, the use of is not prohibited in the two malaysian states of sabah and sarawak. the main reason it is not prohibited in these two states is that usage has been long - established and local alkitab ( bibles ) have been widely distributed freely in east malaysia without restrictions for years. both states also do not have similar islamic state laws as those in west malaysia. in reaction to some media criticism, the malaysian government has introduced a " 10 - point solution " to avoid confusion and misleading information. the 10 - point solution is in line with the spirit of the 18 - and 20 - point agreements of sarawak and sabah. national flags with " allah " written on them typography the word is always written without an to spell the vowel. this is because the spelling was settled before arabic spelling started habitually using to spell. however, in vocalized spelling, a small diacritic is added on top of the to indicate the pronunciation. in the pre - islamic zabad inscription, god is referred to by the term, that is, alif - lam - alif - lam - ha. this presumably indicates al - ' ilah = " the god ", without alif for a. many arabic type fonts feature special ligatures for allah. since arabic script is used to write other texts rather than koran only, rendering + + as the previous ligature is considered faulty which is the case with most common arabic typefaces. unicode unicode has a code point reserved for, = u + fdf2, in the arabic presentation forms - a block, which exists solely for " compatibility with some older, legacy character sets that encoded presentation forms directly " ; this is discouraged for new text. instead, the word should be represented by its individual arabic letters, while modern font technologies will render the desired ligature. the calligraphic variant of the word used as the emblem of iran is encoded in unicode, in the miscellaneous symbols range