of density fluctuations, and demonstrated how both the effect and rayleigh scattering originate from the atomistic constitution of matter. special relativity einstein ' s " " ( " on the electrodynamics of moving bodies " ) was received on 30 june 1905 and published 26 september of that same year. it reconciled conflicts between maxwell ' s equations ( the laws of electricity and magnetism ) and the laws of newtonian mechanics by introducing changes to the laws of mechanics. observationally, the effects of these changes are most apparent at high speeds ( where objects are moving at speeds close to the speed of light ). the theory developed in this paper later became known as einstein ' s special theory of relativity. this paper predicted that, when measured in the frame of a relatively moving observer, a clock carried by a moving body would appear to slow down, and the body itself would contract in its direction of motion. this paper also argued that the idea of a luminiferous aether — one of the leading theoretical entities in physics at the time — was superfluous. in his paper on mass – energy equivalence, einstein produced e = mc2 as a consequence of his special relativity equations. einstein ' s 1905 work on relativity remained controversial for many years, but was accepted by leading physicists, starting with max planck. einstein originally framed special relativity in terms of kinematics ( the study of moving bodies ). in 1908, hermann minkowski reinterpreted special relativity in geometric terms as a theory of spacetime. einstein adopted minkowski ' s formalism in his 1915 general theory of relativity. general relativity general relativity and the equivalence principle general relativity ( gr ) is a theory of gravitation that was developed by einstein between 1907 and 1915. according to it, the observed gravitational attraction between masses results from the warping of spacetime by those masses. general relativity has developed into an essential tool in modern astrophysics ; it provides the foundation for the current understanding of black holes, regions of space where gravitational attraction is so strong that not even light can escape. as einstein later said, the reason for the development of general relativity was that the preference of inertial motions within special relativity was unsatisfactory, while a theory which from the outset prefers no state of motion ( even accelerated ones ) should appear more satisfactory. consequently, in 1907 he published an article on acceleration under special relativity. in that article titled " on the relativity principle and the conclusions drawn from it ", he argued that free fall is really inertial motion, and that for a