none of alexander ' s contemporaries, however, are known to have explicitly described alexander ' s relationship with hephaestion as sexual, though the pair was often compared to achilles and patroclus, whom classical greek culture painted as a couple. aelian writes of alexander ' s visit to troy where " alexander garlanded the tomb of achilles, and hephaestion that of patroclus, the latter hinting that he was a beloved of alexander, in just the same way as patroclus was of achilles. " some modern historians ( e. g., robin lane fox ) believe not only that alexander ' s youthful relationship with hephaestion was sexual, but that their sexual contacts may have continued into adulthood, which went against the social norms of at least some greek cities, such as athens, though some modern researchers have tentatively proposed that macedonia ( or at least the macedonian court ) may have been more tolerant of homosexuality between adults. green argues that there is little evidence in ancient sources that alexander had much carnal interest in women ; he did not produce an heir until the very end of his life. however, ogden calculates that alexander, who impregnated his partners thrice in eight years, had a higher matrimonial record than his father at the same age. two of these pregnancies — stateira ' s and barsine ' s — are of dubious legitimacy. according to diodorus siculus, alexander accumulated a harem in the style of persian kings, but he used it rather sparingly, " not wishing to offend the macedonians ", showing great self - control in " pleasures of the body ". nevertheless, plutarch described how alexander was infatuated by roxana while complimenting him on not forcing himself on her. green suggested that, in the context of the period, alexander formed quite strong friendships with women, including ada of caria, who adopted him, and even darius ' s mother sisygambis, who supposedly died from grief upon hearing of alexander ' s death. battle record legacy alexander ' s legacy extended beyond his military conquests, and his reign marked a turning point in european and asian history. his campaigns greatly increased contacts and trade between east and west, and vast areas to the east were significantly exposed to greek civilization and influence. some of the cities he founded became major cultural centers, many surviving into the 21st century. his chroniclers recorded valuable information about the areas through which he marched, while the greeks themselves got a