, a technique commonly known as targeted advertising. despite facebook ' s measures, including purchasing full - page newspaper advertisements protesting app tracking transparency, apple released the update in mid - spring 2021. a study by verizon subsidiary flurry analytics reported only 4 % of ios users in the united states and 12 % worldwide have opted into tracking. however, apple aids law enforcement in criminal investigations by providing icloud backups of users ' devices, and the company ' s commitment to privacy has been questioned by its efforts to promote biometric authentication technology in its newer iphone models, which do not have the same level of constitutional privacy as a passcode in the united states. prior to the release of ios 15, apple announced new efforts at combating child sexual abuse material on ios and mac platforms. parents of minor imessage users can now be alerted if their child sends or receives nude photographs. additionally, on - device hashing would take place on media destined for upload to icloud, and hashes would be compared to a list of known abusive images provided by law enforcement ; if enough matches were found, apple would be alerted and authorities informed. the new features received praise from law enforcement and victims rights advocates, however privacy advocates, including the electronic frontier foundation, condemned the new features as invasive and highly prone to abuse by authoritarian governments. ireland ' s data protection commission launched a privacy investigation to examine whether apple complied with the eu ' s gdpr law following an investigation into how the company processes personal data with targeted ads on its platform. in december 2019, a report found that the iphone 11 pro continues tracking location and collecting user data even after users have disabled location services. in response, an apple engineer said the location services icon " appears for system services that do not have a switch in settings. " according to published reports by bloomberg news on march 30, 2022, apple turned over data such as phone numbers, physical addresses, and ip addresses to hackers posing as law enforcement officials using forged documents. the law enforcement requests sometimes included forged signatures of real or fictional officials. when asked about the allegations, an apple representative referred the reporter to a section of the company policy for law enforcement guidelines, which stated, " we review every data request for legal sufficiency and use advanced systems and processes to validate law enforcement requests and detect abuse. " corporate affairs leadership senior management as of march 16, 2021, the management of apple inc. includes : tim cook ( chief executive officer ) jeff williams ( chief operating officer ) luca maestri ( senior