believe in universalism : that all souls will ultimately be saved and that there are no torments of hell. unitarian universalists differ widely in their theology hence there is no exact same stance on the issue. although unitarians historically believed in a literal hell, and universalists historically believed that everyone goes to heaven, modern unitarian universalists can be categorized into those believing in a heaven, reincarnation and oblivion. most unitarian universalists believe that heaven and hell are symbolic places of consciousness and the faith is largely focused on the worldly life rather than any possible afterlife. wicca the wiccan afterlife is most commonly described as the summerland. here, souls rest, recuperate from life, and reflect on the experiences they had during their lives. after a period of rest, the souls are reincarnated, and the memory of their previous lives is erased. many wiccans see the summerland as a place to reflect on their life actions. it is not a place of reward, but rather the end of a life journey at an end point of incarnations. zoroastrianism zoroastrianism states that the urvan, the disembodied spirit, lingers on earth for three days before departing downward to the kingdom of the dead that is ruled by yima. for the three days that it rests on earth, righteous souls sit at the head of their body, chanting the ustavaiti gathas with joy, while a wicked person sits at the feet of the corpse, wails and recites the yasna. zoroastrianism states that for the righteous souls, a beautiful maiden, which is the personification of the soul ' s good thoughts, words and deeds, appears. for a wicked person, a very old, ugly, naked hag appears. after three nights, the soul of the wicked is taken by the demon vizaresa ( vizarəsa ), to chinvat bridge, and is made to go to darkness ( hell ). yima is believed to have been the first king on earth to rule, as well as the first man to die. inside of yima ' s realm, the spirits live a shadowy existence, and are dependent on their own descendants which are still living on earth. their descendants are to satisfy their hunger and clothe them, through rituals done on earth. rituals which are done on the first three days are vital and important, as they protect the soul from evil powers and give it strength to reach the underworld. after three