##ffloth ( 2005 ) diffloth compares reconstructions of various clades, and attempts to classify them based on shared innovations, though like other classifications the evidence has not been published. as a schematic, we have : or in more detail, munda languages ( india ) koraput : 7 languages core munda languages kharian – juang : 2 languages north munda languages korku kherwarian : 12 languages khasi – khmuic languages ( northern mon – khmer ) khasian : 3 languages of north eastern india and adjacent region of bangladesh palaungo - khmuic languages khmuic : 13 languages of laos and thailand palaungo - pakanic languages pakanic or palyu : 4 or 5 languages of southern china and vietnam palaungic : 21 languages of burma, southern china, and thailand nuclear mon – khmer languages khmero - vietic languages ( eastern mon – khmer ) vieto - katuic languages? vietic : 10 languages of vietnam and laos, including muong and vietnamese, which has the most speakers of any austroasiatic language. katuic : 19 languages of laos, vietnam, and thailand. khmero - bahnaric languages bahnaric : 40 languages of vietnam, laos, and cambodia. khmeric languages the khmer dialects of cambodia, thailand, and vietnam. pearic : 6 languages of cambodia. nico - monic languages ( southern mon – khmer ) nicobarese : 6 languages of the nicobar islands, a territory of india. asli - monic languages aslian : 19 languages of peninsular malaysia and thailand. monic : 2 languages, the mon language of burma and the nyahkur language of thailand. sidwell ( 2009 – 2015 ) paul sidwell ( 2009 ), in a lexicostatistical comparison of 36 languages which are well known enough to exclude loanwords, finds little evidence for internal branching, though he did find an area of increased contact between the bahnaric and katuic languages, such that languages of all branches apart from the geographically distant munda and nicobarese show greater similarity to bahnaric and katuic the closer they are to those branches, without any noticeable innovations common to bahnaric and katuic. he therefore takes the conservative view that the thirteen branches of austroasiatic should be treated as equidistant on current evidence. sidwell & blench ( 2011 ) discuss this proposal in more detail, and