to internalize external costs. neither included subsidies in their analysis, but they noted that subsidies also influence the cost of agriculture to society. agriculture seeks to increase yield and to reduce costs, often employing measures that cut biodiversity to very low levels. yield increases with inputs such as fertilisers and removal of pathogens, predators, and competitors ( such as weeds ). costs decrease with increasing scale of farm units, such as making fields larger ; this means removing hedges, ditches and other areas of habitat. pesticides kill insects, plants and fungi. effective yields fall with on - farm losses, which may be caused by poor production practices during harvesting, handling, and storage. the environmental effects of climate change show that research on pests and diseases that do not generally afflict areas is essential. in 2021, farmers discovered stem rust on wheat in the champagne area of france, a disease that had previously only occurred in morocco for 20 to 30 years. because of climate change, insects that used to die off over the winter are now alive and multiplying. livestock issues a senior un official, henning steinfeld, said that " livestock are one of the most significant contributors to today ' s most serious environmental problems ". livestock production occupies 70 % of all land used for agriculture, or 30 % of the land surface of the planet. it is one of the largest sources of greenhouse gases, responsible for 18 % of the world ' s greenhouse gas emissions as measured in co2 equivalents. by comparison, all transportation emits 13. 5 % of the co2. it produces 65 % of human - related nitrous oxide ( which has 296 times the global warming potential of co2 ) and 37 % of all human - induced methane ( which is 23 times as warming as co2. ) it also generates 64 % of the ammonia emission. livestock expansion is cited as a key factor driving deforestation ; in the amazon basin 70 % of previously forested area is now occupied by pastures and the remainder used for feed crops. through deforestation and land degradation, livestock is also driving reductions in biodiversity. furthermore, the united nations environment programme ( unep ) states that " methane emissions from global livestock are projected to increase by 60 per cent by 2030 under current practices and consumption patterns. " land and water issues land transformation, the use of land to yield goods and services, is the most substantial way humans alter the earth ' s ecosystems, and is the driving force causing biodiversity loss. estimates of the amount of land transformed by humans vary from 39 to