nominally had time limits were automatically renewed whenever they lapsed. conspiracy many of the political subtleties of the second settlement seem to have evaded the comprehension of the plebeian class, who were augustus ' s greatest supporters and clientele. this caused them to insist upon augustus ' s participation in imperial affairs from time to time. augustus failed to stand for election as consul in 22 bc, and fears arose once again that he was being forced from power by the aristocratic senate. in 22, 21, and 19 bc, the people rioted in response and only allowed a single consul to be elected for each of those years, ostensibly to leave the other position open for augustus. likewise, there was a food shortage in rome in 22 bc which sparked panic, while many urban plebs called for augustus to take on dictatorial powers to personally oversee the crisis. after a theatrical display of refusal before the senate, augustus finally accepted authority over rome ' s grain supply " by virtue of his proconsular imperium ", and ended the crisis almost immediately. it was not until ad 8 that a food crisis of this sort prompted augustus to establish a praefectus annonae, a permanent prefect who was in charge of procuring food supplies for rome. there were some who were concerned by the expansion of powers granted to augustus by the second settlement, and this came to a head with the apparent conspiracy of fannius caepio. some time prior to 1 september 22 bc, a certain castricius provided augustus with information about a conspiracy led by fannius caepio. murena, the outspoken consul who defended primus in the marcus primus affair, was named among the conspirators. the conspirators were tried in absentia with tiberius acting as prosecutor ; the jury found them guilty, but it was not a unanimous verdict. all the accused were sentenced to death for treason and executed as soon as they were captured — without ever giving testimony in their defence. augustus ensured that the facade of republican government continued with an effective cover - up of the events. in 19 bc, the senate granted augustus a form of " general consular imperium ", which was probably imperium consulare maius, like the proconsular powers that he received in 23 bc. like his tribune authority, the consular powers were another instance of gaining power from offices that he did not actually hold. in addition, augustus was allowed to wear the consul ' s insignia in public and before the senate, as well