million. " persecutions during the middle ages in the late 6th century ce, the newly catholicised visigothic kingdom in hispania issued a series of anti - jewish edicts which forbade jews from marrying christians, practicing circumcision, and observing jewish holy days. continuing throughout the 7th century, both visigothic kings and the church were active in creating social aggression and towards jews with " civic and ecclesiastic punishments ", ranging between forced conversion, slavery, exile and death. from the 9th century, the medieval islamic world classified jews and christians as dhimmis and allowed jews to practice their religion more freely than they could do in medieval christian europe. under islamic rule, there was a golden age of jewish culture in spain that lasted until at least the 11th century. it ended when several muslim pogroms against jews took place on the iberian peninsula, including those that occurred in cordoba in 1011 and in granada in 1066. several decrees ordering the destruction of synagogues were also enacted in egypt, syria, iraq and yemen from the 11th century. in addition, jews were forced to convert to islam or face death in some parts of yemen, morocco and baghdad several times between the 12th and 18th centuries. the almohads, who had taken control of the almoravids ' maghribi and andalusian territories by 1147, were far more fundamentalist in outlook compared to their predecessors, and they treated the dhimmis harshly. faced with the choice of either death or conversion, many jews and christians emigrated. some, such as the family of maimonides, fled east to more tolerant muslim lands, while some others went northward to settle in the growing christian kingdoms. in medieval europe, jews were persecuted with blood libels, expulsions, forced conversions and massacres. these persecutions were often justified on religious grounds and reached a first peak during the crusades. in 1096, hundreds or thousands of jews were killed during the first crusade. this was the first major outbreak of anti - jewish violence in christian europe outside spain and was cited by zionists in the 19th century as indicating the need for a state of israel. in 1147, there were several massacres of jews during the second crusade. the shepherds ' crusades of 1251 and 1320 both involved attacks, as did the rintfleisch massacres in 1298. expulsions followed, such as the 1290 banishment of jews from england, the expulsion of 100, 000 jews from france in 1394,