data. anyone looking to use machine learning as part of real - world, in - production systems needs to factor ethics into their ai training processes and strive to avoid bias. this is especially true when using ai algorithms that are inherently unexplainable in deep learning. the developers may not be aware that the bias exists. bias can be introduced by the way training data is selected and by the way a model is deployed. if a biased algorithm is used to make decisions that can seriously harm people ( as it can in medicine, finance, recruitment, housing or policing ) then the algorithm may cause discrimination. fairness in machine learning is the study of how to prevent the harm caused by algorithmic bias. it has become serious area of academic study within ai. researchers have discovered it is not always possible to define " fairness " in a way that satisfies all stakeholders. on june 28, 2015, google photos ' s new image labeling feature mistakenly identified jacky alcine and a friend as " gorillas " because they were black. the system was trained on a dataset that contained very few images of black people, a problem called " sample size disparity ". google " fixed " this problem by preventing the system from labelling anything as a " gorilla ". eight years later, in 2023, google photos still could not identify a gorilla, and neither could similar products from apple, facebook, microsoft and amazon. compas is a commercial program widely used by u. s. courts to assess the likelihood of a defendant becoming a recidivist. in 2016, julia angwin at propublica discovered that compas exhibited racial bias, despite the fact that the program was not told the races of the defendants. although the error rate for both whites and blacks was calibrated equal at exactly 61 %, the errors for each race were different - - the system consistently overestimated the chance that a black person would re - offend and would underestimate the chance that a white person would not re - offend. in 2017, several researchers showed that it was mathematically impossible for compas to accommodate all possible measures of fairness when the base rates of re - offense were different for whites and blacks in the data. a program can make biased decisions even if the data does not explicitly mention a problematic feature ( such as " race " or " gender " ). the feature will correlate with other features ( like " address ", " shopping history " or " first name " ), and the program will make the same