with the most devastating epidemics occurring in the 1830s and 1860s, resulting in high fatalities and social disruption. the aleutian islands are still home to the aleut people ' s seafaring society, although they were the first native alaskans to be exploited by the russians. western and southwestern alaska are home to the yup ' ik, while their cousins the alutiiq ~ sugpiaq live in what is now southcentral alaska. the gwich ' in people of the northern interior region are athabaskan and primarily known today for their dependence on the caribou within the much - contested arctic national wildlife refuge. the north slope and little diomede island are occupied by the widespread inupiat people. colonization some researchers believe the first russian settlement in alaska was established in the 17th century. according to this hypothesis, in 1648 several koches of semyon dezhnyov ' s expedition came ashore in alaska by storm and founded this settlement. this hypothesis is based on the testimony of chukchi geographer nikolai daurkin, who had visited alaska in 1764 – 1765 and who had reported on a village on the kheuveren river, populated by " bearded men " who " pray to the icons ". some modern researchers associate kheuveren with koyuk river. the first european vessel to reach alaska is generally held to be the st. gabriel under the authority of the surveyor m. s. gvozdev and assistant navigator i. fyodorov on august 21, 1732, during an expedition of siberian cossack a. f. shestakov and russian explorer dmitry pavlutsky ( 1729 – 1735 ). another european contact with alaska occurred in 1741, when vitus bering led an expedition for the russian navy aboard the st. peter. after his crew returned to russia with sea otter pelts judged to be the finest fur in the world, small associations of fur traders began to sail from the shores of siberia toward the aleutian islands. the first permanent european settlement was founded in 1784. between 1774 and 1800, spain sent several expeditions to alaska to assert its claim over the pacific northwest. in 1789, a spanish settlement and fort were built in nootka sound. these expeditions gave names to places such as valdez, bucareli sound, and cordova. later, the russian - american company carried out an expanded colonization program during the early - to - mid - 19th century. sitka, renamed new archangel from 1804 to 1867, on bar