representation of allah is known to have existed. allah is the only god in mecca that did not have an idol. muhammad ' s father ' s name was meaning " the slave of allah ". islam in islam, allah is the unique, omnipotent and only deity and creator of the universe and is equivalent to god in other abrahamic religions. allah is usually seen as the personal name of god, a notion which became disputed in contemporary scholarship, including the question, whether or not the word allah should be translated as god. according to islamic belief, allah is the most common word to represent god, and humble submission to his will, divine ordinances and commandments is the pivot of the muslim faith. " he is the only god, creator of the universe, and the judge of humankind. " " he is unique ( ) and inherently one ( ), all - merciful and omnipotent. " no human eyes can see allah till the day of judgement. the qur ' an declares " the reality of allah, his inaccessible mystery, his various names, and his actions on behalf of his creatures. " allah does not depend on anything. god is not a part of the christian trinity. god has no parents and no children. the concept correlates to the tawhid, where chapter 112 of the qur ' an ( al - ' ikhlas, the sincerity ) reads : say, god is one god ; the eternal god : he begetteth not, neither is he begotten : and there is not any one like unto him. and in the ayat ul - kursi ( " verse of the throne " ), which is the 255th verse and the powerful verse in the longest chapter ( the 2nd chapter ) of the qur ' an, al - baqarah ( " the cow " ) states : allah! there is no deity but him, the alive, the eternal. neither slumber nor sleep overtaketh him. unto him belongeth whatsoever is in the heavens and whatsoever is in the earth. who could intercede in his presence without his permission? he knoweth that which is in front of them and that which is behind them, while they encompass nothing of his knowledge except what he wills. his throne includeth the heavens and the earth, and he is never weary of preserving them. he is the sublime, the tremendous. in islamic tradition, there are 99 names of god ( lit. meaning : ' the best names ' or ' the most beautiful names ' )