##d and john the saxon came from francia ; plegmund ( whom alfred appointed archbishop of canterbury in 890 ), bishop wærferth of worcester, æthelstan, and the royal chaplains werwulf, from mercia ; and asser, from st david ' s in southwestern wales. advocacy of education in english alfred ' s educational ambitions seem to have extended beyond the establishment of a court school. believing that without christian wisdom there can be neither prosperity nor success in war, alfred aimed " to set to learning ( as long as they are not useful for some other employment ) all the free - born young men now in england who have the means to apply themselves to it ". conscious of the decay of latin literacy in his realm, alfred proposed that primary education be taught in english, with those wishing to advance to holy orders to continue their studies in latin. there were few " books of wisdom " written in english. alfred sought to remedy this through an ambitious court - centred programme of translating into english the books he deemed " most necessary for all men to know ". it is unknown when alfred launched this programme, but it may have been during the 880s when wessex was enjoying a respite from viking attacks. alfred was, until recently, often considered to have been the author of many of the translations, but this is now considered doubtful in almost all cases. scholars more often refer to translations as " alfredian ", indicating that they probably had something to do with his patronage, but are unlikely to be his own work. apart from the lost handboc or encheiridio, which seems to have been a commonplace book kept by the king, the earliest work to be translated was the dialogues of gregory the great, a book greatly popular in the middle ages. the translation was undertaken at alfred ' s command by wærferth, bishop of worcester, with the king merely furnishing a preface. remarkably, alfred – undoubtedly with the advice and aid of his court scholars – translated four works himself : gregory the great ' s pastoral care, boethius ' s consolation of philosophy, st. augustine ' s soliloquies and the first fifty psalms of the psalter. one might add to this list the translation, in alfred ' s law code, of excerpts from the vulgate book of exodus. the old english versions of orosius ' s histories against the pagans and bede ' s ecclesiastical history of the english people are no longer accepted by scholars as alfred '