they conclude that this theoretical body would inherently have political power and would be nothing short of a state. the difference between such an arrangement and an anarcho - capitalist system is what anarcho - capitalists see as the voluntary nature of organization within anarcho - capitalism contrasted with a " centralized ideology " and a " paired enforcement mechanism " which they believe would be necessary under what they describe as a " coercively " egalitarian - anarchist system. rothbard also argued that the capitalist system of today is not properly anarchistic because it often colludes with the state. according to rothbard, " what marx and later writers have done is to lump together two extremely different and even contradictory concepts and actions under the same portmanteau term. these two contradictory concepts are what i would call ' free - market capitalism ' on the one hand, and ' state capitalism ' on the other ". " the difference between free - market capitalism and state capitalism ", writes rothbard, " is precisely the difference between, on the one hand, peaceful, voluntary exchange, and on the other, violent expropriation ". he continues : " state capitalism inevitably creates all sorts of problems which become insoluble ". traditional anarchists reject the notion of capitalism, hierarchies and private property. albert meltzer argued that anarcho - capitalism simply cannot be anarchism because capitalism and the state are inextricably interlinked and because capitalism exhibits domineering hierarchical structures such as that between an employer and an employee. anna morgenstern approaches this topic from the opposite perspective, arguing that anarcho - capitalists are not really capitalists because " mass concentration of capital is impossible " without the state. according to jeremy jennings, " [ i ] t is hard not to conclude that these ideas, " referring to anarcho - capitalism, have " roots deep in classical liberalism " and " are described as anarchist only on the basis of a misunderstanding of what anarchism is. " for jennings, " anarchism does not stand for the untrammelled freedom of the individual ( as the ' anarcho - capitalists ' appear to believe ) but, as we have already seen, for the extension of individuality and community. " similarly, barbara goodwin, emeritus professor of politics at the university of east anglia, norwich, argues that anarcho - capitalism ' s " true place is in the group of right - wing libertarians ", not in anarchism. some right