12 and 15 in mexico, the us and canada. " take a chance on me " was a number one hit in austria, belgium and mexico, made the top 3 in the us, canada, the netherlands, germany and switzerland, while only reaching numbers 12 and 14 in australia and new zealand, respectively. both songs were top 10 hits in countries as far afield as rhodesia and south africa, as well as in france. although " take a chance on me " did not top the american charts, it proved to be abba ' s biggest hit single there, selling more copies than " dancing queen ". the drop in sales in australia was felt to be inevitable by industry observers as an " abba - fever " that had existed there for almost three years could only last so long as adolescents would naturally begin to move away from a group so deified by both their parents and grandparents. a third single, " eagle ", was released in continental europe and down under becoming a number one hit in belgium and a top 10 hit in the netherlands, germany, switzerland and south africa, but barely charting down under. the b - side of " eagle " was " thank you for the music ", and it was belatedly released as an a - side single in both the united kingdom and ireland in 1983. " thank you for the music " has become one of the best loved and best known abba songs without being released as a single during the group ' s lifetime. abba : the album topped the album charts in the uk, the netherlands, new zealand, sweden, norway, switzerland, while ascending to the top 5 in australia, germany, austria, finland and rhodesia, and making the top 10 in canada and japan. sources also indicate that sales in poland exceeded 1 million copies and that sales demand in russia could not be met by the supply available. the album peaked at number 14 in the us. polar music studio formation by 1978, abba were one of the biggest bands in the world. they converted a vacant cinema into the polar music studio, a state - of - the - art studio in stockholm. the studio was used by several other bands ; notably genesis ' duke, led zeppelin ' s in through the out door and scorpions ' s lovedrive were recorded there. during may 1978, the group went to the united states for a promotional campaign, performing alongside andy gibb on olivia newton - john ' s tv show. recording sessions for the single " summer night city " were an uphill struggle, but upon release