= monocotyledons ] in the class magnoliopsida [ = angiosperms ] with the following families included : alismataceae aponogetonaceae butomaceae hydrocharitaceae limnocharitaceae in tahktajan ' s classification ( 1997 ), the order alismatales contains only the alismataceae and limnocharitaceae, making it equivalent to the alismataceae as revised in apg - iii. other families included in the alismatates as currently defined are here distributed among 10 additional orders, all of which are assigned, with the following exception, to the subclass alismatidae. araceae in tahktajan 1997 is assigned to the arales and placed in the subclass aridae ; tofieldiaceae to the melanthiales and placed in the liliidae. angiosperm phylogeny group the angiosperm phylogeny group system ( apg ) of 1998 and apg ii ( 2003 ) assigned the alismatales to the monocots, which may be thought of as an unranked clade containing the families listed below. the biggest departure from earlier systems ( see below ) is the inclusion of family araceae. by its inclusion, the order has grown enormously in number of species. the family araceae alone accounts for about a hundred genera, totaling over two thousand species. the rest of the families together contain only about five hundred species, many of which are in very small families. the apg iii system ( 2009 ) differs only in that the limnocharitaceae are combined with the alismataceae ; it was also suggested that the genus maundia ( of the juncaginaceae ) could be separated into a monogeneric family, the maundiaceae, but the authors noted that more study was necessary before the maundiaceae could be recognized. order alismatales sensu apg iii family alismataceae ( including limnocharitaceae ) family aponogetonaceae family araceae family butomaceae family cymodoceaceae family hydrocharitaceae family juncaginaceae family posidoniaceae family potamogetonaceae family ruppiaceae family scheuchzeriaceae family tofieldiaceae family zosteraceae in apg iv ( 2016 ), it was decided that evidence was sufficient to elevate maundia to family level as the monogeneric maundiaceae. the authors considered including a number of