; buster moten, who played second piano and accordion in the bennie moten orchestra ; and jack cornell, who did recordings with irving mills. later jazz accordionists from the united states include steve bach, milton delugg, orlando digirolamo, dominic frontiere, guy klucevsek, yuri lemeshev, frank marocco, john serry sr., lee tomboulian, and art van damme. french jazz accordionists include richard galliano, bernard lubat, and vincent peirani. norwegian jazz accordionists include asmund bjørken, stian carstensen, gabriel fliflet, frode haltli, and eivin one pedersen. left hand techniques the constraints of the stradella bass system, limiting the left hand to preset chord buttons, is a barrier to some jazz chord conventions. jazz accordionists expand the range of chord possibilities by using more than one chord button simultaneously, or by using combinations of a chord button and a bass note other than the typical root of the chord. an example of the former technique is used to play a minor seventh chord. to play an am7 ( add9 ) chord, the am and em preset buttons are pressed simultaneously, along with an a bassnote. an example of the latter technique is used to play the half - diminished chord. to play an eø7, a gm preset button is pressed along with an e bassnote. for the left hand, the free - bass system is used in jazz as a means of creating complex chord voicings. jazz harmony that would otherwise be difficult to replicate with the stradella bass system, such as tritone substitutions, become more accessible using a free - bass accordion. use in popular music the accordion appeared in popular music from the 1900s to the 1960s. this half - century is often called the " golden age of the accordion ". five players, pietro frosini, the two brothers count guido deiro and pietro deiro and slovenian brothers vilko ovsenik and slavko avsenik, charles magnante were major influences at this time. most vaudeville theaters closed during the great depression, but accordionists during the 1930s – 1950s taught and performed for radio. included among this group was the concert virtuoso john serry, sr. jacobson, marion ( 2012 ). squeeze this : a cultural history of the accordion in america. university of illinois press, chicago, p. 61. during the 1950s through