ecumenical first council of constantinople of 381 ( attended by 150 bishops ). the roman emperors constantius ii ( 337 – 361 ) and valens ( 364 – 378 ) were arians or semi - arians, as was the first king of italy, odoacer ( 433? – 493 ), and the lombards were also arians or semi - arians until the 7th century. the ruling elite of visigothic spain was arian until 589. many goths adopted arian beliefs upon their conversion to christianity. the vandals actively spread arianism in north africa. beliefs little of arius ' s own work survives except in quotations selected for polemical purposes by his opponents, and there is no certainty about what theological and philosophical traditions formed his thought. the influence from the one of neo - platonism was widespread throughout the eastern roman empire and this influenced arius. arius ' s basic premise is that only god is independent for his existence. since the son is dependent he must therefore be called a creature. arians put forward a question for their belief : " has god birthed jesus willingly or unwillingly? " this question was used to argue that jesus is dependent for his existence since jesus exists only because god wants him to be. arianism taught that the logos was a divine being begotten by god the father before the creation of the world, made him a medium through whom everything else was created, and that the son of god is subordinate to god the father. the logos is an inner attribute of god that is wisdom, while jesus is called logos only because of resemblance with the inner logos of god. a verse from proverbs was used for the creation of the son : " the lord created me at the beginning of his work. " therefore, the son was rather the very first and the most perfect of god ' s creatures, and he was called " god " only by the father ' s permission and power. the definition of " son " is ambiguous as arians have applied an adoptionist theology to defend the creation ex nihilo of jesus from god. arians do not believe in the traditional doctrine of the trinity. the letter of the arian bishop auxentius of durostorum regarding the arian missionary ulfilas gives a picture of arian beliefs. the arian ulfilas, who was ordained a bishop by the arian bishop eusebius of nicomedia and returned to his people to work as a missionary, believed : god