legally encumbered by the requirement that the statuette be first offered for sale back to the academy for us $ 1. if a winner refuses to agree to this stipulation, then the academy keeps the statuette. academy awards predating this agreement have been sold in public auctions and private deals for six - figure sums. in 1989, michael todd ' s grandson tried to sell todd ' s best picture oscar for his 1956 production of around the world in 80 days to a movie prop collector. the academy earned enforcement of its statuette contract by gaining a permanent injunction against the sale. in 1992, harold russell consigned his 1946 oscar for best supporting actor for the best years of our lives to auction to raise money for his wife ' s medical expenses. though his decision caused controversy, the first oscar ever to be sold passed to a private collector on august 6, 1992 for $ 60, 500 ( $ today ). russell defended his action, saying, " i don ' t know why anybody would be critical. my wife ' s health is much more important than sentimental reasons. the movie will be here, even if oscar isn ' t. " in december 2011, orson welles ' 1941 oscar for citizen kane ( academy award for best original screenplay ) was put up for auction, after his heirs won a 2004 court decision contending that welles did not sign any agreement to return the statue to the academy. on december 20, 2011, it sold in an online auction for us $ 861, 542 ( $ today ). some buyers have subsequently returned the statuettes to the academy, which keeps them in its treasury. other awards presented by the academy in addition to the academy award of merit ( oscar award ), there are nine honorary ( non - competitive ) awards presented by the academy from time to time ( except for the academy honorary award, the technical achievement award, and the student academy awards, which are presented annually ) : governors awards : the academy honorary award ( annual ) ( which may or may not be in the form of an oscar statuette ) ; the irving g. thalberg memorial award ( since 1938 ) ( in the form of a bust of thalberg ) ; the jean hersholt humanitarian award ( since 1957 ) ( in the form of an oscar statuette ) ; the academy scientific and technical awards : academy award of merit ( non - competitive ) ( in the form of an oscar statuette ) ; scientific and engineering award ( in the form of a bronze tablet ) ; technical achievement award ( annual ) ( in