the highest expected tide. the function of this ratio is to ensure that the pull on the anchor is unlikely to break it out of the bottom if it is embedded, or lift it off a hard bottom, either of which is likely to result in the anchor dragging. a large scope induces a load that is nearly horizontal. in moderate conditions the ratio of rode to water depth should be 4 : 1 – where there is sufficient swing - room, a greater scope is always better. in rougher conditions it should be up to twice this with the extra length giving more stretch and a smaller angle to the bottom to resist the anchor breaking out. for example, if the water is deep, and the anchor roller is above the water, then the ' depth ' is 9 meters ( ~ 30 feet ). the amount of rode to let our in moderate conditions is thus 36 meters ( 120 feet ). ( for this reason it is important to have a reliable and accurate method of measuring the depth of water. ) when using a rope rode, there is a simple way to estimate the scope : the ratio of bow height of the rode to length of rode above the water while lying back hard on the anchor is the same or less than the scope ratio. the basis for this is simple geometry ( intercept theorem ) : the ratio between two sides of a triangle stays the same regardless of the size of the triangle as long as the angles do not change. generally, the rode should be between 5 and 10 times the depth to the seabed, giving a scope of 5 : 1 or 10 : 1 ; the larger the number, the shallower the angle is between the cable and the seafloor, and the less upwards force is acting on the anchor. a 10 : 1 scope gives the greatest holding power, but also allows for much more drifting due to the longer amount of cable paid out. anchoring with sufficient scope and / or heavy chain rode brings the direction of strain close to parallel with the seabed. this is particularly important for light, modern anchors designed to bury in the bottom, where scopes of 5 : 1 to 7 : 1 are common, whereas heavy anchors and moorings can use a scope of 3 : 1, or less. some modern anchors, such as the ultra holds with a scope of 3 : 1 ; but, unless the anchorage is crowded, a longer scope always reduces shock stresses. anchoring techniques the basic anchoring consists of determining the location, dropping the anchor, laying out the scope, setting the hook, and assessing where the