as progressive rock, art rock, progressive pop, and soft rock. " sirius " is their best - known and most - frequently heard of all parsons / woolfson songs. it was used as entrance music by various american sports teams, notably by the chicago bulls during their 1990s nba dynasty. it was also used as the entrance theme for ricky steamboat in pro wrestling of the mid - 1980s. in addition, " sirius " is played in a variety of tv shows and movies including the bbc series record breakers, the episode " vanishing act " of the adventures of jimmy neutron : boy genius and the 2009 film cloudy with a chance of meatballs. vocal duties were shared by guests to complement each song. in later years, woolfson sang lead on many of the group ' s hits, including " time ", " eye in the sky ", and " don ' t answer me ". the record company pressured parsons to use woolfson more, but parsons preferred to use polished proficient singers ; woolfson admitted he was not in that category. in addition to woolfson, vocalists chris rainbow, lenny zakatek, john miles, david paton, and colin blunstone are regulars. other singers, such as arthur brown, steve harley, gary brooker, dave terry a. k. a. elmer gantry, vitamin z ' s geoff barradale, and marmalade ' s dean ford, recorded only once or twice with the project. parsons sang lead on one song ( " the raven " ) through a vocoder and backing on a few others, including " to one in paradise ". both of those songs appeared on tales of mystery and imagination ( 1976 ). parsons also sings a prominent counter melody on “ time ”. a variety of session musicians worked with the alan parsons project regularly, contributing to the recognizable style of a song despite the varied singer line - up. with parsons and woolfson, the studio band consisted of the group pilot, with ian bairnson ( guitar ), david paton ( bass ) and stuart tosh ( drums ). pilot ' s keyboardist billy lyall contributed. from pyramid ( 1978 ) onward, tosh was replaced by stuart elliott of cockney rebel. bairnson played on all albums, and paton stayed almost until the end. andrew powell appeared as arranger of orchestra ( and often choirs ) on all albums except vulture culture ( 1985 ) ; he was composing the score of richard donner ' s film ladyhawke ( 1985 ). this score was partly in the app style