, including a section devoted to native danish plants. recently renovated tropical and subtropical greenhouses, exhibit exotic plants from throughout the world. also in the city centre is the undulating university park, recognised for its unique landscaped design with large old oak trees. the memorial park ( mindeparken ) at the coast below marselisborg palace, offers a panoramic view across the bay of aarhus and is popular with locals for outings, picnics or events. other notable parks include the small central city hall park ( radhusparken ) and marienlyst park ( marienlystparken ). marienlyst park is a relatively new park from 1988, situated in hasle out of the inner city and is less crowded, but it is the largest park in aarhus, including woodlands, large open grasslands and soccer fields. marselisborg forests and riis skov, has a long history of recreational activities of all kinds, including several restaurants, hotels and opportunities for green exercise. there are marked routes here for jogging, running and mountain biking and large events are hosted regularly. this includes running events, cycle racing and orienteering, the annual classic race aarhus with historic racing cars, all attracting thousands of people. marselisborg deer park ( marselisborg dyrehave ) in marselisborg forests, comprises of fenced woodland pastures with free - roaming sika and roe deer. below the moesgard museum in the southern parts of the marselisborg forests, is a large historical landscape of pastures and woodlands, presenting different eras of denmark ' s prehistory. sections of the forest comprise trees and vegetation representing specific climatic epochs from the last ice age to the present. dotted across the landscape are reconstructed stone age and bronze age graves, buildings from the iron age, viking age and medieval times, with grazing goats, sheep and horses in between. food, drink, and nightlife aarhus has a large variety of restaurants and eateries offering food from cultures all over the world, especially mediterranean and asian, but also international gourmet cuisine, traditional danish food and new nordic cuisine. among the oldest restaurants are radhuscafeen ( lit. the city hall cafe ), opened in 1924, serving a menu of traditional danish meals, and peter gift from 1906, a tavern with a broad beer selection and a menu of smørrebrød and other danish dishes. in aarhus, new nordic can be experienced at kahler villa dining, hærværk and domestic, but local produce can