their mother ' s old nursemaid, bess, and her husband, gowther mossock. while exploring the edge, they encounter a race of malevolent creatures, the svart alfar, who dwell in the edge ' s abandoned mines and who seem intent on capturing them. they are rescued by the wizard cadellin, who reveals that the forces of darkness are massing at the edge in search of a powerful magical talisman, the eponymous " weirdstone of brisingamen ". whilst writing in his spare time garner attempted to gain employment as a teacher, but soon gave that up, believing that " i couldn ' t write and teach ; the energies were too similar. " instead, he worked off and on as a general labourer for four years, remaining unemployed for much of that time. garner sent his debut novel to the publishing company collins, where it was picked up by the company ' s head, sir william collins, who was on the lookout for new fantasy novels following the recent commercial and critical success of j. r. r. tolkien ' s the lord of the rings ( 1954 – 55 ). garner, who went on to become a personal friend of collins, would later relate that " billy collins saw a title with funny - looking words in it on the stockpile, and he decided to publish it. " on its release in 1960, the weirdstone of brisingamen proved to be a critical and commercial success, later being described as " a tour de force of the imagination, a novel that showed almost every writer who came afterwards what it was possible to achieve in novels ostensibly published for children. " garner himself however would later denounce his first novel as " a fairly bad book " in 1968. with his first book published, garner abandoned his work as a labourer and gained a job as a freelance television reporter, living a " hand to mouth " lifestyle on a " shoestring " budget. he also began a sequel to the weirdstone of brisingamen, which would be known as the moon of gomrath. the moon of gomrath also revolves around the adventures of colin and susan, with the latter being possessed by a malevolent creature called the brollachan who has recently re - entered the world, having been freed from its underground prison by workmen. with the help of the wizard cadellin, the brollachan is exorcised, but susan ' s soul also leaves her body, being sent to another dimension, leaving colin to find a way to