compared with the compression time. this finds practical application in diesel engines which rely on the lack of heat dissipation during the compression stroke to elevate the fuel vapor temperature sufficiently to ignite it. adiabatic compression occurs in the earth ' s atmosphere when an air mass descends, for example, in a katabatic wind, foehn wind, or chinook wind flowing downhill over a mountain range. when a parcel of air descends, the pressure on the parcel increases. because of this increase in pressure, the parcel ' s volume decreases and its temperature increases as work is done on the parcel of air, thus increasing its internal energy, which manifests itself by a rise in the temperature of that mass of air. the parcel of air can only slowly dissipate the energy by conduction or radiation ( heat ), and to a first approximation it can be considered adiabatically isolated and the process an adiabatic process. adiabatic expansion occurs when the pressure on an adiabatically isolated system is decreased, allowing it to expand in size, thus causing it to do work on its surroundings. when the pressure applied on a parcel of gas is reduced, the gas in the parcel is allowed to expand ; as the volume increases, the temperature falls as its internal energy decreases. adiabatic expansion occurs in the earth ' s atmosphere with orographic lifting and lee waves, and this can form pilei or lenticular clouds. due in part to adiabatic expansion in mountainous areas, snowfall infrequently occurs in some parts of the sahara desert. adiabatic expansion does not have to involve a fluid. one technique used to reach very low temperatures ( thousandths and even millionths of a degree above absolute zero ) is via adiabatic demagnetisation, where the change in magnetic field on a magnetic material is used to provide adiabatic expansion. also, the contents of an expanding universe can be described ( to first order ) as an adiabatically expanding fluid. ( see heat death of the universe. ) rising magma also undergoes adiabatic expansion before eruption, particularly significant in the case of magmas that rise quickly from great depths such as kimberlites. in the earth ' s convecting mantle ( the asthenosphere ) beneath the lithosphere, the mantle temperature is approximately an adiabat. the slight decrease in temperature with shallowing depth is due to the decrease in pressure the shallower the material is in the earth. such temperature changes can be quan