august 1821 incident are unknown. he claimed that he had just pushed her from his entrance after she had rudely refused to leave, and that she had purposely fallen to the ground so that she could sue him. she claimed that he had attacked her so violently that she had become paralyzed on her right side and unable to work. she immediately sued him, and the process lasted until may 1827, when a court found schopenhauer guilty and forced him to pay her an annual pension until her death in 1842. schopenhauer enjoyed italy, where he studied art and socialized with italian and english nobles. it was his last visit to the country. he left for munich and stayed there for a year, mostly recuperating from various health issues, some of them possibly caused by venereal diseases ( the treatment his doctor used suggests syphilis ). he contacted publishers, offering to translate hume into german and kant into english, but his proposals were declined. returning to berlin, he began to study spanish so he could read some of his favorite authors in their original language. he liked pedro calderon de la barca, lope de vega, miguel de cervantes, and especially baltasar gracian. he also made failed attempts to publish his translations of their works. a few attempts to revive his lectures — again scheduled at the same time as hegel ' s — also failed, as did his inquiries about relocating to other universities. during his berlin years, schopenhauer occasionally mentioned his desire to marry and have a family. for a while he was unsuccessfully courting 17 - year - old flora weiss, who was 22 years younger than himself. his unpublished writings from that time show that he was already very critical of monogamy but still not advocating polygyny — instead musing about a polyamorous relationship that he called " tetragamy ". he had an on - and - off relationship with a young dancer, caroline richter ( she also used the surname medon after one of her ex - lovers ). they met when he was 33 and she was 19 and working at the berlin opera. she had already had numerous lovers and a son out of wedlock, and later gave birth to another son, this time to an unnamed foreign diplomat ( she soon had another pregnancy but the child was stillborn ). as schopenhauer was preparing to escape from berlin in 1831, due to a cholera epidemic, he offered to take her with him on the condition that she left her young son behind.