other typical cyanide poisoning effects. almonds may cause allergy or intolerance. cross - reactivity is common with peach allergens ( lipid transfer proteins ) and tree nut allergens. symptoms range from local signs and symptoms ( e. g., oral allergy syndrome, contact urticaria ) to systemic signs and symptoms including anaphylaxis ( e. g., urticaria, angioedema, gastrointestinal and respiratory symptoms ). almonds are susceptible to aflatoxin - producing molds. aflatoxins are potent carcinogenic chemicals produced by molds such as aspergillus flavus and aspergillus parasiticus. the mold contamination may occur from soil, previously infested almonds, and almond pests such as navel - orange worm. high levels of mold growth typically appear as gray to black filament - like growth. it is unsafe to eat mold - infected tree nuts. some countries have strict limits on allowable levels of aflatoxin contamination of almonds and require adequate testing before the nuts can be marketed to their citizens. the european union, for example, introduced a requirement since 2007 that all almond shipments to the eu be tested for aflatoxin. if aflatoxin does not meet the strict safety regulations, the entire consignment may be reprocessed to eliminate the aflatoxin or it must be destroyed. breeding programs have found the trait. high shell - seal provides resistance against these aspergillus species and so against the development of their toxins. mandatory pasteurization in california after tracing cases of salmonellosis to almonds, the usda approved a proposal by the almond board of california to pasteurize almonds sold to the public. after publishing the rule in march 2007, the almond pasteurization program became mandatory for california companies effective 1 september 2007. raw, untreated california almonds have not been available in the u. s. since then. california almonds labeled " raw " must be steam - pasteurized or chemically treated with propylene oxide ( ppo ). this does not apply to imported almonds or almonds sold from the grower directly to the consumer in small quantities. the treatment also is not required for raw almonds sold for export outside of north america. the almond board of california states : " ppo residue dissipates after treatment ". the u. s. environmental protection agency has reported : " propylene