outside england. the role of the crown in the church of england is practically limited to the appointment of bishops, including the archbishop of canterbury, and even this role is limited, as the church presents the government with a short list of candidates from which to choose. this process is accomplished through collaboration with and consent of ecclesial representatives ( see ecclesiastical commissioners ). although the monarch has no constitutional role in anglican churches in other parts of the world, the prayer books of several countries where the monarch is head of state contain prayers for him or her as sovereign. a characteristic of anglicanism is that it has no international juridical authority. all forty - two provinces of the anglican communion are autonomous, each with their own primate and governing structure. these provinces may take the form of national churches ( such as in canada, uganda or japan ) or a collection of nations ( such as the west indies, central africa or south asia ), or geographical regions ( such as vanuatu and solomon islands ) etc. within these provinces there may exist subdivisions, called ecclesiastical provinces, under the jurisdiction of a metropolitan archbishop. all provinces of the anglican communion consist of dioceses, each under the jurisdiction of a bishop. in the anglican tradition, bishops must be consecrated according to the strictures of apostolic succession, which anglicans consider one of the marks of catholicity. apart from bishops, there are two other orders of ordained ministry : deacon and priest. no requirement is made for clerical celibacy, though many anglo - catholic priests have traditionally been bachelors. because of innovations that occurred at various points after the latter half of the 20th century, women may be ordained as deacons in almost all provinces, as priests in most and as bishops in many. anglican religious orders and communities, suppressed in england during the reformation, have re - emerged, especially since the mid - 19th century, and now have an international presence and influence. government in the anglican communion is synodical, consisting of three houses of laity ( usually elected parish representatives ), clergy and bishops. national, provincial and diocesan synods maintain different scopes of authority, depending on their canons and constitutions. anglicanism is not congregational in its polity : it is the diocese, not the parish church, which is the smallest unit of authority in the church. ( see episcopal polity ). archbishop of canterbury the archbishop of canterbury has a precedence of honour over the other primates of the anglican communion, and for a province to be considered a part of the communion means specifically to be in full communion with the see of