##i enomoto, known as " enoken ". yamamoto nurtured kurosawa ' s talent, promoting him directly from third assistant director to chief assistant director after a year. kurosawa ' s responsibilities increased, and he worked at tasks ranging from stage construction and film development to location scouting, script polishing, rehearsals, lighting, dubbing, editing, and second - unit directing. in the last of kurosawa ' s films as an assistant director for yamamoto, horse ( 1941 ), kurosawa took over most of the production, as his mentor was occupied with the shooting of another film. yamamoto advised kurosawa that a good director needed to master screenwriting. kurosawa soon realized that the potential earnings from his scripts were much higher than what he was paid as an assistant director. he later wrote or co - wrote all his films, and frequently penned screenplays for other directors such as satsuo yamamoto ' s film, a triumph of wings ( tsubasa no gaika, 1942 ). this outside scriptwriting would serve kurosawa as a lucrative sideline lasting well into the 1960s, long after he became famous. wartime films and marriage ( 1942 – 1945 ) in the two years following the release of horse in 1941, kurosawa searched for a story he could use to launch his directing career. towards the end of 1942, about a year after the japanese attack on pearl harbor, novelist tsuneo tomita published his musashi miyamoto - inspired judo novel, sanshiro sugata, the advertisements for which intrigued kurosawa. he bought the book on its publication day, devoured it in one sitting, and immediately asked toho to secure the film rights. kurosawa ' s initial instinct proved correct as, within a few days, three other major japanese studios also offered to buy the rights. toho prevailed, and kurosawa began pre - production on his debut work as director. shooting of sanshiro sugata began on location in yokohama in december 1942. production proceeded smoothly, but getting the completed film past the censors was an entirely different matter. the censorship office considered the work to be objectionably " british - american " by the standards of wartime japan, and it was only through the intervention of director yasujiro ozu, who championed the film, that sanshiro sugata was finally accepted for release on march 25, 1943. ( kurosawa had just turned 33. ) the movie became both a critical and commercial success. nevertheless,