##bius, who wrote on aristotle in great depth, also influenced thomas aquinas and other western christian scholastic philosophers. alkindus greatly admired aristotle ' s philosophy, and averroes spoke of aristotle as the " exemplar " for all future philosophers. medieval muslim scholars regularly described aristotle as the " first teacher ". the title was later used by western philosophers ( as in the famous poem of dante ) who were influenced by the tradition of islamic philosophy. medieval europe with the loss of the study of ancient greek in the early medieval latin west, aristotle was practically unknown there from to except through the latin translation of the organon made by boethius. in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, interest in aristotle revived and latin christians had translations made, both from arabic translations, such as those by gerard of cremona, and from the original greek, such as those by james of venice and william of moerbeke. after the scholastic thomas aquinas wrote his summa theologica, working from moerbeke ' s translations and calling aristotle " the philosopher ", the demand for aristotle ' s writings grew, and the greek manuscripts returned to the west, stimulating a revival of aristotelianism in europe that continued into the renaissance. these thinkers blended aristotelian philosophy with christianity, bringing the thought of ancient greece into the middle ages. scholars such as boethius, peter abelard, and john buridan worked on aristotelian logic. according to scholar roger theodore lafferty, dante built up the philosophy of the comedy with the works of aristotle as a foundation, just as the scholastics used aristotle as the basis for their thinking. dante knew aristotle directly from latin translations of his works and indirectly through quotations in the works of albert magnus. dante even acknowledges aristotle ' s influence explicitly in the poem, specifically when virgil justifies the inferno ' s structure by citing the nicomachean ethics. medieval judaism moses maimonides ( considered to be the foremost intellectual figure of medieval judaism ) adopted aristotelianism from the islamic scholars and based his guide for the perplexed on it and that became the basis of jewish scholastic philosophy. maimonides also considered aristotle to be the greatest philosopher that ever lived, and styled him as the " chief of the philosophers ". also, in his letter to samuel ibn tibbon, maimonides observes that there is no need for samuel to study the writings of philosophers who preceded aristotle because the works of the latter are " sufficient by themselves and [ superior