tendencies, and schools of thought exist today, making it difficult to describe the contemporary anarchist movement. while theorists and activists have established " relatively stable constellations of anarchist principles ", there is no consensus on which principles are core and commentators describe multiple anarchisms, rather than a singular anarchism, in which common principles are shared between schools of anarchism while each group prioritizes those principles differently. gender equality can be a common principle, although it ranks as a higher priority to anarcha - feminists than anarcho - communists. anarchists are generally committed against coercive authority in all forms, namely " all centralized and hierarchical forms of government ( e. g., monarchy, representative democracy, state socialism, etc. ), economic class systems ( e. g., capitalism, bolshevism, feudalism, slavery, etc. ), autocratic religions ( e. g., fundamentalist islam, roman catholicism, etc. ), patriarchy, heterosexism, white supremacy, and imperialism. " anarchist schools disagree on the methods by which these forms should be opposed. the principle of equal liberty is closer to anarchist political ethics in that it transcends both the liberal and socialist traditions. this entails that liberty and equality cannot be implemented within the state, resulting in the questioning of all forms of domination and hierarchy. tactics anarchists ' tactics take various forms but in general serve two major goals, namely, to first oppose the establishment and secondly to promote anarchist ethics and reflect an anarchist vision of society, illustrating the unity of means and ends. a broad categorisation can be made between aims to destroy oppressive states and institutions by revolutionary means on one hand and aims to change society through evolutionary means on the other. evolutionary tactics embrace nonviolence, reject violence and take a gradual approach to anarchist aims, although there is significant overlap between the two. anarchist tactics have shifted during the course of the last century. anarchists during the early 20th century focused more on strikes and militancy while contemporary anarchists use a broader array of approaches. classical era during the classical era, anarchists had a militant tendency. not only did they confront state armed forces, as in spain and ukraine, but some of them also employed terrorism as propaganda of the deed. assassination attempts were carried out against heads of state, some of which were successful. anarchists also took part in revolutions. many anarchists, especially the galleanists, believed that these attempts would be the impetus for a revolution against capitalism and