, but it states that it relies on the topics. metaphysics the word " metaphysics " appears to have been coined by the first century ad editor who assembled various small selections of aristotle ' s works to the treatise we know by the name metaphysics. aristotle called it " first philosophy ", and distinguished it from mathematics and natural science ( physics ) as the contemplative ( theoretike ) philosophy which is " theological " and studies the divine. he wrote in his metaphysics ( 1026a16 ) : substance aristotle examines the concepts of substance ( ousia ) and essence ( to ti en einai, " the what it was to be " ) in his metaphysics ( book vii ), and he concludes that a particular substance is a combination of both matter and form, a philosophical theory called hylomorphism. in book viii, he distinguishes the matter of the substance as the substratum, or the stuff of which it is composed. for example, the matter of a house is the bricks, stones, timbers, etc., or whatever constitutes the potential house, while the form of the substance is the actual house, namely ' covering for bodies and chattels ' or any other differentia that let us define something as a house. the formula that gives the components is the account of the matter, and the formula that gives the differentia is the account of the form. immanent realism like his teacher plato, aristotle ' s philosophy aims at the universal. aristotle ' s ontology places the universal ( katholou ) in particulars ( kath ' hekaston ), things in the world, whereas for plato the universal is a separately existing form which actual things imitate. for aristotle, " form " is still what phenomena are based on, but is " instantiated " in a particular substance. plato argued that all things have a universal form, which could be either a property or a relation to other things. when one looks at an apple, for example, one sees an apple, and one can also analyse a form of an apple. in this distinction, there is a particular apple and a universal form of an apple. moreover, one can place an apple next to a book, so that one can speak of both the book and apple as being next to each other. plato argued that there are some universal forms that are not a part of particular things. for example, it is possible that there is no particular good in existence, but " good " is still a proper universal form