a rhythm and acupuncture had to be applied at the right point in the rhythm to be effective. in some cases a lack of balance between yin and yang were believed to be the cause of disease. in the 1st century ad, many of the first books about acupuncture were published and recognized acupuncturist experts began to emerge. the zhen jiu jia yi jing, which was published in the mid - 3rd century, became the oldest acupuncture book that is still in existence in the modern era. other books like the yu gui zhen jing, written by the director of medical services for china, were also influential during this period, but were not preserved. in the mid 7th century, sun simiao published acupuncture - related diagrams and charts that established standardized methods for finding acupuncture sites on people of different sizes and categorized acupuncture sites in a set of modules. acupuncture became more established in china as improvements in paper led to the publication of more acupuncture books. the imperial medical service and the imperial medical college, which both supported acupuncture, became more established and created medical colleges in every province. the public was also exposed to stories about royal figures being cured of their diseases by prominent acupuncturists. by time the great compendium of acupuncture and moxibustion was published during the ming dynasty ( 1368 – 1644 ad ), most of the acupuncture practices used in the modern era had been established. decline by the end of the song dynasty ( 1279 ad ), acupuncture had lost much of its status in china. it became rarer in the following centuries, and was associated with less prestigious professions like alchemy, shamanism, midwifery and moxibustion. additionally, by the 18th century, scientific rationality was becoming more popular than traditional superstitious beliefs. by 1757 a book documenting the history of chinese medicine called acupuncture a " lost art ". its decline was attributed in part to the popularity of prescriptions and medications, as well as its association with the lower classes. in 1822, the chinese emperor signed a decree excluding the practice of acupuncture from the imperial medical institute. he said it was unfit for practice by gentlemen - scholars. in china acupuncture was increasingly associated with lower - class, illiterate practitioners. it was restored for a time, but banned again in 1929 in favor of