ptolemy fleeing to cyprus. alexander then approached cleopatra. bowing before her, he requested to retain his rule. cleopatra was urged by her subordinates to annex judea. however, ananias demanded she consider the residential egyptian jews who were the main support of her throne. this induced cleopatra to modify her longings for judea. alexander though would meet her demands and suspend his campaigns. these negotiations took place at scythopolis. cleopatra died five years later. confident, after her death, alexander found himself free to continue with new campaigns. transjordan and coastal conquest alexander captured gadara and fought to capture the strong fortress of amathus in the transjordan region, but was defeated. he was more successful in his expedition against the coastal cities, capturing raphia and anthedon. in 96 bce, jannaeus defeated the inhabitants of gaza. this victory gained judean control over the mediterranean outlet of the main nabataean trade route. alexander initially returned his focus back to the transjordan region where, avenging his previous defeat, he destroyed amathus. battle of gaza determined to proceed with future campaigns despite his initial defeat at amathus, alexander set his focus on gaza. a victory against the city wasn ' t so easily achieved. gaza ' s general apollodotus strategically employed a night attack against the hasmonean army. with a force of two thousand less - skilled soldiers and ten thousand slaves, gaza ' s military was able to deceive the hasmonean army into believing they were being attacked by ptolemy. the gazans killed many and the hasmonean army fled the battle. when morning exposed the delusive tactic, alexander continued his assault but lost a thousand additional soldiers. the gazans still remained defiant in hopes that the nabataean kingdom would come to their aid. the city, however, would eventually suffer defeat due to its own leadership. gaza at the time was governed by two brothers, lysimachus and apollodotus. lysimachus finally convinced the people to surrender, and alexander peacefully entered the city. though he at first seemed peaceful, alexander suddenly turned against the inhabitants. some men killed their wives and children out of desperation, to ensure they wouldn ' t be captured and enslaved. others burned down their homes to prevent the soldiers from plundering. the town council and five hundred civilians took refuge at the temple of apollo, where alexander had them massacred. judean civil war war with obodas i the judean civil war initially began after the conquest