chiefdom. aruba had ( not simultaneously ) five villages : three larger ones ceri noca ( santa cruz ), tanki flip ( noord ), and savaneta, and two smaller ones near tanki leendert and parkietenbos, which have not yet been systematically studied. the location of aruban villages varied. they were situated in places where beneficial agriculture land was available and where the most favorable hydrological conditions prevailed, such as where several rooi ( gullies ) came together and where relatively much water was available. agriculture, trade, and network the caquetio people probably used a shifting cultivation farming method, also known as slash - and - burn. the yields from agriculture and fishing were supplemented by engaging in trade of raw materials and artifacts that were not locally available or producible. sixteenth century sources indicate that the caquetios traded in, among other things, salt, canoes, tobacco, and beads. the leeward caquetios certainly did not live in isolation, but formed outlying regions of a dynamic chiefdom with regional trading networks. burial practices in 1882, a french explorer named alphonse l. pinart, documented an account provided by an old aruba indian. according to the indian ' s account, witnessed at the former indian encampment at saboneta ( savaneta ), a native female was inhumed in one of the large conical ollas. her body was doubled up inside the vase, with the head protruding through the orifice. subsequently, a smaller urn was placed upside down on the head and the entire burial was covered with earth. the caquetio people were buried in clusters, both within and potentially outside village boundaries. at times, there was a secondary burial, possibly reserved for exceptional individuals. in the primary burial, the deceased were buried in a large pot, covered with a smaller pot placed on top. in a secondary burial, the body was initially buried without a pot, and after a few months or years, the bones were exhumed and reburied in smaller pots for a second time. some pots contained grave offerings such as axes, shells, and pottery. remarkably, the secondary burial method was practiced until recently in south america. the striking similarity between the neo - indian burial practices in aruba and the post - columbian variant in guajira justifies the assumption that the similar beliefs about life after death existed in both societies. spanish period new route to india it is known that christopher columbus was not searching for