aphrodite hathor at philae. statuettes of aphrodite for personal devotion became common in egypt starting in the early ptolemaic times and extending until long after egypt became a roman province. the ancient romans identified aphrodite with their goddess venus, who was originally a goddess of agricultural fertility, vegetation, and springtime. according to the roman historian livy, aphrodite and venus were officially identified in the third century bc when the cult of venus erycina was introduced to rome from the greek sanctuary of aphrodite on mount eryx in sicily. after this point, romans adopted aphrodite ' s iconography and myths and applied them to venus. because aphrodite was the mother of the trojan hero aeneas in greek mythology and roman tradition claimed aeneas as the founder of rome, venus became venerated as venus genetrix, the mother of the entire roman nation. julius caesar claimed to be directly descended from aeneas ' s son iulus and became a strong proponent of the cult of venus. this precedent was later followed by his nephew augustus and the later emperors claiming succession from him. this syncretism greatly impacted greek worship of aphrodite. during the roman era, the cults of aphrodite in many greek cities began to emphasize her relationship with troy and aeneas. they also began to adopt distinctively roman elements, portraying aphrodite as more maternal, more militaristic, and more concerned with administrative bureaucracy. she was claimed as a divine guardian by many political magistrates. appearances of aphrodite in greek literature also vastly proliferated, usually showing aphrodite in a characteristically roman manner. mythology birth aphrodite is usually said to have been born near her chief center of worship, paphos, on the island of cyprus, which is why she is sometimes called " cyprian ", especially in the poetic works of sappho. the sanctuary of aphrodite paphia, marking her birthplace, was a place of pilgrimage in the ancient world for centuries. other versions of her myth have her born near the island of cythera, hence another of her names, " cytherea ". cythera was a stopping place for trade and culture between crete and the peloponesus, so these stories may preserve traces of the migration of aphrodite ' s cult from the middle east to mainland greece. according to the version of her birth recounted by he