##ky and nathan rosen that laid out what would become known as the epr paradox. in this thought experiment, two particles interact in such a way that the wavefunction describing them is entangled. then, no matter how far the two particles were separated, a precise position measurement on one particle would imply the ability to predict, perfectly, the result of measuring the position of the other particle. likewise, a precise momentum measurement of one particle would result in an equally precise prediction for of the momentum of the other particle, without needing to disturb the other particle in any way. they argued that no action taken on the first particle could instantaneously affect the other, since this would involve information being transmitted faster than light, which is forbidden by the theory of relativity. they invoked a principle, later known as the " epr criterion of reality ", positing that : " if, without in any way disturbing a system, we can predict with certainty ( i. e., with probability equal to unity ) the value of a physical quantity, then there exists an element of reality corresponding to that quantity. " from this, they inferred that the second particle must have a definite value of both position and of momentum prior to either quantity being measured. but quantum mechanics considers these two observables incompatible and thus does not associate simultaneous values for both to any system. einstein, podolsky, and rosen therefore concluded that quantum theory does not provide a complete description of reality. in 1964, john stewart bell carried the analysis of quantum entanglement much further. he deduced that if measurements are performed independently on the two separated particles of an entangled pair, then the assumption that the outcomes depend upon hidden variables within each half implies a mathematical constraint on how the outcomes on the two measurements are correlated. this constraint would later be called a bell inequality. bell then showed that quantum physics predicts correlations that violate this inequality. consequently, the only way that hidden variables could explain the predictions of quantum physics is if they are " nonlocal ", which is to say that somehow the two particles are able to interact instantaneously no matter how widely they ever become separated. bell argued that because an explanation of quantum phenomena in terms of hidden variables would require nonlocality, the epr paradox " is resolved in the way which einstein would have liked least ". despite this, and although einstein personally found the argument in the epr paper overly complicated, that paper became among the most influential papers published in physical review. it is considered a