through aggression or fraud. anarcho - capitalists state that there could be cases where common property may develop in a lockean natural rights framework. anarcho - capitalists make the example of a number of private businesses which may arise in an area, each owning the land and buildings that they use, but they argue that the paths between them become cleared and trodden incrementally through customer and commercial movement. these thoroughfares may become valuable to the community, but according to them ownership cannot be attributed to any single person and original appropriation does not apply because many contributed the labor necessary to create them. in order to prevent it from falling to the " tragedy of the commons ", anarcho - capitalists suggest transitioning from common to private property, wherein an individual would make a homesteading claim based on disuse, acquire title by the assent of the community consensus, form a corporation with other involved parties, or other means. randall g. holcombe see challenges stemming from the idea of common property under anarcho - capitalism, such as whether an individual might claim fishing rights in the area of a major shipping lane and thereby forbid passage through it. in contrast, hoppe ' s work on anarcho - capitalist theory is based on the assumption that all property is privately held, " including all streets, rivers, airports, and harbors " which forms the foundation of his views on immigration. intellectual property some anarcho - capitalists strongly oppose intellectual property ( i. e., trademarks, patents, copyrights ). stephan n. kinsella argues that ownership only relates to tangible assets. contractual society the society envisioned by anarcho - capitalists has been labelled by them as a " contractual society " which rothbard described as " a society based purely on voluntary action, entirely unhampered by violence or threats of violence " the system relies on contracts between individuals as the legal framework which would be enforced by private police and security forces as well as private arbitrations. rothbard argues that limited liability for corporations could also exist through contract, arguing that " [ c ] orporations are not at all monopolistic privileges ; they are free associations of individuals pooling their capital. on the purely free market, those men would simply announce to their creditors that their liability is limited to the capital specifically invested in the corporation ". there are limits to the right to contract under some interpretations of anarcho - capitalism. rothbard believes that the right to contract is based in ina