achievements. his second film of 1949, also produced by film art association and released by shintoho, was stray dog. it is a detective movie ( perhaps the first important japanese film in that genre ) that explores the mood of japan during its painful postwar recovery through the story of a young detective, played by mifune, and his fixation on the recovery of his handgun, which was stolen by a penniless war veteran who proceeds to use it to rob and murder. adapted from an unpublished novel by kurosawa in the style of a favorite writer of his, georges simenon, it was the director ' s first collaboration with screenwriter ryuzo kikushima, who would later help to script eight other kurosawa films. a famous, virtually wordless sequence, lasting over eight minutes, shows the detective, disguised as an impoverished veteran, wandering the streets in search of the gun thief ; it employed actual documentary footage of war - ravaged tokyo neighborhoods shot by kurosawa ' s friend, ishiro honda, the future director of godzilla. the film is considered a precursor to the contemporary police procedural and buddy cop film genres. scandal, released by shochiku in april 1950, was inspired by the director ' s personal experiences with, and anger towards, japanese yellow journalism. the work is an ambitious mixture of courtroom drama and social problem film about free speech and personal responsibility, but even kurosawa regarded the finished product as dramatically unfocused and unsatisfactory, and almost all critics agree. however, it would be kurosawa ' s second film of 1950, rashomon, that would ultimately win him, and japanese cinema, a whole new international audience. international recognition ( 1950 – 1958 ) after finishing scandal, kurosawa was approached by daiei studios to make another film for them. kurosawa picked a script by an aspiring young screenwriter, shinobu hashimoto, who would eventually work on nine of his films. their first joint effort was based on ryunosuke akutagawa ' s experimental short story " in a grove ", which recounts the murder of a samurai and the rape of his wife from various different and conflicting points - of - view. kurosawa saw potential in the script, and with hashimoto ' s help, polished and expanded it and then pitched it to daiei, who were happy to accept the project due to its low budget. the shooting of rashomon began on july 7, 1950, and, after extensive location work in the primeval forest