railway station, idbus from amsterdam sloterdijk railway station, and megabus from the zuiderzeeweg in the east of the city. in order to facilitate easier transport to the centre of amsterdam, the city has various p + r locations where people can park their car at an affordable price and transfer to one of the numerous public transport lines. car amsterdam was intended in 1932 to be the hub, a kind of kilometre zero, of the highway system of the netherlands, with freeways numbered one to eight planned to originate from the city. the outbreak of the second world war and shifting priorities led to the current situation, where only roads a1, a2, and a4 originate from amsterdam according to the original plan. the a3 to rotterdam was cancelled in 1970 in order to conserve the groene hart. road a8, leading north to zaandam and the a10 ringroad were opened between 1968 and 1974. besides the a1, a2, a4 and a8, several freeways, such as the a7 and a6, carry traffic mainly bound for amsterdam. the a10 ringroad surrounding the city connects amsterdam with the dutch national network of freeways. interchanges on the a10 allow cars to enter the city by transferring to one of the 18 city roads, numbered s101 through to s118. these city roads are regional roads without grade separation, and sometimes without a central reservation. most are accessible by cyclists. the s100 centrumring is a smaller ringroad circumnavigating the city ' s centre. in the city centre, driving a car is discouraged. parking fees are expensive, and many streets are closed to cars or are one - way. the local government sponsors carsharing and carpooling initiatives such as autodelen and meerijden. nu. the local government has also started removing parking spaces in the city, with the goal of removing 10, 000 spaces ( roughly 1, 500 per year ) by 2025. national rail amsterdam is served by ten stations of the nederlandse spoorwegen ( dutch railways ). five are intercity stops : sloterdijk, zuid, amstel, bijlmer arena and amsterdam centraal. the stations for local services are : lelylaan, rai, holendrecht, muiderpoort and science park. amsterdam centraal is also an international railway station. from the station there are regular services to destinations such as austria, belarus, belgium, czech