religion can refer to the traditional polytheistic, animist, and in some rare cases, shamanistic, religions of the peoples of the arabian peninsula. the belief in jinn, invisible entities akin to spirits in the western sense dominant in the arab religious systems, hardly fit the description of animism in a strict sense. the jinn are considered to be analogous to the human soul by living lives like that of humans, but they are not exactly like human souls neither are they spirits of the dead. it is unclear if belief in jinn derived from nomadic or sedentary populations. neopagan and new age movements some neopagan groups, including eco - pagans, describe themselves as animists, meaning that they respect the diverse community of living beings and spirits with whom humans share the world and cosmos. the new age movement commonly demonstrates animistic traits in asserting the existence of nature spirits. shamanism a shaman is a person regarded as having access to, and influence in, the world of benevolent and malevolent spirits, who typically enters into a trance state during a ritual, and practices divination and healing. according to mircea eliade, shamanism encompasses the premise that shamans are intermediaries or messengers between the human world and the spirit worlds. shamans are said to treat ailments and illnesses by mending the soul. alleviating traumas affecting the soul or spirit restores the physical body of the individual to balance and wholeness. the shaman also enters supernatural realms or dimensions to obtain solutions to problems afflicting the community. shamans may visit other worlds or dimensions to bring guidance to misguided souls and to ameliorate illnesses of the human soul caused by foreign elements. the shaman operates primarily within the spiritual world, which in turn affects the human world. the restoration of balance results in the elimination of the ailment. abram, however, articulates a less supernatural and much more ecological understanding of the shaman ' s role than that propounded by eliade. drawing upon his own field research in indonesia, nepal, and the americas, abram suggests that in animistic cultures, the shaman functions primarily as an intermediary between the human community and the more - than - human community of active agencies — the local animals, plants, and landforms ( mountains, rivers, forests, winds, and weather patterns, all of which are felt to have their own specific sentience ). hence, the shaman ' s ability to heal individual instances of