gulf, dikili gulf, gulf of candarlı, gulf of izmir, gulf of kusadası, gulf of gokova, gulluk gulf. the aegean sea is connected to the sea of marmara by the dardanelles, also known from classical antiquity as the hellespont. the dardanelles are located to the northeast of the sea. it ultimately connects with the black sea through the bosphoros strait, upon which lies the city of istanbul. the dardanelles and the bosphoros are known as the turkish straits. extent according to the international hydrographic organization, the limits of the aegean sea as follows : on the south : a line running from cape aspro ( 28°16 ′ e ) in asia minor, to cum burnu ( capo della sabbia ) the northeast extreme of the island of rhodes, through the island to cape prasonisi, the southwest point thereof, on to vrontos point ( 35°33 ′ n ) in skarpanto [ karpathos ], through this island to castello point, the south extreme thereof, across to cape plaka ( east extremity of crete ), through crete to agria grabusa, the northwest extreme thereof, thence to cape apolitares in antikithera island, through the island to psira rock ( off the northwest point ) and across to cape trakhili in kithera island, through kithera to the northwest point ( cape karavugia ) and thence to cape santa maria ( ) in the morea. in the dardanelles : a line joining kum kale ( 26°11 ′ e ) and cape helles. hydrography aegean surface water circulates in a counterclockwise gyre, with hypersaline mediterranean water moving northward along the west coast of turkey, before being displaced by less dense black sea outflow. the dense mediterranean water sinks below the black sea inflow to a depth of, then flows through the dardanelles strait and into the sea of marmara at velocities of. the black sea outflow moves westward along the northern aegean sea, then flows southwards along the east coast of greece. the physical oceanography of the aegean sea is controlled mainly by the regional climate, the fresh water discharge from major rivers draining southeastern europe, and the seasonal variations in the black sea surface water outflow through the dardanelles strait. analysis of the aegean during 1991 and 1992 revealed three