on february 20, 2023, ten communion provinces and anglican realignment churches within global south fellowship of anglican churches released a statement stating that they had declared " impaired communion " with the church of england and no longer recognised justin welby as " first among equals " among the bishops of the communion, de facto marking a schism within the anglican communion. history the anglican communion traces much of its growth to the older mission organisations of the church of england such as the society for promoting christian knowledge ( founded 1698 ), the society for the propagation of the gospel in foreign parts ( founded 1701 ) and the church missionary society ( founded 1799 ). the church of england ( which until the 20th century included the church in wales ) initially separated from the roman catholic church in 1534 in the reign of henry viii, reunited in 1555 under mary i and then separated again in 1570 under elizabeth i ( the roman catholic church excommunicated elizabeth i in 1570 in response to the act of supremacy 1559 ). the church of england has always thought of itself not as a new foundation but rather as a reformed continuation of the ancient " english church " ( ecclesia anglicana ) and a reassertion of that church ' s rights. as such it was a distinctly national phenomenon. the church of scotland was formed as a separate church from the roman catholic church as a result of the scottish reformation in 1560 and the later formation of the scottish episcopal church began in 1582 in the reign of james vi over disagreements about the role of bishops. the oldest - surviving anglican church building outside the british isles ( britain and ireland ) is st peter ' s church in st. george ' s, bermuda, established in 1612 ( though the actual building had to be rebuilt several times over the following century ). this is also the oldest surviving non - roman catholic church in the new world. it remained part of the church of england until 1978 when the anglican church of bermuda separated. the church of england was the established church not only in england, but in its trans - oceanic colonies. thus the only member churches of the present anglican communion existing by the mid - 18th century were the church of england, its closely linked sister church the church of ireland ( which also separated from roman catholicism under henry viii ) and the scottish episcopal church which for parts of the 17th and 18th centuries was partially underground ( it was suspected of jacobite sympathies ). global spread of anglicanism the enormous expansion in the 18th and 19th centuries of the british empire brought anglicanism along with it. at