walid to crush those who were in favour of ali ' s caliphate ( see ridda wars ). the twelver shia strongly refute the idea that abu bakr or umar were instrumental in the collection or preservation of the quran, claiming that they should have accepted the copy of the book in the possession of ali. however, sunnis argue that ali and abu bakr were not enemies and that ali named his sons abi bakr in honor of abu bakr. after the death of abu bakr, ali raised abu bakr ' s son muhammad ibn abi bakr. the twelver shia view muhammad ibn abi bakr as one of the greatest companions of ali. when muhammad ibn abi bakr was killed by the umayyads, aisha, the third wife of muhammad, raised and taught her nephew qasim ibn muhammad ibn abi bakr. qasim ibn muhammad ibn abu bakr ' s mother was from ali ' s family and qasim ' s daughter farwah bint al - qasim was married to muhammad al - baqir and was the mother of ja ' far al - sadiq. therefore, qasim ibn muhammad ibn abu bakr was the grandson of abu bakr and the grandfather of ja ' far al - sadiq. zaydi shias, the largest group amongst the shia before the safavid dynasty and currently the second - largest group ( although its population is only about 5 % of all shia muslims ), believe that on the last hour of zayd ibn ali ( the uncle of ja ' far al - sadiq ), he was betrayed by the people in kufa who said to him : " may god have mercy on you! what do you have to say on the matter of abu bakr and umar ibn al - khattab? " zayd ibn ali said, " i have not heard anyone in my family renouncing them both nor saying anything but good about them... when they were entrusted with government they behaved justly with the people and acted according to the quran and the sunnah ". see also laqit bin malik al - azdi, rebel during abu bakr ' s caliphate list of sahabah sunni view of the sahaba muadh ibn jabal sermon of fadak notes references bibliography walker, adam, abu bakr al - siddiq, in muhammad in history, thought, and culture : an encyclopedia of the prophet of god ( 2 vols. ),