in british columbia, canada, 41 percent of the provincial agricultural land reserve area is unsuitable for the production of cultivated crops, but is suitable for uncultivated production of forage usable by grazing livestock. similar examples can be found in many rangeland areas elsewhere. changes in arability land conversion land incapable of being cultivated for the production of crops can sometimes be converted to arable land. new arable land makes more food and can reduce starvation. this outcome also makes a country more self - sufficient and politically independent, because food importation is reduced. making non - arable land arable often involves digging new irrigation canals and new wells, aqueducts, desalination plants, planting trees for shade in the desert, hydroponics, fertilizer, nitrogen fertilizer, pesticides, reverse osmosis water processors, pet film insulation or other insulation against heat and cold, digging ditches and hills for protection against the wind, and installing greenhouses with internal light and heat for protection against the cold outside and to provide light in cloudy areas. such modifications are often prohibitively expensive. an alternative is the seawater greenhouse, which desalinates water through evaporation and condensation using solar energy as the only energy input. this technology is optimized to grow crops on desert land close to the sea. the use of artifices does not make the land arable. rock still remains rock, and shallowless than turnable soil is still not considered toilable. the use of artifice is an open - air none recycled water hydroponics relationship. the below described circumstances are not in perspective, have limited duration, and have a tendency to accumulate trace materials in soil that either there or elsewhere cause deoxygenation. the use of vast amounts of fertilizer may have unintended consequences for the environment by devastating rivers, waterways, and river endings through the accumulation of non - degradable toxins and nitrogen - bearing molecules that remove oxygen and cause non - aerobic processes to form. examples of infertile non - arable land being turned into fertile arable land include : aran islands : these islands off the west coast of ireland ( not to be confused with the isle of arran in scotland ' s firth of clyde ) were unsuitable for arable farming because they were too rocky. the people covered the islands with a shallow layer of seaweed and sand from the ocean. today, crops are grown there, even though the islands are still considered non - arable. israel