##ey and stripped jobs of all operational duties. jobs resigned from apple in september 1985 and took a number of apple employees with him to found next. wozniak had also quit his active employment at apple earlier in 1985 to pursue other ventures, expressing his frustration with apple ' s treatment of the apple ii division and stating that the company had " been going in the wrong direction for the last five years. " despite wozniak ' s grievances, he officially remained employed by apple, and to this day continues to work for the company as a representative, receiving a stipend estimated to be $ 120, 000 per year for this role. both jobs and wozniak remained apple shareholders after their departures. after the departures of jobs and wozniak, sculley worked to improve the macintosh in 1985 by quadrupling the ram and introducing the laserwriter, the first reasonably priced postscript laser printer. pagemaker, an early desktop publishing application taking advantage of the postscript language, was also released by aldus corporation in july 1985. it has been suggested that the combination of macintosh, laserwriter and pagemaker was responsible for the creation of the desktop publishing market. this dominant position in the desktop publishing market allowed the company to focus on higher price points, the so - called " high - right policy " named for the position on a chart of price vs. profits. newer models selling at higher price points offered higher profit margin, and appeared to have no effect on total sales as power users snapped up every increase in speed. although some worried about pricing themselves out of the market, the high - right policy was in full force by the mid - 1980s, notably due to jean - louis gassee ' s mantra of " fifty - five or die ", referring to the 55 % profit margins of the macintosh ii. this policy began to backfire in the last years of the decade as desktop publishing programs appeared on pc clones that offered some or much of the same functionality of the macintosh, but at far lower price points. the company lost its dominant position in the desktop publishing market and estranged many of its original consumer customer base who could no longer afford their high - priced products. the christmas season of 1989 was the first in the company ' s history to have declining sales, which led to a 20 % drop in apple ' s stock price. during this period, the relationship between sculley and gassee deteriorated, leading sculley to effectively demote gassee in january 1990 by appointing michael spindler as