and the chemical processes involved. for example, an anatomist is concerned with the shape, size, position, structure, blood supply and innervation of an organ such as the liver ; while a physiologist is interested in the production of bile, the role of the liver in nutrition and the regulation of bodily functions. the discipline of anatomy can be subdivided into a number of branches, including gross or macroscopic anatomy and microscopic anatomy. gross anatomy is the study of structures large enough to be seen with the naked eye, and also includes superficial anatomy or surface anatomy, the study by sight of the external body features. microscopic anatomy is the study of structures on a microscopic scale, along with histology ( the study of tissues ), and embryology ( the study of an organism in its immature condition ). regional anatomy is the study of the interrelationships of all of the structures in a specific body region, such as the abdomen. in contrast, systemic anatomy is the study of the structures that make up a discrete body system — that is, a group of structures that work together to perform a unique body function, such as the digestive system. anatomy can be studied using both invasive and non - invasive methods with the goal of obtaining information about the structure and organization of organs and systems. methods used include dissection, in which a body is opened and its organs studied, and endoscopy, in which a video camera - equipped instrument is inserted through a small incision in the body wall and used to explore the internal organs and other structures. angiography using x - rays or magnetic resonance angiography are methods to visualize blood vessels. the term " anatomy " is commonly taken to refer to human anatomy. however, substantially similar structures and tissues are found throughout the rest of the animal kingdom, and the term also includes the anatomy of other animals. the term zootomy is also sometimes used to specifically refer to non - human animals. the structure and tissues of plants are of a dissimilar nature and they are studied in plant anatomy. animal tissues the kingdom animalia contains multicellular organisms that are heterotrophic and motile ( although some have secondarily adopted a sessile lifestyle ). most animals have bodies differentiated into separate tissues and these animals are also known as eumetazoans. they have an internal digestive chamber, with one or two openings ; the gametes are produced in multicellular sex organs, and the zygotes include a blastula stage in their embryonic development