announced the discovery of another isotope of element 85, presumed to be the product of thorium a ( polonium - 216 ) beta decay. they named this substance " anglo - helvetium ", but karlik and bernert were again unable to reproduce these results. later in 1940, dale r. corson, kenneth ross mackenzie, and emilio segre isolated the element at the university of california, berkeley. instead of searching for the element in nature, the scientists created it by bombarding bismuth - 209 with alpha particles in a cyclotron ( particle accelerator ) to produce, after emission of two neutrons, astatine - 211. the discoverers, however, did not immediately suggest a name for the element. the reason for this was that at the time, an element created synthetically in " invisible quantities " that had not yet been discovered in nature was not seen as a completely valid one ; in addition, chemists were reluctant to recognize radioactive isotopes as legitimately as stable ones. in 1943, astatine was found as a product of two naturally occurring decay chains by berta karlik and traude bernert, first in the so - called uranium series, and then in the actinium series. ( since then, astatine was also found in a third decay chain, the neptunium series. ) friedrich paneth in 1946 called to finally recognize synthetic elements, quoting, among other reasons, recent confirmation of their natural occurrence, and proposed that the discoverers of the newly discovered unnamed elements name these elements. in early 1947, nature published the discoverers ' suggestions ; a letter from corson, mackenzie, and segre suggested the name " astatine " coming from the ancient greek ( ) meaning, because of its propensity for radioactive decay, with the ending " - ine ", found in the names of the four previously discovered halogens. the name was also chosen to continue the tradition of the four stable halogens, where the name referred to a property of the element. corson and his colleagues classified astatine as a metal on the basis of its analytical chemistry. subsequent investigators reported iodine - like, cationic, or amphoteric behavior. in a 2003 retrospective, corson wrote that " some of the properties [ of astatine ] are similar to iodine … it also exhibits metallic properties, more like its metallic neighbors po and bi. " isotopes there are 41 known isotopes of astatine, with mass numbers of