##eus award ( nomination ) 2003 – prometheus award ( nomination ) 2006 – prometheus award ( nomination ) 2008 – prometheus award ( hall of fame award ) a clockwork orange was chosen by time magazine as one of the 100 best english - language books from 1923 to 2005. adaptations a 1965 film by andy warhol entitled vinyl was an adaptation of burgess ' s novel. the best known adaptation of the novella is the 1971 film a clockwork orange by stanley kubrick, featuring malcolm mcdowell as alex. in 1987, burgess published a stage play titled a clockwork orange : a play with music. the play includes songs, written by burgess, which are inspired by beethoven and nadsat slang. a manga anthology by osamu tezuka entitled tokeijikake no ringo ( clockwork apple ) was released in 1983. in 1988, a german adaptation of a clockwork orange at the intimate theatre of bad godesberg featured a musical score by the german punk rock band die toten hosen which, combined with orchestral clips of beethoven ' s ninth symphony and " other dirty melodies " ( so stated by the subtitle ), was released on the album ein kleines bisschen horrorschau. the track hier kommt alex became one of the band ' s signature songs. in february 1990, another musical version was produced at the barbican theatre in london by the royal shakespeare company. titled a clockwork orange : 2004, it received mostly negative reviews, with john peter of the sunday times of london calling it " only an intellectual rocky horror show ", and john gross of the sunday telegraph calling it " a clockwork lemon ". even burgess himself, who wrote the script based on his novel, was disappointed. according to the evening standard, he called the score, written by bono and the edge of the rock group u2, " neo - wallpaper ". burgess had originally worked alongside the director of the production, ron daniels, and envisioned a musical score that was entirely classical. unhappy with the decision to abandon that score, he heavily criticised the band ' s experimental mix of hip hop, liturgical, and gothic music. lise hand of the irish independent reported the edge as saying that burgess ' s original conception was " a score written by a novelist rather than a songwriter ". calling it " meaningless glitz ", jane edwardes of 20 / 20 magazine said that watching this production was " like being invited to an expensive french restaurant – and being served with a big mac. " in 1994, chicago