historian and jose hermano saraiva. almeida fernandes later proposed viseu as the birthplace of afonso based on the, which states afonso was born in 1109, a position followed by historian jose mattoso in his biography of the king. abel estefanio has suggested a different date and thesis, proposing 1106 as the birth date and the region of tierra de campos or even sahagun as likely birth places based on the known itineraries of henry and teresa. his place of baptism is also under suspicion : according to tradition the place is indicated as being in the church of sao miguel do castelo, in guimaraes ; however, there are doubts because of the date of the consecration of the church, made in 1239. there are those who argue that the baptism actually took place in the cathedral of braga where he was baptised by primate archbishop saint gerald of braga, which is politically sound for count henry to have the highest - ranking clergy baptise his heir. henry and theresa reigned jointly as count and countess of portugal until his death on 22 may 1112 during the siege of astorga, after which theresa ruled portugal alone. she would proclaim herself queen ( a claim recognised by pope paschal ii in 1116 ) but was captured and forced to reaffirm her vassalage to her half - sister, urraca of leon. it is not known who was the tutor of afonso. later traditions, probably started with joao soares coelho ( a bastard descendant of egas moniz through a female line ) in the mid - 13th century and ampliated by later chronicles such as the, asserted he had been egas moniz de ribadouro, possibly with the help of oral memories that associated the tutor to the house of ribadouro. yet, contemporary documents, namely from the chancery of afonso in his early years as count of portucale, indicate according to mattoso that the most likely tutor of afonso henriques was egas moniz ' s oldest brother, ermigio moniz, who, besides being the senior brother within the family of ribadouro, became the " dapifer " and " majordomus " of afonso i from 1128 until his death in 1135, which indicates his closer proximity to the prince. in an effort to pursue a larger share in the leonese inheritance, his mother teresa joined forces with fernando perez de trava, the most powerful count in galicia. the portuguese