contain large quantities of iron ore located in many mountains within the range. the andean orogen has a series of bends or oroclines. the bolivian orocline is a seaward concave bending in the coast of south america and the andes mountains at about 18° s. at this point, the orientation of the andes turns from northwest in peru to south in chile and argentina. the andean segment north and south of the orocline have been rotated 15° to 20° counter - clockwise and clockwise respectively. the bolivian orocline area overlaps with the area of the maximum width of the altiplano plateau and according to isacks ( 1988 ) the orocline is related to crustal shortening. the specific point at 18° s where the coastline bends is known as the " arica elbow ". further south lies the maipo orocline a more subtle orocline between 30° s and 38°s with a seaward - concave break in trend at 33° s. near the southern tip of the andes lies the patagonian orocline. orogeny the western rim of the south american plate has been the place of several pre - andean orogenies since at least the late proterozoic and early paleozoic, when several terranes and microcontinents collided and amalgamated with the ancient cratons of eastern south america, by then the south american part of gondwana. the formation of the modern andes began with the events of the triassic when pangaea began the break up that resulted in developing several rifts. the development continued through the jurassic period. it was during the cretaceous period that the andes began to take their present form, by the uplifting, faulting and folding of sedimentary and metamorphic rocks of the ancient cratons to the east. the rise of the andes has not been constant, as different regions have had different degrees of tectonic stress, uplift, and erosion. tectonic forces above the subduction zone along the entire west coast of south america where the nazca plate and a part of the antarctic plate are sliding beneath the south american plate continue to produce an ongoing orogenic event resulting in minor to major earthquakes and volcanic eruptions to this day. in the extreme south, a major transform fault separates tierra del fuego from the small scotia plate. across the wide drake passage lie the mountains of the antarctic peninsula south of the scotia plate which appear to be a continuation of the andes chain. the far east regions of