##ssulmans, they are pelted by the boys and mobs with stones and dirt …. " in jerusalem at least, conditions for some jews improved. moses montefiore, on his seventh visit in 1875, noted that fine new buildings had sprung up and, " surely we ' re approaching the time to witness god ' s hallowed promise unto zion. " muslim and christian arabs participated in purim and passover ; arabs called the sephardis ' jews, sons of arabs ' ; the ulema and the rabbis offered joint prayers for rain in time of drought. at the time of the dreyfus trial in france, " muslim comments usually favoured the persecuted jew against his christian persecutors ". secular or racial antisemitism in 1850, the german composer richard wagner – who has been called " the inventor of modern antisemitism " – published das judenthum in der musik ( roughly " jewishness in music " ) under a pseudonym in the neue zeitschrift fur musik. the essay began as an attack on jewish composers, particularly wagner ' s contemporaries, and rivals, felix mendelssohn and giacomo meyerbeer, but expanded to accuse jews of being a harmful and alien element in german culture, who corrupted morals and were, in fact, parasites incapable of creating truly " german " art. the crux was the manipulation and control by the jews of the money economy : although originally published anonymously, when the essay was republished 19 years later, in 1869, the concept of the corrupting jew had become so widely held that wagner ' s name was affixed to it. antisemitism can also be found in many of the grimms ' fairy tales by jacob and wilhelm grimm, published from 1812 to 1857. it is mainly characterized by jews being the villain of a story, such as in " the good bargain " ( " der gute handel " ) and " the jew among thorns " ( " der jude im dorn " ). the middle 19th century saw continued official harassment of the jews, especially in eastern europe under czarist influence. for example, in 1846, 80 jews approached the governor in warsaw to retain the right to wear their traditional dress but were immediately rebuffed by having their hair and beards forcefully cut, at their own expense. even such influential figures as walt whitman tolerated bigotry toward the jews in america. during his time as editor of the brooklyn eagle ( 1846 – 1848 ), the newspaper published historical sketches casting jews in a bad light