completion of exams, as well as a training period. representation of oneself as an architect through the use of terms and titles were restricted to licensed individuals by law, although in general, derivatives such as architectural designer were not legally protected. to practice architecture implies the ability to practice independently of supervision. the term building design professional ( or design professional ), by contrast, is a much broader term that includes professionals who practice independently under an alternate profession such as engineering professionals, or those who assist in the practice of architecture under the supervision of a licensed architect such as intern architects. in many places, independent, non - licensed individuals, may perform design services outside the professional restrictions such as the design houses or other smaller structures. practice in the architectural profession, technical and environmental knowledge, design, and construction management, require an understanding of business as well as design. however, design is the driving force throughout the project and beyond. an architect accepts a commission from a client. the commission might involve preparing feasibility reports, building audits, designing a building or several buildings, structures, and the spaces among them. the architect participates in developing the requirements the client wants in the building. throughout the project ( planning to occupancy ), the architect coordinates a design team. structural, mechanical, and electrical engineers are hired by the client or architect, who must ensure that the work is coordinated to construct the design. design role the architect, once hired by a client, is responsible for creating a design concept that meets the requirements of that client and provides a facility suitable to the required use. the architect must meet with and put questions to the client, in order to ascertain all the requirements ( and nuances ) of the planned project. often the full brief is not clear in the beginning. it involves a degree of risk in the design undertaking. the architect may make early proposals to the client which may rework the terms of the brief. the " program " ( or brief ) is essential to producing a project that meets all the needs of the owner. this becomes a guide for the architect in creating the design concept. design proposal ( s ) are generally expected to be both imaginative and pragmatic. much depends upon the time, place, finance, culture, and available crafts and technology in which the design takes place. the extent and nature of these expectations will vary. foresight is a prerequisite when designing buildings as it is a very complex and demanding undertaking. any design concept during the early stage of its generation must take into account a great number of issues