later christianization of the saxons and of the slavs, the alemanni seem to have adopted christianity gradually, and voluntarily, spread in emulation of the merovingian elite. from c. the 520s to the 620s, there was a surge of alemannic elder futhark inscriptions. about 70 specimens have survived, roughly half of them on fibulae, others on belt buckles ( see pforzen buckle, bulach fibula ) and other jewelry and weapon parts. use of runes subsides with the advance of christianity. the nordendorf fibula ( early seventh century ) clearly records pagan theonyms, logaþorewodanwigiþonar read as " wodan and donar are magicians / sorcerers ", but this may be interpreted as either a pagan invocation of the powers of these deities, or a christian protective charm against them. a runic inscription on a fibula found at bad ems reflects christian pious sentiment ( and is also explicitly marked with a christian cross ), reading god fura dih deofile ( " god for / before you, theophilus! ", or alternatively " god before you, devil! " ). dated to between ad 660 and 690, it marks the end of the native alemannic tradition of runic literacy. bad ems is in rhineland - palatinate, on the northwestern boundary of alemannic settlement, where frankish influence would have been strongest. the establishment of the bishopric of konstanz cannot be dated exactly and was possibly undertaken by columbanus himself ( before 612 ). in any case, it existed by 635, when gunzo appointed john of grab bishop. constance was a missionary bishopric in newly converted lands, and did not look back on late roman church history unlike the raetian bishopric of chur ( established 451 ) and basel ( an episcopal seat from 740, and which continued the line of bishops of augusta raurica, see bishop of basel ). the establishment of the church as an institution recognized by worldly rulers is also visible in legal history. in the early seventh century pactus alamannorum hardly ever mentions the special privileges of the church, while lantfrid ' s lex alamannorum of 720 has an entire chapter reserved for ecclesial matters alone. genetics a genetic study published in science advances in september 2018 examined the remains of eight individuals buried at a seventh - century alemannic graveyard in niederstotzingen, germany. this is the